Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17265
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
THIRD KABUPATEN ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3490-JIND)
December 29, 1997
Transport Sector Unit
Indonesia Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project                   Implementation Completion Report
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
(As of January, 1992)
US$1.00 =Rp. 1922
(As of July 1997)
US$1.0  Rp. 2,400
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AADT                      -           Average Annual Daily Traffic
BAPPENAS                  -           National Development Planning Agency
CTC                       -           Central Technical Consultants
DGH                       -           Directorate General of Highways (MPW)
DGRD                      -           Directorate General of Regional Development (MHA)
DPUK                      -           Kabupaten Office of Public Works
FCI                       -           Field Consultants for Implementation
ICR                       -           Implementation Completion Report
GOI                       -           Government of Indonesia
IRI                       -           International (Road) Roughness Index
ERR                       -           Economic Rate of Return
KRMTP                     -           Kabupaten Roads Master Training Plan
KR3, KREI, KR5            -           Kabupaten Roads Development Projects
KRP                       -           Kabupaten Roads Program
MHA                       -           Ministry of Home Affairs
MOC                       -           Ministry of Communications
MPW                       -           Ministry of Public Works
MOF                       -           Ministry of Finance
NSRRP                     -           Northern Sumatra Region Road Project
PIU                       -           Project Implementation Unit
PS                        -           Project Secretariat
REPELITA                  -           Indonesian Five Year Development Plan
RR2                       -           Second Rural Roads Development Project
Vice President:            Severino, Jean-Michel
Country Director:          De Tray, Dennis 
Sector Manager:            Gutman, Jeffrey-
Task Manager:              Tollie, Jacques



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project                                        Implementation Completion Report
Table of Contents
PREFACE ...................................................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..................................................................                                ii
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES                                                                               I
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES                                                .2
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT                                                .6
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                                                   .6
E. BANK PERFORMANCE                                                      .7
F. THE BORROWER PERFORMANCE                                                    .8
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME                                                    .8
H. FUTURE OPERATION                                                     .9
I. LESSONS LEARNED                                                      .9
PART II: SUPPORTING TABLES AND ANNEX
TABLE 1:         SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENT .................................................................. 11
TABLE 2:   RELATED BANK ISSUES ................................................................. 12
TABLE 3:   PROJECT TIMETABLE ..................................................................12
TABLE 4:    LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ..............                         ..................... 12
TABLE 5A:  KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION-PHYSICAL OBJECTIVES .........3......... I 3
TABLE 5B:  KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION-INSTITUTIONAL OBJECTIVES .......... 14
TABLE 6:    STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT .....................                ............................................. 15
TABLE7A:  PROJECT COSTS .................................................................                           16
TABLE 7B:  PROJECT FINANCING ................................................................. 16
TABLE 8:   STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS .................................................................              17
TABLE 9:   COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .............................................. 18
TABLE 10:  BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ...........................                ....................................... 18
TABLE 11:  BANK RESOURCES: STAFF MISSIONS ..................................................................        19
ANNEX:        ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION ..................................................................            20
PART III:
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR .................................................................                  23
MAP No. IBRD 23640R1
This document has a restdcted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without.
World Bank authorization.






Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project  i             Implementation Completion Report
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
THIRD KABUPATEN ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan No. 3490-IND)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Third Kabupaten Roads
Project (KR3) for which a loan of US$215 million equivalent to the Republic of Indonesia was
approved on June 17, 1992 and made effective on September 28, 1992 (Loan 3490-IND).
The Loan was closed on June 30, 1997 after an extension of nine months from the original
closing date of September 30, 1996. Final disbursement took place on June 27, 1997. However,
the Loan Account was kept open pending receipt of a refund related to the outstanding amount to
be recovered under the special Account arrangements. Cancellation of US$ 5,976,011.40
representing the outstanding loan balance was effected on December 3, 1997.
The ICR was prepared by Jacques Tollie, Senior Highway Engineer, and Ephrem Asebe,
Consultant, (EASTR). It was reviewed by Messrs. Jeffrey Gutman, Manager, Transport Sector
Unit, and Thomas Walton, Acting Country Director, Indonesia, East Asia and Pacific Region.
Preparation of this ICR begun during the ICR initiation mission in October 1996, followed
by two missions focusing on (i) the economic reevaluation in March 1997, and (ii) the training
component in July 1997. The ICR is based on materials in the project file and data provided by the
Government of Indonesia. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing an
economic re-evaluation of a sample of Kabupaten roads, commenting on a draft of the ICR, and
providing a separate evaluation of the project's execution and effectiveness (Part III).



Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project      - 11 -          Implementation Completion Report
THIRD KABUPATEN ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan No. 3490-IND)
INDONESIA
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.     Since 1969, the Bank has had a substantial involvement in the transport sector of Indonesia, and
more particularly in the road sector. At the district (kabupaten) level, the Bank started with two Rural
Roads Projects with broadly similar objectives and common emphasis on improving the quality of the civil
works and strengtlhening the institutional capacity at district levels. A Project Completion Report was issued
for the First Rural Road Development Project in November 1989, and an Implementation Completion
Report for the Second Rural Road Development Project RR2 in December 1994. Both projects met their
physical targets but the technical and institutional capacity building initiatives had mixed results. However,
they were considered successful enough for GOI to request continued Bank support. Lessons learnt under
these two projects were used in designing a series of three follow-up projects, of which the present project is
the first (Table 2).
ii.    Project Objectives. As stated in the May 1992 Staff Appraisal Report the principal objectives of
the Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project (KR3) were: (i)to improve access to the main economic
ceniters in 73 kabupatens in nine provinces; and (ii)to increase the capability of all agencies in the country
dealing with kabupaten roads.
iii.    The project components consisted of two parts. Part A was related to the specific project area and
dealt with road rehabilitation, improvement and maintenance, including: (i)rehabilitation/ improvement of
about 4,200 km and maintenance of about 25,000 km of roads in about 73 kabupatens; (ii) upgrading and
equipping of workshops and laboratories in selected kabupatens; (iii) provision of road construction and
maintenance equipment; and (iv) provision of construction supervision services. Part B was to have a
countrywide coverage and dealt with institutional and technical development, including: (i) development and
implementation of priority parts of a nationwide Kabupaten Roads Master Training Plan (KRMTP), and (ii)
technical assistance and studies for strengthening systems and procedures regarding planning, environmental
analysis and civil works implementation, and for helping central agencies in project monitoring.
iv.    The main loan covenants expected to promote achievement of these objectives were relevant and
required: (a) thle establishment of a Project Secretariat (PS) for the purpose of assisting the Coordinating
Committee of the Project; (b) a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in Directorate General of Higlhways
(DGH) to monitor progress in project implementation; c) preparation of annual road maintenance and
rehabilitation/improvement programs in accordance with agreed criteria; and d) funding eligibility of
improvement programs in any one kabupaten to be contingent on its maintenance performance.
v.     The project objectives were important to the country's regional development strategy. Indeed,
GOI's initial request was for an extensive program covering about 130 kabupatens, or half the size of the
country. To make the assistance program more manageable, it was then agreed to split it into smaller and
more focused projects; hence the KR3 Project, covering 73 kabupatens in the western part of the country.
Also, the project objectives were in line with Bank continued support to the kabupaten road subsector. The
project as designed was sound, but remained somewhat complex and demanding, involving the coordination
of a wide range of stakeholders, policies and implementation arrangements.



Third.Kabupaten Roads Development Project     - iii -          Implementation Completion Report
Implementation Experience and Results.
vi.    The project has achieved its objectives to various degrees. After an initial slow start, thephysical
large/s of the project were substantially achieved (para. I 1). Quality of the works remained a concern but
improved gradually after measures were taken following the mid-term review (para. 13).
vii.   The project built with mixed results on thetechnicalpolicies initiated under RR2. These policies
called for strengthening the process of systematic technical studies (planning, survey, evaluation,
prioritization, design, audit, monitoring), as a basic input into the decision-making process (para. 1 8). While
the pace of progress was understandably slow, and considerably varied between kabupatens, substantial
progress was made in disseminating planning guidelines and niethodologies to the kabupaten level, with
strong support from the Field Planning Advisors contracted under the project.
viii.   Other capacity building initiatives included the strengthening of three important functions in the
sector: (a) human resource development, (b) environmental management and (c) equipment and workshop
maniagemenit. The approach regarding human resource development in the sector was to develop the
KRMTP as an integrating framework within which all training and related activities would be justified. In
spite of initial delays, achievements under KR3 were satisfactory, and are likely to be sustainable after
c.ompletion of the five-year plan under the follow-up project (KREI). The strategy for dealing with
environmental impacts proved to be effective: all KR3 subprojects were screened, and also a substantial
nlumber of non-IBRD financed subprojects. Subsequent site-specific assessments were conducted when
warranted, and mitigation guidelines were issued to handle management and monitoring of environlmental
aspects during construction. Achievements under this component did contribute to the institutionlal
strengthieniing of environmental management in the sector. Finally, progress under the equipment atnd
workshops component was very low. The main achievement here was the transfer of equipment ownership
for DGH to the local govemments, which occurred in 1994. But other conditions for improved management
were not met, for instance, the introduction of market hire rates for the equipment. This objective is being
pursued under a follow-up project (KR5).
ix.    Cost changes affected individual components to various degrees, but globally their impact was
negligible (Table 7A): totalproject costs remained the same in US$ (499.2 million in SAR v/s 498.2 million
actual) as well as in Rupiah (1,031 billion in SAR v/s 1,082 billion actual). Components whiclh increased
their shares were road maintenance and equipment, due to the additional programs agreed under the project.
Components which decreased their shares were road betterment, workshop and laboratory facilities, and
training programs. Regarding project financing (Table 7B), the loan financed a slightly lower share of total
costs (42% instead of 43. 1 %). US$6.0 million had to be canceled, of which about half corresponds to
expenditures made but not disbursed by the loan closing date, and the rest was not committed.
x.     Economic Benefit. The economic re-evaluation is based on data from the benefit monitoring
(BM) and post-construction monitoring (PCM) studies carried out under the KR program. For
maintenance works on a sample of 44 links which had been rehabilitated prior to 1992 and received
support for maintenance under KR3 the finding is that except in 4 cases (roads with low traffic), the NPV
was positive at a 10% discount rate. The average ERR was 47 percent, slightly higher than the 1992
appraisal estimate. For betterment works, there were no KR3 supported links in the pool of BM and
PCM links and the results of a revaluation of betterment works supported under KR3, KR5 and KREI
were used to obtain an indication of the range of the ERR's for KR3 betterment works. On this basis, the
ERR for the KR3 betterment program is estimated to be in the range of 15-20 percent. A weighted
average for the KR3 civil works component as a whole leads to an ERR of 30 percent, which is (i)
relatively high due to the predominance of the maintenance program, but (ii) still lower than the KR3



Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project       - iv -            Implementation Completion Report
appraisal estimate of 35 percent - mostly reflecting lower than expected quality as translated into higlier rates
of deterioration.
xi.    Sustainability is assessed at two levels. At the first level, the improved technical environmenit points
to a probable sustainability of the physical achievements; however sustainability of the institutional
components (which include the improved technical environment) is more questionable. Using planning
perfonnance (Section D) as a proxy for assessing institutional achievement at this second level, it is
concluded that these achievements are only partially sustainable, but that the probability of achievements
being pursued or completed is enhanced by the follow-up projects. Overall, the sustainability of the
project's benefits is assessed as likely.
xii.   Factors both withiin and outside the government control affected achievement of the project
ob jectives. The factors subject to govemment control were related mainly to delays caused by
adminlistrative procedures including: (i) lack of timely allocation of the budget resulting in most works
being carried out in last half, i.e. rainy part, of the year; (ii) the substantial initial delays experienced in
formally establishing the PS and PIU; and (iii) high turnover of staff due to frequent transfer of trained staff
and difficulty to assign counterpart staff. Factors outside government control included the initial conditionls
in the kabupatens which affected the degree of achievement of project objectives between kabupatens.
xiii.   Bank performance was satisfactory in the identification andpreparation phases, leading to a
project design appropriate for achieving the objectives. Good use was made of the lessons learned in the
previous two rural road development. However during appraisal and negotiations, more attention should
have been paid to manage the unavoidable complexity of the project, in particular through reduced
expectations as to the sustainable level of targeted achievements. For instance, tripling of the level of
effort in road maintenance was too ambitious as a sustainable target (para 16). During implementation,
problems were adequately identified and assessed, culminating in 1994 in a tlhorough mid-tern review.
Progress did improve during the second half of the project. Loan covenants were monitored, in particular
the maintenance conditionalities, and remedies exercised. Bank performance during supervision was thus
satisfactory.
xiv.   Quality of projectpreparation by the Government was good, especially considerinig certain aspects,
like the environmental requirements, about which new ground was broken at the time. However, GOI
performance in implementation was mixed. Difficulties arose because of the lack of strong central guidance
at the start of the project (para 28). Only in the second half of the project did the Project Secretariat take a
proactive stance on all issues. As a consequence, progress was very slow on interagency issues like works
packaging, multi-year contracts, late release of funds -the latter having negative consequences not only for
civil works, but also for training delivery (para 37). Stability of staff returning from training was also an
issue. Good performance was noted on the dissemination of good practices, for instance regarding
environmental aspects. Also a good monitoring system was developed and functioning, including planining
database analysis, benefits monitoring, and post-construction monitoring.
xv.    The project was complex by nature in spite of efforts to simplify its design, and demandinig from an
implementation point of view. After a slow start it substantially achieved its physical objectives. Its
technical and institutional development objectives have to be considered in the broader context of the
Kabupaten Road Development Program: in this context, they have been achieved partially, but efforts are
being pursued under the follow-up projects, thus enhancing the project's sustainability. Achievements have
not been even among kabupatens, due to variations in their initial conditions, but overall the proiect outcome
is assessed as satisfactory.



Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project        - v -            Implementation Completion Report
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Lessons Learned
xvi.   A number of findings from this review of the implementation experience under the Third Kabupaten
Roads Project warrant particular emphasis, as follows:
a)  the objective of establishing an effective technical study framework that would feed into the
existing institutional process of decision-making (para. 18) was ambitious, and could fully
succeed only if there is a strong commitment at the top. Transferring the implementation
leadership to MPW was not enough.
b) the planning performance assessment (Section D) detected a great variation in performance,
but also some instability (some previously poor performers started to do much better, but the
reverse was also true), mainly because of changes in kabupaten senior staff who are possibly
the most significant influence on performance.
c)  the effectiveness of the loan conditionality linking major works funding to satisfactory
maintenance performance was limited, mainly because GOI at the central level was reticent to
enforce. To increase the visibility and credibility of such conditionality, it might have been
better to put it in a broader framework linking assessed performance to, say, budget
allocation.
d) The "fungibility" of the institutional objectives was achieved to a reasonable extent
through dissemination of good practices identified under the program to all kabupatens.
Instrumental were the continuity of the PS, PIU and CTC (para. 5), as well as the strategy
of cluster supervision which proved very efficient (para. 37).
xvii.   There is no fonnal plan of operation, however, appropriate arrangements exist to ensure effective
operation of the project's outputs: (i) procedures and funding are in place for O&M activities with respect to
physical assets (roads as well as equipment), and (ii) systems and procedures developed and disseminated under
the project are being further refined under the follow-up projects. In addition, the monitoring system would
continue to be used to track indicators under the Benefits and Post Construction Monitoring (para. 14) and the
Plamning Performance Assessment (para. 31).
xviii.  The following lessons can be drawn from the implementation experience under the project:
a) Institutional factors tend to predominate over economic or technical factors in determiningthe
success or otherwise of projects in the kabupaten roads sector. Proper attention needs to be paid to
these, including a thorough stakeholder analysis.
b) Project design would benefit from the introduction of transparent mechanisms for performance
incetives/penalties; then comes the need to ascertain the willingness to enforce.
c)  Complexity is unavoidable in some projects, because of the need to work on several fronts in
parallel. In such cases, one should not try to reduce artificially the number of objectives, but rather
be realistic in seting sustainable targets for each objective.
d) Projects dealing intensively with local govenmments are demanding in terms of supervision. If the
thrust for more effective decentralization is to succeed, future projects should concentrate on a
more limited number of provinces, and Bank supervision should be leveraged through more
interventions from the Field Office.






THIRD KABUPATEN ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN No. 3490-IND)
INDONESIA
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
I.    Background. Since 1969, the Bank has had a substantial involvement in the transport sector of
Indonesia. Bank involvement has been particularly important in the road sector-village level
infrastructure, district (kabupaten), urban, provincial and national roads. At the district level, the Bank has
started with two Rural Roads Projects (Table 2) with broadly similar objectives and common emphasis on
improving the quality of the civil work and strengthening the institutional capacity at the local level. A
Project Completion Report (PCR) was issued for the First Rural Road Development Project in November
1989 and an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Rural Development Project in
December 1994. Both projects were generally successful in meeting the physical targets, but less so
regarding the technical and institutional capacity building objectives. The PCR for the First Rural Road
Project recognized that the project suffered from unclear alignment of responsibilities among concerned
agencies. The ICR for the Second Rural Road Development Project drew useful cautionary advice for futuire
projects especially in goal setting, institutional development, technical assistance and project sustainability.
When GOI requested in 1991 continued Bank support in the sector, these lessons were used in the design of
the assistance program.
2.     GOI's initial request was for an extensive program covering about 130 kabupatens, or hialf thle size
of the county. To make the program more effective and manageable in view of the lessons of experience. it
was agreed to split it into smaller projects, each focusing on a limited number of objectives. but together
providing a wider geographical coverage and more leverage to achieve the sector objectives. Hence the
KR3 Project, covering 73 kabupatens in the westem part of the county.
3.     Project Objectives and Components. As stated in the May 1992 Staff Appraisal Report. the
principal objectives of the Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project (KR3)were: (i) to improve access
to the main economic centers in 73 kabupatens in nine provinces; and (ii)to increase the techinical and
institutional capability of all agencies in the country dealing with kabupaten roads. Corresponding to the two
major objectives of the project, the project components consisted of two parts: Part A dealiing withi road
rehabilitation, improvement and maintenance, included: (i) rehabilitation/ improvement of about 4.200 klm
and maintenance of about 25,000 km of roads in about 73 kabupatens; (ii)upgrading and equippillg ot
workshops and laboratories in selected kabupatens; (iii) provision of road construction and maintenianice
equipment; and (iv) provision of construction supervision services. Part B dealing with instituItionial anid
technical development, included: (i)development and implementation of priority parts of a nationiwide
Kabupaten Roads Master Training Plan (KRMTP), and (ii) technical assistance and studies for strengthieniiig
systems and procedures regarding planning, environmental analysis and civil works implementationi, and for
helping central agencies in project monitoring.
4.     The main loan covenants were designed to promote achievement of these objectives by requirinig:
(a) the establishment of a Project Secretariat (PS), comprising representatives of National Development
Planning Agency (BAPPENAS), Ministry of Public Works (MPW), Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) and
Ministry of Finance (MOF), for the purpose of assisting the Coordinating committee: (b) a project
implementation unit (PIU) in the Directorate General of Highways (DGH) to monitor progress in project



Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project     - 2 -            Implementation Completion Report
implementation; c) preparation of annual road maintenance and improvement programs in accordance with
agreed criteria; and d) funding eligibility of improvement programs in any one kabupaten to be contingent
on its maintenance performance. In the course of project implementation, no major chaniges In the project
objectives or its components were introduced which required changes in the loan agreement.
5.     The project design was sound. The Part A objectives were related to the specific project area;
'refinements to policies and procedures under the Part B objectives were pilot-tested and effective feed-back
did occur. The Part B objectives were to have a countrywide coverage, with improvements to systems
impacting on all operations in the sector irrespective of the source of funding. Achievement of Part B
objectives were facilitated by (i)the fact that the PS and PIU established under KR3 were niainitainied for- die
management of the Bank's follow-up projects, and later on for projects from other sources (mostly ADB.
OECF) ; and (ii) the fact that implementation support from the central technical consultanits (CTC) covered
the whole program (KR3, KREI and KR5) in parallel. Continiuity of the CTC was instrumenital in the
effective dissemination of good practices to all kabupatens in Indonesia, a major concerin to GOI.
6.     The project objectives were important to the country's development strategy and sector policies. As
designed, achievement of the first major project objective, improved road accessibility, would support the
country's balanced regional economic development strategy designed to promote economic and social
integration of the outlying regions. It also would support poverty reduction-although not a direct
objective- through providing some 20 million unskilled worker-days over a 4-year implementation period.
In terms of the macroeconomic goals of the country, the achievement of the physical objectives would help
support a projected 5-6% growth of non-oil economy in the 1990's by providing improved accessibi I ity to
the outlying regions of the country.
7.     The second major objective, enhancing the capability of the borrower's agencies il charge of
kabupaten roads, would support the country's sector policies of improving the effectiveness of road
investment, promoting decentralization, and building institutional capability to provide improved road
condition at lower cost. Achievement of this objective on a countrywide basis was especially importanit to
GOI.
8.    The project objectives were also in line with Bank continued support to the kabupaten road
subsector: reduced rural poverty through improved rural access; more efficient use of the sizable budget
allocated to kabupaten road; improved techinical and institutional development at siibsector- level w'iel-e thiere
was special shortage of local expertise.
9.     Conceptually, the project objectives were clear, mutually reinforcing and focused on assurilng
sustainability of project benefits. Operationally, although the project was less complex thani its predecessor.
it was still quite demanding. It would require the coordination of several institutions at three levels of
Governments and their cooperation over a broad agenda: MHA, MPW, and BAPPENAS; the nine
provincial governments; and the 73 kabupaten governments which the project covers.
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
10.   The project has achieved its first objective substantially and its second objective partial'. Overall,
the contribution of the project to the Kabupaten Roads Program's objectives can be considered substanitial.
I L.   Improved access to the main economic centers in 73 kabupatens. After an initial slow start, the
physical targets were substantially achieved (Table 5A). Regarding the maintenance program, the targets
were set as a percentage of the assessed needs in each kabupaten (in five kabupatens in North Sumatra and
West Kalimantan, the percentages were lower to accommodate the financial resources of these kabupatens.
The targets for routine road maintenance were 70% of the needs in the first year, 85% in the second year and



Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project    - 3 -             Implementation Completion Report
100% the third year. The accomplishment for the first year was 50%, 84% for second year and 99% for the
third year. The targets for periodic road maintenance were similarly 50% of the total needs in the first year,
70% in the second year and 100% in the third year. Accomplishment was 53%, 76% and I 12%
respectively. Costwise, unit costs have tended to be higher than warranted by the nature of works for routine
maintenance, and lower for periodic maintenance. This was adjusted in the course of implementation. In
1995, GOI requested a last tranche of civil works, dealing with the 1995/96 maintenance program. The
Bank agreed to finance this maintenance-only program out of the proceeds of the loan.
12.   The rehabilitation/betterment program was limited to 20km per kabupaten per year, heice the target
of 4,200 km. Achievement was substantial at 4,080 km. The shortfall can be explained by: (i) the difficulty
in some remote kabupatens to find enough subprojects above the cut-off EIRR of 10% (para. 15); and
(ii) the application of the loan conditionality to three kabupatens (these three kabupatens had a poor
maintenance performance in the first two years, and were declared ineligible to the betterment program in
the third year).
13.    While the civil works for kabupaten roads showed some improvement and generally met the
minimum standards, quality was uneven. A survey done as part of the mid-tenn review, based on1 sample of
six kabupatens in North Sumatra and two in West Java, identified several problems (that were later
confirmed by a technical audit) such as: penetration macadam pavements without the final layer of bitumen
seal and fine aggregates, inadequate surfacing type selection; or problems in shoulder constructioln. A major
cause of the quality problem was the late release of annual funding leading to a shortening of the
construction season. In fact, in most kabupatens only 50% of the maintenance works was completed by the
end of the third quarter, and the rush to complete the works by the end of the fourth quarter was detrimenital
to quality. Another cause was the slow progress in adopting new technologies (para. 17). However
improvements did occur in the second half of the project.
14.   Economic Benefit. The economic re-evaluation used data from the benefit monitoring (BM)
and post-construction monitoring (PCM) studies undertaken over the past several years on a sample
of links as well as data from additional surveys carried out in early 1997 for a re-evaluation of the
KR program as a whole. For the re-evaluation of maintenance works there was information on 44
links which had been rehabilitated prior to 1992 and received support for maintenance under KR3.
Except in 4 cases (roads with low traffic), the NPV was positive at a 10% discount rate. The average
ERR was 47 percent, slightly higher than the 1992 appraisal estimate. For the re-evaliationl of the
betterment program, however, there were no links which received support under KR3 and were
included in the pool of BM/PCM links. A direct re-evaluation of KR3 betterment works has.
therefore, not been possible. However, the results of the re-evaluation of betterment works uLider
RR2, KR5 and KREI provide a good indication of the range of the ERR's for KR3 bettermelit works.
Extrapolating the ERR's obtained under these projects and adjusting for differing conditionis. the
ERR for the KR3 betterment program is estimated to be in the range of 15-20 percent. A weighted
average ERR for the KR3 civil works component as a whole leads to an ERR of 30 percent, whicil is (i)
relatively high due to the predominance of the maintenance program, but (ii) still lower than the KR3
appraisal estimate of 35 percent
-mostly reflecting lower than expected quality as translated into higher rates of deteriorationi.
Increased capability of agencies dealing with kabupaten roads.
15.   Technical. The project was generally successful in transferring improved planning and
maintenance procedures to the kabupatens, a crucial element of the technical policies. While the pace of
progress was understandably slow, and varied considerably between kabupatens, substantial achievemenit
was made in disseminating planning guidelines and methodologies to the kabupaten level, withi strong



Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project     - 4 -            Implementation Completion Report
support from the Field Planning Advisors contracted under the project. However implementation of these
guidelines was fraught with difficulties; in particular, the timing of annual surveys and engineering design
was always late vis-a-vis the budget cycle, leading to insufficient technical input into the
programming-budgeting process. Following the mid-term review, the survey procedures were simplified
further to encourage more consistent coverage.
16.    Another area where results were mixed is the focus on maintenance. At the start of the project,
kabupaten on average met about 30% of their needs. The project aimed at increasing this share gradually to
cover in the end 100% of the needs. This result was indeed achieved in the third year; however in the fourth
year, with a declining support from the project, the achievement was only about 80%, and in the fifth year
(1996/97), without direct support from the project, the level of effort dropped to 70%. It would thus appear
that the project targets were too ambitious, and that under the current conditions, kabupatens could sustain a
"plateau" of 60 to 70% of their needs, which is already a doubling of the level of effort at the start. To go a
step further, it is suggested to use an approach based more on incentive and less on conditionality (this new
approach is being considered under the proposed Northern Sumatra Region Road Project, by providing
incentives to kabupatens to better assess their needs through the definition of a"Strategic Network". Only
works programmed on this strategic network would be eligible for funding).
17.    Lastly, an area where progress has been very slow is the effective use of new technologies. There
were clear opportunities such as bitumen emulsions which would permit a wider use of surface dressings
(reducing costs), eliminate the need for heating straight-run bitumen on site (with its risk of damaging the
binder and the environment), and easier patching procedures. Efforts to introduce the use of bitumen
emulsions, natural asphalt (e.g., Mikroasbuton), and soil stabilization, are being pursued under the KREI
project, but were not initiated early enough to be applied under the KR3 programs.
18.   Institutional. A main thrust of the project was the promotion of the process of systematic technical
studies (planning, survey, evaluation, prioritization, design, audit, monitoring) as a basic input into the
decision-making process. For this reason, the project shifted implementation leadership from DGRD in the
Ministry of Home Affairs, to DGH in the Ministry of Public Works. DGH as the technical Executilng
Agency, was to be promoting and monitoring this process of technical study and ensuring that the other
central guidance agencies (Bappenas and DGRD) were aware of the role and importance of such techiniical
studies. DGH's success was limited, mostly because it was not in a situation of control over the other main
stakeholders, and it was ill-equipped to leverage its potential for influence (a reorganization within the
agency removed the unit in charge of kabupaten roads and spread the responsibilities into several of the new
units). A more balanced institutional setting may be warranted under new projects.
19.    Progress in strengthening the DPUP/PBPJKs (which are the provincial kabupaten institutions in
charge of assisting kabupatens in planning and implementing their roads programs) was rightly viewed as
key to the long tern sustainability of the project. However achievements were limited until it was realized,
when the consultants started to phase out, that few PBPJKs could take over all their responsibilities.
Progress is now satisfactory under the "Sustainability Action Plan for central and provincial guidance"
currently implemented by the CTC during the last months of their services.
20.    Training. The project supported the first three years (Phase I) of the five-year Kabupaten Roads
Master Training Plan (KRMTP) which had been prepared under RR2, including a detailed implementationi
strategy for development and implementation of training activities responsive to the needs of the sector. IIn
view of the importance of this component for the Kabupaten Roads Program, the Bank conducted a special
review as part of the ICR (Appendix A), to review achievements under Phase I and chieck progress under
Phase 11 (i.e. the last two years of KRMTP under KREI).



Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project     - 5 -            Implementalion Completion Report
21.    Achievements were substantial, in spite of delays in startup of the various sub-components which
led to a less-than-optimal process of transfer of knowledge. On the institutional side, the DGH Human
Resource Development (BMHRD) Unit and the Provincial Training Units were established, their staff were
trained extensively and they are now working as team members alongside the consultants to develop and
implement the various activities. Regarding course design and development, the list of 25 priority courses
identified initially was refined through the process of training needs analysis and review, with the result that
by the end of Phase I a list of 35 priority courses evolved. Finally, regarding in-house training delivery, the
overall target was to train about 5,400 kabupaten road staff in the new courses. The following training was
realized: in FY 1995/96, 786 trainees and in FY 1996/97,2,475 trainees. The total of about 3,260 trainees,
and the improved annual rate of training, show a satisfactory delivery of training over Phase 1. It is
anticipated that by the end of the five years the initial targets will have been comfortably met.
22.    Pending issues to be resolved under Phase II are: (i) the institutionalization of the BMHRD and
Provincial Training Units, and (ii) continued monitoring and evaluation of outcomes and impacts of traininig
on the performance of the kabupaten staff. These would be key elements in managing a cost-effective and
sustainable training system.
23.    Other training occurred through on-the-job training. For instance, field consultants provided
training in equipment repair, development of asphalt cold mixing equipment (e.g. maintenance patching),
pavement trial demonstrations, etc. Training modules from KRMTP were used in planned training sessions,
and feed-back from the field was used in refining the programs. This integration of various training
activities into a consistent framework was one of the main goals of the component, and achievement was
substantial.
24.    Equipment, Workshops and Laboratories. The objective under the KRP was to create the
conditions for a larger involvement of the private sector and give contractors an incentive to invest in new
equipment, through a two-pronged approach: (i) larger contract packages, multi-year contracts, improved
procedures for prequalification and enforcement of contractual obligations, and (ii)rationalizing the
kabupaten workshops management. This was a long-term objective, and progress under the project was
slow. The main achievement was the transfer of equipment ownership from DGH to the local governments
in 1994, a critical step since it allowed hire revenues to be retained by the kabupatens. However other
actions required to improve workshops management were not undertaken, e.g. the charging of economic
hire rates. The matter is being pursued under the follow-up projects where this consistency of approach
throughout the program is showing concrete results.
25.    The project acknowledged the need to provide a minimum of equipment to the kabupatens to
complete their fleets and allow them to implement their programs in the shortterm. However acquisitioll of
equipment for the kabupatens suffered delays. As a result, the objective of getting the equipment on site at
the start of the project was not accomplished as planned. This certainly contributed to the quality problems
mentioned in para. 13. An additional program to meet priority equipment and spare parts needs was
identified during implementation, and agreed to be funded under the project. Also workshop and laboratory
facilities were upgraded as planned.
26.    Environmental Impact Management At the start of the project, the AMDAL (GOI process of
environmental management) was only beginning to be implemented for kabupaten roads. Environmental
activities under the project were instrumental in"mainstreaming7 and operationalizing the process within the
sector. The Environmental Task Group established under the Central Technical Consultants screened all
major works proposals, plus a substantial number of non-IBRD financed projects. The screening results
showed that about 85 % of kabupaten roads had minor environmental impact. The remaining 15% required
site specific assessments. Mitigation guidelines were drafted to handle those projects with minor imnpact
during construction. Sample site specific assessments, involving limited or full investigation, were



Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project     - 6 -            Implementation Completion Report
conducted. Achievements in this area were substantial, only limited by the fact that the unit in charge of the
AMDAL process in DGH was not yet established.
27.    Having assessed that direct impacts were generally minor under the program, the project was still
concerned about the long term indirect impacts of major works. A study was conducted to evaluate the
cumulative environmental impacts that occurred as a result of road upgrading during the 1980s in Kabupaten
Rejang Lebong in Benkulu province (which was identified as a"fragile kabupaten"). The study concluded
that (i) the development of a road network in this area appears to have played no role in accelerating the rate
of conversion of forest land to agricultural use (most of the deforestation that had occurred preceded the
advent of motorable roads); but (ii) the situation may be quite different where road networks are developed
in "frontier areas" in outlying regions. Based on the study recommendations, further cumulative impact
studies were conducted under KREI and KR5.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
28.    Factors both within and outside the government control affected achievement of the project
objectives. The factors subject "to government control were related mainly to delays caused by
administrative procedures including: (i) lack of timely allocation of the budget resulting in works being
carried out in last half, i.e. mostly rainy part, of the year; (ii) the substantial initial delays experienced in
formally establishing the PS and PIU; (iii) and high turnover of staff due to frequent transfer of trained staff
and difficulty to assign counterpart staff. Factors outside government control included the initial conditions
in the kabupatens which affected the degree of achievement of project objectives between kabupatens.
29.    Cost changes affected individual components to various degrees, but globally their impact was
negligible (Table 7A): total project costs remained the same in US$ (499.2million in SAR v/s 498.2 million
actual) as well as in Rupiah (1,031 billion in SAR v/s 1,082 billion actual). The average exchange rate
during the period was Rp. 2,213 for one dollar. Components which increased their shares were road
maintenance and equipment, due to the additional programs agreed under the project. Components which
decreased their shares were road betterment, workshop and laboratory facilities, and training programs.
Regarding project financing (Table 7B), the loan financed a slightly lower share of total costs (42% instead
of 43 .1%). US$6.0 million had to be canceled, of which about half corresponds to expenditures made but
not disbursed and the rest was not committed.
30.   Implementation delays required a nine-month extension of the loan closing date, essentially to
complete the training and the equipment components. This period was also used to complete the
reconciliation of all payments requests with required justification. However a portion of the eligible
expenditures could not be disbursed before the loan account was closed (para. 29).
D. Project Sustainability
31.    Sustainability of the physical components is likely, considering the improved technical environment.
However sustainability of the broader institutional components is more questionable. An attempt to get a
more precise idea of the latter was made by using some results of the extensive and effective monitoring
system established under the project (para. 39). An assessment of planning performance by the IBRD
kabupatens was first carried out in 1994 on the occasion of the mid-term review, and then repeated in early
1997 for all kabupatens. This performance was based on ten characteristics related to planning
requirements, outputs and processes.



Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project      - 7 -             Implementation ComPletion Report
32.    Results of a "time slice" or cross-section coverage of the sample of projects of different ages show
that, in 1997, out of a maximum performance score of 100 the average kabupaten score was 35 in 1997 with
the IBRD-assisted kabupatens scoring higher than non-IBRD: also the more recent the IBRD program the
better the average performance rating as follows:
Overall average        35
KR5 area               52
KREI area              45
KR3 area               38
Non-IBRD               23
The obvious conclusions are that the quality and quantity of planning have been influenced by the presence
of Field Planning Advisers and by IBRD insistence on proper planning procedures being followed. Results
of the 'time series" approach show that performance would tend to decline following the terminationi of the
IBRD project -although it should be noted that the method of measuring performance was chaniged between
1994 and 1997. In KR3 the decline was from an average of 58 in 1994 to 38 in 1997.
33.    How should these results be interpreted, assuming the above is a good proxy for assessing
institutional achievements? A pessimistic interpretation is only possible if one believes that institutional
improvements of this magnitude can happen over one single project. A more reasonable interpretation is to
say that (i) the project is worthwhile (when compared to non-IBRD kabupatens); (ii) the achievemenits are
sustainable; however (iii) one has to accept that the sustainable level is lower than the"peak" achieved wihen
all project resources are present. This is fully consistent with the findings of para. 16 related to maintenanice
performance, and it is in this sense that we can conclude that sustainability of this project is enilaniced by the
ongoing and planned follow-up projects.
E. Bank Performance
34.    Identification. The project was identified in discussions between GO and the Bank in late 1990l
at a time when extensive use could be made of the lessons of experience under the previous two pro'jects.
GOI's initial request was for an extensive program covering about 130 kabupatens or half the size of thle
country. There was therefore no problem for the proposed project to fit within the Governmenit's
development priorities; the challenge was rather to fit within the Bank's strategy for the counLtry, wlich
called for more manageable operations. It was then agreed that the assistance program would be split into
smaller and more focused projects; hence the KR3 project with its dual purpose, one dealing with 73
kabupatens, the other with a countrywide coverage.
35.    Preparation. The project was prepared by GOI with the support of consultants hired uLider RR2.
Bank's efforts were spent providing advice and recommendations on major aspects: (i) process of systematic
technical study (para. 18) to feed into the existing institutional process of decision-making; (ii) desigin of an
effective maintenance strategy, yetwithin the capabilities of kabupatens; (iii) introduction of
environmental assessment and impact management in the sector; and (iv) measures to make central and
provincial technical guidance more effective. Within the Bank, there was much debate on the mer-its of
(i) financing a strong maintenance program under the project and (ii) using a sectoral approach in the
environmental assessment.
36.    Appraisal. Appraisal took place in January 1992, leading to negotiations in May 1992. Thle
critical areas of discussion were (i) the institutional arrangements (the shift from MHA to MPW for the
executing agency role generated much debate); (ii) the maintenance targets based on assessed needs (it
was appropriate to have gradual targets but in the end they were too ambitious: meeting I 00% of the



Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project      - 8 -             Implementation C'omplelion Reporl
maintenance needs at the end of the project could not be a sustainable proposition if this meant tripling
the level of efforts at the start of the project); and (iii) the proper strategy for dealing withi environimenital
impacts, and in particular the definition of "fragile kabupatens" without complete baseline data (it was
agreed that the concept of fragile area would be reviewed in the course of implementation, and that a
study of indirect impacts would be carried out).
37.    Supervision. The project was declared effective on September 28, 1992. Supervision Inissionis
focused on resolution of the key implementation issues: (i) quality of preparation and implementation of the
annual works programs, (ii) environmental impact management and mitigation, (iii) timely allocation of
required resources, and (iv) compliance with loan covenants. Noting that the initial progress was slow, the
mid-term review took a hard look at implementation experience and was instrumental in reversing the trend.
The Bank paid special attention to the maintenance performance and appeared as the main enforcer of the
conditionality under the loan. Its insistence led to satisfactory results in this area (100% of maintenianice
needs met in the third year), although this proved not to be sustainable at this level (para. 16). The Bank
showed flexibility in suggesting or approving needed modifications (like the agreement on1 a last tranclie of
civil works or the special arrangements to allow financing of the training delivery component). but was strict
in the search for quality in selection of consultants for critical assignments (like the Second Central
Technical Consultancy). Regarding disbursements, some difficulties were encountered due to incorrect
category designations by the Borrower; this shows the need to simplify disbursement categories when
dealing with many decentralized agencies having to handle numerous small contracts. Over the
implementation period from July 1992 to December 1996, the Bank's supervision effort amounted to 66
staffweeks, including 14 field missions. This corresponds to an annual average of 15 staffweeks inclUding 3
missions. Each mission dealt with whatever project was included in the Kabupaten Roads Program,
allowing for an efficient use of supervision resources.
F. The Borrower Performance
38.    Preparation. GOI performance in project preparation was satisfactory. Already in October 1990,
DGH proposed to the Bank the main project activities and presented summary cost estimates. This was
later followed by a draft Government Proposal for KR3 (June 1991). As evidenced from the documenitation
presented to the Bank, the Government had done a considerable preparation work. The dialogue with the
Bank on project design (para. 35 ) was good, especially regarding the environmental requiremenits which
broke new ground at the time.
39.   Implementation. GOI performance in implementation was mixed. Difficulties arose because of
the lack of strong central guidance at the start of the project (para. 28). Establishment of PI U and PS was
targeted for November 1992 under the loan agreement. The former was only establislhed in .luly 199'3 while
the latter, although functioning in a limited sense, was not formally established until March 1994. Only in
the second half of the project did the PS take a proactive stance on all issues, whli le the PI U fLunlctionied more
like a DGH Unit dealing with local roads than an open forum to discuss and"troubleshioot" interagenicy
issues. As a consequence, progress was very slow on issues like works packaging, multiyear contracts. late
release of funds -the latter having negative consequences not only for civil works, but also for training
delivery (para. 37). Stability of staff returning from training was also an issue, as exemplified by the
BMHRD Unit (Appendix A), now only 10-member strong because two members left in spite of their- 5-year
commitment. Good performance is to be noted on was the dissemination of good practices, for instanice
regarding environmental aspects. Also a good monitoring system developed and functioning, includinig
planning database analysis, benefits monitoring, and post-construction monitoring.



Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project      - 9 -             Implementation Conmpletion Report
G. Assessment of Outcome
40.    The project was complex by nature in spite of efforts to simplify its design, and denandinig from an
implementation poinlt of view. After a slow start it substantially achieved its physical objectives. Its
techinical and institutional development objectives have to be considered in the broader context of the
Kabupaten Road Development Program: in this context, they have been achieved partially, but efforts are
being pursued under the follow-up projects, thus enhancing the project's sustainability. Achievemenits have
not been even among kabupatens, due to variations in their initial conditions, but overall the project outcomlie
is assessed as satisfactory.
H. Future Operation
41.    There is no formal plan of operation; however, appropriate arrangements exist to ensure effective
operation of the project's outputs: (i) procedures and funding are in place for O&M activities with respect to
physical assets (roads as well as equipment), and (ii) systems and procedures developed and disseminated
ulider the project are being further refined under the follow-up projects. The latter include techinical and
institutional capacity building with respect to technology adaptation, equipment and workshop managemenlt
improvement, refined methodologies for economic evaluation, integration of improved systems into a
Kabupaten Roads Management System, and completion of the Sustainability Action Plan for
central/provincial guidance to the kabupatens. In addition, the monitoring system would continue to be used
to track indicators under the Benefits and Post Construction Monitoring (para 14) and the Planinig
Performance Assessment (para. 31). This will allow an assessment of the effectiveness of the whole KRP at
completion of the follow-up projects.
I. Lessons Learned
42.    A number of findings from this review of the implementation experience under the Third
Kabupaten Roads Project warrant particular emphasis, as follows:
a)  the objective of establishing an effective technical study framework that would feed into the
existing institutional process of decision-making (para. 18)was ambitious, and could ftully
succeed only if there is a strong commitment at the top. Transferrinig the implementation
leadership to MPW was not enough.
b)  the planning performance assessment (Section D) detected a great variation in performance,
but also some instability (some previously poor performers started to do much better, but the
reverse was also true), mainly because of changes in kabupaten senior staff who are possibly
the most significant influence on performance. Hence the role of the top at the local level is
also not to be underestimated.
c)  the effectiveness of the loan conditionality linking major works funding to satisfactory
maintenance performance was limited, mainly because GOI at the central level was reticent
to enforce. Also this was very supervision-intensive and not easy to replicate, an incentive
approach may work better. Finally, to increase the visibility and credibility of sucI
conditionality, it might have been better to put it in a broader framework linkilig assessed
performance to, say, budget allocation.
d)  The "fungibility" of the institutional objectives was achieved to a reasonable extent througi
dissemination of good practices identified under the program to all kabupatens.



Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project        - 10 -             Implementation Completion Report
Instrumental were the continuity of the PS, PIU and CTC (para. 5), as well as tile strategy of
cluster supervision which proved very efficient (para. 37).
43.    The following lessons can be drawn from the implementationi experience under the project:
a)  Institutional factors tend to predominate over economic or techniical factors in ddermrinin- the
success or otherwise of projects in the kabupaten roads sector. Proper attentioll needs to be
paid to these, including a thorough stakeholder analysis.
b)  Project design would benefit from the introduction of transparent mechaniisms for performance
incenitives/penialties; then comes the need to ascertain the willinginess to enforce.
c)  Complexity is unavoidable in some projects, because of the need to work on several frionts in
parallel. In such cases, one should not try to reduce artificially the number of ob jectives. but
rather be realistic in settingsustainable targets for eacih objective.
d)  Projects dealing intensively with local governments are demandinig in terms of supervisioni. If
the thrust for more effective decentralization is to succeed, future projects shiould concenitrate
on a more limited number of provinces, and Bank supervision should be leveraged tilrougI
more interventions from the Field Office.



Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project         - 11 -              Implementation Completion Report
INDONESIA
THIRD KABUPATEN ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3490-IND)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART II: SUPPORTING TABLES AND ANNEX
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
A. Achievement of objectives         Substantial         Partial         Negligible      Not applicable
Macroeconomic policies                   El                El                                  X
Sector policies                           :                X                 a                 o
Financial objectives                     2                 n                                   X
Institutional development                El                X                 E 
Physical objectives                       X                E                 El 
Poverty reduction                         -                                  E                 X
Gender concerns                                            E l                                 X
Other social objectives                  El                 J                E                 X
Environmental objectives                  X                E                  ]                O
Public sector management                 E                 X                 E                 E
Private sector development               0                 0                 X                 
Economic benefits                                          X                 E                 E
B. Project Sustainability               Likely          Unlikely        Uncertain 1/
(D               (I)               (I)
x                El                El
C. Bank Performance                    Highly
Satisfactory     Satisfactory        Deficient
(I)              (I)               (I)
Identification                            l                X 
Preparation assistance                   E                 X                 E
Appraisal                                  l               X                 E
Supervision                                l               X                 F
D. Borrower Performance                Highly
Satisfactory     Satisfactory        Deficient
(I)              (I)               (I)
Preparation                              E                 X                 n
Implementation                                             X                 El
Covenant compliance                                        X                 E
Operation (if applicable)                E                 E                 E
E. Assessment of outcome               Highly                                                Highly
Satisfactory     Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory    unisatisfactory
El               X                 Ol                



Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project        - 12 -             Implementation Completion Report
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Credit Title                         Purpose                      Year of        Status
_______________________                                               j  approval
Preceding Operations:
Loan 2083-IND            Improve district road network and strengthen    1982       Completed
Rural Road Development  institutional capacity
Project
Loan 2881 -IND          Improve management of district road programs     1987       Completed
Second Rural Roads      including labor-based construction; provide
Development Project     financial support.
Following Operations:
Loan 3579-IND           Enhance the capabilities of GOI agencies and     1993       Active
Eastern Indonesia       improve the quality and capacity of district road
Kapupatens Development  network in Eastern Indonesia
Road Project
Loan 3732-IND           Improve the quality and capacity of the district  1994      Active
Fifth Kabupaten Roads   networks in Riau, Maluku, and Central, East and
Development Project     South Kalimantan Provinces
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle              Date planned                       Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification                  January 8,1991                    June 25, 1991
Preparation                     June 1991                         January 3, 1992
December 15,1991
Appraisal                       October/November 1991             January/February 1992
Negotiations                    March/April 1992                  May 11-14, 1992
July 1, 1992
Board Presentation              June/July 1992                    June 17, 1992
July/August 15, 1992
Signing                         July/August 1992                  August 26, 1992
Effectiveness                   July 1991                         September 28, 1992
Project Completion              September 30, 1996                June 30, 1997
Loan Closing                    September 30,1996                 June 30, 1997
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
FY93                 FY93          FY94          FY95          FY96          FY97
Appraisal estimate             28.0          92.0          172.0        215.0
Actual       -                 33.4         104.9          170.2        205.5         209.0
Actual as % of estimate       119.0         114.0          98.0          96.0          97.3
Date of final disbursement                                                          Junle 27. 1997



Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project                    - 13 -                     Inmplementcaiion? Com p/letion e?porit
Table 5A: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Physical Objectives
Key Implementation                         Estimated                                     Actual
Indicators in SAR                                                                                                   l
1.  Phtysical targets
a)  Road rehabilitation/              4,200 km of rehabilitation/            4,078.8 km or 97% of the SAR target.
improvement targets               improvement (20 km of major works
per year per kabupaten or about 25%
of the estimated back log).
b)  Maintenance targets                100% of needs to be reached by third   Generally achieved.
year of program.
Periodic maintenance:                 53% first year; 76% second year; 100% third
50% first year; 75% second year;      year.                                           l
100% third year.                                                                     l
Routine maintenance:                  50% first year; 84% second year; 100% third
70% first year; 85% second year;      year.
100% third year.
11. Road worksprograms super           * Assistance for engineering          * Besides direct supervision of road works,
vision                            preparation of Kabupaten Roads         consultants were able to assist kabupaten staff,
Programs;                             primarily by ad-hoc on-job training with close
* Contract pre-qualification and      liaison during the supervision of the construction
tender evaluation;                    and maintenance projects;
* Certification of works for          * However there was generally little demand
payment;                              from DPUK for assistance in prequalification and
* On the job training DPUK/           bid evaluation.
DPUP staff in the above fields        * Quality of works was improved but still
through Field Consultants for         uneven.
Implementation/FCI.
111. Economic rate of return          EIRR for maintenance = 45%; and %    EIRR = 47% for maintenance; El RR = 15% for
for major works  23%.                 major works.
IV Maintenance achievements
Length (km)                     Costs (Rp. million)               Unit Costs (Rp. u/kmn)
Target     Actual    Ratio (%)    Target       Actual    Ratio (%)    Target      Actual     Ratio (%)
Physical Objectives:
Routine Maintenance
1992/93           15,364      10,555        69        37,422      28,673        77        2.4         2.7         112
1993/94           19,449      17,389        89        47,564     46,589         98        2.4         2.7         I IC
1994/95           23,599      23,261        99        57,170      61,548       108        2.4          2.6        I(9
1995/96           27,098      23,731        88        78,184      68,077        87        2.9         2.9          99
Total         85,510      74,936        88       22,030     204,887         93        2.6         2.6         1(6
Periodic Maintenance
1992/93            2,308       3,618       157        49,067      52,021       106       21.3         14.4         68
1993/94            3,639       3,916       108        78,284      81,482       104       21.5        20).8         97
1994/95            4,987       5,593       112       106,847     128,345       120       21.4        22.9         107
1995/96            5,697       3,717        65       144,721     95,870         66       25.4        25.4         102
Total         16,631      16,844       101      222,905     357,718         94       22.8        22.8         93
Total Maintenance     102,141     91,780         90      599,259     562,605        94         5.9         6.1        104
4 Years



Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project                     - 14 -                     Implenmentation C'oimpletion7 Reporl
Table 5B: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Institutional Objectives
Key Implementation                          Estimated                                          Actual
Indicators in SAR    |                                                                                                   l
I.  Institutional and       * Technical support and liaison for engineering  Achievement in each of the planncd alrea has bcen
Technical Development  aspects;                                         substantial.
* General assistance for planning, including further
development of the planning methodologies, carrying
out special studies of road work needs in
underdeveloped areas;
* Assistance in the monitoring and coordination of
project activities.
11. Workshops and           * Major repair and overhaul of kabupaten         * 14 kabupatens in West Java: two laboratories on
laboratories            equipment to be carried out;                    West Kalimantan received upgrading works and
* Upgrade kabupaten laboratories for basic testing    extension of existing buildings, together with
of soils and materials;                         enhanced water and electricity supplies:
* Build five new laboratories in kabupatens where    + All kabupaten laboratories were able to carry out
such facility does not exist;                   all the standard tests required for kabupaten roads
* Provide equipment for all laboratories as well as    works quality control;
for some workshops;                             * On October 18, 1994 the ownership of the
* Road construction and maintenance equipment;    equipment transferred to PEMDA.
* Implement guidelines for workshop and
equipment management.
III. Training: Kabupaten    Training delivery: the objectives was to have 620  After an initial delay the following training was
Roads Master Training   training sessions (or 150,000 trainee-days) in about    realized: total of about 3,260. FY 1995/96: 786
Program (KRMTP)-    25 priority subject matters to about 6,200 staff over a   trainees; FY 1996/97: 2.475 trainees. indicating
Priority parts of       five year period (last two years included in KREI)    improved annual rate of training over the previous
KRMTP only                                                              year.
Establishment of DGH Human Resource             * 27 staff of DGH. Diklat Marga. Pusdiklat ltJ and
Development Unit (BMHRD) and Provincial         DGRD were selected for BMHRD and Prs. rhe
Training Staff (PTS) groups, with 12 to 15 staff  stafT were trained extensively.
respectively, including selection, in-country and  * Six-month overseas training at Oklahoma State
overseas training and progressive transfer of   University;
responsibility to the Unit for all activities.  * Three-week in-country re-entry and orientation to
duty. The PTS stail'did not return from training
until the end of the first phase. The issue of
institutionalization and sustainability of the BMHRD
and PTS to be dealt with in the second phase.
Preparation of about 25 priority training programs in   A total of 35 priority courses were developed;
the CBT format, including training needs analysis,    curriculum designed; and reviewed by a formally
course design and materials development and pilot    constituted Technical Review Panel: training
testing of the new courses and materials.       material included work books, reference materials.
guides for organizers, instructors. evaluators.
Training of Trainers-Delivery of Training Programs,  13 courses pilot-tested with 301 participants, 685
including professional staff training programs.  stockholders trained in 14 seminars; 292 instructors
trained in 13 courses.
Strengthening the institutions involved in training,  A training management information system was
including the setting up of systems for analysis and    developed for use at central and provincial levels: al
monitoringlevaluation.                          quality control system and manual has been
prepared, but not yet assurance of quality through
"independenf' quality audit.



Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project        - 15 -             Implementation Complelion Report
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study                  Purpose as defined at      Status         Impact of Study
appraisal/redefined
A. Environmental long-term indirect    Evaluate the cumulative   Completed   Partial. Further
impact of major works            environmental impact                    cumulative impact
that occurred as a result               studies conducted under
of road upgrading in                    KREI and KR5.
fragile kabupatens.
B. Macro-Planning System or          * Integrated planning   First version   Substantial. Allows
Kabupaten Road Economic          for Kabupaten Roads;    completed.      better dialogue on macro
Evaluation Model (KREEM).        * Improving surveys;    Being refined    issues between MP and
* Evaluation of periodic  under KREI   Bappenas, and between
maintenance;           and KR5.        GOI and Bank.
* Performance model
for selected pavements;
* Refine vehicle
operation cost models.
C. Training                                                                  See. Table 5B (ill
Training)



Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project         - 16 -             Implementation Complelion Report
Table 7A: Project Costs (US$M)
Appraisal Estimate              Actual/Latest Estimates
Local  [ Foreign  |  Total        Local  [ Foreign  |  Total
Civil Work:
Road Betternent                  135.5       64.2       199.7     125.1        59.3       184.4
Road Maintenance                 160.6       76.1       236.6      173.6       82.2       255.9
Workshops, Laboratories            1.5        2.3         3.8       0.3         0.4         0.7
Supervision                       21.3        10.0       31.3      21.9        10.4        32.2
Equipment                             1.1        5.7         6.8       1.3         6.8        8.1
Technical Assistance:
Training                           3.4        2.6         6.0        3.0        2.4         5.4
Institutional/Technical            5.1        6.3        11.4       4.4         5.4         9.8
Training Delivery                     2.0         1.6        3.6        1.0        0.7         1.7
Total Project Costs         330.4       168.8      499.2      330.6      167.6       498.2
Table 7B: Project Financing
I Appraisal Estimate US$M             ActuaU/Latest Estimates
LocalI Foreign    Total           Local     Foreign     Total
GOI                                 284.2        0.0       284.2     286.9         2.3       289.2
Bank                                 46.2      168.8       215.0      43.7       165.3       209.0
Total Project Costs         330.4       168.8      499.2      330.6      167.6       498.2



Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project              - 17 -                Implementation Completion Report
Table 8 Status of Legal Covenants
Section    Covenant   Present    Original          Revised     Description of covenant         Comments
type       status    fulfillment    fulfillment
date          date
Art.4.01    I           D                                       GOI to submit reports of    First audit report
(B) (II)                                                        audits of records and     submitted Feb/Mar 94 for
accounts no later than 9  project accounts. Second
months after end of each    and third audit reports
project FY.              submitted on time.
Schedule    5           CD         11/01/92                     GOI to establish a Project   Established March 1994.
5.2(A)                                                          Secretariat (PS)
comprising representatives
of BAPPENAS, MPW,
MHA, and MOP, by
11/01/92
Schedule    5           CD                                      GOI to establish a project   Established July 10. 1993.
5.2 (B)                                                         implementation unit (PIU)
in DGH by 11/01/92
Schedule   10           C                                       GOI to submit by          1993/94 program
5.3                                                             12/31/92 and 12/31/93     submitted in Feb. 93 and
maintenance program for   completed. 1994/95
following FY and then to   program submitted in
finalize and implement   February 94. program     l
said program             extended to 95/96/
Schedule   10           C                                       GOI to submit by          1993/94 suibmitted and
5.4                                                             12/31/92 and 12/31/93,    completed. 1994/95
program of               submitted and completed
rehabilitation/betterment
for following FY and then
to finalize and implement
said program.
Schedule    10          C                                       Sub-projects shall be     Complied with
5.5                                                             eligible for selection only
if a) located in an eligible
kabupaten; and b)
prepared in accordance to
procedures satisfactory to
Bank.
Schedule   10           CP                                      GO[ to submit by          Because of late start.
5.6                                                             06/30/93. 12/31/93 and    training consultants
12/31/94 program for in-   schedule was updated as
house training and       bollows: 1993/94 program
delivery following FY.   was impicciltcnd outsidc
and then to finalize and  KRMTP: 94/95 program
implement said program.    submitted 8/31/94. and
95/96 program submitted
09/95. Actual delivery still
limited amd cp.I:etopm
exleCled imidleir KRIl.
C(= Compiled with                              CD = Complied alter delay        NC = Nol compl ied With
Soon+ Compliance expected in reasonable short time  CP = Complied with lPartially  NYD = not yet due



Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project       - 18 -             Implementation Completion Report
Table 9: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title             Description and comment on lack of compliance
No significant lack of compliance with applicable Operation Manual Statements OD or OP/BP
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle               Planned                            Actual
Staffweek           US$           Staff week           US$
Pre-appraisal             )                                         49.5             117.9
Appraisal                  )  77.7 (FEPS)          _                27.1             64.2
Appraisal-Board            )                                        11.5             24.4
Board-effectiveness       )                        _
Supervision                )  93.0 (SAR)           _                67.6             147.9
Completion                 )                                         6.0             14.5
Total                         170.7                                161.7            368.9



Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project                                                      - 19 -                                                 Implementation Completion Report
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
1          [                              Performance Rating
Stage of       Month/    Number of          SW         Specialized staff    Implementation  [ Development                                Types of problems
project cycle      year        persons      in field    skills represented          status            impact                                                                           l
Through            Jan. 91          1                      E
appraisal
Jul. 91         3                      E,HE,0O
Appraisal          Jan. 92          4                     TE,OO,HE,
through Board                                             E,EVS,TS
approval                                 ..                                                                                       _.
Board approval    Jul. 92           4                     HE,0O, FA, E
through
effectiveness      Sept. 92         1           4.7       HE, 00l
Supervision I      Mar. 93          2           1.1       HE, 00,                      2                  2          Noted delays in project administrations and suggested solutions to
l__________________                                          speed up processing of contracted, and wvork flow.
Supervision 11     Oct. 93          3           0.7       HE, 00, FA                    2                 2          Identified kabupatens which were short of their targets; KRMTP
consultants selected; CTC planning services in Maluku (KR5) to be
financed under KR3 project until June 1994.
Supervision III    Feb. 94          5           7.5       HE, 00, FA                    2                 2          Mid-term review identified issues but concluded that project could
make overall satisfactory progress towards its development objectives
Supervision IV     Jul. 94          4           0.2       HE, 00, FA, E                2                  2          Institutional issues were cited as the most critical constraints for project
I_________________  sustainability.
Supervision V      Oct. 94          4           0.0       HE, 00, FA, E                 S                 S          Update
Supervision VI    Jan. 95           4           2.1       HE (2). 00, E                S                  S          PS to ensure that the above possibilities become operational as early as
l___________________                  possible.
Supervision VIl   Jun. 95           4                     HE (2), 00, E                 S                 S          Update
Supervision VIII   Oct. 95          4           0.2       HE (2), 00. E                 S                 S          Delays in release of budget at central level, created problems of
making use of the June to November period for maintenance. 50% of
kabupatens have started routine maintenance programs by mid-year.
Bad performance in Kalbar, Sumsel, Sumbar, and Acch.
Supervision IX    Feb. 96           4           0.4       HE (2). 00. TC                S                 S          Training program had shoxvn very low progress.
Supervision X     Apr. 96           3           0.8        HE (2).00                    S                 S          Category I of the loan wvas overdrawn: formal reallocation requested so
as to expedite disbursement.
Supervision XI    lun. 96           3                      HE.OO. PM                   SS                 S          Project near completion. Last important activities are related to:
ii) training under CT. FCI and KRKMI'': and (ii) reconciliation ol'
expeniditures and xvilhdrao al applications so as to expedite
idisbursemientts.I
Supervisioni XII   Oct. 96          3                      HF (2)l OO                                                Loan closing date extended b) nine months to allo\ for completioni of'
pro(ject activities-civil \vorks. equipment and training. Need for
clarificationi of the Finianicial status by Ministry of Finance. Initiationl
of' ICR.
I- -Fcononlist   1T =l1ransport Econoniist    II I-li tiemm a: tasincelr   1T = i-ainiig Specialist    FNV  F-nvionienltal SpecialistL consultant



Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project   - 20 -               Implementation Completion Report
Annex: Economic Re-Evaluation of KR3
Approach. An economic re-evaluation of the Kabupaten Roads Program (KRP) -comprising the
three projects KR3, KREI and KR5 - was undertaken by GOI in early 1997, as part of its contributioni to
the ICR. It focused on the benefits related to the civil works components which in the case of KR3
account for 89 percent of total project costs. The re-evaluation relied heavily on the benefit moniitorin g
(BM) and post-construction monitoring (PCM) studies1. This time-series approach provides a far more
satisfactory basis for re-evaluation than that based on a single set of data relating to the conditioni at the
time of the re-evaluation. For purposes of the economic re-evaluation of the KR program additional road
condition and traffic surveys were carried out in early 1997 on the existing pool of BM and PCM links as
follows: (i) on 44 links which received support for maintenance works under KR3; (ii) on 48 links whici
received support for betterment works under KREI; and (iii) on 27 links whichi received SUppOrt for
betterment works under KR5.
The formulation of the program of additional surveys between different projects and kinds of
works was aimed at maximizing the overall value of the additional information obtained taking into
account already available historical information on BM and PCM links and the study budget. Thus, the
focus on maintenance works supported under KR3 would permit for the first time a thorough re-
evaluation of maintenance works, while the focus on major works supported under KR5 and KREI would
provide a cost effective way of re-evaluating betterment works under the KR program.
Maintenance Program. Owing to the approach adopted for the overall re-evaluation of the KR
program, the re-evaluation of maintenance works supported under KR3 is based on a representative
sample of 44 links which were included in the pool of BM links and which received support unlder KR3.
The majority of these links had been upgraded at the start of KR3 with RR2 financing. To assess the net
economic benefit in terms of ERR and NPV/km, a number of assumptions were made, includilng: (a)
works expenditures up to 1996 were based on actual contract values and projections were made
thereafter, based on cost estimates derived from application of KREEM; (b) road roughness was
estimated in the international roughness indicator (IRI). Actual survey data were used for the "with" case
up to 1996 and projections were made based on output from the application of KREEM to represenltative
road types and traffic levels. A minimum IRI of 8.5 was adopted for penetration macadam suurfaces (the
dominiant type of sealed surface on kabupaten roads) based on1 recent roughness surveys; this was
considered more representative of actual construction quality that the previous IRI of 6 for "good seals";
(c) base traffic levels and trends were modeled from available survey data for four-wlleel vellicles and
motorcycles; (d) a simple VOC expression related to roughness was adopted from the HDM-based
assumptions developed for district roads as part of the KREEM; (e) traffic benefits were calculated from
savings in VOC and passenger time cost attributed by the annual estimates of traffic and rouglhness
"with" and "without" the project; and (f) the net cash flow stream of all costs and benefits was expressed
in 1994 prices.
These are two important initiatives developed and implemented under KRP. The BM was instituted in 1987
to annually monitor road conditions and traffic flows on a sample of about one link per kabupaten (currently
about 150 links in total). The PCM was instituted in 1989 to bi-annually monitor pavement condition. Thie
BM and PCM provide an important input to the development improved expenditure strategies for kabupaten
roads programs using the Kabupaten Roads Economic Evaluation Model (KREEM).



Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project   - 21 -               Implementation Completion Report
Summary of NPV/km
Traffic Range          No. of Cases           Average NPV/km
(1997 AADT                                    at 10% (Rp mn)
<50                           4                      0
50- 100                      10                     26
100 - 200                    13                     42
200 - 500                    1 1                    75
500- 1,000                    4                    102
> 1,000                       2                    624
Total                        44                     75
A summary of the re-evaluation is presented in the table above. It shows that in virtually all
cases there is a positive return with a 10 and 15 percent discount rate. With a 10 percent discoulit rate the
NPV/km was negative or zero in only four cases. As can be seen there is a close correlation between
traffic level and the NPV/km, with NPV/km increasing progressively withl higher traffic ranges. The
average NPV/km at a 10 percent discount rate is Rp. 75 million. In many cases the ERR could not be
calculated because of the nature of the cash flows produced by the projects (the difficulty was caLused
mainly by the lack of a major initial investment and a succession of positive and negative cash flows
associated with some of the projects). The average ERR of the 17 cases where this could be calculated is
47 percent. This is very close to the ERR of 45 percent which was calculated at appraisal.
Overall the analysis of the KR3 maintenance program on the sample links indicates that it
resulted in the condition of the roads remaining reasonably stable and this produced significant VOC
savings compared with the situation which would generally occur without maintenance. In cases where
road condition has deteriorated significantly there has been periodic maintenance to restore conditioni,
either in the latter stages of KR3 or subsequently. The high rate of return forecast for maintenance works
in all of the IBRD-funded kabupaten roads projects since RR2 appears to have been achieved.
Betterment program. No betterment works supported under KR3 were carried out on the pool of
BM and PCM links2. A direct re-evaluation of KR3 betterment works has, therefore, not been possible.
However, the results of the re-evaluation of betterment works under KR2, KR5, and KREI provide a
good indication of the range of the ERR's for KR3 betterment works. The findings on ERR's for works
under these projects is as follows. Firstly, the re-evaluation, carried out in 1994, of the betterment
program financed under RR2 had shown an overall ERR of 32 percent. To assess the likely impact of lower
than expected construction quality, a shorter project life (7years instead of 10-13 years) was considered in
the re-evaluation, leading to a reduced ERR of 25 percent. Secondly, the re-evaluation of the bettemienit
program funded under KREI and KR5, carried out in early 1997 showed overall ERRs of about 12 percent
and 15 percent respectively. For both KREI and KR5, the average re-evaluated ERR for bettermenit works
was lower than expected mainly because of increases in cost and slower growth of traffic thani assum11ed at
appraisal. Based on these results, and considering that cost increases were generally lower in KR3 thani in
KREI and KR5, the ERR for the KR3 betterment program is estimated to be in the range 15-20 percelit.
2   As indicated above, the KR3 links included in the BM had been upgraded at the start of KR3 and the majority
of these with RR2 funds.



Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project  - 22 -              Implementation Completion Report
A weighted average ERR for the KR3 civil works component as a whole leads to an ERR of
30 percent, which is (i) relatively high due to the predominance of the mainteniance program, but (ii) still
lower than the KR3 appraisal estimate of 35 percent-mostly reflecting lower than expected quality as
translated into higher rates of deterioration.



Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project    - 23 -            Implementation Completion Report
INDONESIA
THIRD KABUPATEN ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3490-IND)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART III: BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
Note Bene: The full set of appendices is available in the Asia Infonnation Center.






- 25 5
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.  BACKGROUND                                                                                 1
2.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COVENANTS                                                            1
2.1    Objectives                                                                            I
2.2    Loan Covenants                                                                        2
3.  PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS                                                                       2
3.1    General                                                                               2
3.2    Maintenance Policy Reform                                                             3
3.3    Institutional Development: Kabupaten Staff                                            4
3.4    Institutional Development: Organisational Aspects                                     4
3.5    Institutional Development: Technical Study Framework                                  5
3.6    Technical Assistance                                                                  6
3.7    Civil Works: Physical                                                                 6
3.8    Civil Works: Financial                                                                8
3.9    Civil Works: Quality                                                                  8
3.10   Training                                                                              9
4. BANK PERFORMANCE                                                                           10
5. BORROWER PERFORMANCE                                                                       10
6.   CONCLUSIONS                                                                              11
APPENDICES
1.   Expenditure Accounts: Baseline vs Actual,
Status of Disbursements by Loan Category
Details of Non-Roadwork Disbursements
2.   Technical Guidelines for Kabupaten Roads
3.   Estimated Condition of Kabupaten Roads
4.   Environmental Status of Roads in KR3 Kabupatens
5.   History of KR3 Roadwork per Link (bound separately)
6.   Comparison of KR3 Contract and Payment Data (bound separately)
7.   ICR for KRMTP Component of KR3
ICR-KR3 19t12/97



- 26 -
THIRD KABUPATEN ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3490-IND)
DRAFT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. BACKGROUND
This paper has been prepared as part of the Borrower's contribution to the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) for the Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project (KR3) in line with
the standard requirements of World Bank loans. The report has been prepared on behalf of the
Directorate General of Highways (DGH) of the Ministry of Public Works as the Government's
Project executing agency and represent primarily the views of that ministry. The contribution was
prepared after receipt of the Bank's draft version of the ICR dated 18 November 1997 and it
therefore includes comments on that draft. The Bank's Draft ICR is considered on the whole to
provide a comprehensive and thoughtful review of the achievements of KR3 and, while it is noted
that the Project outcome was rated overall as 'satisfactory', the Government DGH accepts as fair
most of the areas of explicit or implied criticism.
2.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COVENANTS
2.1    Objectives
The Project had two general objectives:
1. To improve access to the main economic centres in 73 kabupatens in 9 provinces.
2. To increase the capability of all agencies in the country dealing with kabupaten roads.
The specific objectives were to (a) improve systems and procedures for road maintenance and ensure
that the maintainable network of the 73 kabupatens (about 25,000 km) is satisfactorily maintained;
(b) rehabilitating/improving about 4,200 km of roads; (c) improving the capability of staff involved
in the subsector nation-wide at all levels and (d) strengthening institutional arrangements and
improving the technical environment for planning and implementing kabupaten roadwork
programmes (Staff Appraisal Report = SAR, May 1992, para 4.1).
The physical objectives (a) and (b) were to have been achieved simultaneously with the institutional
objectives (c) and (d), although it was evident that institutional factors would determine the physical
outcome, that success in improving staff capability, institutional arrangements and the technical
environment would determine whether roadworks programming and implementation was
satisfactory. On the other hand, it was also recognized by both parties that unless the kabupatens
gained experience maintaining and constructing roads with guidance, the institutional environment
would not improve. This situation meant that the expectations of the Bank for good performance
under (a) and (b) were often tempered by the implementing agencies' progress under (c) and (d)
which was not easy to determine; in fact both the Bank and the Government had difficulty at the
start in determining institutional arrangements for the Project, how to improve kabupaten staff
capability, and how to enforce technical standards. This difficulty was mainly because the subsector
was already highly decentralised, with kabupatens already fully responsible for planning and
implementing their own roadworks since the 1980's. The lack of direct control by central and
provincial level agencies created considerable tension between the Bank and the Government over
the pace of achievement of objectives. The Government feels that its own objective of strengthening
decentralisation, to make kabupatens more responsible while at the same time helvinz Drovincial and
central government to play a more effective role, was not expressed clearly enough from the start.



- 27
2.2    Loan Covenants
The tension referred to above is reflected in the discussions on loan covenants, which have tended to
dominate communications between the Bank and the Government throughout the Project, sometimes
to the point that the original purpose of the covenants has been obscured, so that the covenants have
tended to appear to the Government as substitutes for the Project objectives. However, it has to be
admitted that the Bank Missions have often tried to explain the purpose of the covenants. It is also
an indicator of the need for improvement of management skills within the Government that the
Project objectives have sometimes been misunderstood, and when the Project was explained to
lower level officials, it was often the loan covenants which were emphasized. This is a lesson for
future Projects, that loan covenants may be misinterpreted as Project objectives and should be
selected and administered wisely.
The main KR3 loan covenants were (a) the establishment of a Project Secretariat (PS) for the
purpose of assisting the Coordinating Committee of the Project; (b) a Project Implementation Unit in
Directorate General of Highways (DGH) to monitor progress in Project implementation; (c)
preparation of annual road maintenance and rehabilitation/improvement programmes in accordance
with agreed criteria including time schedule and methodology; and (d) funding eligibility of
improvement programmes in any one kabupaten to be contingent on its maintenance performance.
Other loan covenants included (e) preparation on in-house training programmes in accordance with
an agreed time schedule; and (f) packaging of civil works contracts according to agreed criteria, and
allocation of packages to contractors of agreed classification.
The Bank considers that the main covenants were "relevant and required" (Draft ICR, Summary para
iv). The Government considers that the timing aspects of the maintenance covenant were deficient,
and the PS/PIU covenant led to misunderstandings about control of the programme, as discussed
below under sections 3.2 and 3.4 of Project Achievements.
3.  PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS
3.1    General
The value of the KR3 Project loan was US$215 million which was disbursed over a loan period
extended by one fiscal year to 1995/96. An undisbursed amount of US$5.8 million was cancelled.
Exceeding the physical target of 4,200 km of rehabilitation/improvement, nearly 4,300 km was
constructed in three years.  Exceeding the SAR physical target of 11,180 km of periodic
maintenance, 12,856 km received periodic maintenance in the first three years while the routine
maintenance target of 24,720 km (in Year 3) was almost achieved in Year 3 (23,493 km) and over-
achieved in Year 4 (25,801 km). The main reason for the one year loan extension was therefore to
take advantage of the funds in the Unallocated Category to reinforce the maintenance objective, not
to achieve physical targets or to make up for "an initial slow start" as implied by the ICR (para 11).
Appendix I shows physical and financial achievements by Loan category, with full details of all
disbursements except for roadworks categories IA & IB which are detailed in Appendices 5 and 6.
This was the third subsector loan for kabupaten roads and changed the focus from improvement to
preservation of the existing good and fair roads as a precondition for network improvement. The
main purpose was to reform the kabupatens understanding on the importance of setting up priorities
for maintenable roads rather than for poor and bad road condition with low quality repair work.
The second focus of the KR3 Project was to introduce systematic guidelines for the selection and



- 28 -
implementation of kabupaten road improvements, by implementing the Director General of Bina
Marga's Decree no. 77 of 1990 on planning procedures and a range of engineering guidelines
prepared in 1992. DGH issued these guidelines to all KR3 Provinces in March 1993, and re-issued
them as official guidelines in November 1995 (Appendix 2). Planning procedures attached to
SK77/1990 were revised and re-issued in 1995, without revising the decree.
The third focus of the KR3 Project was to apply a two-pronged training effort to upgrading
kabupaten staff skills: directly through on-job training by technical assistance consultants, and
indirectly through establishment of a Kabupaten Roads Master Training Plan, which is expected to
have longer-term benefits (see Section 3.10 and Appendix 7). The Government considers that KR3
achieved these objectives in a highly satisfactory manner.
3.2    Maintenance Policy Reform
The main difference of approach in the KR3 project compared with those preceding it was the
emphasis on maintenance of kabupaten roads. Annex I of the SAR (May 1992) summarised the
kabupaten road maintenance strategy developed (but not applied) under the Second Rural Roads
Project (RR2; the strategy had been discussed within the Government since November 1989). It
included simple criteria for selection of links for maintenance, clear and consistent definitions of
maintenance works (regardless of other works on a link), a set of guidelines for preparation and
implementation of the programmes, with tables of estimated quantities and bar charts. It was
identified that the lack of a clear and consistent definitions of maintenance work was the main
reason for lack of improvement in the condition of the kabupaten road network. For this reason, the
strategy was that all roads (and only roads) in good and fair condition would receive maintenance
funds. The Bank strongly supported this strategy by introducing consultant certification for
maintenance, requiring details of programmes in advance, setting targets of the percentage of
maintainable roads which should receive maintenance, and applying a loan covenant linking major
works funding to satisfactory maintenance performance in the previous year.
Despite this strong support, the Bank ICR considers that the "the effectiveness of loan conditionality
linking major works funding to satisfactory maintenance performance was limited, mainly because
GOI at the central level was reticent to enforce." (Findings, xvi. c).
The maintenance conditionality had a poor start due to poor scheduling of the conditionality. At the
time the maintenance performance was assessed, the betterment programme for the next year had
already been determined. This meant that all kabupatens would be considered in default if the
covenant was strictly enforced, hence the implementation of the covenant was not very practical.
The main purpose of the conditionality was to encourage kabupatens to greatly increase their
maintenance programmes, not to withdraw assistance from those that did not. In the end, most
kabupatens have greatly increased their maintenance programmes compared with those before the
KR3 Project, so despite (or because of) GOI's "reticence to enforce", the target has been achieved.
However, viewing the outcome as just an issue of conditionality is rather narrow, since it was only
one tool in a maintenance strategy intended to change the thinking of hundreds of kabupaten
officials. The question should be whether the maintenance strategy as a whole was successful, not
whether the loan covenant was successful. The Government considers that the introduction of the
maintenance strategy under KR3 and other projects will be a major contributor towards improving
the condition of the kabupaten road network.
The strategy was strongly advanced in 1995 when the Director General of DGH explaind at series
of meetings with all Bupatis the drastic implications of not maintaining their good and fair roads. A
sample of the graphical presentation is included in Appendix 3 of this report. As well as the strong
possibility of long-term decrease in proportion of good and fair roads which was demonstrated, the
potential loss in assets had a profound impact on the audience. This was estimated as the cost of
betterment works which would be required to overcome the extra deterioration due to lack of
maintenance, and was stated in Rupiah at the bottom of each graph, one of which was prepared for



- 29 -
every kabupaten and every province in Indonesia. Although the maintenance strategy needs
continual support, especially by explanation to senior kabupaten officials, the Government feels that
the maintenance strategy aspect of KR3 was very successful.
The Bank has suggested linking assessed performance to budget allocation as an alternative
conditionality. The Government considers that the maintenance strategy is now well enough
established as to be no longer required as a loan covenant.
3.3   Institutional Development: Kabupaten Staff
The objectives of "improving the capability of staff involved in the subsector nationwide at all
levels and improving the technical environment for planning and implementing kabupaten roadwork
programmes" were considered by the Government to be one of the functions of the technical
assistance (TA) consultants employed under the Project. Their contribution to these Project
objectives was clearly stated in their Terms of Reference. The training consultants, supervision
consultants (FCI) and central technical consultants (CTC) all contributed to these objectives, but the
Government now realizes that TA was mainly used to achieve the physical objectives of the KR3
Project, rather than a nationalwide programs of institutronal development, and that there were many
opportunities lost for institutional development.
The Bank points out in para 19 of the Draft ICR that the Government has now recognized this under
the latest Kabupaten Roads Project, and is making positive efforts to take over the CTC's tasks. The
Government acknowledges that there were on-the-job training opportunities for both central and
local government staff offered by TA assignments which were in effect lost. This in part reflects the
heavy executive and administrative burden placed on many government staff (including that for
contract procurement and administration) that prevents them from gaining experience from more
direct participation in technical studies and supervision.
One of the main problems in achieving institutional development was that the method of achieving
it was poorly articulated, due no doubt to the complexity of the decentralised arrangements and the
multiple agencies involved at each level, also due to the necessity to treat 73 kabupatens with a
single approach. Institutional development was simply understood as training, formal and on-the-
job. In the future, we would like to institutionalise training activities by involving Center of Training
and Educational of Ministry of Public Work, Regional Training Center of MPW and Provincial
Training Center of Ministry of Home Affair. Therefore, an enabling strategy for this approach will
be strongly proposed in the future Kabupaten Roads projects.
It was assumed that the training programme already run by DGH's Training Unit (Dik Lat Bina
Marga), as improved under the KRMTP Plan implemented under this Project, and supported by the
FCI and CTC for on job training, would be sufficient. In fact the technical consultants themselves
felt much more at home at in implementing the physical requirements of the Project rather than in
addressing the training objectives. Engineering was also their primary qualification, and their
training role was assumed to automatically follow from their technical qualifications. For instance, a
Technical Writing component was included in the CTC Terms of Reference to lay the foundation for
improved layout, future development and dissemination of the technical guidelines, based on a six-
month Pilot Study done by the PMU Consultant in 1991. However this component was deleted in
1993 before it had started on the grounds that if an engineer is qualified, he will know how to write.
In fact the ability to communicate technical subjects with understanding of the kabupaten's position
tumed out to be one of the keys to success by certain FCI and CTC staff, followed later on by certain
provincial staff. Using such people as trainers had considerable impact on the kabupatens.
3.4   Institutional Development: Organisational Aspects
The organisational aspects of institutional development had been partially addressed in a pilot study
on kabupaten DPUK organisations done in 1990 during preparation of KRMTP, where it was found
that the 16 DPUKs had 16 different organisation structures, none of which followed the Ministry of



- 30 -
Home Affairs' guideline on standard structure. The selection of candidates for training and their
placement after training may have been affected by this situation. The Ministry of Home Affairs was
aware of this, but considered that lack of standardisation was offset by the benefit of autonomy,
where the kabupatens themselves were given responsibility to conduct their own management; the
guideline not having the force of a strict regulation.
Organisational aspects were at the top of the list of loan covenants for KR3: the establishment of the
PS and PIU were seen by the Bank as instrumental in project monitoring and assist the structural
agencies for coordination. Communications from the centre to the province or kabupatens were
issued by one or another Directorate General under the assistance of the PIU and PS.
The establishment of the PS and PIU as project coordination and monitoring board is very important
in Guiding Dati I and Dati II in the managing of kabupaten road not limited to IBRD assisted
projects but also for non IBRD assisted projects.
The main advantage of the PS and PIU was to act as a forum for meetings in the circumstance that
no single agency had any right to full control of the programme.
The Bank recognized at the start (SAR para 2.14) that the Ministries of Public Works and Home
Affairs had different roles, and that this did not include control by the Ministry of Public Works over
the Ministry of Home Affairs. It would have been more appropriate to comment on the development
of cooperation and joint decision-making throughout the Project, vis-a-vis the Kabupaten.
DGH as executing agency have made effective cooperation with the Directorate General of Regional
Development (DGRD) in Ministry of Home Affairs, which para 2.13 of the SAR recognizes as
playing a substantial role with their corresponding agencies at provincial and kabupaten level, being
responsible for regulating and monitoring non technical aspects of Inpres programmes, regulating
staffing and salaries, and supervision of provincial and kabupaten government's senior officials As
if to reinforce the importance of cooperation with DGRD, the Bank considers that the "planning
performance arrangement detected a great variation in permormance .mainly because changes in
Kabupaten senior staff who were possibly the most significant influences on performance"
(Findings, xvi.b).
In the event, such cooperation was obtained by the active interest of concerned officials at all levels,
not by the existence or otherwise of the PS and PIU. The Government seeks better ways of
managing this cooperation in future, particularly through more regular meetings and more efficient
and open sharing of information, but not through imposing organisation structures which give a
mistaken appearance of single control, and preferably not as loan covenants.
In future projects, the PS and PIU responsibilities have to be include coordination activities not only
at central level, but also to the Provincial and Kabupaten levels and not only for loan funded projects
but for all projects including GOI funded projects, their function should be to collect and disseminate
information, with decision making returned to the structural agencies.
3.5    Institutional Development: Technical Study Framework
The Bank considers that the "technical study framework that would feed into the existing
institutional process of decision-making (para 18) was ambitious, and could fully succeed only if
there is a strong commitment at the top." The technical study framework referred to is the planning
cycle beginning more than one year before the work, followed by the design, tendering,
implementation, payment, monitoring and handover processes. These were all covered by technical
guidelines circulated before the Project started, and supported by technical assistance consultants
(except for the evaluation and award of tenders which was fully in the hands of the kabupatens).
The Government considers that commitment from the "top" has been adequate, but is not the most
important factor in Project success since the "top" have no direct power to enforce the guidelines. It
has to be realised that the institutional framework cannot be changed by participants in Bank-funded



- 31 -
Projects such as KR3, and that the capability of all participants, especially at lower levels who are
making their own decisions, is the main factor in determining success. Fully committed leadership
cannot guarantee competence at all lower levels on a decentralised Project.
Competence was fostered in KR3 by increasing the power of certification given to the CTC and FCI
compared with that under the Second Rural Roads Project. However, the Government admits that
instructions and guidelines issued should be enhanced in future. More official support could have
been given to the technical guidelines and technical consultants. As an example of recent progress,
the Government has introduced the same planning procedures for all kabupaten roads regardless of
fund source, but this is a sensitive issue as it may contradict the principle of regional autonomy;
kabupatens have since the introduction of Inpres Dati II in 1974 been informed that they have the
authority to determine their own development priorities.
The Bank considers that "institutional factors tend to predominate over economic or technical factors
in determining the success or otherwise of projects in the kabupatens roads sector" and that
"thorough stockholder analysis" is needed. (Findings, para xviii. a). The Government agrees with
this comment, and the length of this section indicates the complexity of the situation, however
stockholder analysis does not seem as important as the strengthening or establishment of systems for
monitoring and evaluating the programme. One of the main institutional factors which affects the
success of kabupaten road projects is the lack of good information which institutions can rely on.
With better information, problems can be analysed and solutions found.
3.6    Technical Assistance
Final expenditure on Technical Assistance (TA) including training and supervision amounted to
9.1% percent of the total Project cost under KR3, compared with an estimated 9.9% at Appraisal
(Appendix 1). Direct implementation support alone accounted for 6.2 percent (FCI), compared with
an initial estimate of 6.3 percent. The Government considers that this is a relatively high figure, but
it is inevitably costly to support decentralisation policy. It is also necessary to prepare systems for
long-term use (such as KRMTP, 1.3% of KR3 Project cost). The investment of 1.9% of the Project
cost in institutional assistance (CTC), including planning assistance to all kabupatens, assistance to
non-Project kabupatens, planning research and development of implementation systems for the sub-
sector is also considered to have been worthwhile.
The activities of CTC and FCI services are mentioned in various sections in this report. This section
includes major activities not mentioned elsewhere.
In the environmental area, the CTC Environmental Task Group established and implemented new
environmental guidelines for kabupaten roads in line with regulations, and in particular broke new
ground in developing screening procedures and generic environmental studies (sectoral Pills) which
will save carrying out environmental studies on about 90% of kabupaten roads in Indonesia (varying
between kabupatens), and has thereby saved much time and money. A total of 966 road links (6.6%
of the 14,676 on the latest inventory) in KR3 kabupatens are indicated to require environmental
study (preliminary or full). The number and percentage of links by kabupaten are shown in
Appendix 4. The total effort in the CTC Environmental Task Group from July 1992 to December
1997 was 38.6 man-months foreign and 197 man-months of Indonesian professional. Half of this
input was financed under the KR3 Project, covering the period from July 1992 until August 1994.
The KRMTP services carried out the work described in Appendix 7.
3.7    Civil Works: Physical
Appendix I shows that civil works made up 95.1% of Project costs, versus 93.7% at Appraisal.
Physical quantities and disbursements recorded in the PIU's databases as of December 1997 are
slightly different from data recorded in Appendix 5A of the Banl's ICR, because the effort to
complete the data and the consequent revisions have continued up to the present. Physical



- 32  -
achievement is summarised under Category I of Appendix 1. Appendix 5 (bound separately) shows
all works funded under the KR3 Project on every road link, presented year by year as a Works
History. This layout was found to reveal the most about the continuity of programming of
betterment and maintenance by the kabupatens.
Monitoring of planning and programme preparation and consolidation of planning data for all IBRD-
assisted kabupatens was carried out by the CTC consultants, who issued long lists (P1 for
maintenance and P2 for betterment) and short lists (P3 for betterment). Planning and engineering
eligibility on all betterment works was jointly certified by the CTC (planning) and FCI (engineering
design) using the PEI format. Planning databases were maintained centrally by CTC, based on
study data collected by their Field Planning Advisers based in all provinces.
The starting point for monitoring of progress under KR3 was the list of projects accepted at the
Annual Budget Meetings in Jakarta and the provinces. Monitoring of physical progress was carried
out using a database programme (MFK) circulated to the FCI, and supported by the CTC. Data
entry was carried out at the FCI's provincial offices, and diskettes sent to CTC by mail every month.
CTC sent reports back to the FCI for confirmation with the DPUK staff, and a weekly statement of
missing reports. Although the reporting fornats were specified in 1992, a number of ad hoc reports
were generated as needed by the PIU. As an example, the following tables classify all roadworks by
surface type and all betterment works by pavement width during KR3:
Betterment         Periodic Maintenance
Year       Sealed     Unsealed     Sealed     Unsealed
(Krn)       (Km)        (Kmn)       (Km)
1992/93    1,228.07                3,710.37
1993/94    1,588.73        -       3,914.38
1994/95     1,269.58    179.56     4,937.05     684.84
1995/96      33.90         -       3,281.74      80.55
Total     4,120.28     179.56     15,843.54    765.39
_ _           Road Betterment Pavement Width (metres)
Year     Total    3.0m    >3-3.5  >3.5-4  >4-4.5  >4.5-5   >5 -6    >6m
Km    %    %    %    %    %    %    %
1992/93  1,228.07   5.4%     58.0%    24.3%     6.2%     2.0%      3.6%     0.4%
1993/94  1,588.73   2.7%     60.9%    22.0%     8.7%     4.9%      0.8%     0.0%
1994/95  1,449.14   2.7%     60.2%    24.1%     9.9%     0.9%      1.7%     0.4%
1995/96   33.90    44.2%    38.9%     16.8%     0.0%     0.0%      0.0%     0.0%
Total   4,299.8   3.8%      59.7%    23.3%     8.3%     2.8%      1.9%     0.3%
The above data records actual works, not design data. Although the FCI were required to certify that
designs and tender documents were adequate, it was decided to sacrifice design data from the project
monitoring databases since FCI's workload was expanded to cover collecting payment data (see
below). Only the certification ofdesign was recorded. As a result, much less is known about design
than about planning or implementation. One lesson learnt from KR3 is that more effort needs to be
put into improving design quality, by encouraging a timely start to design and by guiding kabupaten
staff.



- 33 -
3.8    Civil Works. Financial
The RR2 Project had proven that kabupaten works programmes and disbursements could not be
reconciled without payment data, and the Government had forfeited reimbursement of eligible RR2
expenditure because of lack of documentation. Therefore the Field Consultant's duties established
for the KR3 Project included monitoring of payments, as well as the monitoring of roadworks
programmes, contracts and physical progress expected of a Works Supervisor. The monitoring
system was also designed to compare payments recorded by the FCI with payments applied for and
disbursed under the Loan.
The monitoring of payments tumed out to be a greater challenge than expected, both for the FCI to
obtain the data, for the CTC to reconcile it with contracts and disbursements, and for the Ministry of
Finance to identify payments and prepare Statements of Expenditure (SOE). The process of
reconciliation led to identification of payments whose Loan categories had been wrongly entered by
KPKN, and had not been corrected during processing of withdrawal application or disbursement. A
few double applications were also discovered. These misapplications caused apparent over-
disbursement under Category l.A for several months, and were eventually corrected by the Bank
after Ministry of Finance requested that all payments should be recorded in the correct category of
the loan. A total of 9,511 payments was recorded on KR3 Statements of Expenditure and 7,664
payments were recorded by the FCI, covering 9,908 distinct payments; hence 397 payments are not
yet identified on SOE's.
Appendix 6 (bound separately) shows Contract and SPM (Payment) Data for all of the 3,153
contracts funded under the Loan, to show how the various sources of data were reconciled, and to
enable further reconciliation or document search to be performed if required. 397 SPMs are still
declared "Missing", or better "Unidentified", as they may have been disbursed under Application
Nos. 72 to 76 after December 1996, when the Ministry of Finance streamlined Statements of
Expenditure by removing contract identification. This may explain the shortfall of about US$ 1.55
million (about 1%) between the disbursement database on civil works and the IBRD's latest amount
disbursed, as the database amount only covers identified payments disbursed on eligible works. The
Loan Status Reports adjusted estimated programme values based on actual exchange rates and
contract values. A single exchange rate was calculated and continuously updated for each Civil
Works Year and Loan Sub-Category, and for each Non-Civil Works contract and currency.
The main lesson from the KR3 financial monitoring experience is that a major effort is required to
collect and reconcile payments and disbursements on decentralised programmes, so the Government
is considering introducing a computerised kabupaten roads monitoring system within the local
governments for recording planning and implementation data on all kabupaten roadworks, accessible
by the Central Government for loan status and programme monitoring since centralised Loan
administration will continue. Means of sharing payment data between Bank Indonesia and the
Ministry of Finance are also being considered, as well as a method for the Ministry of Finance to
assemble Statements of Expenditure based on eligible works, preferably with access to the database
and online access to all KPKN's. With the recent streamlining of Statements of Expenditure,
reconciling payments and disbursements directly at the source has become an urgent necessity.
3.9    Civil Works: Quality
The RR2 Project had developed technical audit procedures for measuring the quality of traditional
penetration macadam pavements on kabupaten roads, and in 1988 initiated post-construction
monitoring of road conditions to monitor deterioration. These efforts were continued under KR3. A
small sample of 7 projects in West Java was audited in 1994, and a further 17 projects in 6 KR3
provinces were audited in late 1995 and early 1996. The conclusion of the technical audit was ihat
construction quality is a serious problem, with deficiencies being found in thicknesses and qi,4lity of



- 34 -
pavement materials, and also in bitumen content. However, the impact of poor construction quality
on pavement life is not so conclusive, judging from results of post-construction monitoring. A total
of 149 sub-projects, averaging two per KR3 kabupaten, were surveyed approximately every six
months by the FCI from February 1993 until their demobilisation in 1996. CTC/Bridging
Consultants carried out the latest survey of these links in May 1997. The majority (62%) of these
roads are still in good condition 6 to 8 years after construction, and another 38% are in fair
condition, despite an imperfect maintenance regime. The deterioration curve is remarkably flat for
the penetration macadam surfaces (covering 90% of cases), compared with that for other sealed
surface types.
The Bank considers that "appropriate arrangements exist to ensure effective operation of the
project's outputs" and "the monitoring system would continue to be used to track indicators under the
Benefit and Post-Construction Monitoring and Planning Performance Assessment" (Findings, para
xvii.). The Government agrees that GOI budgets can take over maintenance of roads constructed
under the Project. The Government is considering adopting a quality assurance system including a)
performance evaluation on all technical aspects, not just planning, as well as b) post-construction
monitoring covering road conditions, benefits and environmental aspects.
The Bank considers that "project design would benefit from the introduction of transparent
mechanisms for performance incentives/penalties" (Findings, para xviii. b). The Government agrees
that mechanisms for performance evaluation should be introduced (see comment on xvii.), and that
they should be as objective and hence as transparent as possible, however it may be sufficient to
circulate the results of such evaluations to the provinces and kabupatens. Before introducing more
incentives or penalties, it should be determined properly what motivates kabupaten staff.
It is agreed with para 17 of the Bank's ICR that progress has been slow in the use of new
technologies. A study under RR2 ("Technology Adaptation and Dissemination") identified increased
efficiency, improved quality and overall cost reduction of kabupaten roadworks which should result
from application of a number of existing technologies not yet widely applied to kabupaten roads.
The technologies identified were bitumen emulsions, softer-grade bitumens, graded aggregate
pavement materials, cold-laid bitumen mixes, soil stabilisation, and fine-grain asbuton. The
Kabupaten Roads Quality Report of March 1996 (CTC) contained many useful comments on
technology and quality, including how to improve quality of penetration macadam.  The
Government considers that report fairly summarises the lessons learnt from KR3 on engineering
aspects.
3.10 Training
The first phase of the KRMTP from October 1993 to November 1996 was funded under KR3. The
following is a summary of achievements related to objectives, for which details are provided in
Appendix 7.
I. Select and train nine qualified candidates for the Bina Marga Human Resources Development
(BMHRD) Team. The twelve selected candidates underwent a nine-month in-country and
overseas training programme.
2. Design and prepare Competency Based Method (CBM) training materials for 20 to 25 priority
courses selected by Bina Marga. Twenty courses were developed using the Competency Based
Method.
3. The BMHRD Team should progressively take over training needs analysis, curriculum design,
materials development, training delivery and monitoring, evaluation and feedback. A plan was
prepared and implemented to facilitate the eventual takeover by BMHRD of training
development.
4. Implement three types of courses: Training Courses for CBM Instructors, Stakeholder Seminars
and Pilot-testing of CBM courses. Approximately 1,278 participants were trained in these three
activities.



- 35 -
5. Develop Training Systems for Bina Marga. Five major training systems with supporting
documents were produced: Quality Assurance/Quality Control, Training Needs Analysis and.
Curriculum Design, Course Design and Training Materials Development, Monitoring,
Evaluation and Feedback, and Training Management Information System.
Principal lessons learned relate to project implementation and sustainability:
* KRMTP should have focused on DPUK institutional development as well as training.
*  Institutionalisation strategies for project personnel and activities should have been developed
earlier.
4.  BANK PERFORMANCE
DGH appreciatres the combination of flexibility and persistence shown by successive Bank
supervision missions during the HSI project. An intensive level of Bank supervision was given,
because the loan introduced a new maintenance policy into the subsector and was complex in its
scope and coverage. Government Staff in DGH recognise the value of a disciplined framework of
regular progress reviews, accompanied by short-term action plans and task lists. Even though the
approach may have seemed bureaucratic at times, it injected a vital element of dynamism into more
traditional work practices.
However, some problems arose from the periodic nature of Bank supervision, characterised by short
bursts of intensive activity. During the short mission periods, it was often impracticable for all the
relevant government staff to be involved, attempts were made to address too many issues
simultaneously and communication problems arose. The apparent understandings laid out in mission
Aide Memoires were not always fully grasped by government staff. Bank contact between missions
was usually limited and apparent inaction by the time of the next mission may then be a source of
mutual frustration. While it is appreciated that most Bank staff have a very heavy workload, means
of spreading out the supervision effort more evenly over time might be considered, perhaps
involving RSI staff to a greater extent, as a way of improving future Project performance. The
Government agrees that the Bank's practice of supervising KR3, KREI and KR5 together (in
"clusters") assisted the Government in management of the Projects.
5.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
The Government DGH notes that the Bank views the borrower's performance as generally
satisfactory, but found the borrower's performance mixed in the implementation stage with the PIU
unit functioning more like a DGH Unit dealing with local roads than an open forum to discuss and
"troubleshoot" inter-agency issues.
The Government DGH generally accepts these eritieisms, but would also wishes to make the
following observations.
Decentralisation of management fuinctions to appropriate administrative levels is a key objective of
government policy. While it is expected that this will lead to more responsive management in the
longer term, in the shorter term some transitional inefficiencies in the management process may be
unavoidable. This is partly due to the need to involve at least four central level agencies in Projects
such as this, as well as their counterpart agencies at provincial level, and partly due to management
weaknesses among concerned staff.
The Government admits to a continuing need for management upgrading within local government,
and would welcome the Bank's advice on how the problem might be tackled more effectively in
future. The Government wishes to avoid establishment of organisation units for particular projects,
even if they produce the required results. Such units often confuse agencies at lower levels, who are



- 36 
already in a situation of multiple direction. Unfortunately, management upgrading provided so far
has been limited in scope to contract management and financial management, with very little
emphasis on principles of organisation, office management or on behavioural aspects of personnel
management and communications.
The Bank comments favourably on the monitoring system set up for the Project. The Government
considers that the monitoring system was excellent but was only used for Project activities, and
would have been more useful if applied to non-Project activities.
6.  CONCLUSIONS
The main questions are whether the Project loan has provided good value for money, whether it has
led to improvements that would not otherwise have occurred and whether these improvements are
sustainable.
The economic re-evaluation suggests that the investment in road betterment and maintenance
yielded a sound return averaging about 30%, but that returns could have been higher if quality had
improved. Although difficult to measure objectively, the quality of works supported by the Project
was likely to have been higher than would otherwise have been the case, because of the substantial
investment in TA for implementation support.
The Government feels that the maintenance strategy aspect of KR3 was very successful. The Project
has been valuable in convincing the kabupatens of the economic value of maintenance. Within the
road planning process, tangible advances have been achieved in consolidating rational subproject
selection procedures and disseminating them to decentralised levels.
The ICR's judgement that improvements achieved under the Project are sustainable, given the
further support of the follow-on Project (KREI and KR5), seems valid. The test will be whether
improvements can be sustained without support beyond KR5.
The main lessons of KR3 are that
* loan covenants may be misinterpreted as Project objectives and should be selected and
administered wisely.
* the Government's objective of strengthening decentralisation, to make kabupatens more
responsible while at the same time helping provincial and central government to play a more
effective role, was not expressed clearly enough in the Project design.
* collecting and reconciling payments and disbursements on decentralised programmes is a huge
effort, so the Government is considering introducing a computerised kabupaten roads
monitoring system.
* KRMTP should have focused on DPUK institutional development as well as training.
The Bank considers that "for more effective decentralisation to succeed, future projects should
concentrate on fewer provinces" (Findings, para xviii. d). The Government considers that more
effective decentralisation depends on improvement of systems which apply to all kabupatens, not
just to donor-funded kabupatens. One of the reasons the Bank-funded kabupaten roads projects are
considered effective by the Government is that most provinces and kabupatens have participated.
This would not be the case if pilot provinces or kabupatens are chosen for selective improvements,
since policy improvements take a long time to demonstrate. However, if there are components of a
specific technical or experimental nature, it may be sufficient to demonstrate these in one or two
kabupatens.



IBRD 23640R1
' .-\TFHASAND                                                                                                                                                                                          INDONESIA
THIRD KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
PHILIPPINES                                 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRUNRI                     /PROJECT DISTRICTS
BRUNEj A !
MALAYSIA                                                                                            !                                                                                            ,-> E RUNEJ  t;  r 2 DISTRICTS INCL DED IN THE EASTERN INDONESIA
KAIUPATEN ROADS PROJECT 11-- 3579-IND)
)                  ~    ~~~~~~DISTRICTS INCLUDED IN THE FIFTH KABUPATEN
ROADS PROJECT Itoon 3732.INDI
a     PROVINCE CAPITALS
'         ,* -LaE2'JJERNGOARA'  /    .DISTRICT ROUNDARIES
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
,,,nT U4 >z-'SINrAPoRE                                                                                                                                                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
"VI HALMAHERA
AEPLAUNAN
25  ORE       v<
12  DI. #Gftd. 
14. , JEIREANR RASAT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        c
16.,: KALIMANTAN SRlATAN
EP.~ 011LMANTAN TIMEUR
Rt  SULAWESI TENGAIEHAI2   OBK                                                                                                            2
TVR. STEAWER UTARA                                                                                                                              '
TRI  SQLAWIESIRWATANJRnoo~,                                                                                                                       
SE.    A ES TEN05ARFA                                                                                                                                       FOE
IRWNUATENDOARA RARAT                                                                                                                                            24                 \  203004075
24.                                                                                                                                                                                   TIAMNORTIU  ~                                             0    OT ~        40    5
DR. EAN                  TMAOoo   odoEPoDTn IRitd~ W,oIdlok                                                                                                                                                                                        KILOMETERS
IE6~~~~~~~~~  120                    IIR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                 12A~~~~~~~~~~~                         10T          AUSTRALIA                 136~
DECEMBER199T



