Domnut Of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4404-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT OF SDR 41.3 MILLION
AND A
PROPOSED AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT OF SDR 38.1 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
MULTISECTOR REHABILITATION CREDIT
November 3, 1986
This document has a restricted distribuLion and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties- Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Tanzania Shilling (TSh)
Rate as of September 30, 1986
TSh I J US$ 0.0225
US$ I = TSh 44.5
USS I = SDR .8265
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOT  =  Bank of Tanzania
CG   =  Consultative Group
DRC  =  Domestic Resource Cost
ERP  =  Economic Recovery Program
CDP  =  Gross Domestic Product
ICOR = Incremental Capital Output Ratio
KfW  =  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LDC  =  Less Developed Country
ODA  =  Overseas Development Administration
PIP  =  Public Investment Program
QRs  =  Quantitative Restrictions
SAP  =  Structural Adjustment Program
SDC  =  Swedish Development Corporation
SJF  ^  Special Joint Financing
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
MULTISECTOR REHABILITATION CREDIT
CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower:            United Republic of Tanzania
Amount: 1,            IDA:  SOR 41.3 million (US$50.0 million equivalent)
African Facility: SDR 38.1 million (US$46.2 million
equivalent).
Terms:                Standard for IDA and African Facility
Credit Description:  The proposed Multisector Rehabilitation Credit would
support the Government's Economic Recovery Program
(ERP) which comprises a comprehensive process of
policy reform aimed at reversing the protracted
deterioration of Tanzania's economy. The policy areas
addressed include: (i) exchange rate, trade regime
and foreign exchange allocation; (ii) public
expenditures; (iii) parastatals; (iv) agricultural
marketing and producer prices; (v) industrial
restructuring; and (vi) transport sector efficiency.
The foreign exchange to be provided under the Credit
would be used to finance priority imports needed for
the recovery of economic activity. The Credit is
expected to help increase output in agriculture,
particularly export crops, through the improvement of
agriculture incentives, the reduction of supply
bottlenecks and improvements in the efficiency of the
marketing organizations and the transport sector. It
would also begin a process for the restructuring of
the industrial sector.
Risks:                Some of the proposed policy changes may invoke
opposition which may delay the implementation of the
program. However, risk is reduced because, firstly,
the Government has shown commitment and appears to
have adequate political support to implement the
agreed program. Secondly, the severity of the
economic situation has created awareness of the need
for change. Thirdly, Bank staff will closely monitor
the implementation of the agreed program.
1, In addition, Special Joint Financing of DM35.0 million (about US$17.3
million), SwF15.0 million (about US$9.2 million) and PDS5.D million
(about US$7.3 million) would be provided by the Federal Republic of
Germany, Switzerland and the United Kingdom, respectively.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of theirofficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated             A total of about US$130.0 million would be disbursed
Disbursement:         in three tranches.  The first tranche of $50 million
would be made available for disbursement as soon as
the Credit becomes effective, the next US$50 million
would become available after a review of second
tranche release conditions in February/March 1987, and
the final US$30 million as soon as third tranche
conditions are met.
Rate of Return:       Inapplicable
Appraisal Report:    None
Map:                  IBRD 19829



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
FOR A PROPOSED MULTISECTOR REHABILITATION CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
IDA Credit of SDR 41.3 (US$50.0 million equivalent) and a proposed African
Facility Credit of SDR 38.1 (US$46.2 million equivalent) on standard terms
to the United Republic of Tanzania for a Multisector Rehabilitation
Credit. Special Joint Financing of DM 35.0 million (about US$17.3 million
equivalent), SwF 15.0 million (about US$9.2 million equivalent) and PDS 5.0
million (about US$7.3 million equivalent) would be provided by the Federal
Republic of Germany, Switzerland and the United Kingdom, respectively.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic Memorandum on Tanzania (Report No. 5019-TA) was
distributed to the Executive Directors in August 1984. Subsequently,
economic missions have visited the country in September and December 1985,
and their findings are reflected in Part I of this report, as well as in
a report to the Consultative Group for Tanzania which met in Paris in June
1986.
Background
3.        At Independence in 1961, Tanzania (then Tanganyika) was one of
the poorest countries in the world, almost solely dependent on subsistence
agriculture and a few estate crops, with a very small industrial base
(mainly small scale and accounting for less than 5 percent of Gross
Domestic Product (GDP) and a limited number of educated and trained
personnel). In the first six years after Independence the direction of
economic policy was much the same as in many other less developed
countries, relying largely on market forces and stressing the objectives of
growth in per capita income and national self-sufficiency in skilled
manpower. However, in 1967 the fundamental development objectives and
strategies were reassessed. The new priorities, as enunciated in the
Arusha Declaration and related policy statements, were directed towards
establishing a socialist society, with greater emphasis to be given to
broad-based rural development, self-reliance in development efforts, and
the development of an education system geared to the needs of the people.
Tn accomplish these goals, the Arusha Declaration emphasized that the
State, with guidance from the Party, should play the leading role,
especially in the reform and creation of appropriate institutions.  This
led in the late 1960s and early 1970s to the nationalization of large-scale
industry, commerce and finance, the formation of Ujamaa (communal)
villages, the mass campaign of villagization, and the replacement of
farmers' cooperatives with state run crop marketing authorities responsible
for all aspects of collection, processing and marketing of Tanzania's main



-2-
export crops. In response to the declining purchasing power of Tanzania's
traditional export crops the Government also embarked upon an ambitious
program of industrialization based upon import substitution and the
creation of heavy industries.
4.        Despite the abrupt major institutlonal changes, Tanzania managed
to achieve significant improvements in the social sectors during the 1960s
and early 1970s. The enrollment rate in primary schools increased from 32
percent in 1965 to nearly 60 percent by 1975, life expectancy rose by
almost five years and access to safe water improved in both rural and urban
areas. There was also satisfactory progress on the general macro-economic
indicators: real GDP grew by 4.4 percent per annum from 1966 to 1973, and
the gross investment rate rose to above 20 percent. But this economic
record was marred somewhat by the relatively slow growth of the productive
sectors in the economy and the poor rate of return on new investment.
Perhaps the biggest disappointment was agriculture, the dominant sector in
the economy, which grew by only 2.3 percent per annum from 1966 to 1973.
Income differentials between farmers in the poorer and richer regions
widened and there was no reduction in rural-urban income differentials,
despite the restrictions on official incomes imposed by the "leadership
code" of the Arusha Declaration. As regards the objectivcn of
self-reliance, although Tanzania made rapid progress towards
"citizenization" of the economy, large gaps in manpower requirements
remained. After 1970 the savings performance also faltered and Tanzania
became increasingly dependent on foreign aid to finance both domestic
investment and the widening balance of payments gap.
5.        In the second half of the 1970s the Tanzanian economy entered a
period of economic decline from which it has yet to recover. The overall
downturn in the economy was caused in part by a series of external factors
including successive droughts, the rapid increase in oil prices, the col-
lapse of the East African Community and the war with Uganda. But the
crisis also drew attention to some of the underlying weaknesses in the
management of the economy. These included inadequate incentives and
resources for the agricultural sector, a poorly implemented industrializa-
tion strategy, excessive administrative controls over economic activity and
the continued growth in the size of the public sector without due regard to
the limited financial and administrative capacity available. GDP grew by
5.5 nercent per annum between 1973 and 1978 but by only 0.4 percent per
annum between 1978 and 1982. Inflation accelerated, the fiscal situation
deteriorated sharply after 1979 with deficits everaging about 16 percent of
GDP and exports and imports both declined significantly. By 1982 import
volumes were 32 percent below the level in 1978 and 24 percent below the
level of the early 1970s.
Recent Economic Developments
6.        In an effort to address the country's economic problems, the
Government launched -Economic Survival Plans- in 1980 and 1981 but it was
not until 1982 with the introduction of a "Structural AdJustment Program"*
(SAP) that a comprehensive approach to resolving them was initiated. This
program sought to provide an overall framework of measures designed to res-
tore financial and economic stability, stimulate agricultural development
and improve efficiency, while endeavoring to protect the provision of basic
social services and the incomes of the most vulnerable groups in the
society.



7.        Implementation of the SAP began slowly with measures introduced
in the 1983/84 budget aimed at restructuring the deielopment budget and
relaxing controls on economic activity. The process of policy reform
gained some momentum with the 1984/85 budget when a number of major pricing
and exchange rate changes were announced. These included devaluing the
currency by 40 percent (in shilling terms) from TSh 12 to TSh 17,
increasing producer pricee by an average of 50 percent in nominal terms,
and raising the controlled prices of a number of consumer goods and
agricultural inputs, in order to reduce or eliminate budgetary subsidies.
Allocations to agriculture in both the recurrent and development budgets
were substantially increased and foreign exchange retention accounts for
exporters were introduced as a means of assuring at least a minimum level
of external resources to exporting enterprises.  In addition, a number of
institutional measures were takeni aimed at reducing the scope of Government
activity and improving the efficiency of services.  The most effective were
measures to liberalize domestic grain marketing, by changing the role of
the National Milling Corporation from primary buyer of grain to a buyer of
last resort.  Cooperatives were reintroduced as the primary agents for
procurement, storage and delivery of major export crops and the remaining
responsibilities of the crop authorities were transferred to newly formed
marketing boards. Several public enterprises in the agricultural and
industrial sectors were dissolved, the number of ministries was reduced
from 22 to 15 and the freeze on hiring for the Government was maintained.
An "own funded" lmports scheme was also introduced, to facilitate imports
financed by importers with funds held abroad (i.e. for which foreign
exchange allocations by the Central Bank were not required or requested).
8.        Unfortunately the momentum of policy reform was not sustained in
the 1985/86 budget. While general emphasis was given to economic liberali-
zation and public sector efficiency in the budget message, the actual mea-
sures announced were disappointing. The scope of the foreign exchange
retention accounts was expanded somewhat to include imports of incentive
goods (i.e. consumer goods for lower income groups) in addition to recur-
rent inputs required by producers, and the scope and coverage of the own
funded imports scheme was expanded. However, there was no further adjust-
ment in the exchange rate to remove the remaining overvaluation; instead
inflrtion eroded the exchange rate changes already undertaken and the
para-lel market, where foreign exchange is traded at several times its
official price, continued to expand. The increase in agricultural producer
prices, 20 percent in nominal terms, also fell short of the prevailing rate
of inflation of over 30 percent per annum, causing export crop incentives
to weaken.
9.        The measures adopted under the SAP had some positive results but
overall they were insufficient to stimulate any major recovery in the
Tanzanian economy. Real GDP contracted in 1983 and although there was some
recovery in 1984 and 1985, GDP growth was still well below population
growth. After steady declines in per capita consumption levels in the
early 1980s some positive growth was restored in 1984 and 1985. But this
was accompanied by a sharp decline in the level of investment.
10.       Food crop production, both for subsistence and off-farm
consumption, generally kept pace with population growth, though shortages
were experienced in the early 1980s due to drought, and a significant
amount of maize, rice and wheat had to be imported. In 1984 and 1985 food



- 4 -
crop production rose quite strongly as a result of the relaxatLon of price
and marketing controls and better rainfall. The overall trend for export
crops, however, continued to be downwards due to inadequate price
incentives and inefficiencies in the marketing and transportation systems.
Many farmers who traditionally grew crops for export either switched to
supplying the domestic food market where returns were higher, or retreated
into subsistence farming. As a result of all these factors, total
agricultural output growth barely averaged 2 percent during 1982-84 before
climbing to an estimated 3.5 percent in 1985.
11.       The overall decline in export agriculture, the shortage of
foreign exchange for imported inputs, and the growing inefficiency of many
industrial enterprises in Tanzania meant that industrial output continued
to decline sharply, falling by 11 percent in 1984 and a further 15 percent
in 1985. Industrial output in 1985 was only one-third of its 1978 level
and accounted for only 4.5 percent of GDP compared with 12 percent in
1978. Although output of beer, soft drinks, cement, fertilizers and
petroleum products was higher in 1985 than in 1980, the output levels of
all other major industrial categories were lower, with an average capacity
utilization rate for thie sector as a whole of about 25 percent.
12.       Performance in both the agriculture and industry sectors was
impeded by problems in the transport sector, including the severe deterio-
ration iii the rail and road network, shortages of vehicles and spare parts,
inefficiencies in the management of public sector entities and tariff
controls and other regulations affecting the operations of private trans-
port enterprises.  The condition of the country's domestic telecommunica-
tions network also deteriorated, hampering transport coordination and
economic activity generally.  In addition, Tanzania's achievements in the
social sectors began to be eroded, partly by the growth of the population
but also by the inability of the Government to provide adequate resources
for the operation and maintenance of education, health and other
facilities.
13.       As a result of efforts to contain expenditures and raise
additional revenues the central government's overall deficit declined to
7.8 percent of GDP in 1984/85 from an average of 11.4 percent in
1981/82-1983/84. But the deficit rose again in 1985/86 to 8.5 percent of
GDP. The financial operations of the parastatals have also shown
persistent deficits in spite of price increases and efforts to instill a
greater degree of efficiency in their operations. Of particular concern to
the Government have been the deficits of the crop marketing parastatals,
the combined result of operational inefficiencies and the effects of an
overvalued exchange rate on their revenues. The deficits of the public
sector were financed mostly by domestic credit which grew by about 20
percent per annum during 1980-84 and by an estimated 29 percent in 1985.
This contributed to a rate of domestic inflation averaging about 30 percent
per annum in recent years.
14.       Tanzania's balance of payments also remained under severe
strain. The most striking feature was the unrelieved decline in export
earnings, which in turn affected import capacity and caused imports to fall
to well below even the nominal levels of earlier years. The lowest point
for imports was reached in 1983. Since then, there has been some recovery,
due mainly tu a rapid growth in "own funds" imports, a sizeable fraction of



- 5 -
which appears to be paid for by the proceeds of unofficial exports. In
1985 'own funds" imports accounted for about one quarter of total imports.
The current account deficit declined from 10 percent of GDP in 1982 to 8
percent in 1984 but rose again in 1985. With suppliers credits and medium
and long term loans both registering a sharp fall In net inflows, the
Government was obliged to finance the deficits by an accumulation of
external payments arrears (now estimated by the Bank at US$900 million).
As a result, trade credit is now minimal, the export credit agencies of the
major industrialized countries have for many years been reluctant to
provide cover and there have been periodic suspensions of disbursements by
aid agencies, including the Bank Group, which is the country's largest
creditor. Tanzania's medium and long term external debt Is currently
estimated at US$3.5 billion and the bulk of this debt is owed by the public
sector.
15.       The continued poor performance of the Tanzanian economy stems in
large measure from the fact that the policy and institutional measures
adopted under the SAP were inadequate in both scope and intensity.
Although some changes were introduced in trade and exchange rate policies,
nothing lasting was done to correct the currency overvaluation and the
Government continued to rely on quantitative restrictions (QRs) and other
administrative measures to control most trade and foreign exchange transac-
tions. As a result, incentives remained biased against agriculture and
exports and the pattern of industrial development continued to be very
distorted. Efforts were made to restore some fiscal and monetary stability
but the public sector remained very overextended, particularly in view of
the scarcities of financial resources, skilled manpower and organizational
capacity. Finally, agricultural production and exports continued to be
hampered not only by inadequate price incentives but also by inefficiencies
in the system for marketing, processing and transporting agricultural
commodities.
PART II - THE ECONOMIC RECOVERY PROGRAM
Overview
16.       Over the past year the Government has been reviewing the experi-
ence of the SAP in the light of the disappointing performance of the
economy. The Government has concluded that the polIcies adopted under the
SAP should be continued but that the overall process of policy reform needs
to be intensified. Accordingly, it has prepared, with the encouragement of
the Bank, a new Economic Recovery Program (ERP) aimed at remedying the
defects of earlier policies. The specific objectives of the ERP, are to:
(a) increase the output of food and export crops by providing appropriate
price and non-price incentives for production, improving marketing
structures, and increasing budgetary and foreign exchange resources
available to agriculture; (b) direct investment resources towards
rehabilitating the physical infrastructure of the country in support of
directly productive activities; (c) increase capacity utilization in
industry through the allocation of scarce foreign exchange to priority



- 6 -
sectors and firma; and (d) pursute prudent fiscal, monetary and trnde
policies to restore domestic and external equilibrium, to ensure that
production incentives are not eroded, and the efficiency of resource allo-
cation is improved.
17.       The ERP envisagets that the TIanzan1iani economy woild attain posi-
tive growth rates in per ctpita incoine, a  tustnainble exterial bfalance of
payments position with botlh higher export and Import levels, an acceptably
low rate of inflation, and restored levels of physical and social Infras-
tructure by the end of a meditum-term period otT 5-7 years.  To this end the
Government will be giving greater jattenitrlon than In the pa1st to the estab-
lishment of correct price signals In the econiomiiy fulcicding establishing an
equilibrium  exchange rate and achieving positive real Interest rates by
mid-1988, and improving the real level of :iigriculturnl prices.  Ile
Government also intends to make substantial Institutional changes aimed at
encouraging and factlitating the activities of cooperatives and the private
sector.  In cooperation with the Rank and the Fund, specIfic incentive and
institutional measures have been developed for the first year of the ERP
(1986/87).  But It is clear that these are onily somiie initial steps and will
need to he followed up by further policy and institIttona1 changes if the
ERP is to succeed.  The sucecess of the FRP Is also very muich dependent on
domest4c policy and institutio'aal clhanyges heling romplemented by additional
inflows of external resources.
External Policies
18.       Exchange Rate.  The Government is convinced of the importance of
timely adjustments of the exchange rate as a means of restoring the
profitability of the export sector, and uinder the ERP has decided to follow
an active exchange rate ptlicy aimed at eliminating the overvaluation of
the Tanzanian shilling by mid-1988. In the two and a half months prior to
the Budget, the Bank of Tanzania moved the exchange rate, In a series of
weekly adjustments, from TSh i7 to) Tsh 26 to the U1S dollar.  On June 19 the
shilling was devalued a further 53 percenlt In local ctirrency terms to TSh
40, and for the folLowing six montiths is being depreciated at a rate not
less than 1 percent per month In real terms (in practice somewhat faster).
In December, the Governmenit with the IMF will review the progress of
exchange rate adjustment, in light of the exchange rate equilibrium target,
and, if necessary, modify the rate of adjustment.
19.       Trade Liberalization.  As the exchange rate adjustment proceeds,
the Government intends to progressively dismantle quantitative restrictions
and switch to tariffs and other indirect levers to influence both the level
and pattern of foreign trade. However, an overall program for trade
liberalization has yet to be developed. The Government intends by February
1987 to have completed a review of the current and proposed future
structure of tariffs. On the basis of this review a time phased action
program for trade liberalization will be prepared, with initial measures
coinciding with the beginnin!r of the 1987/88 Tanzanian fiscal year.
20.        Own Fund Imports and Export Retention Accounts.  Pending the
establishment of an equilibrium exchange rate, the Government will continue
with a number of measures to improve the efFiciency of foreign exchange
allocation.  The "own funds" Imports scheme, which has recently been



expanded to cover a very wide variety of products, wtil be retained.  A
steadily Increasing proportion of importsc are now comiing into the country
via this scheme and it constitutes n major source of supply of spare parts
and other intermedtiate goods an8 well nas consumer goods for rural areas at
an effectively market determilned exrchlangv rate.  The export retentinn
scheme will also be retained ans an ilnterim meisure.   le scheme haN
recently been revlsed in an effort to narrow tlhl diifferentials between
retention rates, widein the range of gondii theil- may be Imported wLth the
retention proceeds, nnd jiliow proceeds to he trailed between retention
holders.  fltit large diifferenti al: In riates stilI remain (10-15 percent for
traditional exports vompared wlth 50 purce!nt and occasionally up to 100
percent for nontraditional exports) And tLhee couild serioullty distort
intertsectoral reHOLirce a!1 ICocJt I oiN.  Accordingl]y ,hn h'(overnment intends to
further review the tscheme belor  March 1)87 and make i'pprorpriate
modificationls.
21.       Foreign Exchange Allocation.  In the Interim perriod before the
establishment of an equ1ilibrium exchange ralte in mid-1988 the Government
will continue to alincate some foreign exchange- through administrative
mechanisms (aside from the foreign exchanige avanlable through the expc,rt
retention and own ftunds imports schemes).  Rutit measures are belng intro-
duced to help Improve the efflelvncy of the admlnistrattve allocation
system.  First, the system wi 11 take aecount of all the f1orei-gn exchange
likely to he av3ilahle For administrative allocation Incliuding export earn-
ings, multilateral and hilateral ald and commerciatl credit.  Second,
estimates of foreign exchange availability and demand will be made quarter-
ly as well an annually andI the mechanisms for making such forecasts will be
improved. Third and most Imporrant, the allocation of foreign exchange to
specific sectors and activities will take greater account of the Importance
of economizing on foreign exchange and the overall economic efficiency of
operations of the proposed users. In the case of indutstry this will
involve, as interim measiures, some relatively simple screening tests based
in part on domestic resotirre rost analysis and df3signed to: (i) weed out
low-priority activities; ({l) ensure a minimtim allocation to smalI scale
firms and those with low import dependenice; (iit) severely curtail
allocations to negative valiie added firms; and (iv) maximize allocations to
high value added activities. These Interim screening mechanisms will be
particularly Important as the evidence shows that in the past it has been
the least efficient Industrial enterprises that have been allocated the
largest share of foreign exchange, Includinig aid resources.  To ensure that
foreign exchange is allocated oft-trively various institutional changes
will also be made, to facilift;te c:loser cooperation between the MinTistry of
Finance, Economic Affairs and Planlling and the Bank of Tanzania (see para.
66). As a first step towards a more flexible foreign exchange allocation
system, the Government intends, bv July 1987, to make a portion of foreign
exchange available to users in selected Import categories for
non-administrative allocation. The modalities of this arrangement will be
agreed with the Bank once the tariff studv is completed, and will include
the amount of resourres to be allocated this way, the eligible categories,
and any temporary Import surcharges or compensatory licenses that may be
required pending full adjustment o.)f the exchange rate.



- 8 -
Fiscal Policy and Public Expenditure Management
22.       Budget Deficit.  As part of the ERP the Government intends to
reduce substantially the fiscal deficit, while improving the quallty of
public expenditures. To thls end the Budget introduced on June 19, 1986
provides for the limitation of the overall budget deficit for 1986/87 to
TSh 17 billion or an estimated 11.1 percent of GDP compared with 16.3
percent of GDP in 1985/86 on a comparable exchange and interest rate
basis. The reduction in the budget deficit is being achieved mainly by
adjustment to customs duties and sales taxes which, combined with the
devaluation and an expected rise in the volume of Imports, should cause
revenues from these sources to rise by over 200 percent. On the
expenditure side, the Government has provided for a 20.3 percent increase
in the total wage bill to compensate employees for the rise in the cost of
living. But the increase is less than the inflation expected in 1986/87,
and only partially compensates for the 70 percent rise in the cost of
living since the last general wage increase two years ago. Other measures,
such as requiring parents to pay a larger share of secondary and technical
education expenses, should reduce the Government's share of these
categories of expenditures. Except for teachers and medical personnel,
employment levels in the public service have been frozen, and all subsidies
to parastatals have been abolished. The Government intends to contlnue
these efforts to contain expenditures and increase revenues in future
years, and thereby further reduce the relative size of the budget deficit.
23.       Public Expenditures.  With zegard to the composition of expendi-
tures, some restructuring of the Public Investment Program (PIP) has
already taken place. In recent years aid resources have been shifted from
project to program finance or outright balance of payments support partly
as a result of project implementation difficulties and partly as a
deliberate response by the Government and donors to the growing need for
general import support. As the economy recovers, the requirement to divert
aid resources to balance of payments support should lessen. The
Government's intention is to focus these resources primarily on the
rehabilitation needs of the economy rather than create new facilities or
expand existing ones. With regard to recurrent expenditures the Government
has endeavored in successive budgets to shift resources to the maintenance
and operation of priority social and economic services. In the coming year
the Government will be working closely with the Bank on a medium term
strategy for public expenditures, covering both recurrent and development
outlays and institutional mechanisms for planning and aid coordination.
The review will be completed by July 1987.
24.       Public Service.  The Government is also planning to address
problems of the public service, notably the overall level of staffing and
its distribution between the grades and functions of Government, wage and
salary levels and the pay differentials between different grades, non-wage
benefits, and the scope and appropriateness of different departmental acti-
vities. The pay awards announced in the 1986/87 Budget are interim
measures pending stronger public finances and a fuller study of the
issues. In this regard, a Salaries Commission has been reviewing issaes of
pay, incentives and staffing for central and local government and for
parastatals. Its report will be discussed with the Bank.



- 9 -
25.       Parastatals.  In addition to removing all budgetary subsidies to
the parastatal sector the Government intends to further reduce the slze of
the parastatal sector and to subject those enterprises remaining within the
sector to a comprehensive program of efficiency-enhancing measures. To
this end the Government will undertake, together with the Bank, a detailed
review of the parastatal sector which will include proposals Eor
rehabilitating or restructuring specific enterprises. The review will be
completed by July 1987. On the basis of this review a program for
improving the management and performance of the parastatals will be
prepared.
Money and Credit
26.       In order to mitigate the effects of devaluation on inflation and
to strengthen the balance of payments, the Government will control the rate
of credit expansion. The credit ceilings adopted for the first year of the
ERP in the context of the standby arrangement with the IMF (see paras. 43
and 58) limit overall net domestic credit expansion to 12 percent, compared
with a 29 percent increase in 1985/86. This will be achieved by reducing
Government borrowing from the banking system to a maximum of TSh 2.5
billion and by containing bank credit to the six crop marketing boards and
the National Milling Corporation. The financial position of the marketing
boards should be strengthened by devaluation and continuing efforts to
improve productivity. The burden of credit restriction will therefore fall
on the Government, leaving adequate room for the growth of credit to the
private sector.
27.       In order to promote a more efficient use of credit, and to encou-
rage savings, the Government intends to adjust the structure of interest
rates, which in recent years has become strongly negative in real terns.
Deposit rates were increased on July 1, 1986, with the rate for one year
savings deposits increasing to 15 percent (from 10 percent) and the rate
for fixed deposits of more than 24 months maturity rising to 16-19
percent. Lending rates were also increased to a range of 13-21 percent
from 11-15 percent. The Government intends to further adjust all interest
rates, except the treasury bill rate, quarterly, beginning in the third
quarter of 1986, and to have revised the average level of rates to 75
percent of the inflation rate by mid-1987. The structure of interest rates
will be made positive in real terms by mid-1988.
Pricing and Distribution Policies
28.       The Government has progressively reduced the number of items
subject to price control.  At one time as many as :OO categories of goods
were monitored by the National Price Commission but the coverage has now
been reduced to 47. The Government intends to continue the process of
decontrol and within three years to have reduced the categories of goods
subject to price control to 12, considered basic necessities (the list
includes cement, cooking oils, farm implements, corrugated iron sheets,
fertilizer, sisal bags, milk, petroleum products, safety matches, soap,
sugar and tires). As goods are decontrolled, the regulations that
confine" goods to specified parastatals for their importation and
wholesale distribution will also be dismantled.



- 10 -
29.       As the exchange rate devaluation proceeds, the Government is
making frequent price adjustments for the goods remaining under price
control in light of cost increases. A new set of prices for petroleum
products was announced in July, reflecting both exchange rate changes and
revised duty levels. Electricity tariffs were increased by 67 percent in
March 1986 and are being reviewed semi-annually with a view to maintaining
the financial viability of the electricity authority. The Government also
intends to regularly adjust the tariffs of other public utilities in order
to restore and maintain their financial viability.
Agriculture
30.       Producer Prices.  The restoration of growth and the increase in
export earnings will depend primarily on the performance of the agricultu-
ral sector and hence on the overall package of incentives for agriculture.
In this regard under the ERP the Government is raising the real level of
producer prices and ultimately will be linking them more closely to devel-
opments in world market prices. Following the recent exchange rate depre-
ciation, producer prices for the main export crops for the current buying
season have been increased by between 30 percent (cotton and tobacco) and
80 percent (coffee). The Government intends for the medium term to set
producer prices at a level equivalent to 60-70 percent of the f.o.b. price,
or to ensure an annual increase of at least 5 percent per annum in real
terms, whichever is higher. This policy was announced in the Budget Speech
in June and has been approved by Parliament. During the next two years the
adjustment of the exchange rate ahead of the domestic price level should
leave room for real price increases for most crops. Thereafter,
improvements in farmers' prices will depend on the extent to which the
marketing system can be made more efficient and on developments in world
commodity markets. Efforts will also be made by the Government to increase
the quality of agricultural production by substantially widening the
quality margins in the domestic structure of prices to better reflect
prices paid in world markets for higher grades.
31.      Marketing Structure.  The Government believes that agricultural
production and exports could also be significantly enhanced by improvements
in the efficiency of agricultural marketing. With regard to the marketing
of foodgrains, domestic trade from the farmgate to the consumer has been
largely liberalized in the past two years and this has been a major factor
in the increased production. Permits are still required for interregional
trade but the Government plans to remove these by March 1987.
32.       Reform of the institutional structure for the collection,
processing and marketing of Tanzania's export crops is also underway,
albeit not as advanced as in the case of domestic food crops. Cooperatives
have been re-established and have taken over from the crop authorities
responsibility for the collection of crops and, in some cases, their
processing. At the same time marketing boards have been created to take
over the marketing responsibilities, on a crop-by-crop basis, of the former
crop authorities. In addition, many private estates (e.g., tea and sisal)
are now permitted to market directly instead of through the marketing
boards. Under the ERP the Government intends to make further changes in
the structure of export crop marketing and as a first step is permitting
cooperative unions and other large producers to participate in export



- 11 -
marketing, either dirdctly or through private agents, starting in the
1987/88 crop season. An overall study on agricultural marketing will also
be carried out to determine the next stages of market liberalization, and
how the roles of parastatals, cooperatives and the private sector should
evolve. The study will be completed by the middle of 1987, and an action
program will then be prepared. The Government recognizes the importance of
further improvements in marketing efficiency, but in view of the mixed
experience of the past and the fact that the effectiveness of the new
cooperatives is still to be tested, the Government intends to proceed
cautiously.
33.       Input Supply and Distribution.  The Government also intends to
modify the present institutional arrangements for the supply and distribu-
tion of agricultural inputs. Currently most agricultural inputs can be
imported only by large parastatal companies which then sell these inputs
either through their own retail outlets or wholesale them to other retail
organizations such as the Government-owned Regional Trading Companies or
the newly introduced cooperatives. By March 1987 the Government intends to
give formal permission to a range of other bodies, including cooperatives
and farmers' organizations, to import and distribute all agricultural
Inputs other than fertilizers and seeds. To ensure the new policy Is
effectively implemented, these institutions will be allowed equal access to
foreign exchange from the Bank of Tanzania. By the middle of 1987 the
Government also plans to have completed a special study of fertilizer and
seed marketing aimed at finding the best ways to improve their
availability.
Industry
34.       The Government's objectives in the industrial sector are to
improve capacity utilization while at the same time ensuring that resources
are directed towards the more productive and efficient firms in the
sector. In this regard external sector policies and fiscal and monetary
policies will be of critical importance. In the short term, the new
screening process for foreign exchange and commodity aid applications (see
para. 21) should result in considerable improvement in the effectiveness
with which foreign exchange is used by the industrial sector. In the
medium term the progressive elimination of the overvaluation of the
currency and removal of quantitative restrictions on international trade
should gradually curb the demand for imports from the less productive firms
in the sector, while at the same time subjecting their output to greater
competition. The efficiency of the sector will also be improved through
more appropriate flscal and monetary policies. The Government has already
moved to eliminate subsidies and transfers to parastatals and to constrain
the rate of credit growth. The introduction over a period of an interest
rate structure that is positive in real terms will also promote a financial
environment conducive to greater industrial efficiency. The combined
effect of these measures will be to free resources for the more efficient
firms, and enable them to expand output. Because capacity utilization for
the sector generally is so low, the response of output to improved resource
allocation will be quite strong.
35.       As the macroeconomic environment in which state owned and private
industrial enterprises operate improves, specific interventions may be
needed to assist in the restructuring of particular parastatals. Reforms
in the management and operation of parastatals may also be necessary to



- 12 -
ensure that they are responsive to price and other macroeconomic levers.
The proposed review of parastatals (see para. 25) will therefore pay
particular attention to state-owned enterprises in the industrial sector
and will focus on the overall policy framework for parastatals, on issues
of internal management and on the restructuring and rehabilitation
requirements of specific industries or groups of parastatals. The proposed
review of the public expenditure program (see para. 23) will also cover the
rehabilitation and restructuring requirements of the industrial sector.
Transport
36.       Roads.  The main emphasis under the Government's Recovery Program
in regard to roads is the rehabilitation of the country's network of high-
ways, secondary roads, feeder roads and access roads. It is recognized
that a full restoration of the new system will take many years. Within the
three year time frame of the ERP the focus will be on identifying those
parts of the network whose immediate rehabilitation is essential to
recovery, and ensuring that they are given priority in the Public
Investment Program. Closely linked with rehabilitation is improving the
capacity of central and local government authorities to maintain the road
network, both in regard to stretches that are still in reasonable condition
and those that have recently been rehabilitated. Improving maintenance
capacity is partly a matter of strengthening the organizational structure
of the Department and other bodies involved in road maintenance and partly
increasing the resources available to them. The Government intends,
therefore, to increase the share of available resources, both domestic and
foreign, allocated to road maintenance.
37.       The National Transport Corporation (NTC) has prepared proposals
for a "National Road Transport Policy which are currently being reviewed
by the Government. A comprehensive road transport policy paper based on
the NTC proposals is expected to be ready by the end of 1986 and its recom-
mendations should make an important contribution to the further improvement
of policies in this area. In the meantlime, the Government has taken steps
to ensure that where official bodies continue to set tariffs, these tariffs
are being adjusted on a regular basis so that the full costs of transport
operations are adequately catered for.
38.       Railways.  The Government recognizes that the poor performance of
railways in Tanzania is as much related to operational problems as it is
shortage of resources. The Tanzania Railways Corporation (TRC) is in the
process of completing a large investment program, but in many cases exter-
nally borrowed funds have not been wisely spent, and line improvement
schemes have been left incomplete for lack of counterpart funds. In the
past there has been heavy investment in locomotives, but insufficient
attention has been given to regular maintenance and keeping an adequate
inventory of spare parts. Locomotive serviceability is low, mainline trac-
tive power is used uneconomically for shunting, and wagon turnaround ls
very slow. Furthermore, delays in approving tariff increases, gross over-
staffing, the loss of traffic to the roads and a sharp rise in external
debt servicing have all caused TRC's finances to deteriorate.
39.       To rectify this situation, the Government and TRC have agreed on
a two stage program for the rehabilitation of the Tanzanian railway
system. In the first stage TRC will be able to recover some of its effec-



- 13
tive capacity through locomotive rehabilitation and provision of steel
sleepers and workshop maintenance equipment. A study of railway manage-
ment, operations and staffing will also be undertaken. A much more compre-
hensive recovery program, extending over three or more years, will then be
developed. In the meantime, TRC has begun adjusting rail tariffs, and a
substantial increase has just been approved by the Government.
Evaluation of the Program
40.       The Government's Economic Recovery Program is more comprehensive
than earlier attempts at adjustment, and represents a promising start to
the process of recovery in Tanzania. It builds on past efforts to contain
the budget deficit, reduce transfers to parastatals and to begin the
process of changing the structure of agricultural marketing and input
supply. Existing adjustment policies are thus intensified and reinforced
with a set of measures on the exchange rate, producer incentives and
resource allocation that should improve the functioning of the Tanzanian
economy. The changes announced in the Budget in June 1986 and the
policy directives outlined above are therefore significant measures for the
initial year of the Recovery Program.
41.       It is essential, however, that the momentum of policy reform be
maintained throughout the subsequent years of ERP. The tightness of the
resource situation and the binding nature of the many constraints facing
the Tanzanian economy dictate not only that the policies announced so far
should be implemented vigorously, but also that they should be followed up
by further policy and institutional reforms. To the extent that these
further measures are dependent on additional analysis and review, it is
important that such reviews should be proceeded with as rapidly as possible
so that the momentum of policy reform can be maintained. Amongst the most
important areas are:
(i)  Proceeding in a .'.:!ermined way with the exchange rate
adjustment and trade liberalization. This is critical to
promote a better structure of incentives in the economy and
to enable market forces to play a greater role in the allo-
cation of foreign exchange. The allocation system now being
introduced is an improvement on what preceded it, but it is
an interim measure, and the sooner it can be dispensed with
in favor of market allocation, the more efficiently will
resources be allocated.
(ii) Taking further steps to reduce the role of the public sector
in the economy by reducing the number on the public payroll,
by moving away from direct controls on the economy in favour
of greater use of indirect levers operating through the
price system, by divesting or closing down some public
enterprises, and by making public enterprises conform better
to commercial operating principles. The Parastatal Review
and the Public Expenditure Review scheduled to be carried
out jointly by the Bank and the Government ea.rlv in 1987
should be helpful in the further identificatir. of relevant
policies in these areas.



- 14 -
(iii) Continuing the liberalization of the marketing structure for
agricultural outputs and inputs. This will need to include
introdtucing a greater degree of competition in the collec-
tion, processing and marketing of export crops (as a means
of ensuring that farmers receive the highest possible share
of export proceeds', and removing remaining restrictions on
the supply and distribution of agricultural inputs. The
Government is concerned to move cautiously, to enable newly
formed cooperatives to get properly established. But as
soon as possible, further market liberalization should
occur. The studies on agricultural marketing and input
supply should help to resolve some of the remaining issues
of timing and degree of liberalization.
(iv) Redirecting resources within the industrial sector to
economically efficient firms with positive value added, and
augmenting this by interventions in key parastatal enter-
prises either to improve their operations or scale them
down, so that the desired restructuring of the industrial
sector takes place. The industrial sector presently con-
sumes an excessive amount of resources in relation to its
value added, and this situation needs to change if the sec-
tor is to cease being a burden on the rest of the economy.
As a recent industrial sector study has shown there are many
efficient producers in the industrial sector who could
expand output strongly if resources were directed towards
them.
(v) Ensuring that the public sector capital expenditure program
is geared towards the rehabilitation of the key sectors, and
to priority requirements within those sectors. The Public
Expenditure Review should help the Government identify
priority areas for recurrent and capital expenditures, and
lead to the development of a medium-term framework for
public expenditures. It is important that the new Five-Year
Plan, which the Government has now begun to prepare, should
be founded upon a sound medium-term financial framework and
that carefully prepared sector rehabilitation programs
should take precedence over new projects.
External Finance Requirements
42.       Although Tanzania has traditionally received a high level of
external grants and concessional loans, aid receipts have been declining in
real terms since the early 1980s. This has occurred largely for three
reasons: firstly, operational difficulties with projects and programs
within the country; secondJy, the growing view of aid agencies that until
essential macroeconomic reforms were implemented, additional aid resources
would not be effective; thirdly, budget constraints on the aid programs of
the major bilateral donors. Furthermore, difficulties with debt servicing
and the building up of a large volume of arrears caused commercial sources
of short- and medium-term finance to dry up.
43.       With the ERP and the reaching of an agreement with IMF on a
Standby Program, prospects for increasing aid flows are now much better.
In June 1986 the Bank chaired a Consultative Group (CG) meeting, the first



- 15 -
to be held for Tanzania for nine years. Both the policies of the
Government under the ERP and the agreement with the Fund were welcomed, and
significant additional aid resources, totalling approximately US$100 to
US$130 million, were pledged for the first year of the Recovery Program.
These resources, together with the proposed Credit, the Fund's Standby and
a prospective Structural Adjustment Facility credit (amounting to total IMF
resources of US$75 million in 1986/87), and the relief expected from the
debt rescheduling process that began with the Paris Club in September 1986,
should be sufficient for the first year of the ERP to be financed, assuming
exports reach their targetted levels.
44.       Thereafter, the financing of the recovery process will depend
partly on the speed with which the economy responds to the improved
resource situation and policy environment, and partly on the extent to
which further aid commitments on an exceptional basis can be secured, which
in turn will be related to policy performance. The Bank intends to hold
further Consultative Group meetings on a regular basis, and the expectation
is that, provided the momentum of policy reform is maintained, additional
resources can be obtained to support the recovery process. As export
levels strengthen over the medium term, the need for exceptional aid should
diminish. If the additional aid forthcoming is insufficient, the level of
imports expected by the Government will have to be adjusted downwards.
Unless this is accompanied by further improvements in resource use
efficiency, the speed at which recovery takes place will suffer. Over the
next few years further debt rescheduling on an annual basis will be
necessary.
Recovery Prospects
45.       Assuming the ERP policies described in this Report are
implemented and the required additional external finance is forthcoming,
Tanzania has good prospects of reversing the deterioration in its economy
and achieving a durable recovery of output. The immediate target under the
ERP is the re-attainment in many sectors of earlier output levels. But
because the capital stock of the economy has been eroding for at least a
decade, it will take years of rehabilitation to restore such infrastructure
as the country's transportation network and its schools, hospitals and
health centres to their former condition. However, the returns to
rehabilitation programs, provided they are well-focussed, are likely to be
quite high.  The application of relatively modest amounts of addltional
resources at bottlenecks and other critical points in the economy should
result in a strong rebound of activity.
46.       Gross Domestic Product over the next five years is projected to
grow at around 4 percent per annum (see Annex 1). The largest sector,
agriculture, is expected to grow at an average race of 4.2 percent, with
production for export rising sharply in response to gieater incentives and
improved input supply, and more modest growth, broadly in line with the
population increase, for domestic crops. The fastest growing sector is
expected to be industry, where resource allocation in the past has been
biased towards the least efficient enterprises. Gross output of the sector
is not anticipated to grow much at first, but value added should rise by
over 8 percent per annum as resources are allocated to the more efficient
firms, and the overall productivity of the sector rises through



- 16 -
restructuring. However, industry's contribution to overall growth will
remain modest because of the small size of the sector. The services sector
is expected to grow at 3.3 percent per annum, faster growth in transport
and commerce being offset by continued pay restraint and staff reductions
in the public service.
47.       With regard to the composition of GDP, consumption is expected to
rise at 3 percent per annum and investment at around 1 percent per annum.
The efficiency of investment improves through the recovery period, with the
aggregate incremental capital output ratio (ICOR) falling from an average
of 10 for the period immediately preceding the ERP to an average of 3.4 for
the period to 1991. The high ICOR levels in the past owe much to large
investments in the industrial sector which raised capacity without a
commensurate increase in output, due to input shortage, technological
problems and other difficulties. These projects no longer feature 8s
prominently in the PIP, and with the focus of investment shifting to
rehabilitation in an improved macro-economic policy setting, returns on
investment are expected to rise sharply, and thus ICORs to fall. Domnestic
savings should strengthen as a result of the reduction in the btudget
deficit and the recovery of exports and, over the longer term, through the
restoration of a positive interest rate structure.
48.       Progress towards restoring a viable balance of payments will be
slow. In this regard, the large volume of external debt is a major
constraint. Rescheduling will provide relief in the early years of the
recovery, but the magnitude of the external debt (which more than exceeds
GDP even at the present overvalued exchange rate and is over ten times
current recorded export levels) will continue to overhang Tanzania's
recovery for many years to come. Another factor is the low level of
exports relative to imports. Recorded exports are currently one third of
imports, themselves much reduced in volume from former levels. Because the
divergence is so large, the rate of growth of exports needs initially to be
three times the desired rate of import growth if the trade balance is not
to widen. Yet, because the main export commodities require imported inputs
such as fertilizers and pesticides, export growth needs to be accompanied
by a combination of higher import capacity and changes in the composition
of imports and the efficiency with which they are used.
49.       The projection of the balance of payments (see Annex 1) assumes
both higher imports and greater resource use efficiency. Import capacity
is projected to grow at 4.5 percent per annum in current terms, implying a
growth of imports of about 1 percent in volume terms. This modest growth
of imports taken together with the projected growth of GDP implies a very
low import elasticity, 0.2. This reflects the expectation that growth over
the medium term will come not from a large increase in imports, but from
improvements in resource use efficiency and in the composition of imports,
as distortions in the incentive structure are progressively reduced.
Exports are expected to grow at 17 percent in current terms and 14 percent
in volume terms. Because imports start from a higher base than exports and
private transfers decline (in the face of a projected slackening of own
funds imports), initially the current account widens, from an estimated
US$598 million in 1986 to US$660 million in 1988, but thereafter declines
to US$605 million in 1991, equivalent to 16 percent of GDP (measured on the
basis of a corrected exchange rate) compared with 20 percent in L987. The



- 17 -
export projections relate to officially recorded exports. A substantial
volume of exports, associated with the financing of own funded imports,
goes unrecorded. As the exchange rate becomes more realistic, a shift of
trade flows back to more normal channels should occur, and this is
reflected in the projections. As indicated in the preceding section, a
high level of capital inflows, mainly in grant form, will be required to
finance the current account deficit, to offset amortization payments on
existing debt, and to provide for the reduction in arrears and a modest
build-up of reserves envisaged under the Government's standby program with
the IMF. To enable imports to grow at their projected rates, additional
grant aid of $50 million in 1987 and $100 million in 1988 will be required
over present levels, together with further increases in lending on
concessional terms.
50.       As indicated in the preceding section, should the rate of policy
reform slacken or the flow of external resources fall short of that
anticipated in the projections, the recovery of the Tanzantan economy will
be more gradual and at greater risk of stalling. The most critical aspect
of the recovery process over the longer term is the restoration of
exports. Unless this occurs in a timely manner, the relief to the balance
of payments through the rescheduling of Tanzania's external debt will prove
temporary. The pace of policy reforn is therefore crucial, both to secure
the additional resources required for recovery and to improve the
performance of the economy.
Social Aspects of Adjustment
51.       The only durable way of addressing the problems of declining
living standards and increasing poverty is by reversing the deterioration
in the country's economic fundamentals, which is the overall objective of
the ERP. In the short term the measures introduced under the ERP and the
additional external resources that will be forthcoming should in most
respects be beneficial in social terms. The continued devaluation of the
shilling will have an impact on the price level, but this will be mitigated
by the fact that for many goods, particularly imported consumer items, the
parallel exchange rate rather than the official rate prevails in the market
place. Some prices, including fuel prices, will rise, thus leading to
increases in transport tariffs. On the other hand, two positive factors
should offset upward pressures on prices: reduced marginal costs in
industry as capacity utilization increases; and increased imports
availability, initially from higher aid flows and subsequently from
stronger export performance. Pr!'ces for many items are already very high,
and should come down as supply and distribution improve.
52.       Higher producer prices for the main export crops should substan-
tially raise farm incomes, and thus improve rural purchasing power. In the
urban areas, following the partial liberalization two years ago of domestic
marketing and good rains, food grain prices have either been steady or
falling, and they have remained stable while the shilling has been
devalued. Improved price incentives for export crops will encourage
farmers to increase production of these crops, and in some areas this may
lead to a fall in production for the domestic market. However, any transi-
tion is unlikely to be abrupt, and the greater availability and imu'roved
distribution of agricultural inputs and an easing of transport bottlenecks



- 18 -
(which presently cause wastage and inhibit all forms of productive
activity) are expected to offset any negative effects stronger export
incentives may have on domestic food production. Factors largely beyond
the control of policy makers affecting supply such as climate and pests
will be the more critical determinants of food availability and prices
during the recovery period.
53.       With regard to the provision of government services, in the early
years of recovery the fiscal situation will continue to be tight.
Over time, however, the strengthening of revenues should increase the
Government's ability to adequately equip and supply schools, clinics and
other communal facilities.
PART III - THE PROPOSED MULTISECTOR REHABILITATION CREDIT
Background
54.       Over the past year, there has been a intensive policy dialogue
between the Tanzania Government, the IMF and the Bank. In June 1986, the
Government presented its recovery program to the Consultative Group meeting
and received strong donor support. The program has subsequently formed the
basis for an IMF Standby Program as well as the proposed Multisector
Rehabilitation Credit (MRC). The proposed operation was appraised in the
field in July/August, 19B6. Negotiations were held in Washington October
14-20, 1986. The Tanzanian delegation was led by Mr. G. Rutihinda,
Principal Secretary, Ministry of Finance.   Annex III contains a timetable
of key events.
Credit Objectives and Description
55.       The major objectives of the proposed Multisector Rehabilitation
Credit are to: (i) support the process of policy reforms needed to reverse
the prolonged deterioration of the Tanzania economy; (Hi) provide foreign
exchange to finance essential current imports needed for the rehabilitation
of the economy; and (iii) assist the Government to develop an agenda for
future policy changes.
56.       The proposed credit is designed to support the Government's
Economic Recovery Program. The credit would support policy and institu-
tional reforms in several areas where the Government has already initiated
changes or where the Government and the Bank have identified the need to
change existing policies. The areas addressed as detailed in t?ie previous
section, include: (1) exchange rate, trade regime and foreign exchange
allocation; (ii) public expenditures; (iii) parastatals; (iv) agricultural
marketing and producer prices; (v) industrial sector restructuring; and
(vi) transport sector efficiency. At the same time, the credit would
provide part of the foreign exchange resources needed to increase capacity
utilization and bring forth a supply response.



- 19 -
57.       In the context of the appraisal of the proposed credit the Bank
Group and the Government reached agreemenL on the above objecLives and the
measures necessary to achieve them. These understandings are refLected in
the Government's Letter of Development Policy presented in Annex V of Lhis
report. The main features of the policy reforms supported by the crediL
are summarized in the form of a matrix in Annex IV.
Cooperation with the IMF
58.       The staff of the Bank have maintained close contact with the Fund
staff working on Tanzania.  They have shared information and views on
matters related to the CC, the IMF Standby arrangements (the IMF Board
approved an 18 month Standby arrangement on August 25, 1986 providing for a
total of SDR 64.2 million) and the MRC, and have informed each oLher of the
developments in these areas. The staff of the Bank and the Fund have also
worked closely on issues such as the scope and timing of the economic
recovery process, Lhe levels of projected external resource requirements
and imports needed to support the Government's economic recovery program.
In the coming months the Fund, the Bank and the Government will be working
together on the preparation of a joint medium-Lerm scenario and policy
framework paper which is expected to form the basis for an IMF Structural
Adjustment Facility arrangement.
Co-financing Arrangements
59.       A total of US$130 million would be provided to support the
Government's recovery program including an IDA credit equivalent to US$50.0
million and US$80.0 million from the Special Facility for Africa, of which
UIS$46.2 million would be in the form of an African Facility Credit, and
about US$33.8 million would be from Special Joint Financing.
60.        Special Joint Financing is expected to be provided by the Federal
Republic of Germany through the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbank (KfW).
Germany plans to provide DM 35 million (about US$17.3 million) subjecL to
its Parliamentary approval of its budget for 1987 and conclusion of a
bilateral agreement with the United Republic of Tanzania, to finance a
flexible list of truck spare parts and components, tyres, and raw materials
for manufacturing tyres, batteries and oil. The National Transport
Corporation is expected to identify overseas suppliers and select domestic
dealers, who will obtain import licenses, pay local cover and retail the
spare parts and components. It is expected that the Government of Tanzania
and KfW will conclude a separate Grant Agreement early in 1987. The
Overseas Development Administration (ODA) on behalf of the United Kingdom
(UK) will provide a grant of 5 million pounds (about US$7.3 million) and
the Swiss Development Corporation (SDC) on behalf of Switzerland will
contribute SwF 15 million (about US$9.2 million equivalent) on standard SJF
terms. Both the UK and Switzerland expect to conclude their respective
Grant Agreements with the Government of Tanzania regarding the SJF by the
end of December 1986. In both those latter cases the funds will be
administered by IDA.



- 20 -
Procurement Arrangements
61.       IDA.  Procurement would be limited to goods (except luxury items,
explosives and armaments) from Bank member countries, Switzerland and
Taiwan. Both private and public sector imports would be eligible for
financing. Contracts for the procurement of goods by the private sector of
less than US$2 million equivalent would follow normal commercial practice.
Government contracts equivalent to less than US$2 million would follow
Tanzania government procurement practlce which is acceptable to IDA. All
purchases under contracts of more than US$2 million would be procured
through international competitive bidding. Certain commonly traded
commodities may be purchased at prices quoted on organized International
markets. Altogether up to US$25 million would be available for the
purchase of petroleum. Expenditures for goods covered by invoices for less
than US$5,000 equivalent would not be eligible for financing.
62.       African Facility Credit and Special Joint Financing.  The
proceeds of the African Facility Credit would cover only those eligible
expenditures for goods produced in or services supplied from the eligible
countries under the African Facility.
Disbursement Arrangements
63.       The total of US$130 million from IDA, African Facility and
Special Joint Financing, would be disbursed in three tranches. The first
tranche would amount to US$50 million equivalent, of which US$20 million
would be available for retroactive financing from appraisal (July 23,
1986). The first tranche would consist of US$15.5 million from IDA and
US$26.2 from the African Facility and US$8.3 million from Special Joint
Financing. The second tranche would be available for disbursement
following a review of performance in February 1987 and subject to the
conditions outlined in para. 68. The third tranche would be released upon
fulfilment of the conditions specified also in para. 68.
64.       The Bank of Tanzania (BOT) would open two Special Accounts
(Revolving Funds), one for the IDA Credit and one for the African
Facility. The initial deposit would be US$10 million from IDA, and US$10
million from the African Facility, representing about 20 percent of the
total amounts to be disbursed from these sources. No reimbursement would
be made for imports financed from other sources. It is estimated that
eligible imports in 1986/87 will total about USS700 million equivalent.
The proposed credits would finance about 15 percent of this amount, thus
permitting rapid disbursement. Disbursements should be completed by June
30, 1988.
Implementation
65.       The primary responsibility for the implementation of the ERP and
the proposed measures under the credit rests with the Ministry of Finance,
Economic Affairs and Planning. The merging of finance and planning func-
tions in 1985 under one minister has helped to focus responsibility.
Already the progress of the recovery program is being regularly reviewed
and reports are being submitted to the Cabinet on the impact of policy
changes and problems being encountered. Rehabilitation programs, particu-



- 21 -
larly in the vital transport sector, are muclh more sharply defined than
under the SAP and the progress in executing these programs is also being
reviewed regularly at cabinet level. Links between the Ministry of Finance
and those ministries responsible for the sector policies such as agricul-
ture, industry and transport will be strengthened and maintained.
66.       In the past, use of foreign aid has not been effectively coordi-
nated, leaving each donor to focus on its own areas of preference which did
not necessarily coincide with the planned priorities. In addition, manage-
ment of foreign exchange in terms of assessment of the quantum, timing of
its availability and use has been weak. The Government has decided to take
steps to strengthen the External Finance Department of the Ministry of
Finance, Economic Affairs and Planning by appointing an additional Deputy
Principal Secretary to head the Department. He will be responsible for
reviewing ERP policy actions, administering the foreign exchange allocation
process, aid coordination and monitoring rehabilitation. In addition,
technical assistance has been secured for the Department from bilateral
sources. It is also planned to strengthen the operational links between
the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Tanzania.
67.       A number of studies will be carried out under the Credit.  These
are of crucial importance for the further development of policies, and
therefore will be proceeded with without delay. The primary responsibility
will be with the Ministry responsible for the sector in question, but the
coordinating responsibility will lie with the Ministry of Finance. In the
case of the agricultural marketing study, the Prime Minister's office will
also be involved because of the wider policy implications for cooperatives
and marketing boards. The proposed study on aid coordination, planning and
budgeting, to be carried out under the umbrella of the Public Expenditure
Review, is expected to lead to a further strengthening of the Ministry of
Finance in key departments.
Monitor)ig
68.       It is proposed to carry out a comprehensive review of the
implementation of the program in February 1987. Release of the second
tranche of the credit will depend upon the outcome of this review, as well
as upon the following specific conditions: (i) completion of a review of
the export retention scheme, and agreement with the Bank on a plan of
action to implement the results of such review; (ii) abolition of the
remaining permit requirements for the internal movement of foodgrains;
(iii) Government to permit cooperative and private traders to import and
retail agricultural implements, chemicals and packaging materials; (iv)
adjustment of intra-regional trucking rates to cover the full costs of
operations, and raise rail tariffs to a level satisfactory to the
Association, with a view to achieving full cost recovery; and (v) the
Tanzania Railways Corporation to complete its action plan, covering its
operations for the next two years. Release of the third tranche will be
conditional upon agreement with the Bank on (i) a meaningful portion of
foreign exchange resources to be allocated in 19B7/88 and modalities for
its non-administrative allocation; and (ii) an action plan and initial
measures to rationalize the external trade regime based on the results of
the planned tariff study.



- 22 -
Benefits and Risks
69.       The principal benefit of the MRC is expected to be the reversal
of the deterioration of the Tanzanian economy, through its support of
policy and institutional reforms and the provision of foreign exchange to
finance essential imports needed to rehabilitate the key sectors of the
econaomy. The operation is expected to be of particular benefit to farmers
through its support for higher producer prices and through the provision of
additional inputs necessary to stimulate a supply response. The operation
would also facilitate improvements in resource allocation and utilization
through the strengthening of planning and ald coordination within the
Ministry of Finance, and through an improved foreign exchange allocation
ysysten.
70.       The main risk associated with the proposed operation is that some
of the proposed policy changes in such areas as the liberalization of trade
and marketing structures, parastatal management, and the public investment
program could be delayed or even abandoned because of opposition either
from within the party or from specific interest groups. However, the
Government has shown strong commitment to the goals of the program, and to
the reform process. In addition, Bank staff will be closely monitoring
progress in execution of the program and will be assisting the Government
in carrying out the various studies and reviews that are necessary to
prepare for the next stages of policy and institutional reform.
PART IV - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
71.       Tanzania joined the Bank, the Association, and the International
Finance Corporation in 1962. Beginning with an IDA credit for education in
1963, 62 IDA credits and 19 Bank loans, two of these on Third Window terms,
amounting to US$1,134.5 million have eo far been approved for Tanzania.
In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary of 11 loans totalling US$244.8
million which were extended for the development of the common services and
development bank operated regionally by Tanzania, Kenya, and Uganda through
their association in the former East African Community. IFC investments in
Tanzania have included the Kilombero Sugar Company, soap manufacturing,
metal product manufacturing and the Amboni sisal rehabilitation project.
Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC
investments to Tanzania as of September 30, 1986.
72.       Bank Group lending in Tanzania has been centered on:  (1) agri-
culture; (ii) transport and communications; (iii) industry; and (iv) educa-
tion and manpower development. Since FY81, new Bank Group lending has been
focussed primarily on the rehabilitation and use of existing productive
facilities and the introduction of infrastructure and services (such as
power generation and education facilities) of long term use to the
economy. Projects have been designed to minimize new demands on the
Government's recurrent, development, and foreign exchange budgets; have
been centered on already experienced or financially viable institutions;
and have been logistically insulated, as far as possible, from general
supply difficulties in the economy. They have included technical assist-
ance and training for better maintenance and use of existing capital faci-



- 23 -
lities and more effective resource allocation in the economy. Lending
during FY82-FY85 along these lines included a Second Petroleum Exploration
Project, a Petroleum Sector Technical Assistance Project, Third and Fourth
Technical Assistance Projects (focussed on key manpower gaps in the agri-
cultural sector), Dar es Salaam Sewerage and Sanitation (Rehabilitation)
Project, a Coal Engineering Project, a Hydroelectric Power Project, a Port
Rehabilitation Project, a Sixth Highway (Rehabilitation) Project, involving
rehabilitation of high priority roads and assistance to the trucking
industry, and a Power Rehabilitation Project to restore Tanzania's power
system.
73.       lu addition to financing specific projects, the Bank Group has
provided non-project assistance on three occasions in support of Government
efforts to deal with its balance of payments difficulties. The first such
credit was made in 1974, the second in 1977, and the most recent, an Export
Rehabilitation Program Credit for US$40 million (Credit 1133-TA) in April
1981. The credit is fully disbursed and a Project Completion Report is
under preparation. Although the Credit assisted in financing much needed
agricultural inputs, the overall economic environment did not substantially
change, and hence the desired recovery of agricultural exports did not take
place.
74.       Project implementation in Tanzania has been adversely affected
during the last six years by the disruptions of the Uganda War and the
country's extreme foreign exchange difficulties, which have resulted in
shortages of fuel and building materials, even when budgetary allocations
for such purchases have been adequate. In addition, domestic policies have
weakened the capacity of the agricultural sector to fulfill its traditional
functions effectively. External financing agencies have been increasing
the share of direct and indirect foreign exchange costs covered by Froject
budgets; however, It is impossible to cushion projects completely, particu-
larly in remote areas, from the ramifications of the economic crisis. Bank
Group disbursements grew from US$58 million in FY78 to US$115.9 million in
FY82 and then declined to US$69.8 million in FY86. A comparison with other
portfolios in the Eastern Africa Region indicates that Tanzanian disburse-
ments have been about average for the Region, ranging as a proportion of
outstanding commitments from 25.5 percent in FY78 to 26.3 percent in FY86
(compared with 24.5 percent and 27.8 percent in the same years for the
Region as a whole).
75.       Supervision missions have been concerned with adapting project
implementation to difficult factors facing the country or individual
sectors, which were not anticipated or have proved worse than expected at
appraisal. A major Country Implementation Review was held in Dar es Salaam
in October 1982 during which Government officials and Bank Group staff
agreed to recommend the restructuring or discontinuation of several
projects experiencing persistent implementation problems. Intensive super-
vision and, in the case of the Mufindi Pulp and Paper Project (Credit
1650-TA), timely assistance from co-financiers have already had some reme-
dial results. Even in the agricultural sector, where constraints on imple-
mentation have been most severe, there have been improvements in some
projects. Further improvement is expected in the overall capacity for



- 24 -
project implementation with the anticipated improvement in the state of the
economy and the overriding macroeconomic environment. However,
considerable work remains to be done in improving project implementation
and disbursements. The next Review is planned for Spring 1987.
76.       Given the state of the Tanzania economy, our strategy over the
next few years will be to develop a series of quick disbursing policy-based
lending operations in support of the major institutional and policy changes
that Tanzania nieeds to make to rehabilitate the economy and stimulate
growth. We would also support a few high priority specific projects,
especially those focussed on the rehabilitation of important
infrastructure. The proposed multisector rehabilitation operation is an
integral part of this strategy and is expected to lead to further policy-
based lending in FY88 and FY89.
77.       The agenda for our economic and sector work is designed to
support this overall strategy and particularly to assist the Government in
the development of institutional and policy reforms. A major review of the
industrial sector has just been completed and its findings and recommenda-
tions will be discussed with the Government in December. Next year we plan
to carry out major reviews of the public expenditure program and the paras-
tatal sector, as well as assisting the Government in further analysis of
external trade and agricultural marketing reforms. We also plan to
initiate work on some of the longer term issues facing the Tanzanian
economy in the areas of education and population and health.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
78.       I am satisfied that the proposed IDA Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association. I am also satisfied that the
African Facility Credit would comply with provisions of Resolution No. IDA
85-1 of May 21, 1985. I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed Development Credit and the proposed African Facility Credit, and
that the Association act as administrator of the proposed Special Joint
Financing from Switzerland and the United Kingdom.
Barber Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
October 30, 1986



Pqxoution       20.9 million (198')                            - 25 -                                        ANM I
lNP Per Canita  119S240 (1984)                                                                               Pr4e 1 of 3
TMNZAA -  DI C   DIICAS a/
Amount                         Asumi Ibl CrPwth RAte. (2)
(million LB$ at
DIdicator         curlt Ptnl)                  Actual                             __                _       _
1984       1980  1981  1982  1983  1964  1985  1966 Of  1937  1988  1989  1990   1991
NAML ARNtS
G&o.s daimtic product c/    4,494       0.6  -1.3   0.9  -0.4   2.5   2.5   3.0          3.8   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0
AgrICLtbme                2,417       2.8   2.3   2.6   1.1   2.6   3.5   4.8          4.5   4.4   4.2   4.0   3.8
Iustry                      462     -10.8 -13.8  -7.2  -8.5 -11.5 -15.0   2.0          8.0  10.0   8.0   80   8.0
Services                  1,615       3.3  -0.4   3.0  -0.7   4.3   3.5   1.4          2.7   3.0   3.4   3.6   3.8
Ccxuwtiin                   4,678       6.8  -6.0   0.7   1.6   6.1   7.2   9.6          3.7   3.4   2.3   3.3   L4
Gross ieBnt                   718     -13.6   4.3   0.8  -17.2   4.8  -9.0  -2.2        4.1  -2.9   4.0   4.0   4.0
lBports of QIFS               473       0.6  18.7 -18.5  -14.1  -9.0  -1.9   4.3        12.3  12.1  11.7   3.5   9.4
raports of OsM               922       -0.4  -7.9  -3.9 -21.8   5.9  15.2  20.0          2.6   0.9   0.8   0.1  -0.1
Croes damcetic EENings        267     -29.0  34.3   9.9 -14.8  -9.6  -18.4 -40.0    -12.7  19.1  39.7  22.4  19.9
GDP deflator (1978 - 100)             130.9 154.7  185.4  183.2  180.0  191.7  249.2    299.0 343.6 395.0 434.8 483.6
RarhRage rate (T.Sh. per 11$)           8.2   8.3   9.3  11.1  15.3  17.5  35.0
Sha  of CUP at ir icet prioe               Mnge Aral 1r=ase (2)
(at current pices)                    (at c4sat ff)M)
1980  1983  1984  1985  1986  1991            1980D-5   1986-91/
Groae Domestic Prduct t /            100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0 100.0  100.0          0.9         4.0
Agriculture                         41.6  43.7  43.2  43.7  44.5  45.0              2.4         4.2
Industry                            14.8   6.0   5.1   4.2   4.2   5.1            -11.3         8.5
Services                            33.2  44.9  45.1  45.7  45.7  43.6              2.2         3.3
consmqumion                           90.5  82.2  84.0  87.4  93.8  87.6              1.8         3.0
Caross tzwe.nment                     22.4  19.3  17.3  17.3  16.4  15.6            -6.3          1.0
Exports of GNFS                       12.7  13.6  11.9  11.9   9.9  14.1             -5.6        10.9
laports of GNFS                       25.7  15.1  15.4  16.7  20.1  17.3             -4.8         0.8
Cross dcme.tic savings                 9.4  17.0  15.2  12.1   2.2   8.2             -1.5        20.0
As 2 MrF
1980J81   1982/82  1985/86
PUBLIC FDWNu1
QCrrnt revenue                     18.4       18.7    18.0
Cuarrut espenditure                20.0       22.2    20.7
'xirplu  (+) or defirt (-)         -1.6      -3.5    -2.7
Capital expenditures               10.2        6.9     5.9
Foreign Finandzg                    5.1       4.0      2.2
1975-2   1982-65  1986-91
QiP gwth rate (Z)                   2.8        2.1     4.0
IIP per capita growth rate (Z)     -0.5      -1.2      0.7
1(111                               8.4       10.3     3.4
Mnrinal saviis rawe                 0.4      -0.2      0.1
Impirt eLasticty                   -o.8      -0.7      0.2
M 2inlad only. OP per capita is at offiial exdwge rate.
c/ At .nrt prioe; cqmpas are eqzesed at factor cost.
(CWI8 (Am1 (Ecandi)1,21



Papaatim      : 20.9  LIUJc (1984)                        - 26 -                               SM   I
GM Per Capita: IIS$ (1964)                                                                     Flew 2 of 3
TWMIA - DEi L MM 8/
Jsualt                        Rel Growth Rate [(() at atat  ries l
(uMIo Us$ at
Iicator       OA-MM prim)                      Actalw                                 PulectsI
1984       190  1981  1982   1983  1984  1985  1986b/ 1987  1988  1989  if)   1991
EXTERN1 BIRAIZ
Nteadise eaot           366.7      -1.8  15.7 -12.7  -14.1 -10.7  -0.9    5.3  12.8  14.2  13.3  2.0  11.9
Major primary poducts 265.8       -6.5  33.5 -16.3  -18.7 -14.6  4.2    7.8  11.8  15.6   6.2  6.2  13.2
Others               100.9       9.9 -36.7   9.8    7.6   3.3  3.9    1.0   7.1  10.7  31.7 -6.8   8.7
lbrdudise imts          839.3      -2.3  -6.3   1.5  -21.8   1.0  12.9   2D.4   2.5   0.3   0.7 -0.7  -0.3
Fbodgrtons             72.7      286.3  -7.9  31.9  -28.0  -8.3  0.1  -36.0   1.3  -0.3   0L0  0.0   0.0
Pctrosim              227.4       27.1 -15.9  -2.8    3.5   1.0  4.9   55.2   6.6   3.9   4.3  4.5   3.8
Mchlimery 1 equdpsut  251.j    -25.5  10.4 -12.5  -35.3  -0.9  10.1   14.7   1.6  -0.7  -0.5 -0.5  -2.9
Others                287.9      -7.7  -17.2  12.6  -19.5   6.9 26.6   23.6   1.6  -0.4   0.0 -1.8  -0L6
PRICZS
qxort price misc         93.6      100.0  96.3  80.9   86.3  93.6 82.7  101.6  95.3  103.1  111.1 122.0 124.9
Import price IrnIe       91.2      100.0  100.9  95.7   92.4  91.2 89.7   84.0  86.9  90.4  94.0 97.6  101.4
Tamns of trade irdex    102.6      100.0  95.5  84.51   93.4  102.6 92.2  121.0  109.7  114.0 118.2 125.0 123.2
OCmeAtitn of Mrdarchl1se Trade (I)          Average Ap nal Increase (Z)
(at   ret   pr )                       (at      t 
1975   1980   1985   1991 D/               1976-80 1980-85 1986-91 b/
EFxpots                                100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0                   -1.8    -7.1      11.8
major primairy produts                66.3   55.6   61.7   71.4                   -5.8   -4.2       10.1
Othens                                33.7   44.4   38.3   28.6                    6.7    -2.3      16.7
Tspirts                                100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0                   -1.8    -4.8       0.5
Foodgrains                             17.7   11.7    8.       4.2                 -6.2    -5.1       0.1
entroleum                               8.0   Z2.9   14.0   21.9                    0.8    -1.3       4.5
Mwlchderry & eqdipment                 31.1   34.5   30.9   27.7                    2.2   -11.0      -0.6
Others                                 43.2   30.9   47.0   46.3                   -5.8    -0.7      -0.4
Swre of Trade with          Sure of Tbide with              Share of Trde mith
Inhustrial Catacries (Z)    Developizng CMuries (2)      Capital Suzplus Oil 1xqpots (2)
1975    1980    1984        1975    1980    1984            1975    1980    1984
DrIR OF oM
Exports                  47.4    57.6    60.7        48.9    35.8    32.2             3.6      8.7     6.3
Imports                  58.0    67.3    63.2        34.8    26.5    32.1             6.2    10.7      2.4
8/ Data' are for all Tanzania (Nhstaad and ZanzibEr).
IC Esit e a
C1M8(Akw(EteTe,3)j



- 27-                                                          padI      of
-.                                           ~~~~~~~~~~Page  3 of 3
frtpam          I,L' st ilt  (19M4)
NP br ohpta I ISM  (198)
TAUMA - !Mu  (F MWU, OL CAPUL AM MT
( l   at  rnt   ri
bndiictwr                                                                 Actual
1081)     1Q81       I182        11311      11A          191814      A                  IW I
fPqnrt of hub .rd auntsm                              6f4       759         17U3       487        474      R     66          AM)        I)      6A1     766     852     95
of ditch: Ibrd%dwL  f.o.h.                          5i5        561        411        379         167          256           15*3      A1M    AM       hA3     hi'S    774
Smm of sola  ad merAs                               1,380     1,286       1,173        9D4        934         I1'm          1306       137.   1463    151b    Ifin      Ihh4
of ddeh: Phrdwadlm  c.t.f.                        1,22n      l,11. Ito    n5         Hla        R3            904         1l01l      1149    1191    125h    13u      1351
1t tanr    b                                           Iq        22          24         14         59           215          250        201     1f)    120      101I    111
(unet  amt Imnt                                      -fle      -Y8         -618        40        -42           -598         -516       4h    -         -652    -69252    -"
Mfictal gnat racrtotpt                                Ingf      11           9b         9t)       1m            2K)          3rl       4m      4*S      460    471)    4DM
N&1 LT law   (not                                     227       259         291        192         124          Ili          -AA        1in      7S      '      148      187
OrfiCdAl                                             lin       167        231        189         III -11                              fib     hR       nO      in      19I
Private                                              97        92          s9          1          11            -          -"i       -4       -n      -21     -12       -7
Other sptj C/                                         337        In?        2n2        122         II         21n3          29        Na       21n     171      14        2
a.w  in         s C-i- tnemel                           1        32          31          n          i            In           -5       -in      -1I     -40     -4       -40
Tnrsraiml          w                                   98        07 4    44             64         39            29            34      64      99      119     179     219
1fraev  m mmeh lmnrts                                   1.0        1.1        0.5        0.6        0.6          (1.4           0.4     0.7      1n      1.1     1.6      1.9
Lku.dLanLiwmAt                                       2q7       179         351        3         19           404            612  7n2         717     7J1     774     811
urngx.tmd,                                          101        109    IM              '0n       InI           23)n          35n0   AM        n      6      40*  411n
hmmslosn  lam.                                      1in       227         IR7        116         1431        1Im            168     223      24n     241     274     n3
DAc                                               z3         19          53         14         3R            13            13      R5      RR       R7     1nW     117
1:                                                  3        17           7          -         22            6             16       6       2        n       n       n
TM of3s5                                                     P4         65         65           9           42            112     its     119      146     lfi    IRR
ther                                              52         E7          67         16         21            4q            2R       J"      In       7       5       2
mbi-n      Jdal 11,n                                 i3        41         (A         IPA         96            51            q3      1117     2h      29      n3       29
Offeiu1 Cnrm 1HtB                                  27        11          28        126         45            28           1        5       12     1       25      29
IMS                                                22        17          In         25         16            11             7       4        1       1       1       0
Other  idlaternl                                    -         4           6          7          II            R            33      69       0        n       0       a
Private                                            29        11          23         ID         21            C.            41      2'       12       9       4       0
tmeia Debt                                          1,133     3,179       3,218      3,$56      3,648         3,683         3,543   3.456   1,401   1,421   1.548   3.775
Mht mntadit    ad dinmluwe                        3,032     2,210       2,38R      2,712      2.9O.         3,026         2,977   2,995   1,029   1,01   1.236   3,423
Ihlbwmd debt                                        991       969         833        874        744           67            5S6     461      371     132     712     151
Tbc wviee f/
T,ta1mn1it-    u peut.                               71        72          62   6n               7n      fi                 3H1     335      311     2W7     217     207
bitaust                                            36        32         34         3D          30           21            In2      92      79      67       60      56
:n43ataaiqCr                                         in        Inm         12         12         i5            13            82      62      4R       36      75      21
Menw  tew   rate  n nmL                (ymns            2A        2.7         2.5        2.5
*ffdsl                                                1.9       2.7         1.5        2.0
PiVAte                                                9.4       -           7.5       13.6
bemw  maturity of new loan  (pas)                      28.7      283.3       311.       36.0
nrftd.l                                              29.9      28.3        34.7       37.3
Private                                              In-9       -          12       11.0
1ets itm:
nkit  Ota irm ad Maknuod by bnk  mikp.                  440        529        625        6qR        Am7           821          87j      99q    1,33   1,011   1.03h   ID240
AnZ2 of al debt oautatiwu  ad di 1bnt.                14.5       I.6        194A       19.5       22.1          22.3          27.4    489       IL 3A1.1    29.2    27.5
Debt 1rvlde a  tT.                                       71        72          62         6n         70           fiO
7. of M.Tdebt srmto kiGram.                           31        26          46         51         62           R8
A  K of DIt (tAmteadiz
at Dii Of
1983    19B4
?hbrlty .      etnw    of debt conttmtutwo Uiritts  dim wthitn 5 yam                          32.6    37.4
liritlm due wtI  10 ywu                                                                     59.1    61.5
Interet stnnam  of debt mtaetdti   tern  dim ithin  it 7ur                                     1.2     3.1
Of ittitm  bind on GO   dA  pwlded to HIE appt   .dmma i, hu, 1986.  onfatis   n merts 1Pay t' for 1985 and 1986 is Ioplete.
IF  B1luils offidal *t receipta hut LaIud    ertrasty for a. fo    lspezv.
'El      7s        r   cadits, DF audit. pes  lamn  mid ernuw aid omin. f'r peat  rm.  In 19R5, it xuflees  txdldW of arrears o                            Lu m   iid mimareal
debt.  In 19R6 ad aftert  it intbAs errm awd aliam, debt hel.  ftm  nsadulzu,  $aitl wt etaduy irlz 1 meimd my odditraul pndted itifl .of oftelul
(me tam for disusion).
di  ieuMa all dofldal  Ran   - pot 1Ia Club  plpeliem -al  -  Sdeiltisu  bilateral omdunt  sqemed after debt .umdul.
t1  Inilud=      IC 1M   U ad   mtert mde  pieue. aloS 'dtb the aooSm MA diabhents  atn tnrauta   Ittui In the wpt.
trofctamncul anWu i -va Ifla  by the bele mbi.  PaiA Club reinhilw    Iant refleltd In thie mrca.  Ite Irrst hanebn In ut flectid in tSe
anriv   nmea, for 1915 sauNa.
Chl3a1-r1(rsl)1



- 28 -                                   N
Page 1 of 2
SYUS OF BANKtM U OPRTliSU  IN T1A A
A. SLaTM OF  ANL S MMD fL MA,DCf
(US$ mllion)
Fiscal                                                 Ainmt less cursllation
In./Cr. No.   Year  Porrower                                   Dank      1w      MI      ndisbursed
14 Lis, two  id   WinDw ams, aix! 42 Credits                   192.28  41.47   474.62
fully dighnl 1/
Cr.  801-TA   78   Tanzaria    Seoxn  Caslewrut                                   24.50     3.27
In.  1607-TA   78   Tlimna   ?brgoro 1bxrile                    25.00                        3.96
Cr.  861-'     79   Tnzania   Sixth Bctioa                                        12.0D      5.45
In.  1650-T    79   Tana          ndidli Pulp aid Paper         30.00                        1.39
In. 1750-      BD   TIB          Tanznia itwes -t -Bar          25.00                        0.91
Cr.  987-TA   80   Thozania   Th3anzs  waul D. Bant                                7.00     0.75
Cr.  1015o--    Bo   Ibzaia   Grain Storage and Mllirg                            43.00    37.03
Cr.  1037-TA   80   Tlizana    Smlhol,der T                                      14.00     8.70
Cr. 1056-TA    81   Tnzania    Seventh Eucation                                   25.00    18.72
Cr. 1060-TA   81   Tazaa   lWnical Assistance I                                   11.00     4.26
Cr. 1070-11    81   T1ia         Cocxat Pllot                                      6.80     2.77
Cr.  1173-TA   82   Tanzania   T27eOicaons I                                        D.00     3.91
Cr. 1206-TA    82   Thzida   Temical Assistance III                              12.00     3.78
Cr.  1229-T    82    anzania   Sao 11.1 irestrPhse fl                             12.00     6.65
Cr.  1312-TA   83   Tozmdnia                   S.rSalam Snerage an!               22.50    13.54
S.dtatim
Cr.  1370-fk   83   lbzafda    bfhndi Plp and Paper Ml                            IR.00     9.09
ech. Asaet. & Enrg Cow.
Cr. 1371'A   83   lbnzaia    Coal   huie                                           6.3f0    5.39
Cr.  1405-TA   84   Thizada   Mea Hydmelectric Poaer                              35.00    14.47
Cr. 1524-TA   85   lnrzsda    Tadidal Assistance IV                               10.00     8.67
Cr. 1536-TA    85   Tzarida    Purt Peaklidftatin                                 27.00    23.42
Cr. 10(rTA    85   Thizrda   Petrolen Sectw Tecmical                               8.00     7.93
ssistwre
Cr. 1687-TA   86   Tana          Powe  llitat         2/                          40.00    42.01
Cr. 1688-TA   86   Trizana   Sixth HRiay (o) 2/                                   50.00    52.42
Ibtal                                              272.28  41.47    885.72    278.49
of iddch has beow repaId                          94.29   5.14    12.16
Toal rw outstairg                                 177.99  36.33   873.56
AMomt sld                         6.29
of tdch has bew  repaid        6.29
Total nEr held by Bak and n  3/                   177.99  36.33   873.56
btld unlisirLsd                                    6.26    -       272.23    27a49
I/  in aditlm,  1ania hbas in the beeficiary of 11 loans totalilw US$244.8 mUi11n td.ch wre
eceaxiM for the developmt of the cmimn services and developzent bank operated regionaly by
Tanzana, H4ay  and ULguda througb their aociatio in the forier Fast Africa OCuindty.
2/ 9* yet effective
3J Wet of ecbage ajustats.



- 29-                        ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN TANZANIA
AS DF SEPTEMBER 30, 1986
Fiscal                                                 Amount in US$ Million
Year          Obligor           Type of Business         Loan  Equity  Total
1960 and   Kilombero Sugar      Food Processing          3.96   0.70    4.66
1964         Company
1978       Highland Soap and   Soap Manufacture          1.37   0.37    1.74
Allied Products
Limited
1979       Metal Products       Household Utensils       1.33   0.18    1.51
Limited
1985       Amboni Limited       General Manufacturing  3.47       -      3.47
Total gross commitments                10.13   1.25   11.38
Less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales                4.12   0.70    4.82
Total commitments now held by IFC       6.01   0.55    6.56
Total undisbursed                       0.56    -       0.56



-30-                        ANEX III
Page 1 of 1
TANZANIA
PROPOSED MULTISECTOR REHABILITATION PROGRAM
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Appraisal:                         July/August 1986
(b)  Negotiations:                     October L986
(c)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:   November 1986
Section II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
Prior to February 1987 or other agreed date, the Association would
review the Government's progress in implementing the multisector
rehabilitation program as set forth in the Letter of Development
Policy.
Section III. Special Conditions
Release of the second and third tranches of US$50 million and US$30
million respectively, would be dependent on the Government's making
satisfactory progress in carrying out commitments undertaken in its
Letter of Development Policy, executing its rehabilitation program and
fulfilling the specific release conditions detailed in paragraph 68.



ANNEX IV
- 31 -                                              Page I of 5
smar  1d MUCY AMR    Pz*l. KmWA. atcb1as                          rsbf PP                         Nek NC                     tlw de     %MMmn
1. lACMO[lC MWGQ4r
1. Bala  of P1walta        TazD's  BDP hs au Sbhatanttal dmlmsaian of                            Satisfactory prgres        Ohsirtug nf C surltatlwv
dbeftlorectii  stasHy In thi  pst    %dlii (fwt  'fiN7 to            tawdse an equilibrIum     Crwu mttiq in Parts,
drAde dum to dwlhnlu  oqmr,          1UA0ML.O) banem Aptr             exhw  rat.                Jum  10-Il, 19R6, at
hbl  tlmrt wets, pateicarly          ard Jum  1986. preor to start                              wiich  dditional aid
oal, mi    s renitly, a  U&d-W       of Pmd Pnsra, foLkm  by                                     flow wcre pledpsl,
of debt srvice probis axd            rglar nil aftLstaFe with                                       ittionml oa tih  Uw
aeLJru rLd Elmo.                     objective of rehrEg an                                     Stffdby Progras
eqalbrit. esdie rate by
Tv c-try h1  thu bluu mibie to   mid-1988. Rats of deprsciation  Kep mapprt thnmJh the    It Bank 411 Canene n
imrt stufficdet miode to mirate    will bc tevised in teowr           provsio  of S130 3i3iLIo  second CC netiig in
thn    My en   la   regAr            'H6 ard Juwn '07.               of I4art fiHminn  for    1907 to rawiew pirwut
.pl1J of petmies pco&k.                                              priority Uers In           under che KIWl ad
cwervalstion of thu T1uats           R1ngchulii  of eotenal debt    qrtcultsre, trauprt,         obiliej furthEr
hL1ti; wim aadd    export            thrdm   Pars Club and otlhr      IndLatry mA other          mastaisa.
tslcttf md lS to entive              fonan.                          seaton.
rem9-  aallocaticn.                                                                             OmtimAl IMP mL4rt In
estrctial  a                                               fture yena thurqA
ant-casonala external                                      qudek dibab iz
wrrmdng by tbwenmt ad                                      sectoral rembi itation
publie sector entities.                                    opqrsucoat.
2. Trde, ForeW  Fchawr    Wth an ovaluml adae rite ad                          For the interim period                       As sadge rate equl-
Mlcathm amd Thriff       a dmmal for foreign  idusW  fir                                      podhg attairmint of        librias to achievd,
Policy                   oatstripping mupply, Thnime                                          e-rse rat eqquilibri-   (nernmet will pro-
a,thnerits hawe btd to rely                                          us. an iqrdved fore4n      gively   e amy
arsiwively an qumtitatLie                                            exdae allocation           frm qauntittve t  trtic-
reetrrctian NWd aidt,trative                                         sytem Ins hm agL           tiai ad tuard gmeter
allocati of foreW eihadge.                                           with the brtk aid is rin   use of tariffs old otter
insautisd  System wil    ltirect levs.
screen foreign exdw
appiratio arordLng to
eric  efficimcy
criteria, inret cosh
flot forecasting, amd
take acemt of aid
iraihulLities. As a
first step toads a ane
fledhle trade regn, by
I .July 1987 CoatreOt
will -le a portion of
fore4P egen
marc  freely
available to uses in
electe   mort
categoriea. Rehue of
Tlird Trandr iell be
cxoditnal upn
grsemnt with Bank an
portitn or nesma mid
trAmelities for
mfrlShiLstratiwe
alhration  of forei
-.   brLanllsg
intruction of import
surchurge or
aqnatmY iqmort
licns fes if required.
Thiffs, lewiad on the bmle of the  GCveraini of amp specfic          Prior to Third Wade        lIpleamttin of new
official zdwge zate, have hmn        idtes to ad velot. ammcad   Qwt, will cary at a            tariff structure.
ineffectul ond their stracnne        in 86/87 bxlet.                 resis Of the tariff
Tweas rvelzAg.                                                       strare, with a view to
1rpt W        de2MtMAre-



- 32 -                                                        ANN2I IV
Pip. 2 af 5
Sn,w ad bUoL  AM             hbtlma. Tourns. Cbj*MmD  Ntiqp                                          o  mhu  ir"a War                     I infl
A u      for "'m fund.m tsor          thparuia, of Lint of            Gwncwnmt witl twlus         lrluast Ion atof
qmmrtaa  aid sxpourtm a         nm      asditlta that an  he              t      nton idi rlto of 55t1,.
prnsttod to ratIdn a pmrtion at       iportal ablr -am f nts          p_ to ___d   _lt     to
thdar foruw  mdwu. -rnl,w.            turt ad .                       a a iq t of ads
witth hlOr  tstihn rat  miml                                          ca not fauigit aIshp
for non-ttmdtiaui aqiert.            1Jbmlimctln of awarc             ainurd    al in thi
mtmntikn wta. inclualing        offI clsv of   Im
trumfarablllty d atcout          Me.
IJtm_n aurtaern anl
twdficnticn of the raw or
reteneton mte it it fur non-
trnlittoinl aport..
3. ille 1iivn     rt        $miart the tduwrrd of omvr-           Grall hbu*t dfrf cit for         k7sunmnt viII
Hbpqlture Policy         extemmion of the public sector in     A"7 ItIled to ITh 17  (I l.6t   admittll lv irsb
tie 19Tb, m.wd a wedmoi  rmvenea     Df esCtlmtal QP natld with   lazlt-deticit ja
bas, Owenusit h1  bom                 in for 95/1A). Phw rsa          lapiwm 'omiltv of puilic
emnorbt to za-In Ira  n  U            man to yield ISO.5 C.  _           nqmulibnts.
deftitt as  dum of  PI' in the       1cl kstio bank fitnsirnt litited
pat thtws t*tis.  IwrthLr            to TSAl.i .
redution oF thi defct in prided
for In tih /R7 buloat.
Ower the nhu-teim, rtlc                                                86/017 RUlic Eqnitnmw    lhmwto or tlmw stiualen
emnilu        wt be rstruraw,                                          Ptrm war revzayed 1w    will hep lrh'nf t In
payril I    rer  redial, maintiace                                    Appria Mieion. A           clartftrn futur mtle
sid key ecanic sern.                                                  ftill sale IER  uesriug    dal tqim bltlette of
atuathit, the dealoapavt higt                                         period  7/R11 ormardn til   pubilie wectr, dn  wtIll
gred to ralbtilttian., and tm                                         be carrid maLt b tri       te foltlos   ue In
parstutl actor ratianltAl ml                                         GCaenmut ma  tie rnik         trnlamnt qarttam.
-aie noe  efftciet. Plutne,                                           early In 1987. tvitw
utgetl  adil aid cordtau   aIn                                         sill iit'norate study an
zequiras .tmlutin-diu.                                                ptlnirg,  bAtetita sa
aid mrorRdinrta.
joint r&mwrnutlbu*         lwenrmet  is arently
revw of pastal             arrt  ouit a mtesw of
sector, - a first ctr    public serrcr tim     .
in deuslepirg a strsrer   sit the btnk  ttcipmute
voilcy fnroect for         di1iaon aof It
pariuttAl actor and In   ftill RAa   cepuwLted.
mimbilitatim of
speific enterprin.
-.m    . mo IlM ad
t111W before ald
Tdnce.
4.   X      d  lft          NDtd to carry out a autlos            TIbttic codit eqion
Iblce                    mnutry polacL to mIerate              limited to li in 86/117, with
inElatoIn, ai esaure better          auh-ceilinw  for bmt cimlit to
dltribatcm of cmlit. miestic          tiwernt  sid to mci
creait hetwm  padiuic ard private    apecfifed IHilettiv 1wds
scrm tde mat faur yres ha
groi at 20R p.a., dinly tD ftinme
the deficits aF thauenut mar the
Ihetettrg 1trds.
lie   cture  of intert rate he        tnrtum  of interest rate to   Strturn of (nteat             Pntahilaset amd
genrally bBen lo  uidth sal          be mdo  posittive bg odd  l.     rats to he mnde positive   antumne of Ditrive
incrmm  in coneur priam              (Tese  In the TB. asvirmu        in rel e     within tbD    Inter t rates.
avetalw 31, ioth depit and           sad mdens Istun  mte wer         yra.
lsent    rats hen bam                 ama d followitn  the WM/A
aalmaialiy rwtiwe In rei              11let ituech.)
term.
5. PrIc:1M  mD Id mnrbu-    en fonr  yes the  trioal Prim          iiton am year a ruductitnm by   (anf       t of ditAstic  t.tmite review of
tion bildes              OcmIan ha.d as ny as 2,011            one qurter of the lin of         distribution a  prm        tariffs built into   r
Item  alter pece cmtml.   ae    catewlwr     sb1ect to priace         Cctnla am reTrOeD.         RehIliltstlo  Pinect
mns twobea rtaied to 41t              atral. IPairdew lint to he                                 ff5M6).
eatepra of ,za  in iem face of    rdI  to 12 bndc s atries
ast,ttrive diffculty ai a            vitltn thira ymrs.
fiaertelduw wallet mareit.
MM prts of Lhe econuy         r to   Perrle  products to he priold   Ptequnt price
tlae aduteed to a price anuetoe       O as to involve  ono  uaer      adwtawnra for wods
idch raflects tFL parlIle  radr       mdiMs  ad  mveraicn  of          rmsnit  awrmlled to
disa the official eaii     rate.     specific te rats to aD           avWd  cat-rim
valn rm -  V  me aoud  ilas.
on Jme 19).



Aiz
&> I
at             lull                          V;        | 23I
frill    I[!I     i:ti                                                  ii-
NJ I~~~~~~~~WT
r        ml~~~~~~~~~i



- 34 -                                                s X  TV
n     r      f f            Kui. 1mmr .  imainwJI as                                                              _           a      t .r   _ 4
1.  otrunsrui            Tuut  Iwo an IMtrial setor            lr:ctton of ammp rat.            IuJq  enue rat.            Am mehp  rat read
with my h_lwy t'otacted               wmrvaluacnic aupid with         Wqlibrtiu, mass           iqutihbrhum,
entorprtme.aparat1    at ecaive      cAtjr ommol of cndit m  a  ullocation to indsmrial   quiLtcmtlv  mnrtm. an
team   Mot.  CqacAty utilmattm   positiv  tncct riao                 ncar will ha hqlsvuW       Imorts will bh
in mm very 1w (3OD=) do to           *trturtwll tIos_Am               by tie fruualp  _mcw       prgrIlgithly rateS.
plIcy ivrxad innfffidcwxc    ht, htid    gaut an fiD  to beos         alLocatinv .ytm  aunt-  lThese mmma ad
imrt bspmrduty  aW iurtqp of         nun  offetant.                   nnt hAa gin to pnD          extrnzurirg ofemlctal
fouut n udm        for  am  parts ed                                  (ws saction a-            etorua  will be
intandtAt Rmde. Ikht w-  at                                          Mcmewrnde Pbllcts).         pgtrtel  _ar the
full oqutty _my flw m uld  ha                                                                    pnpm     lustr{al
qmmting4 an egative value wkd if                                                                 RhIbllttatni andit
r wnam  vot   kad at bomier                                           Covanrnmnt will as,'       (FY55).
pra. Igutre.nt now i for tdu                                          tnt cpl inw,rn
mlettIw  rslmtlutattan of th                                          anr allocated to Mdtuh-
netor, rw IrAtt l    rter  m an                                       itation rather tinn rw
ly eftc  rtilm.                                             pmjecta, - proided for
in the 3-er  thlir
hameuse  Prora.
rnint Will tta
furtlur REq. to
2.  Oetnfinwut            Am with gricultural Lnpun,                                            def!tenr tin lapatai
Irdustrial aspilma has bat                                           awd '   tic dletrt-ttn
osrafly  ff tnad to redftS                                            of itnuatrial Inputs. Dy
liqnt ad aiply peautatals. 11w                                        dIa a   of tine yru r m
nwdun  la tint tha poltey hi  rot                                     Its One  prie  s
uneal Ito NMl  of rmflasl ad                                          deontmllad will rasin
iU ost mwply. m  in Noy   I                                          confined, ad the
ha resilted In hMor awt awd                                           Gwrnt will escsbLit
detla, and tie (tmnt hm  bqmn                                         * ph_t tiatable for
a pro. of tdnfjinmnt.                                                 thair dtefinmt.



- 3s_ -ANNEX TV
PAR 5 of 5
tr  d a! tHey Am           RMms, _ . Og_rle                    w          SM i_e  _Mt q-
C. lIRr
1. PAhAtlttdial of       Parititat bak of fiadlqy for                                       1 1MMh  .bo W  awd       Srxth IliuY (Mhi)
b"4r~             macnat vairtra  All                                                btlateral wfirwt          Prol'et (Fob6) i1
rulfutnttim  In  nd to auto.                                       (anti.  mdwa wLil Ia    nttaitig a prora of
bottlsdm  In the oqunty of du                                      provided foray mn  !      rdvNulIttatkm of thn
trmuxt myta  to net Sand.                                          rdiaks of ro! trwine naet 1iortant satin
keds ar in potr cildtist nd                                         qutps, mnLy qum          of elm higluaery muk,
abut idf the f(t of tdra Se                                        part. for 1lme aw         ad to aupntrig tih
bus are off Lmstaut for Ink of                                     tndka.                    diopucnt of 
Spim parts, ttr   md (al. In                                                                 affictmt nrA tnrpwrt
tiudlat objactive am to pit the                                    Owenm   will incru..    potcia, ard a atravqar
fitao tac  tn apeetin, to anum                                     tcit shur of fonls.       tnrudru tIduotry.
thit pries  qamtivi  olw  a                                        a _dae mtihwated to
lAr alloatim of fonrdo                                             W"op and prvat. atr
stis, ad dum   Up bis                                              trmapont operaora.
ad!iut tarffs to axtai
operators to hwdle autriwLtunl                                     FWhtIon of Itre-
dut. Iht low nn *obctLyw ts                                        !N&M    jnarsn t .rfb
the rdmblltatitcn of the natlomu                                   to roflsct the uU ctm
ra*d metok                                                         of owutton by 2rd
bsrM.t wll S"pite   Twlmtakttan of W
.Ntloml lTnammt Polt   reaousndati1m, -
Pr    oW dim it w1AeM beth e
2lntk                     GR(mbent ad hm.
2. Rl  l t              te tnfretnctmn of the uilesy ia                                     Cwemmet ha                Iu atlmw operetta
run dun ad uwy of thc loowuotve                                    with tl  nk an -   ntli   stuais, a Medim-Ibnm
ane roll"' stock am                                                Rumecy Rnel Pie    grqm    RSiuls    hoesry
waurihule.  Ukwad  Pitys                                           caxmrohm: (a) were        Pgram  will b1 prerd
brpatintn In Slitden mal to                                        psrts,  iwkp              and wiits be u ted by
eiprom pradutiitry, aid serthmn                                    equipgut. and loetise   the  tn's pspaasd
mn    ad apfatis  proadire.                                    rdambLttatim an a         Ta'pwrt lthMlitatian
trnway 'ats: aid (b)     Prjet, planed for
operti.m sauie  to        FM9.
lircs  effides    of MT
*-T ati4
-lb iqtnt tie Mallef
Ptam, lrat ill
prepss at action plat
etlafaTr to the Mt
by 2rd kwctie
PIl tariffs will be         wlste dimuen -f
Increasd by -  nr         nil turffm to reflect
_it satisfactory to       ftill cost oF railty
tie bMk by 2d Tlumd.   operic.
jntar*wflQ   I



- 36 -
OCT.31 'OF 1 'V WORLD BVK TANZANIA D-S-SA                    aEX 
Page 1 of 1 2
~~~~~~~~~~~~~J  n s"I
Press ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    ~    I  lbnt
GOTerOnt 11 0 1uI 3WUt1C Op TMIVANI&t
laesttonE ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~D D@U0 800lA0n(IZA  t
1TM 4          POE IDK ANC, WoNOMIC
AWFANL AND BLASSE
TYC/D. 40/76                               29th October, 1985
Mr, B, Conxable,
Pramsldent,
internatiolal DevopoeJnt Association,
1818 H Street, NW
WASIHINTO  DC 204.
Dear Mr. Cortable,
LElIOF IZlOWTPOLICY
TeA oGovernment ofanznia (MOT) requests the
Drogrsme   e r quente Aaaooit  ol  nal  h
International D.t   sc ion (IDA) to
provide an 3DA credit in the mount of   5 50 minion,
an African Facility Credit In the smout of U18$ 46.2
minion, and will seek a Special Joint Financing
Faoilty Credit in an amount of US$33.8 million In
rwpjart of tbhe Coverimaut' a econeomi recovery
woramm. The requestad creodts would enable the
to intensify its efforts towards restru4c-
turLo he oonomepoo to contiznu with various measures
of adjtatment already started end to undertake new
intiatives.
2.   The Government has already reached an understanding
with the International Monetary Fund (iMW) on the major
macro economic policies and it in the GovernAment'sa
thO additional resources from the World Bank
'=other mult ~ilaterea   bltal agencies will
complement and hasten the pace of economic recovery
now set In motion. I wish also at this juncture to
commenA the W-forld Bank for oonvenlng'the Consutative
Group leat  for Tanznia in Paris on 10th and 11th
June. 198 ahrw Tanzania's Recovery Programm was
discussed  A  appropriate support given. I believe
that the role of the Bank as a close partner in
development will continue and be enhmnoed.



-37                             ANNEX V
OT.31 'S 1.?Q Of.D BAc TRNIA DE                               Page i  of 12
0      Pa  2 03
mi 2 Sl
3.      Since 1978, folol ug the e 4v.e  of oil
yrice uhoocka  globsl rect           ol ie of
commodity r10 u   r     tad            f     the
break-up o the          loan Cowmmity, the ecoommio
and finanial sLituation of Tasmnia has deteriorated
end the country Is presntaly  rnoirj its mrut
ecnrAoic crisis se ixzd ne in 1961. Productin
has declined steadily in al the major sectors  leadinX
to a decline in per cpita iLnomea and a deterioration
in the country' asoc ialnd p ica infrastructur.
The rate of inflation rms hi   foreign exohange
ha beome increasizgly scarcet   ootry ha aeomulated
substantial eternal paymets arrears, food and basic
consumer items are in great ahortage, and the quality of
essential services had declined sbaqly. The effects
uo large fisoaL defiLito, rapid monetmy e3eRn$nn,
high rateo of inflations and balance of payments deficits
have sooslerated since 1979. The general economic
deoline results from  combination of external and domestic
factors. But, however caused, a oountry'a eoonomic
problem  aro primarily its responsibility and the Govern-
ment of Tanzania is deterine  to udortake the measwes
nooeae  to reverse th  dsu2.n  In living st=anirdw an
In the country' a productiv, cpity.  It is In thli
spfrit that in June 1982, the            aot pted a three
year Structural Adtuatment Prorm   SAP) to restructure
futUre economic aCtlity thro   better Incentive system,
to rationalize production  atruct ,nd to improve
planning wd control mechania.        me policies were
further rolnforced with the meares  adopted With the
1984/85 budget,
4.   As a result of the above policies, initially the
Govermnt was suocessful In increasing the resources
available to agriculture, rasn   producer incentives,
and cutting .xponditres. But  ronc shortages of
forn exhange continud to exist, production continued
to slacken a   growth rmained inaldquate. Experience
go for gained ba  shown that more actions wa  increased
efforts Is requfred to redress the imbalancon ln the
eoonomw. Thus, there is the need to intensify and complement
.1..3



-38-                              ANNEX V
OCT.31 'RM 16-i AORLD BAW TRMIA DARIYS-SPLAM                    Page 3 of 12
02( 4
the recovery mea         undrrtaken urAer the SAp ard with
the 1984/85 budget. o hsem meamures, which had been
developed in th  oonteXt of a medium-tn rooovery
proLam" a   have been Initiated with the introduction
of the 1BWS-7budget9 we desribed below.
Overve  of Sth  Recoer "aons
5.  The rooovmj r      =ove mnpesenta a oontinuation
of the struotur   adjustment eftort vcfh will enable
Tanzania to achieve sustaind growth in real inomes,
throuh increased output of food end export orops,
rehabilitation of the physicoal irastuctur.,   *ssd
capacity utillization, end qropriate pricing, fisical
montary   d exchange and te polies. The programe
enviaages that the Tanzanian economy would grdually
attain positive growth rates In per catpita Income, a
sustainable external balance of payments position, Wan
an aeooptable low rate of inflation by the end of a
medium-term period of 5-7 years. To these ends, the
major empbasis will be to improve the efficancn of
resource uxe by ensuring their allocation to te most
productive seotors, ard by providing those users with
the necessary  ncentives to sploy them In the most
efficient manner. Aceordily  within the present
socio-politioel framewrk anosen by the  aeople of Tanzania,
vater attention will be paid to eatabit hig correct
rice signat in the econom   end   Sater we        ill
Fe  placed on peopla'J intiitlrves an  ooperslr e ffarta
to =ease Tfie production and marketing of goods ant
ervices. Furthermore  such price * gnals would be
accompanied by ap Prorlate fisoal an monetary policies.
Given the inevitable time lag between the establishment
of policies and the resulting effects in production, and
given the above-mentioned time-frame for growth and
balane of payment adjustment, it will be important that
key corrective police  are inltiated within a relatively
short period - %,  wthl two years.
6.  Within the medium-tn established, the Governt
has identified these oorrective polioies as well as the
time fram  for their  leeatton.  As elaborated
in the Economic Roovry Progre docament aid masurwa
already announoed in the 198687 budget , the important
arears are in producer prices, exobange rate adjustment,
.. . .14



- 39                            ANNEX V
OCT.:31 PM~ ir.-q WORLD BAW TANZANIA DR-ES-S<AM                 Page 4 of 12
4~~~J to
:: 4 ::
trade regime and fisal anid monetary polies a. Other
areas are institutional reforms ixprovwemt of public
sector operations and ecoomic management. These
polbices will be contiued, reinforced and acoompanied
by suitable institutional, policy and rehabilitation
measures in the key sectora of agiculture, industry
and transport.
7.  The sucOaeo  of the above medium-tn propgrm.
will cdepend orucially on the provision of necessary
inputs to rehabilitate the productive sectors ard to
austain their recovery. Whle the  proposed measures
should inrease the capabilities of the Tan2anian economy
to generate additinla domestic resources and foreign
exohange, this process would inevitably be slow in the
LnLt*La phase of the prir a and w1i  therefw. aeed
to be isupported by additionmi exceptional, balance of
payments assistance. It i. expected that such require-
ments of exceptiorna assistarce will be relatively high
in the first three years of the programme period, but
should taper cf by the end of the medium-term recovery
period.
External Sector Policlie
8,  As stated *earlir  achenge rat. policy Is being
accorded crucial impoRance in the recovery progrenn
and by mid 1968 the Government intends to establishl an
equllibrium exchange rate. An, a major step in this
direction, the Tanzanian shlling has been depreciated
to US$1 - TSh.40 as of June i9, 1986. It is the
Government's intention to make periodic adjustments
in the rate in order to remove the overvaluation with
the ovwrall objective of attaLning an equilibrium rate
n mid 198. As an equilibrium exchange rate is achieved
ao Government also lntands to progressively move away
from quantitative restriction. and toward greater use
of tariffs and other Indirect economLc levers,
9.   In the interim period before the estabzI uhwent
of an equilibrium exchange rate, the Goverment will
need to continue with a number of measwre to ensure
better resource allocation. On the Imports side the



- 40 -
ANNEX V
OCT.31 'P6 I rt flSLD BfW TANZNIA DPR-ES-SALFV                 Page 5 of 12
OA4./06
us 5 1:
"own-funds" imports schem  uing own-:run4" akd
proceuds fron: export rettion h    be  expanded
and now coversv a very wide variety of products.
On the exports side, the export ratention scheme
Is being retained but will b ravleowd by March
1987 to cnsure that it enhanoms efficient prndurctian
mad wwsSur*a with te ob5ectivea of the Koonomia
Recovery Proarsma. The review will cover the impact
of the scheme on not foreign uxohanse earning a and
on foreign exchange avaltlable for central allocation,
the apropriateness of the overall retention rates and
Tile erseota of differantLM1  buLwuvn rates.  In vlow
of the fact that tariffs will2 increase in importance as
the exchange rate becomes more realistio, the Government
wil' osrry-out an overall review of the present tariff
structure and will be making appropriate changes 4n the
structure during the RP period,
10.  For the present the Goverrnent neead to maintain
a system for administrative allocation of forelgn
excaunge, but the existing systa will be Improved.
The system will embrace all foreign exchange likely
to be available to Tanzania including export earnings,
multilateral ad bilateral aid and commercial credit.
Estimatue of total forei8n exchange availability and
demand will be made quarterly as well as annually. In
addition the criteria used in determining the priorities
for use of foreign exchange will take greater account of
the imortance of economizing on foreign exchange and
the overall economic efficiency of operations of the
proposed users. This will involve increasing the ahare
of foreign exchamge going to the WrLculture end transport
sectors.
11.    Tanzania's difficult foreign exchange position
has meant that the Country ha been able to ervicOe
only a fraction of its debts. Tanzania's total foreign
debt outstanding is estimated at USC 3.2 billion; the
external debt service ratio has risen from about 17 per-
oent in 1980 to nearly 55 percent in 1985; a   total
external paynts arears tpublic a   Prvate   as of
nd-March 1986, are estimated to am tcto US5 700 million.
It is the Governent's intention to settle the bulk of
6.1^6



- 41 -
ANNEX V
OCr.31 'S 1   ORLD BMW TANZANIA DE-SALJM                       Page 6 of 12
:s 6 ii
these arrears by seeking rescheduling   rrageent* with
creditors in the framewrk of a general agrment on
debt relieft and by some cash payments. In view of the
limited prospects for foreign exchange enings in the
near futuro, the Goverment will also pru1ze A vAry
cautious foreign borrowing policy in 1986 and 1987,
Pgal. &Mod=          gg ioand Distribution N34pkea
12. As part of the eoonomwi reover% prorme the
Government intends to reduce substant allythe fiscal
deficit, while improving the quality of public
experAitures. To this end, the 1986/p bget aims
to reduce the overall budget deficit (exludi  debt
amortization) to TSh. 17 million or 12 percent of
estimated GDP through a combination of revenue enhancing
moasrmes and restraints on expenditureas. Th new tax
mneasire, which are designed both to raise additional
receipts and improve the elasticity in the revenue
system, include increases in import dutLes from 20 to
25 percent, conversion in various specific duties on
hoer, spfrits, soft drinks, and cigarattes, to a ad
valorem basis and increases in sales taxes on some
yeuLaulem prodts. On the expenditure side  recurrant
expenditures (excluding amortization) in 198&/87 Is
estimated to increase by 50 percent, While development
expendlture will riae by 80 percent. A substantial part
of the increase, especially for development expenditures,
reflects the adjustments consequent upon the exchange
rate depreciation and the accompanying price adjustments.
But the Goverinment is undertaking active steps to reduce
operational costs end to increase productlvity and
efficiency in public administration.
13*  As regards development expnditures, the Qovernment
in th  1986787 budget has incorporated measres aimed
at enrurirg that resources are being used where they
can be of greatest value In terms of the rehabilitation
of the economr. In the coming year. the Government
will be worktag closely with the Wforld Banc on a medium..
term strategy for public expenditures, covering both
recurrent and deveopment outlays and Institutional
mechan6sms for pluuAb&g and co-ordtnatton.  In addition
ee * .f7



- 42 -
ANNEX V
CT.31 '^; Ir. jJ D   W TANZANIA DAR-ES-SALtM                   Page 7 of 12
a: 7 is
the Governuwt will undertake together with the World
Bank, a detailed assesent a? the parastatal sector.
This asessaent will include propouals tor rehabilita-
ting or restructuring apecific entriseas.  All of
these activities shold hlp  eatly bth in clarLfying
the future role and res onsiibflities of the public
sector and In ensuring t     these responsmbilities are
carried out more efficiently than In the past.
14.  The Government will imnplement a monetary and credit
policy which is consistent with strengthening the balance
'of ayments and reducing the inflation rate, and which
rill meet the credit needs of the public and private
sectors respectively.  To attain these objeotives, the
maxlmum total credit expansion in  e fiscal year 1986/87
will be limited to 12 percent and the expansion in broad
money to 11 percent, compred to an expected increase of
about 34 percent in nol gross domestic product.
Seperate credit ceilings are also being establiahed for
the public and private, sectors and theore will be quarterly
limits on credit expansion to aseven specified marketing
boarda (coffee, cotton, sisal, cashewnuts. tea, tobacco,
and the Nationel Milllng Corporation). The Government
also intends to make the interest rate structure positive
in real tems within two years and as a major step in
this direction recently announced that the treasury bill
rate would be lncreased to 9.5 percent, the 12 months
saving deposits rate would inorsase to 15 percent, the
highest lending rates would be increased to 21 percent,
and there would be corresponding increases in all other
Interest rates.
15.    In recent years, there bas been a significant
reduction in the number of products subject to price
control and it is Government policy to continue this
process. Accordingly, exept for 12 categories of
commodities, all tha remaining controlled co Aoities
will be decontrolled over a period of three years. For
the specific itema where price controls will remain
either during or after this transitional period, frequent
price adjustments will be made to ensure tht relevant
enterprises are able to avoid imbalances in their cost-
price relations. The Government also intends to deconfine



- 43 -
ANNEX V
OCT.31 Inr. 1Sft-q? WORLD BAW TRZANIA DAR-M-SALAM              Page B of 12
f3 8 :i
the domestic distrlbution of toods an and whea prioe
controls ae removved
16.  The recent output at,aon  and the decline in
export earnings ae primarly attrbutal1e to tlw poor
performene of the agricultural sector (the mainstay
of the Tanzanian economy), which in turn ia attributable,
L!lt stJIS   to a  arp  decline in world oammodity prioes
rdueer prices. Given th. contral role  of
agriulture in the rooovery progrm, and the important
role of producor prices in the ovurali Inoentive package
for agriculture ,the Government intends to set producer
prices at a level equivalent to 60-70 percent of P.O.B.
prices, or to ensre an inmutl increase of at least 5
aroent in real terms which ever if higher. For
98678-7, as a first step toward meeting that objective,
the producer price of coffee has been raised by 80 percent,
of cocoa and cardamon by 60 percent, of tea and cashewm
by 55 reroent, of tobacco and cotton by 30 percent, over
tose prevailing for the 1985/86 season. Regardin
domestic food crops, the Government has already eliminated
all budgetary subsidies. Preaently, the adnistered
producer price for maize is the minimum guaranteed prioe
b  the NMC, The NM, in turn, will price its sale of
maize and maize flour in such a way as to avoid any trading
losses on these commodities. All other commodities traded
by the NMC will also be priced In such a way as to avoid
any sub1idi...
17. For 1987/58 the Govement intends to introduce further
improvements in producer price incentives and will reviewing
the propos   levels of producer prices with the World Bank,
The ratio of producer prices to F.O. B. prices will be
increased by further reducing real marketin  coats in
1987/88 and hence passing through the maximum possible
share of shilling gains arising from the exchange rate
changes to fn level prices.  Efforts will also be made
to increase the imentives to farmers to Increase the
quality of productlon by subatantially widening the quality
margins to better reflect quality margins on the world
market.
18.    The Gcvernment reognizes that further increases
in producer prices and the transfer of a larger preportion
of export earnings to the prducer depends onma
improvements in the efficinoy of  pioultural marketing.



am z...co RLJJ BAl ik I                                        ANNEX V
- 44 -                               Page 9 of 12
:9 9 ::
In recent years cooperatives have been reintroduced as the primary
agents For crop procurement, storage and delivery and marketing boards
have inherited the marketing responsibilities of the old crop
authorities; but theme institutional changes are still new and It may
be sota time before they have an effect on unit costs of marketing and
procesasing. In the coming year the Government intends to expand the
role of cooperatives by permitting cooperative unions to become
involved in exporting agricultural products and importing agricultural
inputs either directly or through agents. The Government will also be
undertaking a major review of the relative responsibilities of
marketing boards, cooperatives and other private institutions with a
view to further expanding the role of cooperatives and other private
institutions, and limiting the role of marketing hoards.
19.     The marketing system for specific crops is already evolving in
these directions and wilL continue to evolve in the coming two to
three years. In the case of food crops for example licensed private
traders are now competing with the NMC and individuals are permitted
to transport up to 500 kg. of grain between regions without a permit.
The Government believe that as output increases given the measures
taken the need for permits would cease. In the case of coffee the
Cooperative Unions and organized farmers would market directly on the
coffee auction under the supervision of the Harketing Board in the
case of tea all prlvate estates are already permitted to export
directly, the Tanzania Tea Authority will continue to market
asmslholder tea but a second payment system will be introduced as an
Incentive to farmers to improve quality. All private sisal estates
are now exporting their product directly and the Government Intends to
restructure the Tanzania Sisal Authority such that state owned sisal
companies will do the same. The Government also intends that
cooperatlve unions concerned with cotton, cashewnuts and tobacco will
be able to export directly or through agents. Our goal is to start
lmplementing this policy during the 1987/88 crop year.
20.     Improvements in the efficiency of agricultural input marketing
are also being introduced. In the case of fertilizer and seeds the
Tanzania Fertilizer Company and the Tanzania Seed Company will
continue to be responsible for importation aside from Imports under
the "own funds" imports scheme, and will continue to make these inputs
.../1o



- 45 -                            ANNEX V
31. 'IF q 10 WORLD B3IWK TRtqZRNI Dr-R-CS-SA3LRM            Page 10 of 12
available at regional depots at controlled prLces. The
current practioe wtereby 000  rative  ionu,riate
tradera and Individuals buy r.ilzelr f           regimna
depota and sell to f rmers at market pricea wil) contiume.
In the oase of other inputs, Ai there are   otrated
price advantages to the farmers agricultural implement.,
agricultural chemicals, and gurmy bagoa the Goverrment
intends to pemit cooperative unions  and other institutiona)
into the busiess of iupcrtation as well as domestic
distribution and will ensure that such institutlons have
access on a non-discriminatory basis to foreign exchange
from the Bank of Tanzania to finane the imports of such
inputs.
21.   In addltion to Improvments in incentives, policies
and the efficiency of agricultural institutions it is
easential that the agriculturea sector receives an adequate
shere of financial and foreign exha e resources. In this
regard3 the Government will  sure that the public expendi-
ture and import program adequately address the Immediate
grioultural input ezd transport requirements of the
agricultural sector as well as thb longer tem need to
improve agrioultural research, extension and otber support
aervices.
Industrial P91olces
22.  Although the Govennent will be giving priority to
egrioulture and infrastructure during the recovery programe
period, industry wil1 continue to her  a atrong supportive
role In Tanzania' s dnvelopmnt. But efforts will be made
to reorientate the Industrial sector by ohanelling resources
towards productive enterprises at the expense of inefficient
enterprises. In this regard, the exchange rate, trade,
foreign exchange allocation and pricing measures already
outlined will be of great Significance and will be copl0e-
mented by the following measwres. First decontinement
of the importation  a  domestic distribion of all
industrial inputs win be further relaxed. Second, the
Government will review the public investment prograe
for industry to ensure that afl pro lects are eocnomically
viable. In the public sectr only tnose industrial
pro,jects included In the 1966/87 Arnt}al Plan will be
implemented. Th  rograme for 1987158 will be reviewed
w;ith the World B    as part of the owerall public expendi-
tures review. As part of was parastatal review, Me* CoveW-
ment wlll also work closely with the World Bank on the
identification of medlium and large scale firms Is the
"9 ./I



- 46                                ANNEX V
Page 11 of 12
OCT.31 qA i42ORLD BAW TI-IZfH  XM'R CS St-V1
at 11 ::
nduastrial sector in na.s.  of rehabilitation and
retruoturing and w.11 in.rk ou*t firm  spcific measures
to do so.
23.  The Govornment alzo inttends to improve the efficiency
of foreign exchange allooation within thIe industrial sector.
To this effect, the Govern-mnt io designing specific guide-
lines and oriterla to allovct;te foreign exchange to firm.
that are efficlent, and are consistent with.Goverr,ment's
obJi,tive., whii.e mintimizing allocations to unproductive
activities. Implementation of tho,se gudelines will begin
before the end of 1986.
TrMansort Eel :1tc4-
24.     Transportation iB a major bottleneck for Tanzani  ao
economy end effort3 to increase the carrying capacity of
the exisiting syatem and to reduce operational inefficiencies
are being given high priority by the Gover2ment. The port
system is being rehabilitatted, a programme to rehabilitate
the must boaprtsnt tect ions of the road system is underway
and an emergency relief prograne for the railways is
being prepared.  The Government will also be endeavoring
to improve the efficiency and viability of the transport
system:  the allocation of foreignl exchange to cooperative
and private sector operatol-a will be increasedo intra-
reglonal, trucking tarif!f  and rail tariffs for both freight
and passenger aervtices wIl-l be increased to reflect the
full costs of prov1dI     , these services.  The Government
will also prepare by Jer:Jray 1987 a National Transport
Policy Paper wAich w111 Drovde an additional vehicle for
the analysis of effIclency 1sauce end the formulation of
new policies.
25      In recenzt montks1 the Government has taken a number
of major policy Inltiat!veo as part of ita economio recovery
programme.  But it ts re-3ognized that these are only the
initial steps in a prcgr3mne that will need to last several
0., ./ 12



- 47 -                              ANNEX V
OCT.31 'I 16.43 WORD DWt TWNZA4IA DF-C-.                           Page 12 of 12
is 12 It
years and lnalu4s ftthe  priing   id lnstitutionu
reforms am well as provision of quick 4i*rsng
financial assiutame to meet isedate i~ot
requirements.  In this coutext, we arm comng on
World Bank support an  asking for a   ltiseoto
rshabilitation credit In support of our econoIc
recovew   provre..
Yours sincerely
(C. D. Maul 
Cc.   %V 
SQM~'b.k3 upt,I



U Gi AND A                    w,,1                       r      i        .-  
'    WEiST,  Mt ;UUId   A [                 A +               .1
HR.1WAtN D A      ,      LAwKES
_MWANZA              \)
p INItA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I ~ .
Li N D i                                   - t F ;    4;_}       t 1   D j IR
It lb(                              <       k!  
\   ^ J    i,w.14  j < | \        t                    i  \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
4  \g   /   R U  Kt/W     MALAWI                    R / <
\    9  Sl g  I  I     -    '
~~~Z    A         M   R   ?sBnzna>[q IR  
7~~~
(\             ' L          R U V
I           )                  v      -   gt  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Mbon ba   \
/ -""                           i'1  ~~~~~~~~~~~~B
Z ,A M 8 l},A --   RJ        ;)     -       $   F  }8~~~~~~
A-=     ! 2 J        3~~~~~~~~~~J



_--------.---               ___--       -         ~      ~      iAP                 IBRD     19829
NiIIQhm                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UGANDA 
N YA                                                                                 /
ts~~~K Nf/A Jo '.,ENY'
( > l > ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A i 1t I '1" ln
.. h,l [ es l                                                                                   ,lJf                    -
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ M* .                                       d, A|\z);Ml
' 'N.                       .4                              \i -                                               Im.,f A
N ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~-N
is                  (      N    A         *N    / '. 
*~~ ~     ~ .,s. Q^ .2 ..                                                              A
Mom'dufifl~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~duh
N As        - -.         /iscq .                        ,. TAN
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a ,, ADSz
"V' ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sc"A~."0
j \,!   \          <   ~~~T A N 6w At                    1
- IOjAIUAA+                            - .-
R~~~~   / *fl<{51i5ipo                                                                   TANZANIA
M. IIh        . 0  wS K; PNt,   ,Dam vi Salobn                                         _         _ s  MWflw.  lmiSiS
..sAoi ,: t ,          -          .DJ&R  ES SALAAM                 Mivma MS
-mJ4-                     .       . |  )  Yr   K                          +      ItVRMhATK5NAL AsimWmlrs
+      MCHEMUAIDSIVWIr AmMPUJTS
s                                                                     mJm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBFhmiC RCPIJJAhmIES
-4                                                  Alfimfi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RE4N M1OUWDANFE
/  (4J f O~~~~~C   A S 1_)=I"t ^rbtws^ 
f g     ~~~   --                               (ZAS                                      - -. -  -TWAINI -IIUNOAAIU
y    ...0                               4        mi    ~~~     ~~~~~~~         ~ ~~~~~~40  mi  ms mo sa
; Iks ii i(                                                                          (I    55    WI    lii   1m    I
v -t   -F-f          C)eeQ.
I I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0L 
-  g      ;_. C 
U M A k r ~~~ I i,                                            +    tr
@       ~          ~~~~~ btnaf                                         5-  W A R                                tt
~~~~~~~~~-                        -  .                       -M i-wt- sarmi t
/ _ 2 M *   5! A                  M .                              +     Z= 
C;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -  w.., 
V.AA-t.  d-
Sagas,  1,1 WA. A    -  F-                       ~~~~~~~Tls-vMehAa. tws_ad4b,
Is, mis. a, casyi  of a
Q M   A                                                               -tM.
--ha    a. .- i    -
dp a   W5 fat.an WV# Ws.
AA 0  Z A M  B I 0  U E                                        o~~40  lCAw b5s55wis
NOVEMBE=R 1986



--l. -



