AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT NUMBER -J TA
African Facility Credit
Agreement
(Multisector Rehabilitation Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the
SPECIAL FACILITY FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
Dated                              , 1986


﻿AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   I, 1986, between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FACILITY
FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA (the Administrator).
WHEREAS: (A) the-Executive Directors of the International
DevelopTqent Association (IDA) have established by their Resolu-
tion No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985 (the Resolution), a Special
Facility for Sub-Sahararn Africa (the African Facility) consti-
tuted by the funds which shall be contributed by the Inter-
national Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and
other donors and administered by IDA, acting as Administrator of
the African Facility, for the purpose of, and in accordance with,
the provisions of the Resolution;
(B) the Administrator has received a letter, dated October
29, 1986, from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to bring about appropriate
changes to the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the
Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of
the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in
the financing of urgently needed imports required during such
execution;
(C) the Borrower, on the basis, inter alia, of the fore-
going to this Agreement, has requested assistance from        the
resources of the African Facility in the financing of the
Program,  and   the  Administrator   has  determined   that  such
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the
Resolution;
(D) the Borrower-has also requested IDA to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing of the Program and by an
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA
(the Development Credit Agreement), IDA is agreeing to provide
such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to
forty-one million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 41,300,000) (the IDA Credit);
(E) the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Kingdom
a grant in an amount of five million pounds sterling (05,000,000)
equivalent out of the Special Joint Financing provided under
paragraph 9 of the Resolution to assist in financing the Program;


﻿-2-
(F) the Borrower intends to obtain from the Federal
Republic of Germany a grant in an amount of thirty-five million
deutsche mark (DM 35,000,000) equivalent out of the Special Joint
Financing provided under paragraph 9 of the Resolution to assist
in financing the Program; and
(G) the   Borrower   intends  to   obtain  from   the  Swiss
Confederation a grant in an amount of fifteen million Swiss
Francs (Sw F 15,000,000) equivalent out of the Special Join:
Financing provided under paragraph 9 of the Resolution to assist
in financing the Program; and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, by making the African Facility Credit
available in three tranches to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The   "General  Conditions   Applicable  to
Development Credit Agreements" of the International Development
Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part
of this Agreement:
(a) the term "Association", when used in the General
Conditions, means the International Development Association
acting as Administrator of the African Facility, except in the
phrase "member of the Association" in Sections 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b)
and 6.02 (e) thereof;
(b) the terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit"
and "Credit Account", when used in the General Conditions,
are  amended   to  read  "African   Facility  Credit  Agreement",
"African Facility Credit" and "African Facility Credit Account",
respectively;
(c) the last sentence of Section 3.02 and the second
sentence of Section 5.01 are deleted;


﻿-3-
(d) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity;
(e) Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read
l'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to the
provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement.";
and
(f) Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request,
on the execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble
to the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the Accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Credit."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Part II member of IDA" means a member of IDA with
respect to which the terms and conditions of membership are
those prescribed in the Articles of Agreement of IDA for
countries whose names are listed in Part II of Schedule A to
those Articles;
(b) "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date heret-ith between the Borrower and IDA for the Project,
as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term
includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of IDA, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such
agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Development Credit Agreement;
(c) "SITC" means the United Nations Standards International
Trade Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC, Rev. 2), published


﻿-4-
in Commodity Indexes for the Standard International Trade Classi-
fication, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 38/Rev. 2
(1981);
(d) "T Sh" means Tanzania Shillings, the currency of the
Borrower;
(e) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement; and
(f) "Cooperative" means cooperative unions and primary
cooperative societies registered under the Borrower's Cooperative
Societies Act, No. 14 of 1982.
ARTICLE II
The African Facility Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the African Facility Credit Agreement, an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to thirty-eight million one hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 38,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the African Facility Credit
may be withdrawn from the African Facility Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the African
Facility Credit.
(b) Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
tures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the
territories of: (i) any Part II member of IDA; and (ii) any
country designated by the Administrator as meeting the provi-
sions set forth in paragraphs 4 (M) (ii) and 4 (f) (iii) of the
Resolution.
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central
Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
agreement.


﻿-5-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1988,
or such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to IDA a commitment
charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the African Facility Credit not
withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the African Facility
Credit Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall
be withdrawn by the Borrower from the African Facility Credit
Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as IDA shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions
of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and
(iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to IDA a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the amount withdrawn from the African Facility Credit
Account and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay to IDA the principal
amount of the African Facility Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing April 15,
1997, and ending October 15, 2036. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on October 15, 2006, shall be
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and
each installment thereafter shall be one and one-half percent
(1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) The Bank of Tanzania is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any


﻿-6-
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
(b) Without limitation or restrictions to the foregoing,
the Borrower hereby entrusts the Bank of Tanzania with respon-
sibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications under the
African Facility Credit and the collection of documents and other
evidence to be furnished to the Administrator in support of such
applications. Such withdrawal applications shall, to the extent
practicable, be consolidated into aggregate amounts of not less
than  fifty   thousand  Special   Drawing  Rights   (SDR  50,000)
equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 1.01. (a) The Borrower and the Administrator shall
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the
actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Administrator for its review and comment a
report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in
such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the African Facility Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to.be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accor-
dance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices,
the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the African
Facility Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles


﻿-7-
consistently applied, by independent auditors
accetable to the Administrator;
(ii) furnish to the Administrator as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Administrator
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Administrator such other informa-
tion concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Administrator shall from time
to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Events of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that an event has occurred which shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Designation of Administrator
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the African Facility
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement, except for the
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. In the event that the Executive Directors of
IDA decide to terminate the functions of IDA as Administrator of
the African Facility pursuant to paragraph 10 of the Resolution,
the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, designate
another party which, on the date specified in such notice, shall


﻿-8-
assume part or all of the rights and obligations of the Adminis-
trator under this Agreement in accordance with the Resolution and
such decision of the Executive Directors, as specified in such
notice.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of this
Agreement, the minister of the Borrower at the time responsible
for finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance,
Economic Affairs and Planning
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
Tanzania
Cable address:                        Telex:
Treasury                               41329
Dar es Salaam
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the African Facility
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FACILITY
FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
By10
Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the African Facility Credit
1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the African Facility Credit may be
withdrawn from the African Credit Account for expenditures made
(or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods required during the execution of
the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups:
Group         Sub-group           Description of Items
112             -                Alcoholic beverages
121             -                Tobacco, unmanufactured
tobacco refuse
122             -                Tobacco, manufactured
667             -                Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked
or worked
668             -                Uranium depleted in U235
and thorium, and their
alloys, unwrought or
wrought, e.nd articles
therefor, n.e.s.; waste
and scrap of uranium
depleted in U235 and
thorium
718          718.7               Nuclear reactors, and
parts .thereof, n.e.s.


﻿- 11
Group         Sub-group           Description of Items
897          897.3               Jewelr,: of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)
971.0               Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(b) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of ten million dollars ($10,000,000)
may be made on account of payments made for such       .enditures
before that date but after July 23, 1986;
(d) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than five thousand dollars ($5,000) equivalent;
(e) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Administrator shall have financed or agreed to
finance;
(f) expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption; and
(g) expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equiva-
lent   to   twelve   million   five   hundred   thousand  dollars
($12,500,000) for petroleum products.
3.   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in r-.spect
of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the African
Facility Credit after the aggregate of the proceeds of the
African Facility Credit withdrawn from the African Facility
Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments shall


﻿- 12 -
have reached the equivalent of twenty-six million two hundred
thousand dollars ($26,200,000), unless the Administrator shall be
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section
3.01 of this Agreement:
(a)   with the progress achieved by the 13orrower in the
carrying out of the Program; and
(b)   that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement have been taken.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 above, with-
drawals may be made in respect of expenditures to be financed out
of the proceeds of the African Facility Credit in an aggregate
amount not exceeding fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000)
squivalent, when the Administrator shall be satisfied that the
Borrower shall have:
(a)   made available a meaningful portion of its foreign
exchange resources to be freely allocated in the 1987/1988 fiscal
year to users in selected import categories;
(b)   established the modalities for the non-administrative
allocation of such resources; and
(c) completed an action plan and the initial measures to
rationalize its external trade regime based on the results of its
tariff study.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of two million dollars ($2,000,000) or more each shall
be   awarded   through  international   competitive   bidding  in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits",published by the Bank in May 1985 (the
Guidelines), subject to the following modifications:
(a) For purposes of the African Facility Credit Agreement,
all references in the Guidelines to the Bank and to loans shall
be deemed to be referernces to the Administrator and to the
African Facility Credit, respectively.
(b) The eligibility requirements set forth in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement shall be stated in the tender documents for
the procurement of such goods and works.
(c) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done
by advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a
bidder's invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or
to bid; such advertisements should be placed in at least one
newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's country
and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i) a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in the Guidelines, that
are potential suppliers of the goods required.


﻿- 14 -
(b) The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21
of the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may
require the bidder to state the bid price in a single
currency widely used in international trade and speci-
fied in the bidding documents."
(c) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less
than two million dollars ($2,000,000) each shall be awarded on
the basis of the normal procurement procedures of the purchaser
of such goods.
3.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator,
prior to the submission to the Administrator of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the African Facility
Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective
bids and recommendations for award, a description of the
advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other
information as the Administrator shall reasonably request.
4.   With raspect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator,
prior to the submission to the Administrator of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the African Facility
Credit Account in respect thereof, such documentation and
information as the Administrator may reasonably request to
support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4 of this
Schedule, where payments under a contract are to be made out of
the proceeds of the Special Account, the copies of such contract
or the documentation and the information to be furnished to the
Administrator pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 or para-
graph 4 of this Schedule, as the case may be, shall be furnished
to the Administrator as part of the evidence required under
paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.   The Borrower shall: (i) complete a review of its export
retention scheme; and (ii) agree with the Administrator on a plan
of action to implement the results of such review.
2.   The Borrower shall abolish the remaining permit requirements
for the internal movement of foodgrains.
3.   The Borrower shall permit cooperative and private institu-
tions to import and retail agricultural inputs other than
fertilizer and seeds.
4.   The Borrower shall: (i) adjust intra-regional trucking rates
to cover the full costs of operations; and (ii) raise rail
tariffs to a level satisfactory to the Administrator, with a view
to achieving full cost recovery.
5.   The Tanzania Railways Corporation shall complete its action
plan, covering its operations for the next two years.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the African Facility Credit in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000) to be
withdrawn from the African Facility Credit Account and deposited
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.   Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory
to it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Administrator shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the African Facility Credit Account
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator
requests for replenishment of the Special Account at such
intervals as the Administrator shall specify. On the basis of
such requests, the Administrator shall withdraw from the African
Facility Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. Each such deposit
shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the African Facility
Credit Account in the respective equivalent amounts as shall have
been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.


﻿- 17 -
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Administrator, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Administrator shall reason-
ably request, showing that such payment was made for eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Administrator when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Administrator shall have determined that all
further withdrawals can be made by the Borrower
directly from the African Facility Credit Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V
of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the   total  unwithdrawn   amount  of  the  African
Facility Credit shall be equal to the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the African Facility Credit
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the African
Facility Credit shall follow such procedures as the Administrator
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrarals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request,
refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the porpion thereof not so eligible or justi-
fied. No further deposit by the Administrator into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or
refund.


﻿- 18 -
(b) If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator,
refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount for crediting
to the African Facility Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


