CREDIT NUMBER 1741 TA
Swiss Grant Agreement
(Multisector Rehabilitation Credit)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the
Swiss Funds within the framework of the
SPECIAL FACILITY FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
Dated                  /    , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1741 TA
SWISS GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      J-1 c                   , 1986. between
the UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA (the Ben.eficiary) and the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the
Swiss Funds within the framework of the SPECIAL FACILITY FOR
SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA (the Administrator).
WHEREAS: (A) the Executive Directors of the International
Development Association (IDA) have established by their Resolu-
tion No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985 (the Resolution), a Special
Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (the African Facility), consti-
tuted by the funds contributed by the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and other donors, and
administered by IDA, acting as Administrator of the African
Facility, for the purpose of, and in accordance with, the pro-
visions of the Resolution;
(B) pursuant to Section F of the Resolution, the Government
of Switzerland (Switzerland) has agreed to provide Swiss funds
in the form of grants in support of programs of structural
change, policy reform and institutional improvement in countries
which are eligible for financing from the African Facility's
resources;
(C) by    an   Arrangement,   dated   September   11,   1985,
Switzerland has requested IDA, and IDA has accepted, to act
as Administrator of the Swiss funds in accordance with the
provisions of that Arrangement;
(D) the    Administrator  has   received   a  letter,   dated
October 29, 1986, from the Beneficiary describing a program of
actions, objectives and policies designed to bring about appro-
priate changes to the Beneficiary's economy (hereinafter called
the Program), declaring the Beneficiary's commitment to the
execution of the Program and requesting assistance from the
Administrator in financing urgently needed imports required
during such execution;
(E) the Beneficiary has requested a grant of Swiss funds
(the Swiss Grant) from the Administrator, for financing part of
the Program, and the Administrator has determined that the
Swiss Grant would be in accordance with the provisions of the
Resolution and the Arrangement;


﻿-2-
(F) the Beneficiary has also requested IDA, as Administra-
tor of the African Facility, to provide additional assistance
toward financing the Program, and, by an agreement of even date
herewith between the Beneficiary and said Administrator (the
African Facility Credit Agreement), the Administrator agrees to
provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount of
thirty-eight million three hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 38,100,000) (the African Facility Credit);
(G) the Beneficiary has also requested IDA to provide addi-
tional assistance towards financing the Program and, by an
agreement of even date herewith between the Beneficiary and IDA
(the Development Credit Agreement), IDA agrees to provide such
assistance in two tranches in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to forty-one million three hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 41,300,000) (the IDA Credit);
(H) the Borrower also intends to obtain from the United
Kingdom and the Federal Republic of Germany, grants in amounts of
five million pounds sterling (E5,000,000) and thirty-five million
deutsche marks (DM 35,000,000), respectively, to assist in
financing the Program.
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Swiss Grant to the Borrower
upon the t:erms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the International Development Associa-
tion, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth
below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of
this Agreement:
(a) the term "Association", when used in the General Condi-
tions, means the International Development Association acting as
Administrator of the Swiss funds, except in the phrase "member
of the Association" in Sections 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b) and 6.02 (e)
thereof;


﻿-3-
(b) the terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit"
and "Credit Account", when used in the General Conditions, are
amended to read "Swiss Grant Agreement", "Swiss Grant" and "Swiss
Grant Account", respectively;
(c) Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"TProject' means the imports and other activities
that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Swiss
Grant pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the
Swiss Grant Agreement.";
(d)  Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04,
4.05, 4.06, 6.05, 7.01, 8.01 (a), the second sentence of Sec-
tion 5.01 and Article XII are deleted;
(e) in Section 6.02 the term "Association" shall also
include the International Development Association acting in its
own capacity; and
(f) Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Borrower and the Administrator, the Borrower shall pre-
pare and furnish to the Administrator a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall reason-
ably request, on the execution of the program referred to
in the Preamble to the Swiss Grant Agreement, the perfor-
mance by the Borrower and the Administrator of their respec-
tive obligations under the Swiss Grant Agrtement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Swiss Grant;".
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Pre-
amble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following mean-
ings:
(a) "Part II member of IDA" means a member of IDA with res-
pect to which the terms and conditions of membership are those
prescribed in the Articles of Agreement of IDA for countries
whose names are listed in Part II of Schedule A to those Articles
and any other member of IDA determined to be a Part II member
pursuant to Article II, paragraph 1 (b) of such Article; and


﻿(b) "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC, Rev. 2), published in
Commodity Indexes for the Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 38/Rev.2
(1981).
ARTICLE II
The Swiss Grant Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to
the Beneficiary on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to fifteen million Swiss francs (Sw F 15,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Swiss Grant may be with-
drawn from the Swiss Grant: Account in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Section and Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between
the Beneficiary and the Administrator.
(b) Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
tures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the ter-
ritories of: (i) any Part II member of IDA; (ii) any country
designated by the Administrator as meeting the provisions set
forth in paragraphs 4 (f) (ii) and (iii) of the Resolution.
(c) In so far as practicable, the Beneficiary shall with-
draw the proceeds of the Swiss Grant, the United Kingdom Grant,
the German Grant and the African Facility Credit pro rata, prior
to withdrawing the proceeds of the IDA Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 31, 1988, or
such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The Admin-
istrator shall promptly notify the Beneficiary of such later
date.
Section 2.04. The Bank of Tanzania is designated as repre-
sentative of the Beneficiary for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions, and the Beneficiary hereby entrusts the Bank of
Tanzania with responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal
applications under the Swiss Grant and the collection of docu-
ments and other evidence to be furnished to the Administrator in


﻿-5-
support of such applications. Such withdrawal applications shall,
to the extent practicable be consolidated so as to apply for
withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than fifty million
dollars ($50,000).
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Beneficiary and the Administrator
shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange
views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and
the Beneficiary's arrangements to monitor such progress.
(b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Beneficiary
shall furnish to the Administrator, for its review and comment, a
report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program in
such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Swiss Grant shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Beneficiary shall maintain or cause
to be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting prac-
tices, the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Swiss
Grant.
(b) The Beneficiary shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) of this Section audited, for each fiscal
year, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii) furnish to the Administrator as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Administrator
shall have reasonably requested; and


﻿-6-
(iii) furnish to the Administrator such other informa-
tion concerning said accounts and the audit there-
of as the Administrator shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Events of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that an event has occurred which shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out.
ARTICLE V
Effectivpness;
Designation of Administrator
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon
signature.
Section 5.02. In the event that Switzerland or IDA decides
to terminate the functions of IDA as Administrator pursuant to
paragraph 5 of the Arrangement, the Administrator shall notify
the Beneficiary promptly of the date on which Switzerland shall
assume the rights and obligations of the Administrator under this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Beneficiary; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.04 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Beneficiary at the
time is designated as representative of the Beneficiary for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 7 -
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Beneficiary:
Ministry of Finance,
Economic Affairs and Planning
P.O. Box 9111
Lar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:                    Telex:
TREASURY                         41329
Dar es Salaam
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the Swiss Funds
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the Swiss Funds
within the framework of the SPECIAL
FACILITY FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern arid Southern Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the
Swiss Grant
1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Swiss Grant may be withdrawn from
the Swiss Grant Account for expenditures made (or, if the
Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the rea-
sonable cost of goods and services required during the execution
of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups:
Group     Sub-group          Description of Items
112         -               Alcoholic beverages
121         -               Tobacco, unmanufactured
tobacco refuse
122         -               Tobacco, manufactured
667         -               Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked or
worked
688         -               Uranium depleted in U235 and
thorium, and their alloys,
unwrought or wrought, and
articles therefor, n.e.s.;
waste and scrap of uranium
depleted in U235 and of thorium
718      718.7              Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof, n.e.s.
897      897.3              Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
-        971.0              Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)


﻿- 10 -
(b) expenditures in the currency of the Beneficiary or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Beneficiary;
(c) payments for expenditures made prior to the date of
this Agreement;
(d) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than five thousand dollars ($5,000) equivalent;
(e) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency,
other than the Administrator, shall have financed or agreed to
finance;
(f) expenditures for goods intended for a military or
paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption; or
(g) expenditures for petroleum products and foodstuffs.
3.   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to the Beneficiary or others in
respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Swiss Grant after the aggregate of the proceeds of the
Swiss Grant withdrawn from the Swiss Grant Account and the
total amount of such commitments shall have reached the equi-
valent of seven million five hundred thousand Swiss francs
(Sw F 7,500,000), unless and until IDA shall have released the
second tranche of the IDA Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of two million dollars ($2,000,000) or more each
shall be awarded through international competitive bidding in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the
Guidelines), subject to the following modifications:
(a) All references in the Guidelines to the Borrower, the
Bank and to loans shall be deemed to be references to the Bene-
ficiary, the Administrator and the Swiss Grant, respectively.
(b) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done
by advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bid-
der's invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to
bid. Such advertisements should be placed in at least one
newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's country
and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i) a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in the Guidelines, that
are potential suppliers of the goods required."
(c) The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:.
"As  a  further  alternative,  bidding   documents  may
require the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency,


﻿- 12 -
widely used in international trade and specified in the bid-
ding documents."
(d) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   The eligibility requirements set forth in Section 2.02 (b)
of this Agreement shall be stated in the tender or prequalifica-
tion documents for the procurement of such goods and works.
3.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less
than two million dollars ($2,000,000) each shall be awarded on
the basis of the normal procurement procedures of the purchaser
of such goods, except that at least three quotations shall be
invited by Government purchasers unless there are fewer potential
suppliers.
4.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1
of this Schedule, the Beneficiary shall furnish to the Adminis-
trator, prior to the submission to the Administrator of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Swiss Grant
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids and
recommendations for award, a description of the advertising and
tendering procedures folluqed and such other information as the
Administrator shall reasonably request.
5.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, the Beneficiary shall furnish to the Administra-
tor, prior to the submission to the Administrator of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Swiss Grant Account
in respect thereof, such documentation and information as the
Administrator may reasonably request to support applications for
withdrawal in respect of such contract.
6.   The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 4 and 5 shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Administrator has
authorized withdrawals from the Swiss Grant Account on the basis
of statements of expenditure.


