I                     OFFICIL
SWEDISH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 1741-0 TA
Development Grant Agreement
(Multisector Rehabilitation Credit)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator on behalf of the
SWEDISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
Dated                    9   1988


﻿SWEDISH \GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 1741 TA
DEVELOPMT GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    A      9 , 1988, between UNITED REPUBLIC
OF TANZANIA (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION acting as Administrator (the Administrator) of a-Gran
provided by the SWEDISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
(SIDA).
WHEREAS, the Recipient has requested the assistance of the
Governmeint of Sweden (Sweden) acting thro6gh SIDA in the financing
of a program described in the letter of Development Policy dated
October 29, 1986, referred to in Recital A of the Development
Credit Agreement dated November 21, 1986, between the Recipient
and the Association (IDA Credit Agreement) and in particular to
provide assistance for the Rehabilitation of the Dar es Salaam
Harbor;
WHEREAS in consideration of the above-mentioned request, SIDA
has opened a trust account and deposited therein an amount of
forty-eight million Swedish Kronor (SEK 48,000,000) (the Swedish
Grant) and has, pursuant to an agreement of even date herewith
between SIDA and the Association, (the Administration Agreement),
appointed the Association as Administrator of the said Trust
Account for the purpose of providing assistance to the Recipi4nt;
WHEREAS, the Recipient acknowledges that the finncial
assistance extended to the Recipient under this Agreement shall be
considered as part of the bilateral development aid extended by
Sweden to the Recipient; and
WHEREAS, the Association, as Administrator as heteinbefore
mentioned has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing to
extend the Swedish Grant to the Recipient upon the tey'ms and con-
ditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" (the General Conditions) of the Association,


﻿-2-
dated January 1, 1985, with the same force and affect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however," to the following
modifications thereof:
(a) the term "Association", whenever 'used in the General
Conditions, means the lIAternational Develop Int Association acting
as Administrator of the Swedish Grant pursuant to the provisions
of the Administration Agreement;
(b) the term "Development Credit /Agreement", whenever used
in the General Conditions, means this Agreemeitt;
(c) the term "Credit", whenever used in the General Condi-
tions, means the Swedish Grant hereunder;
(d) the term "Credit Account", whenever used in the General
Conditions, means the Account opened by the Association in its
books in the name of the Rtcipient to which the amount of the
Swedish Grant is credited;
(e) Section 2.01, para aph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the imports and other activities
that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Swedish
Grant pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit fgreement;"
(f) Section 9.06 (c) s'iall be modified to read:
"(c) Not latisr than six months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
purpose between tIje Recipient and the Administrator, the
Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Administrator
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Administrator shall reasonably request, on the execution
of the Project referred to in the Preamble to the
Development Grant Agreement, the performance by the
Recipient and the Administrator of their respective
obligations under the Development Grant Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Swedish
Grant";
(g) Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04,
4.06, 6.05, 7.01, 8.01 (a), 12.02 and 12.05 of the General Condi-
tions are deleted; and


﻿-3-
(h) inf Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the
term "Association" shall include also the Association acting in
its own capacity.
Section 1.02. Whenever used in this Agreement the following
terms "Swedish Kronor" and "SEK" mean the currency of Sweden.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the
Recipient, on the terms and conditions herein set forth or
referred to, a grant in an amount of forty-eight million Swedish
Kronor (SEK 48,000t000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Swedish Grant may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the provi-
sions of the Schedule to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time by agreement among the parties, for
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Swedish Grant.
(b) WithdrawAls from the Credit Account shall be made in the
respective currencies in which the expenditures to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Swedish Grant have been paid or are payable
or, at the option of the Administrator in Swedish Kronor.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the works and goods required for the Program
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Swedish Grant shall
be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to the
IDA Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1990, or
such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Program
Section 3.01. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, Articles III and IV of the IDA Credit Agreement are hereby


﻿incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and effect as
if they were fully .set forth herein, it being understood that all
references in such Articles III and IV to the "Association" shall
be deemed to be references to the Association, as Administrator on
behalf of the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden under this
Agreement, all references to the "Development Credit Agreement"
shall be deemed to be references to this Development Grant Agree-
ment and all references to the "Credit" shall be deemed to be
references to the Swedish Grant.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination; Representation
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon
signature.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Recipient and the Administrator hereunder shall terminate on the
date on which the IDA Credit Agreement shall terminate in accor-
dance with its terms.
Section 4.03. The representative designated in Section 6.01
of the IDA Credit Agreement shall be the representative of the
Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 4.04. The addresses specified in Section 6.02 of the
IDA Credit Agreement shall be the addresses specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.05. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the IDA Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Transfer of Rights and Obligations
Section 5.01. In accordance with the Administration Agree-
ment, the rights and obligations of the Administrator under this
Agreement may be transferred to SIDA,. The Recipient 'accepts and
agrees that, upon notice by the Administrator to the Recipient to
that effect, SIDA shall, ipso facto,, from the date specified in
such notice, be substituted in all rights and obligations of the
Administrator under this Agreement as if SIDA had been an original
party to this Agreement, without any further action or formality


﻿-5-
required on the part of any party, and from such date the Admini-
strator shall cease to have any rights or obligations as a party
under this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By   r
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION,
as ADMINISTRATOR on behalf of the
SWEDISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
By (S
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿-6-
SCHEDULE
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Swedish Grant
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Swedish Grant, the allocation
of the amounts of the Swedish Grant to each category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of             % of
Swedish Grant         Expen-
Allocated             ditures
(Expressed in         to be
Category           Swedish Kronor        Financed
(1) Civil Works             42,000,000            100% of foreign
expenditures
(2) Equipment                 6,000,000           100% of foreign
expenditures
TOTAL              48,000,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to April 14, 1988;
(b) payments made in the currency of Tanzania;
(c) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of
Tanzania, on goods or services or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof; and
(d) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than Sweden shall have financed or agreed to finance.
3.   If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Swedish Grant, and the Administrator may, without in any
way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
SIDA under this Agreement, by notice to Tanzania, cancel such
amount of the Swedish Grant, which in the Administrator's


﻿-7-
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Swedish Grant.


