OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 1741 TA
NE
Development Grant Agreement
(Multisector Rehabilitation Credit)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator on behalf of the
MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
OF THE NETHERLANDS
Dated                                  /    1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1741 TA
NE
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated as of                  /-      1987 between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA (her nafter c led 'he Recipient)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, acting as Adminis-
trator on behalf of the MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION OF
THE NETHERLANDS (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the assistance of the
International Development Association and of the Government of
the Netherlands in the financing of a program described in the
letter of Development Policy dated October 29, 1986 referred to
in Recital A of the Development Credit Agreement dated Novem-
ber 21, 1986, between the Recipient and the International Devel-
opment Association (hereinafter called the IDA Credit Agreement);
WHEREAS in consideration of the above-mentioned requests,
the Minister for Development Cooperation of the Government of the
Netherlands has opened a trust account and deposited therein an
amount of thirty million Dutch Guilders (DFLs 30,000,000) and
has, pursuant to an Agreement dated December 11, 1986 (herein-
after called the Administration Agreement), appointed the Inter-
national Development Association as Administrator of the said
trust account for the purpose of providing assistance to the
Recipient; and
WHEREAS, the International Development Association, as
Administrator as herein before mentioned has agreed on the basis,
inter alia, of the foregoing to extend the Grant to the Recipient
upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the International Development Association,
dated January 1, 1985, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the International Development
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):


﻿- 2 -
(a) the term "Association", whenever used in the General
Cond'tions, means   the   International  Development  Association
acting as Administrator of a trust account opened pursuant to the
provisions of an Agreement dated December 11, 1986, entered into
between the Minister for Development Cooperation of the Nether-
lands and the International Development Association;
(b) the term "Development Credit Agreement", whenever used
in the General Conditions, means this Development Grant Agree-
ment;
(c) the term "Credit", whenever used in the General Condi-
tions, means the Grant hereunder;
(d) the term "Credit Account", whenever used in the General
Conditions or in this Agreement, means the account opened by the
Association in its books in the name of the Recipient to which
the amount of the Grant is credited;
(e) the term "Project" means the program for which the
Grant is extended, as described in the IDA Credit Agreement dated
November 21, 1986, and as the description thereof may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Association and the
Borrower;
(f) Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03,
4.04, 4.06, 6.05, 7.01, 8.01 (a), 12.02 and 12.05 of the General
Conditions are deleted; and
(g) in Sections 2.01 (9) and 6.02 of the General Condi-
tions, the term "Association" shall include also the Inter-
national Development Association acting in its own capacity.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to extend to the
Recipient, on the terms and conditions herein set forth or
referred to a grant in an amount of thirty million Dutch Guilders
(DFLs 30,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to the IDA Credit Agreement, as such Schedule may be


﻿-3-
amended from time to time by agreement among the parties, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
(b) Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in
the respective currencies in which the expenditures to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant have been paid or are
payable or, at the option of the Association, in Dutch Guilders.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to the IDA Credit
Agreement as amended.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1988 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, Articles III and IV of the IDA Credit Agreement are hereby
incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and effect
as if they were fully set forth herein, it being understood that
all references in such Articles III and IV to   the "Association"
shall be deemed to be reference to the Association, as Adminis-
trator on behalf of the Minister for Development Cooperation of
the Netherlands under this Agreement, all references to the
"Development Credit Agreement" shall be deemed to be reference to
this Development Grant Agreement and all references to the
"Credit" shall be deemed to be reference to the Grant hereunder.
ARTICLE IV
Termination; Representation
Section 4.01. The date February 28, 1987, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions,
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Borrower and the Association hereunder shall terminate on the


﻿-4-
date on which the IDA Credit Agreement shall terminate in accord-
ance with its terms.
Section 4.03. The representative designated in Section 6.01
of the IDA Credit Agreement shall be the representative of the
Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 4.04. The addresses specified in Section 6.02 of the
IDA Credit Agreement shall be the addresses specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.05. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the IDA Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Transfer of Rights and Obligations
Section 5.01. In accordance with the Administration Agree-
ment, the rights and obligations of the Association under this
Agreement may be transferred to the Minister of Development
Cooperation of the Netherlands. The Recipient accepts and agrees
that, upon notice by the Association to the Recipient to that
effect, the Minister of Development Cooperation of the Nether-
lands shall ipso facto, from the date specified in such notice,
be substituted in all rights and obligations of the Association
under this Agreement as if the Minister of Development Coopera-
tion of the Netherlands had been an original party to this Agree-
ment, without any further action or formality required on the
part of any party, and from such date the International Develop-
ment Association shall cease to have any rights or obligations as
a party under this Agreement.


﻿- 5 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION,
as Administrator on behalf of the'
MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
OF THE NETHERLANDS
By gil Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


