Page  1
38677 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Project Name 
Lesotho New Hospital PPP 
Region 
AFR 
Sector 
Health 
Project ID 
P104403 
Implementing Agency 
Private operator to be selected by competitive bidding 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[x] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD  
Date PID Prepared 
February 2, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 6, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Approval 
TBD 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
The
 
population
 
health
status
in
Lesotho has declined in the past decade. The main public hospital 
and most advanced medical institution in the country, Queen Elizabeth II hospital (QEII), is an 
aging and poorly performing institution which has been slated for replacement for the past decade. 
QEII accounts for one-third o f sector expenditures, but 
it’s 
contribution to health outcomes is 
limited. 
In 
the context of improving the overall expenditure program, QEII 
is 
critical. The existing QEII 
Hospital 
is 
widely 
seen 
to have reached a level of dysfunctionality that significant efficiencies can be 
gained (and health hazards reduced) by replacing 
it. 
The 
hospital provides 
the 
greatest number of services 
and the most complex medical care of 
any 
hospital 
in 
the country, and 
these 
functions are being severely 
compromised 
by 
the poor physical infrastructure.
 
The project will assist in the design and implementation of a Public Private Partnership (PPP) for 
the replacement of Queen Elizabeth II hospital. The new hospital is estimated to provide a 
significant increase in the quality, volume and scope of services for a cost roughly approximating 
that of the existing hospital. During the construction period of the new hospital, the project will also 
provide assistance to improve and operate the filter clinics associated with the hospital
.
The Hospital PPP is an integral component of the Bank’s support to health sector reform by 
strengthening and increasing access to health services. The project is also part of the WBG CAS and 
assists in meeting the country’s PRSP goals to expand access to health services. A successful tender 
of the new hospital PPP project is one of the completion targets for the Bank’s Health Sector 
Reform project Phase II lending activities and a trigger to advance to Phase III. 
The Bank’s 
engagement 
in the 
replacement of the QE II will help to ensure that the 
new 
facility 
is 
designed to deliver 
an affordable and cost-effective package of services, and 
is 
built and outfitted to a financially sustainable 
level.  
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
The proposed GPOBA project aims to assist the New Referral Hospital PPP to: (i) increase the 
access, range and quality of healthcare services; (ii) increase the value of spending for these services; 
and, (iii) leverage private sector expertise in the management and operation of medical facilities to 
Page  2
introduce more up-to-date management, clinical procedures and equipment in Lesotho’s healthcare 
sector. 
 
The project proposes that the Global Partnership on Output-Based Aid (GPOBA) contribute part of the 
funding for the Hospital PPP. The 
GPOBA subsidy will allow: (i) more patients to be seen at a higher 
level of service at the filter clinics; and, (ii) more patients to be seen at the new hospital, also at a 
higher level of service.    
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
The project will serve the hospital’s catchment area, Maseru district, with a population of almost 
500,000 people or one third of the country’s population; in addition, the new hospital will continue 
to serve as the nation’s referral hospital for secondary and limited tertiary care services not available 
at the country’s district hospitals. The project would support the design, construction, financing and 
full operation of a greenfield public hospital by a private partner for a contract period of 15 years. 
The project will also support improvements and the operation of 2 filter clinics associated to the 
hospital. The payments anticipated under the proposed performance based grant, would be tied to 
delivery of services and would provide a volume and service quality based element to the 
remuneration package.  
 
The final bids are due in March 2007.  Final design and construction are anticipated to take 18 – 24 
months, with full commissioning anticipated for Q4 of 2009.  The GPOBA funds of $6.25m will be 
used to support the delivery of services of the new hospital as well as the delivery of services 
through referral clinics.  
 
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
The project does not trigger the World Bank social safeguard policies (OP 4.10 and OP 4.12), as it 
does neither involve acquisition of land nor affects IP (the hospital is located in the city). As per the 
February 2007 announcement
1
the task team leader will obtain a compliance statement from IFC 
attesting that the project complies with all applicable IFC safeguard policies and standards.     
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
 
Global Partnership on Output-Based Aid (GPOBA) Grant 
 
US$6.25m 
 
6. Contact 
point 
GPOBA TTL 
Contact: Olaf Smulders 
Tel:  (202) 473 7684 
Email:  
osmulders@worldbank.org
1
Application of Bank Safeguards Policies to GPOBA Transactions
 
Page  3
