Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Z Al 30z'7S-  PA1V'
Report No. 7592-PNG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAPUA NEW m CA T&I;j4A
LAND MOBILIZATION PROJECT
APRIL 12, 1989
Asia Regional Office
Country Department V
This document has a resticted distribon and may be used by recipients only in the performaoce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of October 1988)
Currency Unit - Kina (K)
US$1.00 - Kina 0.90
GOVERNMENT OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer                  - 0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km)  - 1,000 ha = 0.39 sq mil
1 hectare (ha)               = 2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)             = 2.2 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (ton)           - 2,206 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
ABPNG          -    Agriculture Bank of Papua New Guinea
AIDAB          -    Australian International Development Assistance Bureau
CILM           -    Commission of Inquiry into Land Matters
CPC            -    Computer Policy Committee
DAL            -    Department of Agriculture and Livestock
DEC            -    Department of Environment and Conservation
DFP            -    Department of Finance and Planning
DLPP           -    Department of Lands and Physical Planning
DME            -    Department of Minerals and Energy
DoF            -    Department of Forests
DoJ            -    Department of Justice
DoW            -    Department of Works
DPA            -    Department of Provincial Affairs
GOPNG          -    Government of Papua New Guinea
LAIP           -    Land Administration Improvement Program
LEAD           -    Land Evaluation and Demarcation Project
LMC            -    Land Management Committee
LMP            -    Land Mobilization Program
MOU            -    Memorandum of Understanding
NLMC           -    National Land Management Committee
NCC            -    National Computer Center
NEC            -    National Executive Council
NMB            -    National Mapping Bureau
PMU            -    Program Management Unit (Department of the Prime Minister)
PLMC           -    Provincial Land Management Committee
PNG            -    Papua New Guinea
PNGLIS         -    Papua New Guinea Land Information System
PNGRIS         -    Papua New Guinea Resource Information System
RMC            -    Resource Management Committee
UNDP/SNAPEM    -    United Nations Development Program/Strengthening National
and Provincial Economic Management Project
UNITECH        -    University of Technology
UPNG           -    University of Papua New Guinea



-  'IAL           ONLY
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
LAND MOBILIZATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY                  ...... ..  iv
I.  BACKGROUND ..................................................            1
A. Land Resources and Land Use                   . . .                   1
B. Land Tenure and Law                      . . .    1
C. The Land Sector                      ......   4
D. Bank Lending Strategy                  ........    7
II.  THE PROJECT ..............................................      ...       8
A.  Project Origin and Concept ..............................            8
B. Objectives                          .. .    9
C.  Main Features ...........................................           10
D. Detailed Project Description                  ....    11
Program Management                   .. ..  11
General Institution Building               . ...   13
Mobilizing Alienated Land ............................ .         16
Mobilizing Customary Land                 ....   17
Decentralization of Alienated Land Administration .....          18
Land and Resource Information               ....   18
III.  PROJECT COST AND FINANCING ..............................      ....      22
A.  Project Cost .......................................... . .         22
B. Financing                         .....  23
C.  Procurement ............................................ .          25
D.  Disbursements ......................................... . .         26
E. Special Account                       .....   27
F. Accounts and Audits                     . . ...  27
This project is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Papua New Guinea in October 1988. The mission comprised Messrs.
E. Zimmer-Vorhaus, D.R. Subasinghe (Bank), W. Kennedy, K. Nettle and
J. Edgerton (Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performamce
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
IV.  PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION .......................                    27
A.  Project Management ......                              .      .      .      27
Department of Lands and Physical Plannig  . .27
Program Management Conmittee                ...27
Policy and Programming Division                   ...28
Personnel Services Division                     . . .    28
National Mapping Bureau    ...28
Program Budgeting/Management                . . .28
The Role of PNGLIS                  ...29
National Land Management Comttee    ...29
Other Central Departments                 . . .30
Memorandum of Understanding                 . . .30
Department of Justice                   .          ..30
Provincial Governments                 . . .31
Private Sector                    .        ............  31
B. Management of Technical Assistance                  . . .32
C. Monitoring                      ...32
D. Evaluation                      ...33
E. Staffing Requirements                    . . .33
F. Staff Development and Training                   . . .35
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS ..36
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries                         . .                       36
B. Impact on Government Expenditure and Revenue .37
C.  Environmental Impact ................ i ...................                 37
D. Impact on Women and Tribal Groups .38
E.  Riss...........................                                             39
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMNDATIONM                  .        .                  39
ANNEXES
1.    Staff Development and Training
Table A DLPP Actual Staffing Levels, 1988
Table B DLPP Proposed Staffing Levels, 1993
Table C Increase/Decrease in Total DLPP Staff
Table D Projected Wastage of Senior DLPP National Staff
Table E DLPP Senior Staff Requirements in 5 Years
Table F Incremental Senior Staff Required by Provinces in 5 Years
Table G Total Number of Senior Staff Required in 5 Years
Table H Projected Output and DLPP Recruitment of Diplomates and
Graduates
Table I Likely Supply and Demand of Incremental Senior Staff
Over Five Years



- iii -
2.   Mobilizing Alienated Land
Page 1   List of Proposed Short-Term Legal Changes
Page 2   List of Proposed Legal Consolidation
Page 3   Delegation of Powers Under the Land Act to East Sepik and
East New Britain Provinces
Page 4   Alienated Land (ha)
Page 5   Estimates of Total Alienated Land
3.   Customary Land Issues
Attachment A: East Sepik Legislative Scheme
4.   Land and Resource Information Component:  Training, Private Sector
Involvement and Cost Recovery
Table 1 Geodetic Adjustment and Topographic Mapping Schedule
Table 2 Major NMB Equipment
5.   Logical Framework
Table 1 Work Unit Personnel Services Division Outputs, Work Unit
Inputs
Table 2 Work Unit Personnel Services Division Staff Projections
Table 3 Work Unit Personnel Services Division Project Costs
6.  Project Costs and Cofinancing-Government of Australia
7.   Disbursement Schedule
8.   Technical Assistance
9.   DLPP Revenue Forecast
10.   DLPP Budget 1988 and 1989
11.   Implementation Schedule
12.   Documents in the Project File
CHARTS
1.   Policy Formulation and Resource Managemek. Mechanisms
2.   Department of Lands and Physical Planning Organization --1986-1988
3.   Department of Lands and Physical Planning Organization--1989
4.   DLPP Policy and Programming Division
5.   DLPP Personnel Services Division
6.   DLPP Regional Structure
7.   Proposed Provincial Lands Divisions
MAPS
IBRD - 20745
IBRD - 13732R



- iv -
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
LAND MOBILIZATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrowers           The Independent State of Papua New Guinea
Amount:             US$19.6 million equivalent
Terms:              Twenty years, including five-year grace period, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Proiect
Description:      The five-year project would support the Government's Land
Mobilization Program which aims at: (a) creating a clear
policy and legislative environment to promote investment in
land; (b) enabling customary land owners to increasingly
participate in the development of their own land; (c) pro-
viding effective land services to all land users
(surveying, land transfer and disposal, title registration,
valuation, land acquisition, dispute settlement, mapping,
and physical planning); (d) transferring land
administration responsibilities from the national
Government to the provincial governments in line with the
Organic Law on Provincial Government; and (e) optimizing
the use of the stock of alienated land. Specifically, it
would, within the framework of the Land Mobilization
Program, have the following components: (1) Program
Management, (2) General Institution Building, including
strengthening the policy and institutional infrastructure,
and improving personnel services, (3) Mobilizing Alienated
Land, (4) Mobilizing Customary Land, (5) Decentralization
of Alienated Land Administration, and (6) Land and Resource
Information.
Benefits:           Benefits under the project are expected from starting a
process of improving the efficiency of land management,
which has been recognized as a key systemic constraint on
development of the economy. The main benefits derive from
more efficient land administration leading to lower
transaction costs, minimized delays in undertaking
investments in productive sectors, greater revenue
collection, and incentives for land-users to invest in
land-based activities. Clarification of clan authority in
land distribution and registration of customary land would
ultimately reduce land disputes.



Risks:             The main risks include ineffective management of the Land
Mobilization Program, inability to coordinate and absorb
520 staff-months of technical assistance, quality of staff
that can be retained or recruited into key positions,
inadequate budget allocations, unwillingness or inability
of national government agencies and provinces to cooperate
and use coordinating mechanisms, and the failure of parlia-
ment to approve amendments to land laws. To minimize these
risks, the project design includes: a management componeLt
and technical assistance for management and information
systems; a Memorandum of Understanding on project implemen-
tation between DLPP and other key departments and joint
(Government and Bank) annual reviews to facilitate
effective management and implementation; provision of
consultancy services to administer the technical assistance
and the responsibility for managing the work and absorbing
the output of technical assistance assigned to individual
work-units of the Department, staff training and
development activities, and establishes the National Land
Management Committee. The advanced state of project
preparation and the Government decision to begin
implementation of the Land Mobil:.zation Program on
January 1, 1989 demonstrates Government's commItment to the
project.
Estimated Costs: /a                          Local      Foreign    Total
…US$ million -------
Program Management                            5.7         4.1        s 8
General Institution Building                  2.1         1.1        3.2
Mobilizing Alienated Land                     4.7         0.9        5.6
Mobilizing Customary Land                     0.7         0.1        0.8
Decentralization of Alienated
Land Administration                         1.3         0.0        1.3
Land and Resource Information                 6.0        10.0       16.0
Base Costs                              20.5        16.2      36.7
Physical Contingencies                        1.0         0.8        1.8
Price Contingencies                           3.0         1.3        4.3
Total Prolect Costs                     24.5        18.3      42.8
Financing Plan:
Government                                   15.2         1.6       16.8
Government of Australia                       0.9         5.5        6.4
IBRD                                          8.5        11.1       19.6
Total                                   24.5        18.3      42.8
fa Including taxes and duties amounting to US$4.3 million equivalent.



- vL -
Disbursements:
IBRD FY           1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
------- (US$ million)  --------
Annual              2.0    5.8    4.1    5.0    2.7
Cumulative          2.0    7.8   11.9   16.9   19.6
Rate of Return: Not Applicable.
Maps: IBRD-20745
IBRD-13732R



- 1 -
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
LAND MOBILIZATION PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Land Resources and Land Use
1.1      Papua New Guinea (PNG) is extremely diverse in topographical
features, and is endowed with reliable and well distributed rainfall. Much of
the land area is not suitable for cultivation because of excessive slope,
altitude, or drainage problems. Areas at different altitudes provide compara-
tive advantages for a variety of cash crops. A subsistence economy based on
tuber crops, which provide high caloric off-take and balanced labor demands,
has prevented famine or wide spread malnutrition. Of a population of
3.5 million, some 852 of households are supported by subsistence farming and
fishing.
1.2      Of PNG's land area of 46 million ha, only 14 million ha (30X) are
considered suitable for agricultural production. About 3.2 million ha (7Z)
are estimated to be in regular agricultural use and 3.7 million ha (8Z) in low
intensity use or rotational fallow. Thus, only about half of the land with
agricultural potential is in regular use, although some of the rest might be
used in long term rotational fallow cycles (shifting cultivation). The land
in regular use represents 0.91 ha per head of population and 1.07 ha per head
of rural population. Forests cover about 78? of the land area, of which some
has agricultural potential and about half seems to have an exploitable poten-
tial of timber (15 million ha). Between 50,000 and 60,000 ha are being logged
annually. Significant mineral resources exist, but mining tends to operate in
an enclave, with limited distribution of benefits except in the form of
government revenue. Former customary owners of land used for mines are now
forcefully demanding a share of the mines' profits. Urban development is
constrained by the difficulties of obtaining land. Towns are expanding beyond
the areas of Government-owned (alienated) land, and many informal arrangements
are reported under which land owning groups lease land for 30 years to parties
building individual houses. Because of the long and complex administrative
processes in issuing new leases, many transactions of land use rights take
place illegally.
B. Land Tenure and Law
1.3      Two forms of land tenure exist in Papua New Guinea: land which has
been alienated by Government (a term which denotes the substitution of western
forms of tenure for customary ownership) and customary land.
Alienated Land
1.4      Prior to independence in 1975, the colonial administration acquired
or confiscated land which was required for public purposes or was considered
vacant and suitable for plantations. This alienated land is administered by



- 2 -
the Department of Lands and Physical Planning (DLPP) under a Torrens-based
system of registered and guaranteed titles. Government leases th3 land out
for development purposes, normally for 99 year periods. The process of
allocation is set out in the Land Act and depends on the type of lease. There
are r.ine separate lease types allocated in the categories of urban
(residential and business), rural (residential, business, agricultural and
pastoral), special purpose, and mission leases.
1.5      The stock of alienated land is estimated at 600,000 ha, of which
about 30,000 ha are freehold, and 60,000 ha are used for public purposes
(Annex 2). Only about 200,000 ha are leased to the private sector, comprising
most of the country's export-oriented tree crop plantations and cattle ranches
and most of the urban areas. For the rest, about 310,000 ha, little informa-
tion is available on current occupancy, potential and claims by former custo-
mary owners. Growth of the pool of alienated land has been severely
restricted since Independence. Government has been experiencing increasing
difficulty In purchasing land from customary land owners as their perception
of the importance and value of land increases. Government has the legal power
to expropriate land for public purposes, but is understandably hesitant to use
it. Therefore, negotiations are typically prolonged by the poor definition of
boundaries and land rights, and further complicated by the involvement of
different national and provincial departments.
1.6      The present law governing alienated land in Papua New Guinea is
complex and confusing (about 31 major Acts deal with land matters). Much of
the legislation has been carried over from pre-Independence days, and the
enactment of various laws at different times is based on inconsistent
development goals. Development of alienated land is seriously inhibited by
this legislation requiring difficult administrative processes which were
designed to protect customary land owners from excessive alienation of land.
These procedures do not foster development and resulted (even during the
presence of highly trained administrative cadres) in considerable backlogs and
delays. The process of land allocation and setting of land lease rent leaves
the Minister for Lands with considerable discretionary powers for the
tendering process applied to urban and business leases. The Government
Regulation Advisory Commission (1985) in analyzing the incentives for
investment and their access to land concluded that it could "not see any
significant wider public purpose in relation to leasehold land that would
warrant such high level of Government involvement,.
1.7      The collection of land lease rent from tenants involves different
national and provincial agencies. DLPP has the overall responsibility for
rent collection, but not the necessary authority over these agencies. Only
about 73Z of all rents due are being collected and credited to DLPP. It is
not known whether a higher percentage is being collected but not credited to
DLPP. Considerable backlogs exist (Annex 9).
Customary Land
1.8      Customary land accounts for approximately 96 percent of the total
land mass and its ownership is vested in about 700 clans and lesser groups
(kinship and family), title being based on historic occupation. The system of
customary ownership is an egalitarian one, which has prevented the emergence



- 3 -
of a class of landless people or rural poor. Land use rights (cultivation,
hunting, use of trees) are distributed by the clans to families and individual
members according to their needs and can overlap. The people develop their
customary land within the customary tenure regime.  Government at both the
national and provincial levels facilitates this process through agricultural
extension and assistance and the piovision of appropriate infrastructure. The
impact on the economy of this land development approach is significant. Land
administration costs are minimal and relate mainly to land dispute settlement
activity.
1.9      The customary system with its land allocation by clans to individual
members has so far provided sufficient security of tenure to encourage clan
members to produce 702 of PNG's coffee and 601 of its cocoa. This system,
which was designed to provide each member with enough subsistence land, is
coming under increasing pressure from a growing population and a mounting
desire to plant more cash crops which give access to goods, prestige, and
power. There are signs that the egalitarian structure is weakening and that
individual clan members manage by different means to receive larger land allo-
cations than others. Land disputes between clans and among clan members are
becoming more acute.
1.10     To facilitate the mobilization of customary land for development, two
legal mechanisms exist: Land Tenure Conversion and Lease-Leaseback. Under
Land Tenure Conversion, if all clan members are in agreement, individual clan
members or groups of up to six can apply to have a section of clan land regis-
tered in their name and converted to freehold. The motive for such conver-
sions is normally to enable applicants to qualify for a bank loan and increas-
ingly to obtain security of title, although custom often prevails even after
conversion. In the absence of any provision for general registration of
customary land, a pragmatic approach has been adopted to enable traditional
landowners to get access to credit without creating freehold land. This is
the Lease-Leaseback system under which Government will lease land from custo-
mary owners and then lease it back for a specified period to a legal entity
formed from all or some of the members of the same group. The Lease-Leaseback
is a registered interest which can be formally mortgaged by the customary
owners. On default, that clan can lose the land as the bank could sell the
lease to a non-clan party. However, most of the mortgages are currently unre-
gistered as there is a backlog of unregistered leases. Much of the lending of
the Agriculture Development Bank of PNG (ABPNG) for tree crop development goes
to land held under the Lease-Leaseback facility.
1.11     The national and some provincial Governments have contemplated
schemes involving the registration of customary land. In 1983 the task force
on Customary Land Issues recommended voluntary registration. In the absence
of a national law, East Sepik Province has passed two acts aimed at clarifying
the authority of clans in land matters and at facilitating the participation
of clans in development of their land (in rural and urban areas) in coopera-
tion with outside investors (thus avoiding the process of Government acquiring
the land). Under these acts, land can be registered in the name of clans
after establishment of boundaries. Other provinces have indicated their
interest in developing similar legislation. The national government is in the
process of drafting framework legislation to delineate provincial authority in
this matter and to give general policy directions.



C. The Land Sector
Department of Lands and Physical Planning (DLPPF
1.12     DLPP is the lead land sector agency, with the main responsibility for
administering most land-related statutes including title registration,
transfer and disposal of all alienated land, land acquisition, valuation of
all land subject to taxation, purchase, lease, etc., physical planning
especially in urban areas, and the geodetic network, topographic mapping,
cadastral surveys and mapping.
1.13     Delays in land administration have become increasingly common. It is
evident that DLPP has not been able to cope satisfactorily with the increasing
demands made by the developing economy. Several factors have affected its
performance. Before Independence, DLPP was concerned mainly with alienated
land, but subsequently it took on responsibility for the control and adminis-
tration of customary and alienated lands, coupled with the need to encourage
development. Despite the change in goals, there was no increase in the
Department's capacity or any alterations to its structure. The Department
continued to be a highly centralized organization, whilst at the same time it
lost many experienced officers to retirement or delegation to the provinces.
Performance indicators for the Department's main functions are low. For
example, in 1987 the department processed 2,120 leases (a quarter of which
were Bougainville Copper Limited (BCL) leases and outstanding for over ten
years). 1,781 conveyances were approved and at the beginning of 1988 there
was over K 10 million (roughly one year's rents) in outstanding lease rental
for some 18,000 leases. This compares with the total inventory of alienated
land which approximates 100,000 parcels of which approximately 33,000 are
leased and 9,000 used for public purposes.
1.14     The services prorided by the different operational divisions of DLPP
at the provincial level are not well coordinated. DLPP officers working in
the provinces are responsible to separate regional and headquarters units of
each individual functional division. The extremely high level of interest in
land matters has encouraged managers to become involved in individual land
transactions which their subordinates should handle. This tendency has
increased as the number of experienced officers has been reduced and the tasks
and pressures from all sectors have grown. The manual filing system and
procedural inefficiencies also contributed to major delays in almost all areas
of land administration.
Land Administration Improvements
1.15     In recognition of these problems, DLPP developed and implemented a
Land Administration Improvement Programme (LAIP) beginning in 1984. The basic
objectives were to: (a) improve the availability of information on land;
(b) improve the efficiency of the Department by providing a systematic frame-
work to maintain, update and retrieve information on land in both rural and
urban areas; (c) to improve the land administration procedures and; (d) reor-
ganize the Department to improve land administration in headquarters and the
provinces. The impact of the LAIP on the Department was significant, with a
backlog of more than 8,000 pieces of correspondence cleared, a full file
inventory taken, and file management improved. The Department was reorganized



in December 1986 (Chart 2). Apart from the incorporation of the Physical
Planning Division (from the Department of Housing) and the Registrar of Titles
Office (from the Department of Justice), the old division responsible for land
administration was abolished and a new regional hierarchy (although stationed
at headquarters) introduced to give more emphasis to land development in the
provinces.
1.16     Further improvements to the Department's information base were begun
in January 1987, with the introduction of the computer-based PNG Land
Information System (PNGLIS). This system, which is still being installed, is
appropriate for the purpose, particularly in its transaction processing capa-
bilities. Its objectives are ambitious, but the risks and costs associated
with its introduction were judged to be necessary to elevate tiie Department's
capacity from the inherent limitations of a manual filing system. Only
through a computerized system would decentralization of land administration to
Regional or Provincial Offices be possible. A team under contract with the
Australian International Development Assistance Bureau (AIDAB) is currently
assisting in the installation of PNGLIS for data verification and storage.
When fully operational in May 1989, the system will provides (a) easier
access to land administration data for all Departmental staff, provincial
offices, other government departments, private organizations and the public;
(b) better control over the processing of land transactions: all procedures
will be monitored, and the opportunities for malpractice will be reduced; (c)
faster processing of land transactions; (d) effective monitoring of progress
on applications, enabling the Department to respond to customer inquiries and
to work within given time frames; (e) direct access for the provinces to the
central land administration data base, thus allowing provincial processing of
applications for land; and (f) capacity to hold on PNGLIS all textual informa-
tion related to land: land zoning informatiorn, valuation data, survey data,
and current land use.
1.17     DLPP's National Mapping Bureau (NMB) has complete but partly outdated
topographic map coverage of the country (1:100,000) and in recent years has
focused on large scale topographic mapping of urban areas (1:2000 and 1:2500).
It has a cadastral mapping series (150,000) which is of low but acceptable
accuracy. The coverage of the main areas of PNG is incomplete (151 sheets)
and the annual output of 41 sheets per year too small to reach the needed 392
sheets. The NMB is also responsible for the geodetic control network, which
while extensive, needs adjustment and integration of its several separate
subsystems. Survey staff undertake cadastral surveys at a level of output
which involves delays of up to 6 months. DLPP's low fees discourage private
surveyors from expanding their activities. The efficiency of DLPP surveyors
could be improved with better management and training. But the increasing
demand cannot be met without additional staff.
1.18     DLPP's topographic and cadastral maps are used extensively as base
maps by other agencies and the private sector, which then add thematic infor-
mation of their own (location of utilities, road construction plans, natural
resource development plans, etc.). There is, however, little coordination of
mapping standards which would permit inexpensive overlays of maps from various
agencies needed for development planning. Such coordination would facilitate
the transition to computer-assisted mapping and multi-purpose analysis of
natural resources, infrastructure, etc. While NMB's maps are indexed, those



of other agencies are usually not. The requirement of the Survey Coordination
Act that certain maps must be lodged with NMB is often not met. It should be
enforced, and amended to require all maps and aerial photography to be lodged
with NMB.
1.19     At the time of appraisal (October 1988). DLPP was comprised of the
following units and divisions (Chart 2): (1) Policy and Programming Division,
(2) Finance and Administration Division, (3) Land Administration Division,
(4) Surveys Division (including the National Mapping Bureau, the drafting
office, and the cadastral surveys office), (5) Valuation Division,
(6) Physical Planning Division, and (7) Land Information System Unit.
Land Mobilization Program
1.20     During the 1988 preparation of the long-term Land Mobilization
Program (para. 2.2). DLPP identified the need for stronger organizational
focus of the Department to facilitate the adoption of program budgeting and
provide a basis for the gradual decentnalization of land administration func-
tions to provincial governments. Under the reorganization, approved in
December 1988 and beginning in January 1989, the Department is being organized
into two major groupings, each supervised by a Deputy Secretary: Operations,
and Technical Services (Chart 3). The Operations Division, working mainly
through its regional and provincial staff consolidates the services of the
former Land Administration. Surveys, Physical Planning and Valuation
Divisions. This represents a radical departure from the formerly functional
organization, which hindered coordination of activities of staff with
different technical disciplines. It would be structured internally along
regional and provincial lines, with DLPP's regional and provincial managers
being responsible for the activities of their respective units (Chart 3).
Regional (Chart 6) and provincial managers would be able to develop coordi-
nated work programs in response to the needs and priorities of provincial
governments. The regional and provincial offices would be transitional struc-
tures. Over time, their functions would be progressively taken over by
provincial governments. This process would occur following the delegation of
land administration functions to eligible provincial governments, and would
involve first the secondment, and ultimately the transfer, of DLPP national
staff to the consolidated lands offices formed in those provinces. This
process is already well under way in the case of East Sepik province.
1.21     The Technical Services grouping is comprised of the Offices of the
Registrar of Titles, Surveyor-General, Valuer-General and Chief Physical
Planner; the National Mapping Bureau; the Personnel Services Division; and the
Policy and Programming Division. This structure would remain intact even
after full decentralization of land administration functions to the provinces.
It would formulate policy and provide technical assistance and quality control
services to the Operations Division and provincial land offices. The Office
of the Registrar of Titles would administer the national land title register.
The Offices of the Surveyor-General, Valuer General, and Chief Physical
Planner would be responsible for upgrading and/or monitoring the professional
standards of related technical staff.



-7-
Sectoral Issues and Government Policy
1.22     While land is a reletively abundant resource, the inability to
identify, mobilize and transfer lands with productive potential has
constrained investments and thereby, economic development. The land
administration system in Papua New Guinea has suffered in comparison with
investments in other government services and as a result it has been unable to
cope with the demands placed on it. The emergence of a modern economy, with
rising demands on land administration threatens to overwhelm the present
system.
1.23     The Government has leased out less than half alienated land and
little is known of the potential or occupancy of the remainder. Complex legal
and administrative processes for allocating leases and institutional
weaknesses including shortage of management and professional skills, poorly
developed interagency coordination and the absence of a clear policy
environment have created backlogs and delays in lease allocation to investors,
and delays in the development of all sectors where land transfer is critical.
In addition, the traditional systems of land distribution by clans is under
pressure from a growing and more mobile population. Land disputes exceed the
capacity of the mediation mechanisms. There is a growing concern about the
need for national and provincial institutions and legislation to keep pace
with developments in land ownership. The lack of adequate land and resource
information further delays land mobilization.
1.24     In the past, Government has studied different land issues with
commissions and task forces which brought about some limited improvements. In
setting up the Land Mobilization Program, which DLPP has worked out in great
detail in 1988 in consultation with the Bank, Government has recognized the
urgent need for comprehensive action to address the multitude of issues in the
land sector. The Land Mobilization Program has been approved by the Govern-
ment's National Executive Council and the Resource Management Committee.
D. Bank Lending Strategy
1.25     The proposed project would be the first Bank project to focus
entirely on the land sector. It is an integral part of the Bank's strategy to
strengthen Papua New Guinea's institutional and human resource capabilities
and to support the critical sectors of agriculture, transport, mining and
urban development. As land is critical to the continued development of all
these sectors, Bank support for strengthening the management of land adminis-
tration would assist in the process of removing a constraint to investments
and economic growth. Government has formulated the long-term (10-15 year)
Land Mobilization Program to address land sector issues. This would require
long-term Bank involvement and support in addressing multi-sectoral policy and
institutional issues.   The project would support the first five years of the
Land Mobilization Program, which is part of the Government's Medium-Term
Development Strategy.
1.26     The experience of previous Bank projects has been evaluated in parti-
cular in the Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR No. 7001) on the
Popondetta Smallholder Oil Palm Development Project (Ln. 1333-PNG), the Second
Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 1149-PNG) and the Southern Highlands Rural



-8-
Development Project (Cr. 841-PNG). The lessons on project design relate
especially to complexity, implementation capacity, and technical assistance:
(a) projects should have a clear focus and operate within existing
institutions, even if this results in slower progress than could be achieved
with special project units; (b) project goals should be limited to realistic
projections of local implementation capacity (shortage of trained staff); (c)
projects should be viewed as one stage in a sustainable long-term program
approach; (d) projects should emphasize institution building with upgrading of
staff capabilities; (e) in cases where local staff have insufficient
management skills, one possible way of implementing certain activities may be
through service contracts as done now with independent institutes for cash
crop research and with coffee extension service (Coffee Development Agency);
and (f) technical assistance should be carefully monitored and managed to
achieve the results planned in the limited available period. Past experience
has also revealed that problems in land identification and mobilization are
major constraints to agricultural and urban investments. Overcoming these
constraints is a precondition to successful identification, preparation, and
implementation of investment activities, not only in the agricultural sector,
but in other sectors such as urban development and transport. Furthermore,
general economic management requires a better knowledge of the country's land
resources. These lessons have been incorporated in the design of the project,
especially in project management and irrilementation arrangements.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Concept
2.1      The Land Mobilization Program evolved from two previous initiatives
within DLPP. The first, DLPP's Land Administration Improvement Program (LAIP)
commenced in 1984 (para. 1.15) and involved improvement of land administration
through a reorganization of the Department and improvement of existing
practices. The second initiative was the development of the Land Evaluation
and Demarcation Project (LEAD) which was first conceived in 1985 as a follow-
on project to LAIP.
2.2      The Government of Australia financed the feasibility study for the
LEAD project. This was undertaken by a consortium of Australian-based
consultants,l/ which submitted a report in September 1987 (Project File,
Documents 2.1 and 2.2). The major objective of the LEAD project was to
facilitate the implementation of agriculture and forestry projects through
improved land administration, land resources evaluation and mapping
activities. Following a joint Bank/DLPP review of the LEAD project proposals
in March 1988, DLPP engaged a locally-based consultant financed under the
UNDP/SNAPEM2/ Bank-executed technical assistance project to assist in further
preparation. The result of this work was the formulation by DLPP of an action
program of December 1988, "The Land Mobilization Program (LMP)".
1/ Pacific Agribusiness PTY Ltd.
2/ Strengthening of National and Provincial Economic Management.



-9-
2.3      The LHP supports major institutional strengthening to enhance the
capacity of DLPP to deliver land services to the country as part of
Government' Medium Term Development Strategy. It represents the first five
years of a longer term program of development of the lands sector.
2.4      The proposed project has been designed as an institutional develop-
ment project in support of the LMP. The project has several programmatic
features, as follows:
(a) the project scope, like LMP, encompasses the entire program of DLPP
for five years, i.i,iuding support (channeled through DLPP) to provin-
cial governments wishing to progressively assume responsibilit7 for
land administration functions;
(b) the organizational structures, processes and management of the
project are synonymous with those of the LMP;
(c)  the Bank and the Government of Australia as cofinanciers would be
involved in annual reviews of LMP (DLPP's work program and budget
furmulation);
(d) the project costs are defined as the incremental costs of the LMP
over the five-year project period, using the 1988 DLPP budget as a
baseline, and include incremental costs of contract (non-citizen) and
local staff, and operating costs and the total costs of civil works,
technical assistance, and major equipment; and
(f) the project cost structure has been designed to reflect Government's
standard budget procedures and cost categories, and to facilitate the
introduction of a program budgeting/management approach.
B. Objectives
2.5      The overall goal of the Land Mobilization Program is to contribute to
economic growth through more productive use of land resources throughout the
country, whilst promoting equity, employment, participation and social
stability. It is intended to encourage land-users (clan groups, joint
ventures, companies, individuals and Government agencies) to invest in appro-
priate land-based activities by achieving the following objectives over 15-20
years:
(a) create a clear policy and legislative environment to promote invest-
ment in land;
(b) enable customary land owners to increasingly participate in the
development of their own land;
(c) provide effective land services to all land users (surveying, valua-
tion, land transfer and disposal, mapping, title registration, land
acquisition, dispute settlement, physical planning and land
information);



- 10 -
(d) transfer land administration responsibilities from the national
Government to the provincial governments in line with the country's
Organic Law on Provincial Government; and
(e) optimize the use of the stock of alienated land.
2.6      Inherent in these objectives is the promotion of the mobilization
(registration and development) of land and its suitable usage. Traditionally,
DLPP has been a passive supplier of land services to clients requesting those
services. Through the Land Mobilization Program, DLPP would be strengthened
through better organizational focus, simplified procedures and staff training
to more actively promote land-based activities together with the provinces.
C. Main Features
2.7      The project would support all six components of the Land Mobilization
Program with technical assistance, additional contract and local staff,
equipment and buildings. These components with their specific objectives to
be achieved within 5-7 years, are!
(1)  Program Management:  improve land use planning by establishing the
interdepartmental National Land Management Committee; improve the
management of land administration by procedural, organizational and
legislative measures; improve and maintain professional standards and
the quality of land services by staff training and sharper organiza-
tional focus; provide the necessary physical facilities for the LMP
and staff housing in the provinces.
(2) General Institution Building: establish improved land policies,
legislation and procedures; improve the capacity of DLPP to develop
policy, promote land registration for development, deliver services,
and generate land-based revenues; improve the land dispute settlement
capacity; and improve DLPP's staff capacity by increasing staff
numbers and intensive staff training.
(3) Mobilizing Alienated Land: develop an improved and cost-effective
system for administration of alienated land by simplifying proce-
dures; rationalize and mobilize the stock of about 300,000 ha of
unallocated alienated land; address a backlog of about 7,000
incomplete land administration transactions; and improve the system
of land rent setting and collection.
(4) Mobilizing Customary Land: develop an acceptable and cost-effective
approach to customary land registration and mobilization for economic
development; and expedite the mobilization of custcmary land by
establishing national framework legislation and assistance to
Provinces to pass their own legislation and to develop provincial
procedures.
(5) Decentralization of Alienated Land Administration: develop an accep-
table and cost-effective system for, and expedite, the decen-
tralization of land administration functions by assisting five



- 11 -
Provinces to set up their system of land policy development and land
administration.
(6)  Land and Resource Information:  develop an up-to-date information
base for customary and alienated land (co-taining title, land-use,
geodetic, cadastral and topographic information) by implementing
PNGLIS and by updating topographical maps; develop new maps required
for project planning; and adjust the geodetic network.
D. Detailed Project Description
2.8      The principal activities to be undertaken during the five years of
the project are described below. Each component or subcomponent corresponds
to a particular DLPP work unit (and unit number), for which detailed perfor-
mance indicators (outputs) have been developed (Annex 5 and Project File
Document 1.1). The project would support these activities by providing for
the incremental budget costs covering technical assistance, contract and local
staff, operating costs, and equipment and buildings.
Component 1: Program Management
2.9      The Program Management component would improve the overall management
of the lands sector, through the establishment of suitable management struc-
tures and procedures, and the strengthening of professional standards and
quality control procedures within DLPP. The component consists of five sub-
components as follows:
Management Subcomponent (1.1)
2.10     This subcomponent would be primarily carried out by the Program
Management Branch of the Policy and Programming Division (Chart 4). The
Finance and Publicity Branches of that Division would play a subsidiary role.
Key activities to be conducted includet
(a)  overall management and coordination of the LMP, including the intro-
duction of program budgeting, management, accounting and monitoring
procedures; assisted by a Management Consultant (36 staff-months) and
a Management Information System Consultant (10 staff-months) (Annex
8, positions 1.1.2 and 1.1.3); assurances were obtained that the
reorganization of DLPP would be completed by December 31, 1989
(para. 6.1(a)).
(b)  reinstitution of regularly scheduled meetings of the Program
Management Committee (PMC) and provision of secretariat support for
it; assurances were obtained on reinstitution of PMC meetings by
December 31, 1989, (para. 6.1(c));
(c)  establishment and servicing of a National Land Management Committee
(NLMC) with representation of different departments; assurances were
obtained on the establishment of NLMC by December 31, 1989 (para.
6.1(b));



- 12 -
(d) oversight of a capital works program to construct three regional
offices (at Ht. Hagen, Lae, and Rabaul) and eight provincial offices,
about 90 staff houses in the provinces, extension of the building of
the National Happing Bureau, and construction of the building for the
Land Information Center;
(e) design and conduct of publicity programs to encourage land mobiliza-
tion by the Publicity Branch; supported by a Human Communication
Consultant (8 staff-months) (Annex 8, position 1.1.4); and,
(f) coordination and management of technical assistance inputs; supported
by an accounting/management firm (15 staff-months) (para. 3.23 and
Annex 8, position 1.1.1).
Office of Registrar of Titles Subcomponent (1.2)
2.11     Whilst these functions have been transferred from the Department of
Justice to DLPP, a Registrar of Titles, still to be appointed, would be
supported by:
(a) a Land Registration Specialist under the UNDP/SNAPEM project who
would undertake a study of the nature and extent of about 7,000
incomplete land administration transactions as identified by PNGLIS;
supporteed by a land registration consultant (2 staff-months, Annex
8, position 1.2.2); DLPP would thereafter prepare and implement an
action plan, if necessary with possible constr,,ction assistance.
Assurances were obtained that the study would be completed by
December 31, 1990 and an action plan implemented (para. 6.1d).
(b) securing of title documentation by microfiche; supported by contract
services (12 staff-months) (Annex 8, position 1.2.1); and
(c) provision of technical support to regional and provincial title
offices, which would gradually be set up during the decentralization
process and be involved in registration of customary land.
Office of Surveyor General Subcomponent (1.3)
2.12     Cadastral surveys are required for the allocation of alienated land,
for subdivision of town plots, and for tenure conversion and land acquisition.
They are undertaken by DLPP staff against a fee which does not cover DLPP
total costs. The Surveyor General would no longer be in charge of all survey
staff who would now work under the new Operations Division. In a staff
function this office would undertake:
(a) definition and maintenance of professional standards for all cada-
stral surveys undertaken by the Operation Division in Regional and
Provincial Offices and by private surveyors;
(b) provision of technical support to regional and provincial surveyors;
(c) determination of an appropriate means of survey and demarcation to
support customary land registration, supported by a survey consultant
(3 staff-months, Annex 8, position 1.3.1);



-13.
(d) study the role of private surveyors in undertaking surveys required
for land allocation and review of DLPP survey fees by December 31.
190, to encourage private surveyor participation and carry out an
action plan; assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations (para. 6.1(e)).
Office of Valuer-General Subcomponent (1.4)
2.13     Valuation is required to determine values of alienated land which
form the basis of allotment fees and annual rents. With rapidly changing
economic conditions, this task is becoming more difficult. This office would
perform a staff function as valuation staff would work under the new
Operations Division in DLPP's Regional and Provincial Offices. It would
undertake:
(a) maintenance of a quality control role for all valuations;
(b) provision of technical support for regional and provincial valuers of
DLPP's Operations Division:
(c) review of land lease rent determination policies in cooperation with
the Policy and Programming Division (para. 2.16);
(d) investigation of the appropriateness of computer-assisted valuation
techniques; supported by a Valuation Consultant working also on rent
determination (para. 2.16, Annex 8, position 2.1.2).
Office of Chief Physical Planner Subcomponent (1.5)
2.14     The previous Physical Planning Division undertook town planning in
cooperation with the Settlement Division of the Department of Housing. This
would be done under LMP by the physical planning staff of the Regional and
Provincial offices of DLPP's Operations Division. The Physical Planning Act
which clarifies town planning rules and responsibilities is in advanced stages
of the legislative process. This office would undertake:
(a) monitoring the work output of physical planning staff working in the
Operation Division and the provinces to ensure professional standards
and adherence to procedures; and providing of technical support;
(b) preparation of physical planning manuals; supported by a Physical
Planning Consultant (8 staff-months, Annex 8, position 1.5.1.); and
(c) extending the professional capacity of physical planners to include
peri-urban and rural planning skills and to prepare rural physical
planning exercises; supported by a consultant (6 staff-months, Annex
8, position 1.5.2).
Component 2: General Institution BuildinR
2.15     This component seeks to improve the capacity of the Department to
develop land related policies, promote the utilization of land registration
for development purposes, deliver effective and responsive land services to



- 14 _
clients and to generate revenue from the delivery of those services. The
Policy and Programming Division would be strengthened for this task by an
Organization and Management Specialist (36 staff-months, Annex 8, position
2.1.8). The component consists of two subcomponents as follows:
Policy and Institutional Infrastructure Subcomponent (2.1)
2.16     This subcomponent would strengthen the policy-making capacity of the
Department, and introduce simplified and consolidated land legislation and
procedures to enable a more efficient delivery of land services. It would be
implemented by the Policy and Research Branch of the Policy and Programming
Division. Its key activities would include:
(a) completion of the restructuring of DLPP in association with the
Department of Personnel Management;
(b) preparation of procedures manuals for the Department in association
with relevant technical specialists; supported by technical
assistance (Annex 8, position 2.1.6);
'c) review of the (alienated) land lease rent determination policies of
DLPP in relation to leasehold properties in cooperation with the
Valuer General (para. 2.13); supported by a consultant (2 staff-
months, Annex 8, position 2.1.1); assurances were obtained that the
review would be completed by December 31, 1989 and that a system,
taking into account the comments of the Bank on the results of the
review, would be established by January 1, 1991; review the existing
rent collection systems in operation in DLPP and Department of
Finance and Planning; supported by the management information
consultant (para 2.10(a) and Annex 8, position 1.1.3); assurances
were obtained that the review would be completed by June 30, 1990 and
a system, taking into account the comments of the Bank on the results
of the review, be established by December 31, 1991 (para. 6.2(f));
(d) preparation of draft legislative and procedural amendments to support
improvements in administration procedures for alienated land
(Annex 2, Page 1) supported by a consultant Lawyer (7 staff-months,
Annex 8, position 2.1.4); assurances were obtained that this would be
completed by June 30, 1990 (para. 6.2(g));
(e) study of alternative land allocation and transfer systems for
alienated land comparing the present system of multilayered
Government controls and interventions with other systems allowing
market forces to play a larger role in determining land allocation
transfers and values; supported by a Land Tenure Consultant (3 staff-
months) (Annex 8, position 2.1.7); assurances were obtained that the
study would be completed by December 31, 1992 (para. 6.2(h));
(f) review of the national land legislation for consolidation and simpli-
fication including a review of the role of the Land Board; and
drafting of such legislation. Its is envisaged that about 31 Acts



and sections of Acts would be consolidated to 4 or 5 major Land Acts
by the end of the project; supported by a Lawyer Consultant (7 staff-
months, Annex 8, position 2.1.4; extension of contract of (d) above);
(g) review the development of a national framework legislation for
customary land dealing and registration and the relationship of such
legislation to provincial governments to establish policy options for
the mobilization and management of customary land; supported by a
Lawyer/Anthropological Consultant (7 staff-months, Annex 8, position
2.1.3); assurances were obtained that the consultant would be
appointed no later than December 31, 1990 (para. 6.2(i));
(h) review of existing land dispute settlement mechanisms and investiga-
tion of options for resolution of existing difficulties together with
the Department of Justice and the Chief Magistrate; supported by a
Land Dispute Settlement Consultant (4 staff-months, Annex 8, position
2.1.5). Assurances were obtained on completion of the review by
December 31, 1990 and the furnishing to the Bank of an action plan
for improvement of such mechanisms by December 31, 1991 and the
carrying out of such action plan, taking into account the Bank
comments, thereon (para. 6.2(j));
(i) support the Surveyor General in reviewing DLPP's fees for cadastral
surveys and their influence on participation of private surveyors;
and
(j) drafting of amendments to the Survey Coordination Act to require all
organizations producing maps and aerial photography to deposit copies
with the National Mapping Bureau (NMB); assurances were obtained that
the amendments would be drafted by December 31, 1990 (para. 6.2(k)).
Personnel Services Subcomponent (2.2)
2.17     This subcomponent would strengthen the capacity of the Department and
the provinces through the development of the technical, managerial, and
administrative skills of DLPP and provincial lands staff (detailed in
Annex 1). The subcomponent would be implemented by the new Personnel Services
Division, performing the following key activitiess
(a) recruitment of suitable staff to DLPP and filling of key positions
(para. 4.22). DLPP's staff strength would increase from 424 to 570
by the end of the project. Assurances were obtained on the filling
of these key positions by December 31, 1989 (para. 6.2(1));
(b) development of appropriate staff training policies and programs,
including management training (especially for staff in the Operations
Division), training in administrative procedures, and training for
provincial government staff to support the introduction of customary
land registration; supported by a Training Consultant (40 staff-
months, Annex 8, position 2.2.1); 75 training modules would be
developed and about 1,000 DLPP and Provincial staff would attend
training functions on different subjects (para. 4.25, Annex 1 and
Annex 5, Table 1);



- 16 -
(c) coordination of technical training requirements for DLPP, including
overseas training and work attachments;
td) development of career path structures and regular staff appraisal
mechanisms for all DLPP staff; and
(e) conduct of ongoing personnel administration functions.
Component 3: Mobilizing Alienated Land
2.18     This component would comprise the first five years of a longer term
program to develop an improved and cost effective system of administration of
alienated land. The existing stock of alienated land would be rationalized,
underutilized land mobilized, and the use of that land optimized. The
Operations Division would administer the component, supported by the following
activities undertaken by other work unitss (I) Policy and Research Branch of
Policy and Programming Division (Subcomponent 2.1): (a) short term legal
changes in land administration procedures, (b) development of procedures
manuals, tc) consolidation of land legislation, (d) study on different systems
of land allocation and transfer involving market forces; (II) Land Information
Unit (Subcomponent 6.1): (a) Implementation of PNGLIS and training of staff
in its operation; (III) Office of Registrar of Titles (Subcomponent 1.2):
(a) review of organization and procedures of the Titles Registry,
(b) addressing a backlog of about 7,000 incomplete land administration
transactions, (c) securing land titles records; (IV) Personnel Services
Division (subcomponent (2.2): training of staff in management and
administration procedures.
2.19     This component comprises four subcomponents, corresponding to the
four regional offices of the Operations Division: Southern Region (3.1);
Northern Region (3.2); Islands Region (3.3); and Highlands Region (3.4).
Each of these regional offices would undertake the following key a:tivities in
their respective regions:
(a) the appointment of Regional Managers by December 31, 1989: qualified
and experienced Managers should be appointed to these positions and
it is envisaged that these positions will be advertised both overseas
and locally;
(b) the appointment of Provincial Managers: most of these positions
would be filled from within the department; however, the positions
will be advertised locally;
(c) establish coordinated work programs for the provincial offices and
for the regional offices, ensuring the efforts of staff from the four
former divisions (land administration, surveying, valuation, physical
planning) are coordinated;
(d) promote the use of the Lease-Leaseback and Tenure Conversion
mechanisms to customary landowners and their incorporation into land
or business groups to support the mobilization of customary land;



- 17 -
(e) take stock of alienated land which has not been leased (about 300,000
ha) involving a survey of all parcels to determine current land use
and occupancy; land use potential; evaluation of all underutilized
parcels; and undertaking appropriate allocation, forfeiture or
release action on those parcels in response to the evaluation;
(f) undertake land acquisitions as required for public purposes;
(g) provide land services (land administration, surveys, valuation and
physical planning) to existing and potential land users;
(h) ensure the collection of monies owed to Government for lease rentals
and other land-related service charges; and
(i) reduce arrears in land administration processing.
Component 4: Mobilizing Customary Land
2.20     This component aims at facilitating the participation of customary
landowners in the development of their own land. It is the exploratory phase
of a longer term program aiming at the development of acceptable and cost-
effective methods for mobilizing customary land. Recent procedural and legal
changes which improved the Lease-Leaseback process were a first step in this
direction. The componDent would be administered by the Customary Land Unit in
the Provincial Services Branch of the Policy and Programming Division. Their
activities would be supported by the following activities undertaken by other
work units: i. Office of Surveyor-General (Subcomponent 1.3): (a) study on
demarcation of customary land; II. Policy and Research Branch of Policy and
Programming Division (Subcomponent 2.1): (a) preparation of national frame-
work legislation on customary land, supported by technical assistance (Annex
8, position 2.1.3), (b) study of the land dispute settlement system;
III. Operations Division (Component 3), (a) promotion of Lease/Leaseback and
Tenure Conversion as short-term customary land registration measures.
2.21     Key activities for the implementation of this component would be as
follows:
(a) liaison with and assistance to the provincial Land Management
Committees in the formulation of a policy framework for customary
land mobilization and registration for each province; such policies
are expected to exist in three provinces by the end of the project;
(b) assistance to the provinces to draft customary land registration
legislation by a Sociel/Anthropologist and a Lawyer (3 staff-months
each, Annex 8, positions 4.01 and 4.02); resulting in enactment of
provincial customary land legislation in two provinces during the
project;
(c) assistance to the provinces to develop the necessary administrative
procedures to support the legislation and associated procedures
manuals assisted by a Manual Writing Consultant (6 staff-months,
Annex 8, position 2.1.6); and



- 16 -
(d) coordination of the establishment of suitable organization structures
to administer the legislation.
The Provincial Services Branch of the Policy and Programming Division will
liaise with provincial government through newly established provincial Land
Xanagement Comittees (LHCs) to introduce customary land registration in the
provinces. DLPP's role is envisaged as a facilitator, coordinator and a
provider of technical assistance to the provinces in the establishment and
maintenance of a customary land registration capacity.
Component 5: Decentralization of Alienated Land Administration
2.22     In support of the national Government's decentralization policy, the
objective of this component would be to manage and coordinate the decentrali-
zation of the administration of alienated land from the national to provincial
governments through the delegation of powers to the provinces. The eventual
outcome of the Government decentralization policy in some 10-15 years would be
the transfer of all land administration activities to the provincial govern-
ments, with the role of DLPP contracting to policy formulation, technical
support and quality control in the lands sectcr. The component would be
administered by the Provincial Service Branch of the Policy and Programming
Division.
2.23     Key activities to be undertaken under this component include:
(a) the appointment of staff to the Provincial Services Branch of the
Policy and Programming Division;
(b) liaison with the provincial Land Xanagement Committees to ensure that
suitable land management policies are developed;
(c) liaison with the provinces and with the Department of Personnel
Management to establish consolidated Lands Divisions within the
departments of each province;
(d) provision of assistance to the province with the establishment of
procedures and the development of a procedures manual;
(e) coordination of the transfer of DLPP staff to the province.
Component 6: Land and Resource Information
2.24     DLPP would develop an up-to-date information base for both alienated
and customary land through this component. This information base would
consist of title, land use, cadastral, geodetic and topographical information
and would be readily available to all land users and service agencies. This
will be achieved through two subcomponents:
-    implementation and development of a transaction processing and infor-
mation system, the Papua New Guinea Land Information System (PNGLIS);
and



- 19 -
-    the enhancement of the mapping capacity of the National Mapping
Bureau (NMB).
PNGLIS Subcomponent (6.1)
2.25     The PNGLIS subcomponent is designed to support the implementation of
PNGLIS into the operational units of the Department, to oversee the develop-
ment of PNGLIS into a major corporate data system for agencies with land
related activities, to support the monitoring of LMP activities, and to
provide the transaction processing facility to support the mobilization of
alienated and customary land and the decentralization components of the LMP.
The subcomponent would be administered by the Land Information Unit, function-
ing as a branch of the Policy and Programming Division. It would be supported
by a Management Specialist and a Computer Operation Specialist (36 staff-
months each, Annex 8, position 6.1.1 and 6.1.2). It would undertake the
following key activities:
(a) installation of the system into the regional offices of the
Operations Division, to support the land administration, survey,
valuation and physical planning work programs and the collection of
revenue;
(b) installation of the system in each of the DLPP provincial offices to
provide enquiry-only access to the database;
(c) provision of initial training to staff on implementation of the
system;
gd) completion of the land administration data verification exercise
currently underway with a team of Survey Draftsmen financed by the
Government of Australia (66 staff-months, Annex 8, Position 6.1.3);
(e) coordination of the data capture for surveys, valuation and physical
planning to support their administrative processes;
(f) capture of the spatial references of the centroids of land parcels to
enable spatial searches of the database to be conducted;
(g) investigation of the linkage of the PNGLIS with NHB computer systems
and strengthening the spatial referencing of both systems; supported
by a consultant (2 staff-months, Annex 8, position 6.1.5); and
(h) investigation of the linkage of PNGLIS with Papua New Guinea Resource
Information System (PNGRIS) maintained by the Department of Agricul-
ture and Livestock (DAL) to strengthen the land use planning capabi-
lities of the system; supported by a consultant (1 staff-month, Annex
8, position 6.1.4).
National Mapping 3ureau Subcomponent (6.2)
2.26     This subcomponent would over five years strengthen NMB's capacity to
produce more detailed maps and other land information required for land
administration and land use planning. The key activities would be grouped



- 20 -
into: (i) policy development and coordination; (ii) geodetic network;
(iii) topographic maps; (iv) cadastral mapping; (v) IGOS mapping system; and
(vi) establishment of a computing section in NMB.
2.27     (i) Policy Development and Coordination.  Key activities would
include:
(a)  Establishment of a Mapping Advisory Committee as a subcommittee to
the National Land Management Committee (NLHC). Chaired by the
Director of NMB it would include representatives of the Departments
of Agriculture and Livestock, Environment and Conservation, Minerals
and Energy, Forestry, Works, the Association of Surveyors, the
private sector and the Surveyor General. Its role would be to:
(i) develop specifications for standard mapping; (ii) decide on
technologies for standard mapping; (iii) liaise and coordinate with
academic institutions on teaching surveying and mapping; and
coordinate mapping activities of other Government agencies which
would continue to produce their own specialized maps; assurances were
obtained on the establishment of the Mapping Advisory Committee by
December 31, 1989 (para. 6.2(b));
(b) assist the Policy and Programming Division in amending the Survey
Coordination Act, to require all organizations producing maps or
aerial photography to deposit copies with NMB (para. 2.16);
(c) assist the Land Information Unit with their investigation into the
linkage of PNGLIS and NMB computer facilities (para. 2.25); and
(d) establish work programs for the NMB's activities in liaison with the
National Mapping Advisory Committee.
2.28     (ii)  Geodetic Network.  The geodetic network provides the framework
for mapping, a reference system for national coordinates, and a base for
scientific observations such as isostatic adjustments (tectonic plate move-
ments). Zstablished in the 1950s and 1960s, it requires comprehensive adjust-
ments in six phases over five years: data extraction and compilation of
existing records; densification of network with more geodetic stations;
leveling and sea level determination to improve vertical control; determina-
tion of geoid (earth shape) appropriate to PNG; preliminary adjustment; final
adjustment. To support this adjustment the key project activities would be
the provision of (a) technical assistance financed by the Government of
Australia: Geodetic Surveyors (48 staff-months); Geodetic Datum Specialists
(27 staff-months); and Data Processing Systems Specialist (3 staff-months)
(Annex 8, positions 6.2.2, 6.2.3, and 6.2.5); (b) contract services for
densification of the existing network, leveling and sea level determinations
(70 staff-months, Annex 8, position 6.2.4); (c) computing equipment; (d) three
global positioning systems (GPS) for densification; and (e) a geodetic network
adjustment software package such as GANET (list of equipment in Annex 4,
Table 2).
2.29     (iii)  Topographic Maps.  The main topographic maps covering all of
PNG at 1:100,000 scale (280 sheets) were produced between 1969 and 1980 and



- 21 -
most now require updating to depict subsequent changes (roads. urban expan-
sion, villages etc.) for which satellite imagery provides the most effective
means. The other topographic maps cover at arge scales (1:2000 and 1:2500)
the main urban centres. The lack of extensiv topographic mapping at a medium
scale (ls25,000) seriously impedes planning, development and administration.
Satellite imagery would be the most cost-effective means to produce these maps
when such technology for 1:25,000 scale topographic mapping becomes available,
which is expected in about four years. The topographic mapping program would,
therefore, include the following activities:
(a) a pilot study to investigate and define the use of remote sensing
technology for topographic mapping; supported by a Remote Sensing
Consultant financed by the Government of Australia (18 staff-months,
Annex 8, positicn 6.2.1);
(b) installation of remote sensing image processing systems in NMB and
training of NMB staff (two NMB staff are currently being trained in
France);
(c) updating 280 sheets of 1:100,000 topographic maps;
(d) production of 8 sheets of 1:25,000 topographic maps (about 20 sheets
per year thereafter); and
(e) continuation of urban large-scale mapping.
2.30     (iv)   Cadastral Mapping.  The main cadastral map series is
(1:50,000, Milinch series) produced by enlarging 1:100,000 scale topographic
maps. Land parcels are charted on these maps using coordinates derived from
the cadastral survey or connections to topographic features, thus exaggerating
the inaccuracies of the 1:100,000 topographic maps. These cadastral maps,
however, depict clear enough the position of individual land parcels in rela-
tion to other parcels and topographic features. But the output of four sheets
per year does not meet requirements and only 151 sheets of the required
coverage of 392 sheets have been completed. Priorities are decided by NMB in
consultation with the Operations Division. The key activity would be to
increase the output to allow completion of the series in about 15 years by
increasing staff.
2.31     (v)  IGOS Mapping System.  NMB purchased an IGOS digital mapping
system in 1986 - a major investment in technology. The system automates
production of large scale town maps and medium scale, e.g. 1:25,000 topo-
graphic maps. Technical problems prolonged commissioning the system, which
seem to have been resolved by the suppliers' (M&S International) formal
undertakings to make the system operational by early 1989. The key activ,ty
would be to make the IGOS Mapping System fully operational.
2.32     (vi)  Computing Section of NMB.  NMB's computing requirements will
increase drastically with the adjustment of the geodetic network, the aerotri-
angulation for additional mapping, and the increasing data processing needs of
the surveyors of the Operations Division. This would exceed the capacity of
the National Computing Center (NCC) now used through terminals at NMB.  The
adjustment of the geodetic network will require ready access to scientific



- 22 -
computing facilities. Such a facility is also needed to link IGOS's work
stations and to store IGOS's and other NMB data files. The key activities
would, therefore, be:
(a)  establishment of a Computing Section in NMB;
(b)  construction of a Land Information Processing Center to house NMB and
PNGLIS computing systems under subcomponent 1.1;
(c) acquisition and installation of a scientific (32 bit) computer;
(d)  extension of NMB office facilities to house additional staff and
equipment under subcomponent 1.1.
III. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A. Project Cost
3.1      Project cost has been defined as the incremental costs resulting from
the first five years of the Government's Land Mobilization Program, using the
1988 DLPP budget as a baseline. The project cost structure has been designed
to reflect the Government's standard budget procedures and budget categories,
and to facilitate the program budgeting/management system introduced in DLPP
beginning in 1989.
3.2      Total Land Mobilization Program costs over five years are expected to
be K 74.4 million (US$82.7 million).
3.3      Total project costs are estimated at about K 38.5 million
(US$42.8 million), of which K 3.9 million (US$4.3 million) would be in duties
and taxes, and K 16.5 million (US$18.3 million) in foreign exchange
(Table 3.1). Consultants' base costs (professional fees, overheads, travel
and allowances) have been estimated on the basis of recent consulting
contracts in Papua New Guinea. Capital works (civil works) costs are based on
standard cost estimates from the Department of Works (DoW). Capital assets
(equipment and furniture) costs are based on recent price quotations from
suppliers, cross-checked with prices of comparable units recently procured.
Unit prices for salaries are based on the current schedule of public service
salary rates for citizen and non-citizen (contract staff) employees issued by
the Department of Personnel Management (DPM). All other operating costs are
based on standard costs used by the Department of Finance and Planning (DFP)
for preparing budgets. Base costs calculated in October 1988 prices, includes
physical contingencies of 52 and price contingencies based on estimated annual
local inflation of 5Z for 1989-93, and estimated annual foreign inflation of
32 for 1989-90 and 4X thereafter. Table 3.1 presents a summary of cost
estimates and details are given in Annex 6, Tables 1-5.



- 23 -
Trble S 1 PiN0JT Ct#T UII6IIY L
S Total
nar   'Orn                    nsA  low)           a Porajmn   ease
tocal    Foreign    Total    LoUCl   Foreign   Totel   Exchange   Coats
A. Program Nanagement
M4anag_ent                          4,240.9  3,232.S  7,47J.4  4.712.1  3,591.7   6,303.S          43        2S
Registrar of Titles                   222.9    188.1    361.0    247.7    175.6    42a.3           41         1
Surveyor CGneral                       146.7    144.4    290.6    163.0    160.2    320.1          30         1
Valu-r Ceneral                        27.1       26.3    806.4    307.9        31.5    889.3        9         1
Chief Physlcal Plum,r                 267.1    141.1    406.2    296.         106.6    458.6       aS         I
Sub-tot l Prorm Management          S.IS4.M   37;04.2   6.LJ e      72m3  4.115.8    e4L           4Z        2z
D. General Institution Suilding
Policy and Institutional
Infrastructure                    1,127.2    676.6  1,603.8  1.252.s    751.7  2,004.2           38         5
Personnel Servies                     794.2    295.3  1,069.5   6s2.5    328.4  1,210.6            27         3
Sub-total Obneral Institution
Building                          1.921.5    97LI  2L893s3  2.1SS.0  1.079.8  3.214.s            S 
C. Mobilizing Alienated Land
Southern Region                    1,477.5    369.8  1,847.0   1,641.6    410.9  2,052.6         20         6
Northorn Region                     796.8    196.9    993.2    684.6    218.7  1,103.6           20         8
Islands Region                      660.3      61.4    921.7    955.6        66.3  1,024.1        7         a
Highlands Region                   1,063.7    163.2  1,226.9  1,181.9    161.3   1,363.2         13         4
Sub-total Mobilizing Alienated
Land                              4.197.7    7913  4.989.1   4,S64.1    879.2  5.S43.4           it        IA
0. Mobilizing Cuto_mry Lend                610.0     68.7    678.7    677.6        76.8    7S4.1       10         2
E. Decentralization of Alienated
Land Administration               1,195.1      45.0  1,240.1  1,327.9        S0.0   1,377.9       4         4
F. Land and Reource Information
Land Infor_tion Unit                 1,224.1  8,320.4  4,S44.5  1,860.1  8,689.8  5,049.4          73        14
National Mapping Bureau             4,190.1  5,689.3  9,879.4  4,655.6   6,321.5  10,977.1         ss        30
Sub-total Land and Rsource
Information                       5414.2   9,0Z 097       14l4       8 01508  1SA 1-0266        12        44
Total Baseline Coats                    1Lh493.L  14-590-8 33ss89 20,547.9  16.212.0 I        9E       44       1
Physical Contingencies                924.7    7S9.5  1,654.2  1,027.4    810.6  1,638.0           44         5
Price Contingencies                 2,618.4  1,156.9  8,775.3  2,909.4  1,268.4  4,194.8           31        11
Total Project Costa                    220S6.2  1L477L2  38 SlS S 24.484.e  18Q30 70                   a        1
LI Including taxe" and duties *mounting to US64.S million equivalent.
B. Financing
3.4            The proposed IBRD loan of US$19.6 million would finance 50.9Z of
total project cost, net of duties and taxes (US$4.3 million), equivalent to
60.6? of foreign exchange cost and 42.0? of local cost, and will be at the
standard variable interest rate for 20 years with a 5-year grace period. The
Government of Australia would cofinance (parallel finance) some of the
technical assistance, capital works (civil works), and capital assets



- 24 -
(equipment) with a grant of US$6.4 million, bringing total external financing
to US$26.0 million or 67X of project cost net of duties and taxes, covering
90? of foreign cost and 461 of local cost. The Government of Papua New Guinea
(GOPNG) would provide US$16.8 million (of which US$4.3 million is taxes and
duties), about 33? of project cost net of taxes and duties. The Bank would
finance part of incremental staff salaries on a declining basis (other than
contract staff financed at 100?). Over the project implementation period,
Government would meet a progressively larger share of incremental staff sala-
ries, increasing from 20Z in 1989 to 60? in 1993. This gradual increase in
Government's share over a five-year period is considered reasonable since the
project is the first phase of a longer-term program covering about 10-15
years. Moreover, given the 30? increase in total expenditures for staff sala-
ries, by the end of the five-year project implementation period, compared with
the Government's budget allocation in 1988, and the importance of staffing to
meet the institutional development objectives of the project, it would be
appropriate to gradually increase the Government's expected contribution in
the context of constraints on budgetary resources. Anticipated increases in
Government revenues from mineral exploitation are not expected until after the
five-year project period. The financing plan is summarized in Table 3.2.
Assurances were obtained, that prior to effectiveness, the Australian Grant
Agreement would be effective (para. 6.2(a)).
Table 3.2: FINANCING PLAN
IBRO          AIDAB         GOPNO          Tota I
Amount  (X)    Amount  ()   Amount  (X)   Amount  (Xj
(USS'OOO)      (USS'O00)     (US8'000)     (US8'000)
Technical Assistance   2,616.6  47.7  2,214.7  40.8   668.8  12.0  6,490.0  12.6
Capital Works
(Civil Works)     5,702.2  68.1  1,878.4  22.4   794.5  9.6  8,870.1  19.6
Capital Assts
(Equipoent and
Furniture)      6,871.0  64.8  2,811.9  27.7   665.1  8.0  8,850.9  19.5
Incromental Staff
Salaries          5,871.9  64.2      -    -   8,270.9  86.8  9,142.8  21.4
Travel                   -    -        -    -   1,067.6 100.0  1,067.6   2.5
Utilities                -    -        -    -   2,448.8 100.0  2,448.8   5.7
Materials and Suppilo   -    -        -    -   2,078.1 100.0  2,073.1   4.8
Plant and Transport      -    -        -    -    604.6 100.0   604.5   1.4
Special Sorvices         -    -        -    -   3,148.4 100.0  3,148.4   7.4
Other                    -    -        -    -    893.3 100.0   893.3   2.1
Other Emoluments         -    -        -    -   1,203.2 100.0  1,203.2   2.8
Tot l            19.561.6  45.7 60400.0  16.0 16.831.1  89.8 42.792.6  100.0
3.5      Retroactive Financing.  Provision has been made for retroactive
financing of eligible expenditures incurred after January 1, 1989. These



- 25 -
expenditures would consist of technical assistance, capital works (civil
works), capital assets (equipment and furniture) and staff salaries and are
estimated at about US$1 million. All items financed retroactively would be
procured in accordance with Bank guidelines.
C. Procurement
3.6      The proposed procurement arrangements are sun-arized in Table 3.3.
Table 3.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS /a
(US$ million)
ICB     LCB    Other    N.A.   Total
Technical Assistance                                      2.6     2.9/b   5.5
(2.6)   (0.0)   (2.6)
Capital Works (Civil Works)                       5.7             2.7/b   8.4
(5.7)           (0.0)   (5.7)
Capital Assets (Equipment and            5.4                      3.0/b   8.4
Furniture)                            (5.4)                    (0.0)   (5.4)
Incremental Staff Salaries                                        9.0     9.0
(5.9)   (5.9)
Travel                                                            1.1      1.1
(0.0)   (0.0)
Utilities                                                         2.4      2.4
(0.0)   (0.0)
Materials and Supplies                                            2.1      2.1
(0.0)   (0.0)
Plant and Transport                                               0.6      0.6
(0.0)   (0.0)
Special Services                                                  3.2     3.2
(0.0)   (0.0)
Other                                                             0.9      0.9
(0.0)   (0.0)
Other Emoluments                                                  1.2      1.2
(0.0)   (0.0)
Total                                5.4     5.7      2.6    29.1    42.8
(5.4)   (5.7)   (2.6)   (5.9)  (19.6)
/a Costs are inclusive of contingencies, duties and taxes. Figures in
parentheses are to be financed by IBRD.
/b Procurement would follow the Government of Australia procedures.
3.7      Technical Assistance (US$2.6 million). Consultancy services for
279 staff-months of specialized technical assistance financed by the Bank
would be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines.



- 26 -
3.8      Capital Works (Civil Works) (US$5.7 million) financed under the loan
consist of 11, small, geographically dispersed, office buildings and about 90
staff houses in the provinces, would be unsuitable for International
Competitive Bidding (ICB). Individual contracts for specific locations would
range from about US$100,000 to US$1 million. Local contractors are available,
and they would be used in accordance with Local Competitive Bidding (LCB)
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.9      Capital Assets (Equipment and Furniture) (US$5.4 million) financed
under the loan would be procured following International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) procedures, while expenditures below US$100,000 would be subject to
prudent shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.10     Review of Procurement.  Procurement of capital works (civil works)
and capital assets (equipment) above US$200,000 equivalent and all technical
assistance contracts would be subject to prior review by the Bank, except
those financed by the Government of Australia.
D. Disbursements
3.11     Disbursement of the loan would be made for:
(a) 100Z of expenditure for technical assistance and contract staff
salaries;
(b) 10O of expenditures incurred on or before December 31, 1989 and 902
thereafter for capital works (civil works);
(c) 1002 of foreign expenditures, 100Z of local expenditures ex-factory
cost and 852 of local expenditures for other items procured locally
for capital assets (equipment and furniture); and
(d) 802 in 1989; 702 in 1990; 602 in 1991; 502 in 1992; and 402 in 1993
of incremental salaries of local staff.
Disbursements for capital works (civil works) and capital assets (equipment
and furniture) costing less than US$200,000 equivalent and all incremental
staff salaries would be made against statements of expenditure (SOEs).
Documentation supporting these SOEs would be retained by DLPP and made
available for review by Bank missions. All other expenditures would be fully
documented. DLPP would be responsible for preparing reimbursement
applications which, following review and processing by DFP would be submitted
to the Bank for reimbursement. To facilitate disbursement administration,
withdrawal applications would be aggregated to the extent possible, in amounts
of US$50,000 or more prior to submission to the Bank. To allow sufficient
time for submission of final withdrawal applications, following the scheduled
completion date of December 31, 1993, the closing date would be June 30, 1994.
The profile of technical assistance (institutional development) projects in
the Asia Region shows a seven year disbursement period and the profile of the
Papua New Guinea projects, eight years. The recently completed Southern
Highlands Project (Cr.841-PNG) disbursed in seven years. However, given the
January 1, 1989 start-up of the Land Mobilization Program and therefore,
selected project components, combined with the high level of financing of



- 27 -
capital works (civil works), capital assets (equipment and furniture),
technical assistance and staff salaries, disbursements under the project are
expected to be completed in five years. An estimated Schedule of Disbursement
is given in Annex 7.
E. Special Account
3.12     In order to expedite disbursements, Government will establish a
Special Account at the Bank of Papua New Guinea. The Account would be main-
tained in Kina with an authorized allocation of Kina equivalent of US$1.3
million, representing an estimated average of four months expenditures and
would cover all categories financed by the Bank. Except for large
expenditures that would greatly deplete the Special Account, all project
expenditures would be channelled through this Account and withdrawn in
proportion to the percentage being financed.
F. Accounts and Audits
3.13     Project expenditures would be processed in accordance with regular
Government accounting procedures which are sound and consistently applied.
Implementing agency would keep separate project accounts, which would be
consolidated on a quarterly basis by DLPP. Assurances were obtained that:
(a) the implementing agency would prepare and maintain identifiable project
accounts within their own budgeting system, and prepare and maintain
consolidated project accounts and a separate asset register for the project;
(b) project accounts including those for the Special Account would be audited
annually by an independent auditor satisfactory to the Bank; (c) copies of
unaudited annual project accounts would be sent for review to the Bank no
later than six months after the end of each fiscal year, and copies of the
audit report not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year; and
td) the auditor's report would include, inter alia, a statement that funds
disbursed against SOEs were used for the purpose for which they were provided
(para. 6.2(m)).
IV. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Management
4.1      The management of the Land Mobilization Program and therefore, the
project would be the responsibility of the Department of Lands and Physical
Planning (DLPP) and its Secretary. The program/project design, especially
management and implementation, fits within the reorganized Department
(para. 1.20).
4.2      A revitalized Program Management Committee (PMC) would be the primary
vehicle for overall program/project coordination, including oversight and
supervision of the activities of each DLPP division and work unit. Chaired by
the Secretary of DLPP, its members would include the DLPP Deputy Secretaries,
all divisional heads and the regional managers. Representatives from DPM, DFP
and PMU would be invited to attend PMC meetings on an ad hoc basis when the
need for coordination with these Departments is identified. The role of the



- 28 -
PHC will include: (a) consideration of policy submissions for forwarding to
the National Land Management Conmittee (NLMC) (para. 4.8); (b) strategic
planning for the Department; (c) coordination of the preparation of annual
work programs and priorities; (d) allocation of resources within the Depart-
ment; and (e) the monitoring and review of the program/project's
implementation.
4.3      The Policy and Programming Division and its branches and sections
would have a key role for program/project coordination and monitoring:
(a) the Program Management Branch, responsible for coordination of
planning, budgeting, and monitoring the LMP. It would also oversee
the construction of new regional and provincial offices, staff
housing, and the recruitment and administration of technical
assistance;
(b) the Policy and Research Branch, responsible for conducting research
and developing the policies required for the efficient management of
the land sector. It would also be responsible for the amendment of
the various procedures utilized within the Department and the
development of appropriate manuals;
(c) the Provincial Services Branch, responsible for technical support to
the provinces. This would comprise coordination of the mobilization
of customary land, and the decentralization of alienated land
administration to the provinces;
(d) the Publicity Branch, responsible for the establishment of a publi-
city program to support implementation of the LMP;
(e) the Finance Branch, responsible for administering the Department's
finances; and
(f) the Land Information Unit, responsible for the implementation and
ongoing maintenance and development of PNGLIS.
4.4      The newly created Personnel Services Division would be responsible
for all personnel administration, recruitment, staff development and staff
training requirements of the department (paras. 4.21 and 4.25).
4.5      The National Mapping Bureau would operate as a separate division
within the Department and continue to expand its present functions in produc-
tion of topographic and cadastral maps, and maintaining the geodetic control
network (para. 1.17).
4.6      Program Budgeting/Management.  The introduction of program budgeting/
management to DLPP in 1989 will result in a change from budgeting and
accounting on a functional basis to one based upon the achievement of planned
physical targets. Inherent in the implementation of program budgeting and
management is the concept of accountability for physical achievements and
revenue/expenditure performance. The implementation of program management in
DLPP has the following features:



- 29 
(a) a Departmental reorganization supporting program implementation and
accountability;
(b) an hierarchical set of clearly defined Departmental objectives,
together with specification of achievement indicators and key assump-
tions. These are set out in a logical framework format in Annex 5;
tc) under the new DLPP structure, each of its 15 work u-nits is respon-
sible for a particular component or subcomponent of the project/
program. The LMP program design was developed as an aggregate of the
work programs of these 15 work units. An "input/output* worksheet
was developed for each of these work units (see example in Annex 5,
Tables 1, 2, 3 and Project File, Document 1.1), specifying resource
requirements (inputs) and performance indicators (outputs). These
worksheets clearly outline the role of each work unit in contributing
to overall LMP objectives, and the performance outputs for which they
will be held responsible. They would be updated annually as a part
of the budget preparation process;
(d) The Department of Finance and Planning, the Department of the Prime
Minister, and the Department of Personnel Management are responsible
for ensuring that all necessary resources are made available to DLPP
under the terms of the Memorandum of Understanding;
se) the annual DLPP budget allocation will be provided against a revised
chart of accounts, corresponding to the components and subcomponents
of the program; and
(f) the annual budget will be provided entirely as a Public Investment
Program allocation, to enable more flexible management of budgetary
resources by the department.
4.7      The Role of PNGLIS.  The successful introduction and implementation
of the PNGLIS system is a key element in the overall program/project manage-
ment strategy. In addition to the more obvious benefits of rapid and accurate
data retrieval, the innovative transaction processing features of the PNGLIS
system will provide the possibility of enhancing and monitoring the perfor-
mance of all staff involved in the complex land administration processes.
Extension of the PNGLIS system to the provinces is the only way to allow the
gradual decentralization of land administration functions to provincial
governments.
4.8      A National Land Management Committee (NMLC) would be established by
December 31, 1989 to resolve policy and programming matters involving inter-
agency coordination at senior management levels. It would advise the Resource
Management Committee, which in turn reports to the National Executive
Committee (cabinet) (Chart 1). Its responsibilities would include:
(a) formulation of Government's land use policy; (b) monitoring the
implementation of Government's priorities; (c) determination of national
mapping policy; (d) facilitation of resource allocation for planning land
development activities; (e) assessment of environmental and conservation
implications of investment proposals; and (f) provision of a collaborative and
consultative mechanism with all departments concerned with land development.



- 30 -
4.9      NLMC would comprise senior representatives of the Departments of
Agriculture and Livestock, Forests, Transport, Environment and Conservation,
Minerals and Energy, Works, Provincial Affairs, and Finance and Planning. It
would coopt, whenever necessary, representatives from individual provinces,
the private sector (including surveyors and lawyers), and public utilities.
Chaired by the Secretary of DLPP, it would meet twice a year to coincide with
the budget preparation process. Technical work requirements relating to
mapping (and surveying) would be delegated to a Happing Advisory Subcommittee
(para. 2.27).
4.10     DLPP's Policy and Research Branch of the Policy and Programming
Division would act as secretariat in minute taking, word processing, agenda
preparation, meeting arrangements, and multi-sector activity coordination for
the NLMC.
4.11     Other Central Departments.  The Prime Minister's Department,
Department of Finance and Planning, and Department of Personnel Management
were actively involved in the design and preparation of LMP. This
coordination took place informally at the working level through DLPP's active
liaison efforts. These were assisted greatly by the Program Management Unit
(PMU) of the Prime Minister's Department. This assistance in coordination
would continue during implementation of the LMP. In addition, quarterly LMP
review meetings would be conducted, chaired by the Department of Finance and
Planning and attended by DLPP, PHU, and Department of Personnel Management.
In addition to reviewing progress in implementation of the LMP, the review
meetings would facilitate and coordinate central department support for the
LMP, and monitor each Department's compliance with the Memorandum of
Understanding.
4.12     Memorandum of Understanding (MOU).  DLPP has undertaken an important
initiative to manage its institutional environment by signing a Memorandum of
Understanding between DLPP and the other central Departments: Prime
Minister's, Finance and Planning, and Personnel Management. The MOU sets out
agreements reached on both policy and procedural matters that will vitally
effect DLPPs ability to implement the LMP. While the MOU is not legally
binding, it establishes clear agreements and expectations of each department
with respect to funding, personnel recruitment and management, and program
monitoring procedures.
4.13     Department of Justice (DoJ).  The Department of Justice would not be
involved directly in the project, although it is expected that DoJ will
concurrently initiate a training program for land magistrates, and assist in
some of the proposed legislative reform. The Justice Department is respon-
sible for administration of the Land Titles Commission and the National Land
Commission. The Land Titles Commission is primarily involved in considering
applications for tenure conversion of customary land, usually from customary
status to alienated land with title. The National Land Commission is
concerned with clarifying government's title to state lands and resolving
compensation claims. DLPP undertakes any necessary cadastral surveying and
updates its land records of parcels affected by the Commissions' decisions.
The Justice Department also has two lawyers who provide legal advise to DLPP.
The National and Supreme Court act as appellate tribunals for decisions of
lower courts involving alienated land issues. Local and District Land Courts



- 31 -
under the Justice Department handle alienated and customary land disputes.
Magistrates in the provinces act as Land Court Magistrates. The University of
Papua New Guinea (UPNG) conducts a training program for magistrates.
4.14     The dispute resolution process in an integral part of the land
administration process, but shortcomings in the current settlement procedures
have led to a backlog of unresolved disputes. These problems are likely to be
exacerbated in the short term by the raising of currently dormant issues by
applications for customary land registration. For many years, there have been
calls for the appointment of a special cadre of Land Magistrates possessing
upgraded training in land-related subjects. In addition, consideration has
been given in recent times to rationalization of the various bodies respon-
sible for determining land disputes. A consultant lawyer would review the
existing mechanisms and organizations responsible for the resolution of land
disputes and make recommendations on their rationalization, reinforcement and
training requirements (Subcomponent 2.1, para. 2.16).
4.15     Provincial Governments.  Five provincial governments are expected to
participate in the program of decentralization of alienated land administra-
tion during the project. Each of these participating provincial governments
would create a consolidated Lands Division under a Senior Provincial Lands
Officer, with responsibility for land administration (land allocation,
valuation, acquisition, and revenue generation); surveys, titling, physical
planning; and (where appropriate) customary land mobilization (Chart 7). The
internal structure and staffing of these provincial lands offices would vary
from province to province. In particular, the size and role of the customary
land mobilization section would vary according to the needs and priorities of
individual provinces.
4.16     Under the LMP, DLPP will encourage provinces to set up Land
Management Committees (LMC) to establish provincial government policies and
cross-sectoral links for the mobilization of both alienated and customary
land. The membership of these committees will include: Provincial Secretary
(Chairman); Provincial Planner; District Officer (Lands); Division of Primary
Industry; Division of Forests; Division of Transport; DLPP Provincial Manager;
DLPP Physical Planner; representatives of customary landowners; and other
representatives of the private sector as required. It will be the role of
each LMC to establish land mobilization policies and priorities. These will
be accommodated initially within DLPP's work program in the province. Once a
province has an established land administration capacity, the LMC will deter-
mine the work program of the province's Lands Division. The LMC will also
provide the linkage between the provincial District Officer (Lands) staff and
national DLPP staff in the province to ensure a coordination of their efforts.
4.17     Private Sector.  The private sector would have an important role in
the project as participant and beneficiary. Professionals involved in land
matters include private surveyors, lawyers, commercial bankers, and individual
landholders. The role of private surveyors in undertaking cadastral surveys,
currently undertaken by DLPP staff, would be reviewed, together with DLPP's
fee structure. There is also scope for the use of private valuers. The study
comparing the present leasehold system requiring a multitude of Government
approvals with other systems of land tenure in which market forces are allowed



- 32 -
to play a larger role (para. 2.16, Annex 8, position 2.1.7) would also analyze
the incentives for the private investor.
B. Management of Technical Assistance
4.18     A comprehensive series of technical assistance inputs (520 staff-
months of consultancies costing US$5.5 million) has been identified for the
project (Annex 8; Terms of Reference in Project File, Document 1.2). These
range from short-term special studies, to the recruitment of long-term
consultants to assist in the institutional strengthening activities. The
management burden would be distributed as follows. Of the total technical
assistance of 520 staff-months, 241, with relatively less direct linkages to
other project components, would be administered by the Australian
International Development Assistance Bureau (AIDAB). This includes one team
totalling 66 staff-months for land data verification of which is already in
place; and 166 staff-months for remote sensing and geodetic network
adjustments. The remaining 279 staff-months would be financed by the Bank and
administered by DLPP. Of this, 148 would be four long-term consultants; 104
staff-months for 12 different consultants or studies related to DLPP's
different work units; and 12 for contractual services. DLPP would be assisted
in administering the 279 staff-months of consultancies by a local accounting/
management firm which would assist in recruitment and administration of
consultants (15 staff-months, Annex 8, position 1.1.1.). Technical
supervision of consultants thus recruited would remain the responsibility of
the relevant work units within DLPP. Assurances were obtained that Government
would enter into consultant contracts prior to loan effectiveness (para.
6.2(b)) for the followings (a) Head Program Management Branch (para. 2.10(a);
Annex 8, position 1.1.2); (b) Technical Assistance Administration (para.
2.10(f); Annex 8, position 1.1.1); (c) Organization and Management Specialist
(para. 2.15; Annex 8, position 2.1.8); and (d) Staff Development and Training
Specialist (para. 2.17b; Annex 8, position 2.2.1).
C. Monitoring
4.19     As a part of the overall program budgeting/management approach, a
basic management information system has been designed. This consists of an
hierarchical set of indicators, ranging from performance indicators for each
DLPP work unit to achievement indicators for each component and LMP objective
(Annex 5 and Project File Document 1.1). Monitoring of the program/project
will take place at a number of levelst
(a) work unit managers will monitor work unit inputs and outputs as a day
to day management task, and report monthly to the Policy and
Programming Division in the form of a summary work unit report;
(b) the Program Management Branch of the Policy and Programming and
Policy Division will collate and summarize the work unit reports for
a quarterly internal review by the PMC, highlighting deviations from
expected outcomes that should be responded to by the PMC;
(c) the Program Management Branch will also be responsible for compiling
the results of PMC's internal review in the form of a Quarterly



- 33 -
Secretary's Report. This report will form the basis of an external
quarterly review with DFP, DPM, and the Prime Minister's department;
and
(d) joint Government/Bank implementation reviews will be conducted at
approximately six monthly intervals, with one major annual review
scheduled for March/April of each year, to coincide with the forma-
tive stage of the annual budgetary process. The Government of
Australia would participate in the reviews. The outputs and inputs
of each work unit during the past year would be reviewed, the work
program for the current year would be adjusted to the budget
allocations and the work program and staff and budget requirements
would be formulated for the following year. The input/output
worksheets prepared for each DLPP work unit (Annex 5, Tables 1, 2, 3)
would facilitate this process and function in aggregate as a
*rolling" five-year plan for DLPP, allowing flexibility for LMP re-
design over time as circumstances dictate. Assurances were obtained
that a joint annual review would be in conducted by April 30 in each
year and that Government would carry out such changes to the Program
as agreed with the Bank (para. 6.2(n)).
D. Evaluation
4.20     Within six months of project completion, DLPP would prepare a final
evaluation report. This report would include an evaluation of the institu-
tional, financial, and socio-economic impact of the project and would be used
for the Project Completion Report (PCR)
E. Staffing Requirements
4.21     As of April 1, 1988, the staff on strength in DLPP totalled 424, of
whom 372 were graduate staff. Under the LMP reorganization, the staff on
strength in the Department would be increased by 342 over five years, i.e. by
146 staff to a total of 570. This staffing level would still be below the
level of 632 established positions. The seniority and calibre of the staff
would also be increased, so that in five years, 432 of total staff would be
graduates. The incremental staff requirements would be distributed amongst
LMP components as follows:



- 34 -
Component                     Incremental Staff over 5 years
National    Contract   Total
1.  Program Management                          25           0        25
2.  General Institution Building                12           6        18
3.  Mobilizing Alienated Land                   79           2        81
4.  Mobilizing Customary Land                    2           0         2
5. Decentralization Alienated Land
Administration                             3           0         3
6.  Land and Resource Information               10           7        17
Total        131         15        146
Detailed projections by year for the whole Department are presented in
Annex 1.
4.22     Thirty nine graduate position would be filled in the first year of
the program. Of these, the key positions to be filled are as follows:
Component                Sub-Component                  Key Position
1.   Program Management       1.1 Management                 1.1.1 Deputy Secretary.
Technical Services
1.1.2 Asst. Secretary,
Programme
Management
2.   General Institution      2.1 Policy and Institutional  2.1   Head, Policy and
Building                   Infrastructure                   Research Branch
2.2 Personnel Services         2.2   Asst. Secretary.
Personnel Services
3.   Mobilizing Alienated    3.1 Southern Region             3.1   Regional Manager
Land                                                          (Southern)
3.2 Northern Region            3.2   Regional Manager
(Northern)
3.3 Island Region              3.3   Regional Manager
(Island)
3.4 Highlands Region           3.4   Regional Manager
(Highlands)
4.23     Staff requirement projections for the LMP were adjusted to match as
far as possible realistic projections of the likely supply of senior national
or contract (non-citizen) staff in each professional discipline. Annex 1
presents the detailed staff demand and supply projections. These were arrived
at as follows: DLPP incremental staff requirements over five years were first
estimated; allowances were made for "wastage", i.e. recruitment to replace
staff lost through attrition; senior staff requirements for expanded provin-
cial offices as a result of decentralization were then added to arrive at the
estimated total demand for senior staff, by discipline. The likely supply of
national graduates and diplomats from various tertiary training institutions
was then estimated, together with the likely proportion of fresh graduates
from each stream that could be recruited by DLPP. The likely surplus or



- 35 -
deficit over 5 years for each professional stream (assuming 5 provinces take
over decentralized land functions in 5 years, and 2Z wastage of DLPP staff) is
as follows:
Profession     Total Demand      Likely Supply     Likely Surplus/Deficit
Physical Planners         12                6                        -6
Surveyors                 44               25                       -19
Valuers and Land
Managers               51               81                        30
Technical Officers        16               15                         5
Draftsmen                 10               15                         5
Land Administrators       39               38                        -1
Total                171               179                         8
4.24     Under the prevailing assumptions, the likely supply and demand of
senior staff over five years in most of the relevant professions is in
balance. The exception is the surveying profession, in which projected demand
exceeds supply by a total of 19 graduate surveyors. This is not expected to
create a bottleneck, however, because the Surveyor-General has identified a
pool of 20-25 graduate surveyors in the country available for recruitment to
DLPP in 1989. Thus, the overall projected LMP requirements for senior staff
recruitments are likely to be met from future tertiary graduates and/or
existing staff on the labour market.
F. Staff Development and Training
4.25     DLPP's staff development and training functions would be signifi-
cantly strengthened under the LMP, in order to enhance DLPP's capacity to
deliver lands services to its clients (Annex 1). Under the reorganization, a
new Personnel Services Division has been created (para 4.4), and the staff
assigned to these functions would be increased from three to eight. The Staff
Development Branch would undertake staff recruitment; establish and maintain a
staff evaluation and development system; develop career path structures for
the various professional and administrative streams in the department; and
assist managers of other DLPP work units to take greater responsibility for
the performance, development and counselling of their subordinate staff.
4.26     The Staff Training Branch would be responsible for the development of
an in-house training capacity, in addition to coordinating staff attendances
at external courses. One senior officer would take responsibility for the
design and delivery of management training; one senior officer would be
responsible for coordinating attendance at external technical courses; and a
further two senior officers will be responsible for conducting training in
administrative procedures for both DLPP and provincial lands staff. A consul-
tant staff development and training specialist would engaged for a total of 40
months to assist the Personnel Services Division develop its capacity in these
areas (Annex 8 position 2.2.1).



- 36 -
4.27     The overall program costs for the Personnel Services Division are
estimated at K 1.7 million (Annex 5, Table 1). In addition, the costs of
overseas training courses which would be met separately by bilateral donors on
a case-by-case basis, is estimated to be K 760,000 over five years. The
incremental costs of staff development and training initiatives under the LMP
are in broad terms equivalent to the Personnel Services Division's incremental
costs. Thus, project staff development and training costs under LMP would be
K 1.2 million (Annex 5 Table 3). By end 1991, the Division is expected to
provide modular in-house training in management and administration procedures
totalling 300 attendances per year, with a typical attendance being for a
three-day course, and with many staff attending more than one course per year
(Annex 5, Table 1). The Transitional Training Unit of the PMH will assist in
the design and delivery of five management training modules, training DLPP
recruitment staff and operations division managers as priority target groups.
Over the five year program some 90 DLPP staff would benefit from overseas
courses or work attachments, averaging six months in duration.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries
5.1      The project would help to provide the infrastructure, policies and
legal framework essential for the orderly management and use of land
resources. The benefits are difficult to quantify with an acceptable margin
of error, and, therefore, no economic rate of return has been calculated. The
project would revitalize DLPP and would enable it through reorganization,
staff training and introduction of rationalized procedures to service the
land-related sectors of the economy more efficiently. Speedier allocation and
transfer of alienated land would encourage investors. Stocktaking of about
300,000 ha of alienated land that has not been leased would lead to better use
of some of this land. If about 50,000 ha of this land could be brought by
able developers into cash crop production, for example, it could yield annual
export earnings from cocoa or oil palm of about US$40 million. The registra-
tion of all leasehold titles would lead to earlier availability of mortgage
loans for development. The customary land sector, from which about 75Z of the
value of rural production comes, has hitherto developed without making
substantial claims on land administration services. However, the present
egalitarian system of land allocation by clans is coming under increasing
pressure from population growth and the cash economy with related technologies
weakening the security of tenure. Such security is required to encourage
investments in new crops and technologies and in measures to maintain soil
fertility. There is no proper intervention mechanism for customary land mobi-
lization. The project provides for the development and monitoring of legal
and administrative systems under existing legislation (Lease-Leaseback and
Tenure Conversion) and under the new East Sepik Land Registration legislation
and the eventual introduction of similar legislation in other provinces. Such
registration of customary land already facilitates urban development by
enabling land groups to lease land for housing development (Vewak). Further-
more, the coordination procedures established under the project would improve
land use planning and reduce duplication of efforts by different agencies.
The gradual decentralization of land administration would also strengthen the
provincial administrations.



- 37 -
B. Impact on Government Expenditure and Revenue
5.2      With its emphasis on cost-effectiveness, the project should promote a
higher level of governihent services per unit cost. The monitoring would be
based on specific indicators of changes in efficiency (Annex 5, Table 1). The
management information system (MIS) to be developed by the MIS Specialist
(Annex 8, position 1.1.3) should assist DLPP to manage its expenditures and
budget more efficiently. Overall, the project will result in some increase in
recurrent government spending. However, the productivity of these
expenditures would be substantially increased.
5.3      DLPP's major revenue source is land lease rentals (84.82 of total
land revenues). Other significant sources are sale of allotments (102),
sundry receipts (1.72), license fees and royalty payments (1.22), valuation
fees (12) and survey fees (0.62). Surplus earnings from sale of maps,
surveyor's registration, valuers registration and other fees each contribute
0.22 on less of revenues. A detailed DLPP revenue forecast for 1989-1993 is
in Annex 9.
5.4      The Government currently collects land revenues through cash offices
throughout the provinces which forward the funds to the DFP. However, inade-
quate record keeping and failure in crediting funds to DLPP revenue accounts
does not allow clear identification of defaulters. A study under the project
would identify an improved system (para. 2.16(c)).
5.5      The land lease rent due roughly equals DLPP's 1988 budget (K 9-10
million). Rent collection, however, is only 732 of rents due. About half the
leases are in arrears and cumulative rent arrears seem to remain at a level of
about K 9 million. The rent review under the project might result in the
lowering of rents on some types of leases but the review of the rent collec-
tion system is expected to more than compensate for this.
5.6      It can be estimated that about half of DLPP's budget is spent in
activities which are not generating land lease rent (mapping, administering
customary land, land acquisition for public purposes). This means that DLPP
spends about 502 of the land rent it receives on administering alienated land.
This is not cost-effective, even after taking into account the fact that rents
are sometimes set to achieve the highest economic or social but not financial
benefits. Therefore, the project includes procedural amendments and a study
on alternative systems of land allocation and transfer relying to a greater
extent on market forces with much reduced Government intervention.
C. Environmental Impact
5.7      The Government has already adopted an excellent policy and regulatory
framework for the evaluation and assessment of the environmental impact of
investment proposals. This assessment is undertaken by the Department of
Environment and Conservation (DEC). No investment proposals can be
implemented without the sanction of this Department. The project would
strengthen the selection and implementation of environmentally beneficial land
use proposals through the participation by the Department in the National Land
Management Committee (NLMC) which would be constituted under the project. The



- 3s -
responsibilities of the NLHC include land use policy formulation and the
assessment of the environmental and conservation implications of investment
proposals (paras. 4.8, 4.9). In addition, the development of the Land Use
Information System (PNGLIS) under the project and its linkage with the
Resource Information System (PNGRIS) would provide technically sound data
bases to influence both the formulation of policy and direct investment along
environmentally sound programs.
D. Impact on Women and Tribal Groups
5.8      Women play an important role in agriculture as subsistence farmers
and their rights to use land are, therefore, essential to family health and
nutrition. They farm mainly on customary lands. With the exception of a few
clans which are matrilineal, women do not generally play an active role in
decision-making within the clans. As legal and procedural changes are under-
taken to facilitate the mobilization of customary land, their impact on
women's land use rights and ensuring that existing rights are not undermined
would be analyzed during reviews of draft legislation. However, these changes
are likely to affect not so much the production of foodcrops, which is tradi-
tionally women's work as the production of cashcrops in which men are more
predominant.
5.9      The vast majority of the population of Papua New Guinea derive their
access to and rights in land through their affiliation to clans and lesser
groups (kinship and family). There are an estimated 700 clans in PNG which
vary both in their control of land use and in their economic and financial
sophistication. With the increasing penetration of cash crops and involvement
in market transactions, and the consequent rise in land values, group controls
over land transactions and use are weakening. Informal adaptations to
changing situations are tending to reduce individual access to land and allow
for greater inequalities in land holding. The security of tenure formerly
provided under the customary system is being jeopardized by these more recent
developments. In the result, formal recognition of land rights and the
control of transactions is necessary to provide greater security of tenure and
to avoid the potential for land accumulation by some individuals at the
expense of other group members. The project aims to provide this security and
to foster development. The project aims to achieve these goals through the
formulation of a national framework law relating to customary lands. The
provinces would then be free to legislate subsidiary legislative frameworks
taking into account the systems of land tenure and the levels of development
within each province. In this process spontaneous, but controlled, develop-
ment would be fostered and the clans and other groups would be free to choose
the method by which the rights to land are recognized (whether it be, for the
time being, through the recognition of clan or group ownership and distribu-
tion of subsidiary rights, or individual ownership). There would, in conse-
quence, be a legislative recognition of the gradual evolution of rights in
land under a framework which reduces the potential for uncontrolled transac-
tions and permits each group to use land in accordance with its perceived
needs and economic opportunities.



- 39 -
E. Risks
5.10     The main risks include ineffective management of the Land
Mobilization Program, inability to coordinate and absorb 520 staff-months of
technical assistance, quality of staff that can be retained or recruited into
key positions, inadequate budget allocations, unvillingness or inability of
national government agencies and provinces to cooperate and use coordinating
mechanisms, and the failure of parliament to approve amendments to land laws.
To minimize these risks, the project design includes: a management component
and technical assistance for management and information systems; a Memorandum
of Understanding on project implementation between the Department and other
key departments and joint (Government and Bank) annual reviews of the program
to facilitate effective management and implementation; provision of
consultancy services to administer the technical assistance and the
responsibility for managing the work and absorbing the output of technical
assistance assigned to individual work-units of the Department; staff training
and development activities; and establishes the National Land Management
Committee. The advanced state of project preparation and the Government
decision to begin implementation of the Land Mobilization Program on January
1, 1989 demonstrates Government's commitment to the project.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1      Assurances were obtained from the Government that:
(a) the reorganization of DLPP is completed by December 31, 1989
(pare. 2.10);
(b) the National Land Management Committee and the Mapping Advisory
Committee are established by December 31, 1989 (para. 2.10 and 2.27);
(c) regularlf scheduled meetings of the Program Management Committee are
reinstituted by December 31, 1989 according to agreed terms of
reference (para. 2.10);
(d) a study on nature and extent of incomplete land administration
transactions would be carried out by December 31, 1990 and DLPP would
thereafter, promptly prepare and carry out an action program (para.
2.11);
(e) the role of private surveyors in undertaking surveys required for
land allocation is reviewed, including review of DLPP survey fees by
December 31, 1990 (para. 2.12);
(f) the reviews of the land lease rent determination policies of DLPP in
relation to leasehold properties would be completed by December 31,
1989 and a system, taking into account the comments of the Bank on
the review, be established by January 1, 1990; and the review of the
existing rent collection systems is completed by June 30, 1990 and a
system, taking into account the comment of the Bank on the review, is
established by December 31, 1991 (para. 2.16);



- 40 -
(g) legislative and procedural amendments are drafted to support
improvements in administration procedures for alienated land by June
30, 1990 (para. 2.16);
(h) study of alternative land allocation and transfer systems for
alienated land, allowing market forces to determine land allocation,
transfers and values, is completed by December 31, 1992 (para. 2.16);
(i) appoint a consultant to review the development of a national
framework legislation for registration of customary land not later
than December 31, 1990 (para. 2.16);
(j) review of the existing land dispute settlement mechanisms and inves-
tigation of options for resolution of existing difficulties is
completed by December 31, 1990, and furnish to the Bank an action
plan by December 31, 1991 and thereafter carry out such action plan,
taking into account the comments of the Bank (para. 2.16);
(k) amendment to the Survey Coordination Act is drafted by December 31,
1990 requiring deposition of all maps and aerial photography with NMB
(para. 2.16);
(1) key DLPF positions are filled by December 31, 1989 (para. 2.17,
4.22);
(m)  audit of project accounts and Specdl Account (para. 3.13); and
(n) annual reviews (Government/Bank) re conducted by April 30 of each
year and Government to carry out such changes to the Program as
agreed with the Bank (para. 4.19).
6.2      As conditions of loan effectiveness Government would:
(a) fullfil the conditions of effectiveness of the Australian Grant
Agreement (para. 3.4); and
(b) enter into contracts with key consultants (para. 4.18).
6.3      With the above agreements and assurances, the project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$19.6 million with 20 year maturity at the
standard variable rate, including a grace period of five years. The Borrower
would be the Independent State of Papua New Guinea.



- 41 -                              AM= 1
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
LAND MOBILIZATION PROJECT
Staff Development and TraininR
A. Training Needs
1.       A major constraint to the effective operation of DLPP is the lack of
training of its staff in both technical work skills and managerial skills.
The Department currently suffers from a low level of productivity and staff
morale, reflecting lack of knowledge and skills, and perceived promotional
constraints within the Department. Lack of management and supervisory skills
is a recurring complaint throughout the provincial offices as well as
headquarters, and is a major constraint to Departmental efficiency. Although
land administration is a complex and legal field, it has low status as a
career and most land administration staff have had limited pre-service and on-
the-job training.
2.       DLPP has prepared a Staff Development and Training Issue Paper
(Project File, Document No: 3.4), which discusses in detail weaknesses in
DLPPs staff, administrative, managerial and technical skills. In summary, the
key weaknesses observed are as follows:
Managerial
-    shortages of staff trained and experienced in complex legal
procedures;
-    inadequate supervision and management of subordinate staff;
-    inadequate delegation of functions to subordinate staff;
-    lack of accountability for attendance and performance;
-   weak staff recruitment capabilities;
-    poor programming and time management;
-    poor program coordination and monitoring; and
-    poor budget preparation and financial control.
Technical
-    inadequate valuation techniques;
-    shortage of registered surveyors;
-    limited mathematics skills for draftsmen;



- 42 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
_   weak computer technology skills;
-    inadequate rural planning skills for physical planners.
Administrative
-    poor records management
-    inadequate job rotation
-    inadequate basic office procedures
-    limited English comprehension
-    inadequate filing skills
-    poor report writing skills
-    inadequate grasp of basic land administration procedures.
B. Organi-%ation and Staffing
3.       Under the Land Mobilization Program, personnel administration, and
staff development and training will be the responsibility of a new division-
-the Personnel Services Division. This division will be headed by an
Assistant Secretary who will be responsible to the Deputy Secretary--Technical
Services for its operation.
4.       The Personnel Services Division will consist of three branches (Chart
5):
(a) Personnel Branch headed by the Administrative Officer. This branch
will be responsible for day to day administration of the existing
personnel functions within the Department, including the
administration of the payroll. This unit will also be responsible
for maintaining the establishment and staffing records of the
Department and liaising with the Administration Clerks established in
each of the regions to process recurrent personnel administration
matters;
(b) Staff Development Branch headed by the Principal Staff Development
Officer. The Staff Development Branch will be responsible for the
recruitment of staff to the Department, and for establishing and
maintaining a staff evaluation and development system for
departmental staff. The branch will also be responsible for the
development of career path structures for the various professional
and administrative streams within the Department. It will support
the introduction of program management techniques by assisting
managers of the various organizational units within the Department to
take a greater responsibility for the performance, development and
counselling of their subordinate staff. This role will be supported
by the management training to be provided by the Staff Training
Branch; and



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
(c) Staff Training Branch headed by the Principal Training Officer. This
branch will be responsible for the development of an in-house
training capacity for the Department, in addition to the coordination
of staff attendance at external courses both withn PNG and overseas.
5.       The existing staff complement of 3 responsible for training and staff
development will be increased to 8. Further, the levels of the positions
significantly elevated to attract the calibre of personnel necessary to
deliver the quality of training and staff development necessary for the
Department. The division will thus be enabled to give increased emphasis to
in-house management and land administration training, on-the-job and
counterpart training, recruitment, manpower planning and career path planning.
6.       There are two key positions in the new Personnel Services Division
structure for which technical assistance (as Contract Officers) will probably
be necessary and for which it has been budgeteds the Principal Training
Officer and the Management Trainer. Other positions will be staffed by
nationals, but it is anticipated that they will require technical assistance
in order to perform at the level required. For the Land Administration
trainers, the technical assistance will be particularly important in the
development of training manuals.
7.       The form of technical assistance proposed is a Staff Development and
Training Specialist for a total of 40 man-months: 30 of these would be during
the first 3 years of the program, and 10 as short-term consultation over the
remaining years (Annex 8, position 2.2.1) The terms of reference for the
technical assistance appear in Project File Document 1.2.
C. Staff Recruitment and Development Initiatives
8.       Recruitment of sufficiently skilled staff in a timely and efficient
manner and their retention within the Department, is of central importance to
the implementation of the Land Mobilization Program. Recruitment of an
additional 146 staff over the five years of the program is required to bring
the Department up to strength (Annex 1 Table C).
9.       In an effort to overcome some of the difficulties currently
experienced in the recruitment of staff, DLPP has agreed upon a Memorandum of
Understanding with the central agencies (consisting of the Departments of
Finance and Planning, Personnel Management and the Department of the Prime
Minister). The MOU provides for certain delegations to DLPP in relation to
staff recruitment and provides a framework for coordination of DLPP and
central agency activities.
10.      Within DLPP there has been little or no career path planning, job
rotation or equipping of professionals to move into management positions. One
of the duties of the Principal Staff Development and Training Specialist will
be to develop a series of career path models for each career stream in the
department. Each model would outline the recruitment entry point, salary
levels, number of years experience and the appropriateinecessary training
required for each incremental level. The same officer would introduce and



-44 -
MONIX 1
Page 4
monitor a system of staff performance appraisals. He/she would advise
supervisors on the use of the system, and appropriate responses to emerging
problems.
D. Training Initiatives
11.      Training initiatives under the LMP have been categorized into three
streams, with senior staff trainers allocated to each streams
(a)  Management Training.  The Department is currently suffering from a
lack of trained managers. Promotion within the Department since
independence has been rapid and has not been matched with training of
the staff to equip them in their new positions. Further underlining
the necessity of this training is the introduction of program
budgeting/management, which seeks to strengthen the accountability of
managers for the output of their units. These managers must be
equipped to effectively manage their staff. The advantages of
sending staff on management courses are seriously eroded by the
absence of the officer from his/her duties and the use of
inappropriate case studies from other Departments or overseas
organizations. In order to avoid these disadvantages it is proposed
to provide on-the-job type training at executive level. Modules
developed for senior managers would be of two types:
(i) functional courses: intensive short residential courses in key
management areas tailored to meet individual needs in the
departments; where appropriate, external agencies such as the
Administrative College would be contracted to design and deliver
such modules. The Transitional Training Unit of PMU will
organize five such modules during 1989 as an interim measure;
and
(ii) contextual seminars/workshps: short consultative workshops
and/or field tours for senior managers, focussing on major
issues and problems facing the department.
(b)  Technical Training.  The provision of in-house detailed technical
training for the discipline of surveying, valuation and physical
planning by the department is regarded as being non-feasible. The
Department has been well served in the past by external technical
courses both in country and overseas and by overseas work
attachments. These will be continued, but an officer within the
Branch will be responsible for the coordination of this training
through liaison with the Surveyor General, Valuer General and Chief
Physical Planner, and the Regional Managers of the Operations
Division. Current overseas technical training arrangements for
surveyors, valuers and physical planning staff are adequate, and will
be continued with donor assistance. Training for land administrators
will be extended from the current diploma or degree in land
management at the University of Technology (UNITECH), Lae to include
advanced management techniques in land registration and
administration at overseas institutions. Over 5 years, approximately



- 45 -                                ANEX 1
page 5
90 DLPP staff would benefit from an overseas course or work
attachment for an average of six months. Short courses on technical
and computer operating matters will be arranged in Port Moresby in
conjunction with external agencies such as UNITECH and the National
Computer Center.
(c) Administrative Training. The bulk of the Department's training
requirements relate to the training of staff in administrative
procedures for land administration, surveying, valuation and physical
planning. The most arduous of these requirements is that relating to
land administration. The existing legislation governing land is
extremely complex and no manuals exist to guide staff on the
supporting administrative procedures. In an effort to improve the
land administration procedures the department has acquired a
computerized transaction processing and database system--PNGLIS.
Once implemented (mid 1989) all land administration transactions and
all the administration of surveys, valuations and physical planning
will be processed on the system. Responsibility for the initial
training and implemtentation of the system will rest with the Land
Information Unit (LIU). Responsibility for subsequent training will
become the responsibility of the Staff Training Branch. In addition
to training Head Office and Regional Office staff, this branch will
also be responsible for training provincial office staff: initially
in their field related functions, and subsequently to support the
decentralization process initiated under the LMP. To support the
training of the Department's staff, the Land Information Unit is
introducing a development database in the PNGLIS computer system.
This database is a copy of the live database and will enable DLPP
staff to be trained on administrative procedures and to practice
their computer skills without effecting the live PNGLIS data. This
will provide a very effective training tool to the department.
Access to this database will be provided to Unitech in Lae to enable
the use of PNGLIS to be included in their courses.
E. Performance Indicators and Resource Requirements
12.      Key performance indicators and overall LMP resource requirements for
the Personnel Services Division are shown in Annex 5 Table 1. This table,
which is an example of the basic input/output worksheet developed for each
DLPP work units (para. 3.20(c)), projects a total budget allocation over 5
years of K 1.7 million. The costs of overseas courses and work attachments
have not been included in these budgets, as they would be met separately from
bilateral sources on a case by case basis. Over five years, the costs of such
bilateral programs are estimated to total K 760,000. The total resource
allocation projected for staff development and training is therefore K 2.5
million. Annex 5 Table 1 is supported by Annex 5 Table 2 showing detailed
assumptions of incremental and total staff numbers for the Personnel Services
Division by year.
13.      Annex 5 Table 3 presents incremental LMP costs for the Personnel
Services Division (i.e. project costs). Because almost all of the incremental
resources programmed for this work unit will be devoted to enhanced staff



- 46 -                                AMhI
Page 6
development and training activity, this table also represents the project's
resource allocation to staff development and training.  Baseline project costs
over the five years of the program are estimated at K 1.16 million, of which
K 529,000 would be for incremental staff salaries, and K 280,000 for
consultant technical assistance.
14.      Improvements resulting from the revitalization of the staff
development and training functions will include:
(a) the establishment of an active dialogue with the heads of
organizational structures within DLPP to identify training needs and
coordinate their satisfaction;
(b) the provision of in-house management and land administration training
will enable the Department's managers and land administrators to
receive training that is tailored to their particular needs, as
opposed to generic, off-the-shelf training that is less closely
related to specific requirements.
(c) a renewed emphasis on on-the-job-training (by supervisors) and
counterpart training. Training guidelines will be developed and
simple training-of-trainers will be provided to supervisors and
exxpatriates who have these training responsibilities. The PNG
Administrative College course on Training Skills for Supervisors will
be drawn upon, both in terms of sending key staff to that course and
in terms of making use of that course's materials.
(d) the development of an emotional bond between employees and DLPP;
employees, especially new ones, must be made to feel that they
matter. As a first step in this process, a complete induction
orientation will be developed, using material already available from
DLPP and DPM, and adding other material relevant to new employee
orientation.



II6 N                                            UAIJMUT I CU LAN I ISICAL ?IfLUM   UII IOILIS1A?IOI NDOWN
(2 I UASIMI)   1U/KU? frojectiuu                    SlAV?  INKOJI    RS.  1U1  - 1113
A. UNV  ACTUL shillS?g LUiLS, iRA                                                                           F
4...................... 5 TMI  ......   .........                                                                  .... oIm       H U?........)    C011            Coon    Up   KMlI             MA6L
Staff Category            flmuN                          SD  1?         my  Surges    YalGes Chiift~to  liuVr   e; Suh                      Prth  lhind, figlkeede  I6.1,  Pecet                LI                      CnES
Secret  Accual PelAirog  hile It         uSSR                                        il                                                                                                                       A
I. CuIANTIS                                                                                                                                                                                                                      III        31
ftp$. piaaare I                                                    I3                                                                                       2          3                                                Is
co                                                I                                       2                                       2         2                                                           A
SrAuptre          I                                                I                   I                                                 2        6         6          I                                       6        26
co                                                I                                                                                                                                                     I   9   
l'aud  auagerul1           3                   3                   1         I                                                 3        32        12       II        II                              4                  II
co                            3                   3         III
co
Sob total      I        3          I         3         S        I          I         1         4         3        6         3         Is       36        24        23         6          O         4         6       133
cot       4         I         I                   3         I         I         0         2         S         S         I         2         2         9         S              6    I         I        26
2  IIPLOUA?IS                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1i4        36
tech  Officers  I                                                  0                   3                                                 6        It        13         5                                      26        36
co                                                                                                                                                                                            I          I                                  I
Iruteet a        I                                                                     2                                                A                    9         1                                      93        Is
co                                                                                                                                          2         I                                       3         6
LaudAibis        I.                                                                                                                               1   2               Is9                                               31 
Other           I' I                                                                             I                            2                                                                                          3
Sub-total      I        I         I         I         I         I         I         $         I         I         I         I        22        31        21        24         6         S          S        33       It?
co        I         s         I         I         I         I         I         I        e         a          a        g         *          2         I         I         I         I         4         I
3 CRISICL
Clerks           I        2         6                             It                   2        3                              3       It              6              8                                        6        31        is        91
It?U       OperalI        2                    9                  3                   I         2                              1        2         I          I         92                                      1        it
Sekhtotal      5        4         S         I         6        13         6         3         1         I         5         4        IS         1         1         9         *         *          2         I        13
401mu            I                                                I                                                                    is        is         I         9                                                 45        45 
coLSI                             I                                                                                                                                                                              I                     
5   is o I        SI                                                                                                            9         2         4         2         S         5         61                 3
StefflI               1         1         1         6        20         2         II       92         6         5         3        Is        83        16        31                    I       92         36      42        44 
atabllehaet.         II        it        12         4        Jo         6         1        Is        14        It        16        13       III       in        II2         2         3         16       In       63
kptl. wec,uclce           4         2         3         4        Is         6                   3         6        It                  11        22        36        43         2          3         4        42      3m



nK       z    nH.n.s             ll         tl         t          3          U6         36          II        tl         UI         11         01         H1          1          L         UI         5          31          II         SI        UQIU15
............... .................... ............................................................................                        .......     .....................     .......     ....     .....                                 ..................          ................................................. ...............................
tR         *1         I          I          I          I          S          I          I          t          I          I          I          S          I I                    I         t                               J03
NIS @35                0  I    t                      :  GI                 n.  wl tI                         u  li    a  tl  tl                                     31    *                          t          *  11                 Ut I                    WL
*                                                                                                                                                                    6 e   |  |                                            03
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ fuii 'I   |*5 
I                                                                                                                                                                                                                          03         nuo  '0
............................................................. ...................................... ......................................................................................................... .............................................................................................
oil        *          t                                           o                                                      I I  *                           I nt  I  I                                  I t        t 3       I'       0 -Nus
.................................................................................. ......................................... ................................................................I........... .............. ... ..... ..............I... .......  ....... ...............................
i t        I                                                       I                    I I                                1  1               I          I          I                     I                     t         I t @d0  M  I
St         M          "I                                                                            It t  I I  II                               It tllt*VI 1|                                                                           t        |~113
1311i1 't
......................................................... .......................................................................   .......   ............................................   ....................    .......................    .................  ..    .............................   ..........................
I          I          S          6                                1          S          6          6          I          6          6          6          6          6          I          S          I          6         03
Si         3m                    I                                It          ci        It          I                    I          I I        I          I          I          I          1          I           I        I       [ i'*-PI
. ........................................................................   .................................................................... .................................                                            ...  ........    ....................................................................................... ....
*          t                                                                                                                                                                                                               03
3                     I                                                                                                                                                                                                    I        "' o"
w                               tl         a                                           e          s          ,          sX                                                                           s                                                     " *is  Veof
*          g                                                                                                                                                         S                                                    03
of         II                                          It         6          it         I                                                                            6                                                           m1
5                            ~~~~~~~~1    I                                                                                                                                                                                                               03
-t~~~~~~~~t
It    UAl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             luhll 'I
............................................................................. ............ .................. ............ ........................................ .. ................ ...................... ............................ ..... ... ... . .... .  . .  ....
11         11         t          I          I          I          I          I          t          I          I          I          I          I          I          I          I          t          I          6         03
Ng         I          t          I          I          I          It         It         It         I          I          I          I          I          I          tl         I          I          t          5         I      l'1.1PS
........................ ...................................................... .........   .......... .    ..... .........  . .............. ....................................    ..............................................................    .....    .  .   .   ..    ..... .
*                                                                                                             I                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~03
*                                                                                                             I                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
I                   I         I                                                      I                                6 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t03
*                                      5          5~~~~~~~~~~~~t  5i   Pt         I                                                                                                                       I               i'
St         01I                                                     I          I                                                                                                                                             3
1                                                            3                                                                                                 S 
35  All                                                                                                                                                                                                                             505561311~~~~~~~~i  i  1  1 
"ii                               mm~~1fl~F~    MIS1HI 141011 11131 NIIIUS souau
@~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a SNA"                                                                                                                                                      neii im  m'
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~15 IS IIJ IU                                                                                                                              SWifi MiU1951 3
N S 1U 1  1  I      11151101   U'u                                                   01
t31111011 I@IIISI1IIO6 6311 NIllild  ¶1311611               i       l    hl IId gmO                                                  lu
.....................  ............................... .................................................... ......................I...........................................................I...............................................................



- 49 -
AMNEX 1
*                                    !                  ~ ~ -s: -
_                      .        .                                .        ,              ,    , .    ,          ,             _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,,a
..ainss...                .:.. .:  ....:. . .
,                                   :        :s                               :e    :          -     .    :       S    00 a:  :
Ix
-                                           .            s ---------                            -   '-  '0-_ 
e 2
…a                              - *ss . --,   ,          a        -    _
sS ffl f   -5.                                ,                   ____,s_. s,n                           ,__,a         _.          __ 
* o                                                  *           ,                            * ,*l
i|                  555------------    ----------   -
-                     a
a                                                          * -----   -      _       .                                                   _                _
s   ~~          ,5                    5     -     555.,             .                          .s5~~   .5-.           _ _    . s         *        * ,- ,
|~~ .                                                                            _                   .        . ,        
|  sh   _                        a    ss5s           5.   a     .           .s           s        'a      .               .5    .s       es             -      -
" X 5 @ u. . ----- -                                                                                                a   S__    .  5_       _
{s    ~         ~          5 0 5a 5   as _esss    s0
_ **                                                                                             s.         X5 ---    -________. .s.    5.          -     .
_ i |s5555 -5                                         ----- --                                                    -_,                       .     - 
mY  a      :   a          s.ss             -     s        -     .          :ea       n    a         a s             :-      :,.
Z       S      :aY,:                                                                                                              :
i       Y… :    z                                                                                    .       :              .     :      *a                     
i*   :f                         e8-8-8 8    -.°.   -°88 8   3-      -1 '8',8 .  8
_~~~~~ S* _- ,, -   _                                                                                                                        * A           I            



III                                         ma Hn  1**111118111MQ PL*UI uAs guOiLIuTIU "WmA
mmlE                                         uNs WIIUISIU "KmN
12 3 01111       U/NIP projeetaoa               at"W PUOiCTIO, IOU - 1W9
Stiff Cutegorp  ................. CUPIUTI I ..................                                          POl? 2         ------CUNSE   3               -.......C.P.S   COWOUUW              S         MA?L
imam1W                      55  TO        lO   Lurk.s   Salk. CbulflbsaPo  lies Peru Sore   South    1.rth  Is["l  ligkluok   I.L.  bueast              LIll      US
2 IIAATIS  Secret Oteout PuliProg  Public    10104                                          has
hbis lla reae I         I         I        0         0        0        0        I         0      0.5        I         0      0.1      0 4       0 2      03         0         S        0        0       1 i
s.r,loju        I       I         0        0         0        0        0       0 1        0        0         0        0      03       is       0s        a04        0         0        0      Is        to
Iola"               I             I       I0             I             I         I      I 04       I        I         I      Is       04       0s        is              0   S                  0       2.5
UWlaad    tagra I     03        II       0 3        a       I? I     II          I        I        I0           0  53        1 2      2 2       I II    I           I         I      I A4        I      0.1
Sob-total     I     0 3       II       0 3         0      0?       I II    II         I4 I     I5         0       03       2 5        3       2 4      23A        I         0I     0   I     LA O    Is I
T.ch Offacarul I                        A                     0        0       03         0                                  0L        II       2 3      is         I         I        0         2      50
*raftuses       I       A         I        0                                   02         0        0         I        a      is       of        09       is         I         I        I       I I      4I
LIsA "all       I       A             A                       0 A   I  I                           0        I         0      0         12       0 1        I                  0        0        0       3?
Othtr           I        I                                                I    I A    II0                           I2         0                  0                 I         I        I         5      0.3
Subtotal  0    0        0~ ~ I             I        a        I       II       S I I               I 5     02      22        3 1       2.9      2 4        A         I        3       3 3     14?
TOTAL               03        I        03  0              0    1   I        a05       01       01          0      01  1 I A  A      6.1      $1.       4 1        0             0  04        309       2
3. SlI  SMIOS STAFF IictoiITITSim i       iI S1  TAS is                  lUaue            2 II
Staff Caiqtqe I .. .        ............COOPII  I ..                       ....   ........0CPolA? 2                    .......CUMII  3.......            ) COWl   CUPS   IOOO                       mu51
IuGIuT                      Sno TOfT       o SoT arg"     Salk  CbiafPbluPol II.. faer  Sort  Soth    hctb   Woad. Sighlaaa0 I A              eesut       Lit       U
Secret   iccoustaftPalProg Public   1*18111?                                lo
I AINOTI
ftp.  l.ansecI          I         I        I        I         I        I        I         I      35         0         0      Si       24        22       33         0         0        I         5       12
Sar,eura        A   I             I        I        I         I        A      S I         I        0        S         0      03       SO       is        14              0        0   0        II        3U
Sahara          I       I         a        I         S        I        0        0       04         I        I         I      3i       0s       is        is         I         I        I         I        5
LAWsdkaager.U         2 3       22   I    I          I      01       3 1         S        I        I        A       33       3 2      221       3.1      221        2         2     -I           0       30
Other           I   I             I 0           I             I        I         A        I        S        I         I        I        a         I        I        I         I        I         I        I
Sub-btatu     I     2 3       2 1      1 3         1      01       32I       SI       04       315        4       33      115.5      II      14 4     is53        2         2     -1.O       II A      s
Irca Ofisers    I       I         I                 I         0                I3         0        S        0         0      is       I0        01-  1  30                    0        5      3          10 I
Low  mail       I        I        8                 2         S                  I I               I                  II322                     1          I        0         5        0        0        I
Other           I       I         0                 A         I                 0       0 I                 0I10               0        0         A        I                           3        S                                       -
Sub,total     I        I        I        3        2         4        0       II       021        0        0       06       4 2      5 1       310      14         S         0        3     it23        40 
OalL                3.J       21       4)I        3      122       32       3 5       0 5      35         4       2 5     III      III       If 3     221         2         2      II   21       1     20 I                      r



11ie                                                  M           UlN   Ul I "NSICiL KOMW un KILISTIUN nUW
sAMs                                                UN mILI$itN  UO I.m
t2 IU             t SUIOI StUt                           I          CI, ton I5U
i0. uiImHUm mnice suuu miim   Mu                        K eu ius 115Tugs
SiaII CtAfp          kfe         for 2        Per 3    he         P fert    Per I        e ter
prewise    Paes.   Pes.    Prss.    Pres.    Pre                    Freis.
1. tUIUt
Pip    Pleaer.  I                      I          S         S          S          I          S
hSepar             I t      I          2          1          4         S          I          ?
Lo   I    pu      t         3          I         *         12         IS         Is        21
.................................... ................................................. .....................
Soib-ol         I         4         1         12         IS         21        24         21
...........................................             ...................................................................
2   IPUItIS
?eci  Officers  I            I         2          1          4         5                     1
5ratsses           I                   S          S          5         8          0 
Lad Usas           I        4           1        I?         16       2i          24         2s
Oikr               I                   I          I          I         I          I          a
So btotal       I                    It       is        25          is        30       32
.........     ... . . . . .. .   . ..     ...   . .......... ......... . . ............. .............................
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
t tOnu U  SUlbS suUt IlIl It 1115 IK nat4e                                                             2 Sl
ltable 11            I      Pro      v 2 Frees  3 Prows  4 Proves    trots  I Frees. I Preis
hp,   P      ,.   s        12                    12a       ii         U          12         I         12         12
Sareprs            I       31                    40        I1         42         43         44        45         a
almsn              I        1                     6         6          6          6          6         6          6
LuW al      ers   1        31                   33         2          29         42        45         48         1I
OSSr               I        S                     I         a          I          I          I          I         I
Smb-total       U        86                              94         9I       182        106        III        Ml
...........................  ............... ......... ............    ........   ... . ..   .    .    .....................    ....................... ................
2. IMlItES
lTee. Officers  I          11                    12        13         14         15         is        11         o
sltane             I       of                   11         1i         ISl        I0         to        Is        1i
LUsdibis.          I       19                   22         21         I        32         39         413        of
Oter               I        I                     I         I          I          I          S         I          I
.........       ...........     ..............  ......     .. .  .   . ................... . ... ..................................,, 
hi-toal            8       48                   45         58         55         60        65        1i          is x
.......................    ......    .........     ......   ,  ..  .......     ...  .......     .....     .................     .. 
TOut               I      126                  135        104        353        162        III       III       19 n1
.........   ......      .      ....... ... .I....... ........... ..  .......................,
C0



11681                                                 IIPAIM           Of UIIS I msUICAL  AUIc Uun IIILISI1011 PlOUDNI
sW..LAI UflWLISAIUO  MMCNS
12 1 IISAIA)         01/1KP  projectima                   Stn"   MaJ7IluS, Il    - I"i
I PINJEtS 0mm An ILF? IIlCNITUt of IPWLITS a ClSANTIS
Oitul perheruilt                    LTP herit RtIP hktnik
ear  ba Ill)                    er     r            i  5  er
I WHA"lES
nCarl/kr)
1111c t  b    il  A  rW11                        I          
faint  a Loasd haa rs                   63                               16                     it
dI trehLadIgtI                        Is         Sol                     8                    38
isE        1 )                        Is 1       Sol n                                        31
tol                                   23           6                       S3
S1tobl 1t ot al 
. ......     ... . .  . ... . .
I  1IftUo1ATIS
teek  Officers                                     sn                      3                    Is
is tect Su IV
Is ticS Coti,
LWi 1l.                                 is         Sol                    I                     38
...   ..............................  .     ..........................   ...............................    ..................
Subt-tal l           I                 27                                14                     a
........................        ..............................    .............             ..   .     ........ 
tOtAL                                 III                                36                    179
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . .   . .  . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . .
P:



111                                                     M N              u_t r6 311C   RU  us EEUIIstin FNG111311
1113us LIESEEIUVIII  "mmIN
(  fSUna    mmU ponetl.                                    na   iEctl, iSu - lit
I. u  nI uSR  A  mEmD a II11H1TAL  SSl"  0nen O1m  lil fuAs
1. atlSM                    RN    nIIIAL NA                        3 ,1111 .                  ulL! umR     Lu! 51.W WS/
mm3*   lkassloo S bre".)                      mmA                                            Ilicit
(table a)           OTMbl   I                   (Tab 1                t Table El
Fba hlasr.                   It                       S                     12                      6 
hren.r                       31                       S                    44                     2S                     IS NMl  - t  Serper-earat bn lidetifid a WI at
bhbee  a5 35 I                                                                                                           11 UI 2S-il grnaUtA 1ne,r1 11  Ul ale ar ineI_UtUt1
Led laupr                                                                                                                          aailable for mrutat  ts  ha"  et ba                      e
-1............................................................  - ------------ ------------ lokigh                                                 is te * Ib     su|ili.
011-tao l                 U                      38                    13                     li                      S
...... ...... ............... ...................... ........ .......... . .... .. .......... ...................   
2. IIFSAT
T ec     fflicer,            I1                       s                     Is                     Is                     -I
Iraf tame.                   If                       I                     I                    IS                       S
Lhi.WIis                     It                     21                    31                       SI                    -I
..............................    ...    ..I..   .......................................................................
Seobbt#l                      f                     25                      15                    a                        3
............................................ ......................................................
tOt                         126                     45                     I          It            s III
............................................. ......................................................



54 -                               ANNEX 2
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
LAND MOBILIZATION PROJECT
Mobilizing Alienated Land
List of Proposed Short-Term Legal Changes
Land Act
1.   Amend 8.69 to remove the need for Ministerial approval of short-term
(three years or less) subleases, except in cases where the terms of the
sublease provide for automatic renewal beyond a three-year period.
2.   Amend 8.69 to remove the need for Ministerial approval of mortgages given
by *approved lenders" (approved lenders being all registered banks and
financial institutions).
3.   Provide for the allocation of leases by auction.
(This will allow any vacant parcel of unallocated State land to be
offered to the highest bidder at a public auction, speeding up the
allocation process and recovering market value of the land.)
4.   Amend ss.40, 46 so that approval to alter the purpose for which a lease
is granted does not have to be obtained if the proposed use is in accord-
ance with Town Planning Legislation.
(This minimizes the procedures necessary where the land use is
changed.)
5.   Amend s.40 to allow the Minister to vary the purpose of all leases upon
recommendation of the Land Board.
(This would enable the purpose of any lease to be varied without
surrender and execution of a new lease.)
6.   Include provisions for the compulsory acquisition by lease of both alien-
ated and customary land for public purposes.
(This would clarify the right to compulsorily lease, a measure which
might in some instances be more acceptable and appropriate.)
7.   Give the Land Board power to allocate leases rather than merely making
recommendations to the Minister and abolish appeals to the NEC against
decisions of the Land Board and provide for appeal to the National Court.
(This would reduce the number of appeals and take them out of the
political context.)



- 55                               ANNEX 2
Page 2
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
LAND MOBILIZATION PROJECT
Mobilizing Alienated Land
List of Proposed Legal Consolidation
1.   Amend and consolidate trespass to land and eviction provisions in the
Land Act, Land Trespass Act, Summary Ejectment Act, Land Settlement
Schemes (Prevention of Disruption) Act, Enclosed Land Protection Act,
Criminal Code Act and Lands Acquisition (Development Purposes) Act.
These provisions are, in the main, duplicative and it is unclear who has
responsibility for taking action to evict trespassers.
2.   Provide for a comprehensive law dealing with acquisition of title by
adverse possession/prescription. At present, a defective law on this
matter (the Distress, Replevin and Ejectment Act) applies only in respect
of land in the former Territory of Papua. This law will allow for secur-
ity of ownership and enable the land to be used as collateral for loans.
3.  Consolidate (with appropriate amendments) several laws regulating private
leases including the Bodies Corporate (Joint Tenancy) Act, Landlord and
Tenant (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act and parts of the Summary Ejectment
Act with other general property statutes such as the Land (Estates Tail)
Act, Fencing Act, parts of Statute of Frauds and of Limitations Act,
parts of Laws Adoption and Adaptation Act, Aliens (Property) Act and
Settled Land (Papua) Act into a general property statute.
4.   Incorporate into the Land Act, with amendments, the provisions of the
several separate statutes which deal with areas covered by the Land Act.
These include the Lands Acquisition (Development Purposes) Act, Arawa
Township Development Act, Land (Interest on Arbitrated Compensation) Act
and the Property Dealings (Validation) Act.



56 -                             ANNX 2
Page 3
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
LAND MOBILIZATION PROJECT
Mobilizing Alienated Land
Delegation of Powers Under the Land Act
to E. Sepik and E. New Britain Provinces
Section                               Power
8(i)            To refer matters to Land Board
12(2)(a)        To refer matters back to Land Board
15              To acquire customary land by agreement with customary owners
15A             To lease and grant leases back to customary owners
29(1)           To grant leases
31(2)           To exempt land from advertisement
To grant specific leases
49              - Agricultural leases
51              - Pastoral leases
54              - Business and residential leases
59              - Mission leases
63              - Special purpose leases
40              To relax conditions and vary purposes of leases
45              To accept surrender of lease
46(l),(2)       To forfeit a lease
57(5)           To exempt land from requirement for offer by tender
66(7)           To grant lease without offer by tender
66B             To approve subdivision of town land
66C             To grant and accept surrender of town subdivision leases
71              To approve subdivision of lease
72              To approve a consolidation of lease
79              To inspect leased land for compliance with conditions
67(1)           To grant licenses for specified purposes
67(2)           To fix conditions on licenses
67(5)           To revoke licenses
80              To inspect land to determine suitability for a public purpose
81.82           To authorize temporary occupation of non-government land and
perform certain actions
114,(3)         To authorize a person to carry out an arrest for certain
offenses



- 57 -                               ANNEX 2
Page 4
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
LAND MOBILIZATION PROJECT
Mobilizing Alienated Land
Alienated Land /a
(ha)
Rural land       Urban land          Total
Type of tenure                 Parceis   area   earceis  Area   P'arce.ls    Area
Customary Land /b               1,446   35,540      437   1,040   1,883   36,580
Freehold Land
rreenoif ic                     751   15,043      236       90     987   15,133
Land tenure conversion /d       537   13,300      128       29     665   13,329
Subtotal freehold          1,288   28,343      364     119   1,652   28,462
Leased Land
mission                         743    4,658      602      261   1,345    4,919
Special purpose                 574    8,201   1,005   2,236   1,579   10,437
Business                        484       527   3,622   1,062   4,106    1,589
Business/residential/town        36        32   2,173   1,337   2,209    1,369
Residential                     491       183  18,214   2,485  18,705    2,668
Agricultural/pastoral         3,524  160,553       20      397   3,544  160,950
Subtotal leased            5,852  174,154  25,636   7,778  31,488  181,932
Unallocated Land
Hiscellaneous                    92    1,800      218       89     310    1,889
Unallocated                   2,013   66,901  16,450   3,006  18,463   69,907
Other                         2,500   19,380   3,065  11,724   5,565   31,104
Unverified other              1,000   29,786   2,045       476   3,045   30,262
NUnallocated"                   873   26,923   3,351      922   4,224   27,845
Subtotal unallocated       6,479  144,790  25,129  16,217  31,608  161,007
Total                     15,065  382,827  51,556  25,154  66,631  407,981
Lesser Interests, Land Used
ror FUDic rurposes
set asiae                                                        3,373   28,005
Certificates of occupancy                                        5,070   16,553
Licenses                                                            79    2,332
Reserved land                                                      203    6,739
Airport land                                                         5      785
Total                                                         8,730   55,414
GRAND TOTAL                                                  75,360  462,395
/a  Parcels held on PNGLIS on September 6, 1988.  This represents about 75X of
all parcels of alienated land.
/b  Customary land enclosed by alienated land and, therefore, not available
for leasing.
/c Freehold before Independence.
Converted from customary land to freehold land since Independence.



- 58 -
Page 5
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
LAND MOBILIZATION PROJECT
Mobilizing Alienated Land
Estimates of Total Alienated Land /a
ha
Freehold Land
Freehold before Independence                                             15,000
Land tenure conversion                                                   15,000
Subtotal                                                              30,000
Land leased to private parties                                            200,000
Land used for public purposes                                              60,000
Land not under leases (vacant or unverified)                              310,000
Estimated Total                                                      600,000
La Based on area of parcels held in PNGLIS on September 6, 1988, which
represent about 752 of all parcels (see Annex 2, Attachment A).



-59                                ANNEX 3
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
LAND MOBILIZATION PROJECT
Customary Land Issues
Limits to Acquisition
1.       The recognized method for mobilization of customary land has involved
purchase by the State, thereby alienating the resource from the people. Land
purchases by the Government now require a high level of skill in developing
and negotiating arrangements which satisfy the aspirations of landowners. In
many parts of the country, especially those of high population density and
where large areas of land have already been alienated, customary owners are
unwilling to accept permanent alienation of their land by the State for public
purposes, let alone for development purposes.
Land Development by Owners
2.       Various official procedures have evolved to encourage development of
customary land by the people by providing security of tenure and access to
credit.  These are:
(a) Clan Land Usage Agreements--which are only used for loans below
K 10,000 in respect of parcels of 5 ha or less, as no formal title is
conferred;
(b)  Tenure Conversion--involving the conversion of the customary land
into freehold title; and
(c) Lease/Leaseback--involving a lease to the State and a sublease back
to the customary owners and mainly used to meet the security require-
ments of the Agriculture Bank in respect of 20-ha parcels.
3.       The two latter measures, although leading to a formal title, have
proved to be slow, cumbersome processes and have not gained universal accep-
tance. Measures have recently been taken to make land the subject of tenure
conversion more valuable as security of loans by facilitating the removal of
the restrictions on mortgagees' powers imposed by the Land (Tenure Conversion)
Act. DLPP has also recently taken a number of steps to streamline the
processes involved in lease-leaseback. However, neither of these forms of
tenure are seen as providing suitable long-term solutions to customary land
mobilization.
Land Demarcation and Registration
4.       Traditional land tenure is being modified under the influence of the
cash economy, greater mobility, population growth and education. For many
years, there has been agitation for the facility to register or record titles,
giving legal recognition to customary tenure. Partly this has been for the



- 60 -
AM=X 3
Page 2
purposes of quieting land disputes, but in more recent times, the emphasis has
changed in that registration is seen as a means of facilitating the economic
development of the land. Two abortive attempts have been made to introduce a
registration system, first under the Native Land Registration Act of 1952 and,
second, under the Land Titles Commission Act of 1962. The first attempt
concentrated on individual applications, of which 176 were decided, but only a
few plots were surveyed and none were registered. The register established
under the 1962 legislation was suspended in 1970 at a time when no titles had
so far been registered.
5.       In 1970, further bills for the registration of interests in customary
land were tabled in Parliament but were withdrawn in the face of widespread
objections. Following the withdrawal of these bills, the Government set up
the Commission of Inquiry into Land Matters, vhich reported in 1973 on a wide
range of topics, including registration of interests in customary land. The
issue continued to be the subject of discussion and investigation, e.g., in
1981 the paper on Land Policy and Economic Development in PNG 1/ and the
Report of the Task Force on Customary Land Issues in 1983. Further work took
place in DLPP on customary land registration, leading to NEC approval in 1984
to the drafting of a bill which has not as yet been introduced into
Parliament, largely because of criticism of various aspects of the legislation
by the consultant, Raymond Noronha.
6.       East Sepik Initiative.  The inability at the national level to
provide the requisite legislative framework has resulted in East Sepik
Province enacting its own legislation for the mobilization of customary land
(Attachment A) and various other provinces are considering following suit.
7.       Bearing in mind that alienated land is a dwindling resource and
unlikely to be augmented to such an extent that it could figure increasingly
in development and that the future for land development in PNG lies with cus-
tomary land, the East Sepik initiative becomes extremely important and will be
supported by the project.   The East Sepik Government has taken into account
many problems encountered and issued raised previously and has produced that
does not merely provide for registration of customary land in the name of
kinship groups (class), but includes provisions enabling direct dealings in
land by the customary owners without dependence on the apparatus of the State
to release land for development. It provides the legal basis for land groups
leasing land for housing development in Wewak. Thus it provides an
alternative to the many illegal arrangements being concluded around other
towns. Furthermore, not only is it a pilot project for customary land
development, but also for decentralization of land administration generally.
8.       Outstanding issues with the East Sepik approach to land registration
ares (a) constitutionality of East Sepik legislation; (b) should registration
be systematic or sporadic (on request); (c) titles issued would be indefea-
sible (under the prevailing Torrens system) i.e. that the Govermnent of East
Sepik would have to compensate those whom a court will determine subsequently
as the original owners. This could happen in particular as the legal concept
1/ S. Knetach, M. Treblicock, Land Policy and Economic Development in
Papua New Guinea, 1981, Institute of National Affairs, Port Moresby.



- 61 -                                ANNJX 3
Page 3
of 'adverse possession' does not exist (guaranteeing land use rights after
certain periods of unchallenged occupancy); and (e) administrative capacities
required for ascertaining land use rights, registration and demarcation.
9.       National Frame Work Legislation.  However, other provinces are now
preparing to proceed separately with legislatior to enable provincial land
administration and customary land registration without waiting to observe the
East Sepik system ir. operation. It would be clearly undesirable from the view
of uniformity of land laws for the provinces to proceed separately on this
issue, each with its own legislation. Furthermore, there is also a
possibility that the existing 1984 draft national legislation could be
introduced.
10.      Instruction for the drafting of legislation for the enactment of a
national code setting out principles of land policies binding on all provinces
have been prepared and are being commented on by a consultant. This code
would be in the form of a uniform national framework which leaves the
provinces with the scope to add subsidiary or supplementary legislation in
respect of matters peculiar to a particular province or region. This would be
further pursued during the project.
Land Dispute Settlement
11.      One source of continuing problems has been disputes concerning land
rights, particularly in respect of customary land. These problems are likely
to be exacerbated in the short term by the demarcation and registration pro-
cess which will bring to the surface disputes among the various claimants.
The Land Disputes Settlement Act set up a system of decentralized dispute
resolution, involving informal mediation, and in the event that mediation
fails, binding determination by local Land Courts, with appeals therefrom to
provincial Land Courts. This disptte resolution process has proved to be both
limited in its effectiveness and prone to delays. At present, Land Court
magistrates act as such in addition to a wide range of other magisterial
duties. For many years, there have been recommendations for an upgrading of
the quality and training of local Land Court magistrates, with full-time spe-
cialist Land Court magistrates being appointed.
12.      The Department of Justice is now considering the amalgamation of the
National Land Commission (responsible for clarifying the title to Government
land held for public purposes), the Land Title; Commission (responsible for
adjudicating land rights and converting customary land to freehold) and the
Land Courts in an effort to rationalize and improve the land dispute settle-
ment process. For many years, there have been calls for the appointment of a
special cadre of Land Magistrates possessing upgraded training in land-related
subjects. In addition, consideration has been given in recent times to
rationalization of the various bodies responsible for determining land
disputes. The project would provide for a consultancy to provide improvements
(Annex 8, position 2.1.6).



- 62-                        ANNEX3
Attachment A
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
LAND MOBILIZATION PROJECT
Customary Land Component
East Sepik Legislative Scheme
1.       In March 1987, the East Sepik Provincial Assembly passed two laws:
the Provincial Land Act; and the Provincial Customary Land Registration Act.
Provincial Land Act
2.       This Act has been drafted so as to be generally consistent with the
National Land Act. It contains provisions dealing with:
(a) the application of the Act. It is to be the main land law of the
Province and to apply to all land in the Province except National
Government land in certain cases;
(b) the general law applying to land in the Province, i.e., that land is
either held for a title under the State or is owned by customary
groups under customary tenure;
(c) administration, i.e., the Executive, the Land Board and Land Manage-
ment Committees;
(d) the acquisition of land by the Provincial Government;
(e) state leases of Government land. It covers the granting of leases,
the different kinds of leases, conditions of leases, rent, forfeiture
of leases and appeals;
(f) licenses of Government land; and
(g) dealings with both customary land and State leases.
3.       The major difference between the Provincial Land Act and the National
Land Act lies in the more extensive powers granted under the Provincial Act
for customary owners to deal with their land.
Customary Land Registration Act
4.  (a)  Under the Act, there is to be a new Office of Registrar of Customary
Land who will be responsible for establishing and maintaining the
Customary Land Register.
(b) The law provides for registering customary land at two levels:
(i) registration of full ownership by a group; and (ii) registration
of interests less than full ownership.



- 63 -                          ANNEX 3
Attachaet A
Page 2
(c) The other basic distinction the Act dravs is between: (i) registra-
tion in declared Customary Land Registration Areas (CLR Areas); and
(ii) registration outside such areas.
(d)  The effect of the law is that:  (i) within CLR Areas a registration-
-either of full ownership by a group, or of an interest granted by a
group, or of an interest granted by a group in a dealing (approved,
if necessary, under the Land Act)--is conclusive evidence of title;
and (ii) outside CLR Areas, such registrations are only prima facie
evidence of title.
(e) CLR Areas will be declared in those parts of the Province where pri-
ority needs to be given to strengthen the ownership of land and where
administrative capacity exists to undertake registration. Within
these areas, systematic investigation and registration will be
carried out.
(f) Outside of CLR Areas, people will also be able to apply for registra-
tion of their rights in land, but the law will not give as much pro-
tection to these rights.



- 64 -
AEX A
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
LAND MOBILIZATION PROJECT
Land and Resource Information Component
Training, Private Sector Involvement and Cost Recovery
A. TraininR
Education and Training
1.       The Department of Surveying and Land Studies of the PNG University of
Technology (UNITECH) offers the following coursess
-    degree in land management (3 years);
-    degree in surveying (3 years plus 1 year practical training);
-    degree in cartography (3 years plus 1 year practical training);
-    diploma in surveying (2 years plus 1 year practical training);
-    diploma in cartography (2 years plus 1 year practical training);
-    diploma in land administration (1 year);
-    post graduate diplomas in land studies;
-    higher degrees.
It is intended that UNITECH will have access to the PNGLIS database to
include its use in their courses.
2.       After graduation, surveyors are required to obtain certain practical
experience and to pass examinations in theory and practice of cadastral
surveys. On completion, they are registered by the PNG Surveyors Board and
are authorised to carry out cadastral surveys.
3.       The Royal Australian Survey Corps (RA Svy) is providing technical
assistance in training NMB field and cartographic staff.  Currently two NMB
officers are in France studying the use of satellite imagery in mapping.
4.       NMB is very reliant on contract staff at senior levels for management
and training. As is commonly encountered in this situation, the day today
pressures of management reduce the attention given to training and technology
transfer.



- 65 -
Page 2
Staff Training and Development
5.       The present tertiary education in PNG provides courses which are
adequate for DLPP's requirements in land administration, surveying and
mapping. Post graduate training of surveyors for registration under the
Surveyors Act and of surveyors and draftsmen in specialist areas, e.g. remote
sensing, digital mapping etc., needs to be given close attention. Training of
management staff should be incorporated in the DLPP staff development
programme for adequate management of surveying and mapping functions and to
provide a source for the wider needs of DLPP management.
6.       Training in specialist areas can be done by arranging for short
courses to be run by UNITECH, overseas training where necessary and special
attention by contract officers to training and technology transfer. The last
aspect is critical if the objective of reliance on overseas staff is to be
eliminated in the foreseeable future.
7.       The delays by DLPP graduate surveyors in obtaining registration under
the Surveyors Act reduces the Department's ability to efficiently meet the
demand for cadastral surveys. This requirement, normally completed in about
two years, sometimes takes ten years or longer. There is a need for this
aspect to be included in the DLPP training and staff development programmes.
8.       Under the project, the Surveyor-General, the Director of Mapping and
the Manager (LIU) in consultation with the Personnel Services Division and
senior contract officers, would design and implement training and development
programmes for surveying, cartographic and computing staff to address the
issues raised above.
B. Private Sector Surveying and Mapping
9.       Large mining and development companies provide their surveying and
mapping needs in house or use the services of mapping and surveying firms in
PNG or overseas. The local surveying and mapping private sector (with a few
exceptions) is virtually a cottage industry i.e. mostly small firms
specialising in cadastral surveys.
10.      Currently, it consists of one mapping firm (producing maps and aerial
photography) and twelve firms (including two large ones) with a total capacity
of about 23 field parties. The smaller firms are based in Port Horesby (3), Mt
Hagen (2), Mendi (1), Goroka (1), Manus (1), Kieta (1) and Rabaul (1). The
two larger survey firms have branches in Port Moresby, Lae, Kainantu, Kimbe,
Rabaul and Kieta.
C. Cost Recovery
11.      There is a need for a policy on cost recovery for surveys to ensure
consistency. Charges shuld reflect the cost of the work done or the going
rates charged by the private sector. The Survey Priorities Committee (which
no longer operates) recommended that surveys done for Departments (other than
DLPP), authorities and the public should be charged at private sector rates.
Survey instructions issued in DLPP were to be charged in accordance with the
Land Act Schedule. The present practices appear to differ from these
recommendations. There is therefore a need to review them to ensure that
adequate cost recovery takes place.



- 66-                                 ANNEX 4
Page 3
12.      In order to relieve the strain on Departmental staffing, increased
use of private surveyors needs to be considered. At present, the private
firms are thought to be operating at about their capacity. Any significant
use of their services should therefore be phased in over some years to enable
then to increase their capacity and to avoid wholesale migration of survey
staff from DLPP to the private sector.



- 67 -
ANNE 4
Tal 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
LAND MOBILIZATION PROJECT
Geodetic Adiustment and Tonpographic Mapping Schedule IA
PY1  PF2   PF3   PF4   PF5
Geodetic Adiustment
Data collection and editing by consultants      --xx  xxxx  Xx--
Design of observation and adjustment program
by consultants                                      x---  -XX-  -xx- xxxx
Contract surveys for astro leveling and sea
level                                              xxxx  XXXX  XXXX
Preparation of NMB                              ---x
Computer specifications by consultant
Tenders and contract                                 xx--
Delivery of computer                                  --xx
Installation and acceptance testing                        x---
1:100.000 Update
Study and specifications for remote-sensing
equipment by consultant                       -- -x
Tenders and contract for remote-sensing
equipment                                          xx--
Delivery of equipment                                 --xx
Acceptance testing and tralning by consultant               x---
Updating of 1:100,000 maps                                  -xxx  xxxx  xxxx
1:25.000 Mapping
Design and specifications for upgrade of
remote-sensing equipment by consultant                    -- -x
Tenders and contract for equipment                                xx--
Delivery of equipment                                             --xx
Acceptance testing and training by consultant                           x---
Production of 1:25,000                                                  -xxx
Cagital Works
NMB extension
Design, tender and contract                    xxxx
Construction                                          xxxx
IF4      - r    " ,   4    , j   r  n fl 'Vi     , 4s  s s i     '    .w -



- 68 -
MME 4
Taible 2
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
LAND MOBILIZATION PROJECT
Maior NMB Eauipment Requirements
Estimated
Year/item                                Activity                    cost (K'OO)
PlRl
3 global positioning systems           Geodetic adjustment             375
(Magnavox or similar)
Equipment for astronomic               Geodetic adjustment              40
(La Place) observations
Automatic tide gauge recorders         Geodetic adjustment              18
PY2
Integrated remote-sensing system       Topographical mapping         1,200
including software and 3 work        program (1:100,000)
stations with digital encoding
capacity
.PY3
32-bit scientific computer with        Geodetic adjustment plus        425
32 MB CPU; 1 GB on-line disc         ongoing geodetic and
disc storage; 200 MB removable       photogrammetic computa-
disc storage; dual magnetic          tions
tape transport and controller;
communication interface;
master operating console;
high-speed line printer.
Remote equipment consists of
6 communication controllers,
8 terminals, 1 three-dimen-
sional color graphics terminal
and universal asynchronous
interface
PY4
Upgrade of remote-sensing system                                     1,125
consisting of additional pro-
cessor and disc storage; film
plotter; color ink-jet plot-
ter; 2 work stations; digital-
ly encoded film/opaque scanner



- 69 -
ANNEX t
Page 1 of 4
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
LAND MOBILIZATION PROJECT
Logical Framwork Analysls
Narrative Suarv                                     Indieators and Assumptions
Overall Goal                                     Overall Goal Indicators
TO CONTPI1UTE TO ECONOMIC GROWTH THROUGH THE       - X of alienated land parcels uoed productively (i.e.,
MORE PRODUCTIVE USE OF LAND THROUGFOUT PNG           In occordance with leao   conditions)
(WITH EQUITY, EMPLOYMENT GENERATION, LAND-OWNER    X X of cuotoary land with developmnt potentiol used
PARTICIPATION, AND SOCIAL STABILITY)                 productively.
Process                                         Linkina Assumptions
- Land-users (clan groupe, Joint ventures,    - a clear policy and legislative environmnt combined
copnies, individusl, Governmnt                 with effective delivery of land services will encour-
agencies) are encouraged and enabled to        age land users to Invest in lond-based activities.
invost In appropriate land-basod             - registration of tenure ia a prorequisite for Invest-
activitios.                                    ment by external (i.e., non-cusotmary owner) parties
In land based activities.
- the equitable rights of Individuals are preserved upon
registration of tenure.
- appropriate land based activities In PNO will involve
customary landowners as equity participants and will
enable their participation in the doelgn and lmploen-
tation of those activities.
- appropriate land based activities (such as agricul-
ture, forestry, mining and Industry) will result In
employment genoration.
- tenure rogistration must support the dynamTc naturo of
customary ownership and honce *oaTit In the presrva-
tion of social stability.
- appropriate land-based activities will be predomi-
nantly productive In nature.
- productive land use results in economic growth through
the use of land resources.
- financial resources, sanagement and technical assis-
tance are provided to land users by other agencies.
- planning and land dispute sottloemnt m*chani m  are In
place and effective.
- decentralization of land administration will result In
a more officient and responsive delivery of land
services.
Propram h7 dit,o b ectlves (Impact)                               Impact Indicators
(to be aCh*ve   n    I-  yrs time* ram)
a. To crete a clear policy and legislative        - Effect 2a
environment to promote invoetmnt in land.
b. To enable customary land owners to             - Effect 4c
increasingly participate in the developmnt
of Sheir land.
c. To provide effective land services to all      - Effect 2a
land users (surveying, title registration,
valuation, land transfer and disposal,
mapping, land acquisition, dispute
s*ttl ement and physical planning).
d. To transfer land administration                - Effects Sa A Sb
responsibilitios from tho national
government to the provincial governments.
*  To optimiz  the uso  of the stock of            - Effect 3b
alienated land.                                - X of parcels with usage complying with lease
conditions.
NOTE: This chart should be read from the bottom (Page 4) to the top, to follow logically the process
whereby Individual program activities contribute to overall program objectives. Descriptions of
key processes are inserted between the tiers In the 'hierarchy of objectives', to indicate how the
achievement of *ub-objectives Is expected to load to the achiovement of higher-level objectives.
Key assumptions are also shown, that must hold true if those procosseo are to result in the
achievement of higher-level objectives.



- 70 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 4
Narrative Summary                                   Indicators and Assumptions
Processes                                         Linkina Assumptions
- Legislative and statutory bodles endors       - DLPP has a sound  ollcy making capacity, and can mobi-
and asslt DLPP Initiatives for develop-        lize the support At legislative and statutory bodies.
sent of the lands asetor.                     - Titl  Is acceptable to financial Institutions or
- DLPP und provincial governments promote         Investors to support economic activity.
tho use of titl. registration mechanism       - Awareness of those mechanios  will result In theIr
by customary landowners.                       us.
- Customary landowners form corporate bodies  - Customary landowners are willing to Incorporate
(clan land/businoss group. or companies)    - Individual rights are oquitably repreonted upon
to seure title registration.                    incorporation
- An efficient and coot effective Incorporation process
cxl ta.s
- Customary landowners s*ok funding for tho   - Title Is acceptable to financial institutions or
development of their land,                      Investors to support economic activity
- Finncial resources are available for land devt.
- Land services *re progrossively dec-ntra-   - Provincial mnagement of these services will result in
lized and mde more efficient                   a mere responsive and efficient delivery thereot
- Provincial Land Monageomnt Committee          - Thoso committees interpret provincial government land
Identify, prioritize and coordinate land       policies and are representative of various interest
Initiatives In the provincoe                   groups
- Government sectoral policies assist to provide condu-
cive investment environment.
-Simplified legislation and procedures will (acilitate
land mobilization.
Component Obi ecties (Effects)                               E?fects Indicators
(to be achi*ved In 5-7 years)
:. Pr2sram Monan  nt
a. To  emprov       m m enog  snt of land administration  - Outputs 1.1 *-a    -
In PNO.
b. To Improve and maintain professional            - Published -tandards and quality measures In place
standards and the quality of land services.   - Outputs 1.2 - 1.5
c. To provide the necessary physical               - Outputs 1.1/2.8a
facilities.
2. General Institutional Strongthening
a. To *stablish Improved land policl-, legis-   Enactment of revised legislation by PNG parliament
lation, and procedures.
b. To Improv- DLPP's capacity to:
- develop policy;                               - Outputs 2.1
- promote land registration for developmnt;  - Outputs 4.0
- deliver land services;                       - Outputs 2.2; lease issuance period reduced
- generate revonue from these services.         - X of all land parcels generating revenue
c. To Improve PNO's land dispute *ttlement         - Number of unsettlod disputes.
capacity.
3. MobilizIng Alienated Land                       - Consolidated national land legislation enacted
a. To introduce an improved and cost-effective   - Direct unit cost for  ease issuance
system for administration and mobilization    - Number of leases issued per year
of alienated land.                             - Allocation of alianoted land parcele mI ete dmand.
b. To rationalize and mobilize the stock of        - X of mobilized (ie, allocated and revenue-
alienated land.                                   generating) land parcels is increased from 23x to -X
by PY()
- X of land parcels used for appropriate uses (i.e., In
accordance with lease conditions).
4. Mobilizing Customary Land                       - Number of provinces with established policleo.
a. To develop an acceptable and cost-tffective   - National framework legislation for customary land
method of customary land registration and         dealing and registration Is enacted.
mobilization.
b. To expedite tho mobilization of customary       - No. of applications unprocessed/processed
land.                                          - No. of prove. with effective land mobilization
capacity.



- 71-
Page * of 4
Narrative Summry                                   Indicators and Assumotlonc
C=nent Ob]ctiv-  (Eff ct    (cont'd)                        Effect. Indicators (cont'd)
(to b     chieved in s-i y  ro)e
5. Decentralization of Alienated Land
Administration
a. To develop *n *cceptable and coat-effective   - Outputs Sb and d.
system for decentralizing al*Inated land
adminiatration.
b. To expedite the decontralization of land       - Output 5 C.
administration functions to the province.
6. Land and Rosource Informatlon
a. To provide an up to date information base      - Outputs 6.1 a, d A *, 6.2 *-e.
for customary and allonted land (with
title, land-use, geodetic and topographic
lnformation).
Processes                                        Linking Assumptions
1. Proarom Monagement
- DLPP 5-year program Is implemented as a        Central agencies will provide necessary support
pilot exercise in program budgeting/        - National Land Management Comittee (NLMC) A Resource
management.                                    Managemont systom 1s functioning.
- Program Management Committee and quarterly
Review meetings provide a context for        - Appropriate technical assistance to provided In a
accountability and problem solving,            timely fashion with a private firm providing support
In recruitment and administration of consultants
- Technical assistance rsult. In the transfer of skills
capacity to DLPP staff.
2. General Institutional Strengthening
- Consultants, study recommendations are         D DLP'o draft legislation Is enacted.
considered, and appropriate actions are      - Strengthened Pol. A Prog. Division able to develop
Initiated by DLPP.                             policloe.
- Draft legislation Is Introduced and          - DLPP-initiated proposals to Improve land dispute
expedited.                                     settlment mechanims are accepted, funded, and lmplo-
- Policies conducive to lnvestment In land-      mented.
based activities are developed               - Effective staff development, training and recruitment
- Land dispute settlement mechanism are          will load to enhanced DLPP capacity to develop policy
strengthened                                   and deliver *ervices.
- Adequate and suitable personnel are
secured.
S. Mobilizing Alienated Land
- Establish work progrms In liaison with       - Provincial government. are supportive.
provincial Land Monagemnt Committee          - Land-revenue generation mechanims arm Improved.
- Undertake appropriste mobilization action
In support of evaluated potential.
4. Mobilizing Customary Land
- Landownors' participation in tho dovelop-   - Provincial govornments support LMC formation.
mont of their land reources (through         - LMC membership includes reprosentatives of customary
incorporation into land,business groups or    owners and other interested parties.
companies) Is encouraged.                    - Publicity program in In place and effective.
- Suitable titleo  are provided to meet the    - Administration of land/business group registration Is
demand of customary land owners wishing to    Improved.
have equity participation In the develop-   - DLPP's draft legislation Is enacted.
ment of their land.                          - Land dispute settlement mechanism in place.
- Rosources are provided to the provinces to establish
thoir land administration capacity.
5. Decentralization of Alienated Land
Administretion
- Provision of resources to support delega-   - Mechanism for delogation is improved.
tion of land administration functions.       - Provinces met dolegation qualification criteria.
- Provision of technical support to maintain  - DLPP supported by central agencies per MOU.
standards of land administration.            - Provision of PNGLIS processing systmes.
- DLPP strengthened through LMP to provide support.



- 72 -
Pag 4 of 4
Narrative Summary                                   Indicators and Asaumotions
6. Land and Resource Information
- Intrdu*en  a Prsponsive mpping pollcy.        - Croes-soctoral priorittio are etabllshd.
- NLMC and Mapping Council are *etablished.
COWPONENT OUTPUTS   )  Refer to detailed Input/output workeheeta which were prepared for eech of
D LUP'o 15 work unite. They are In Project file, Docuent 1.1.
PROCESSE 
) An exaple of the three worksheet. for Work unit Personnel Services Divielon
COMPONENT INPUTS    }  (Component 2: Gneral Institution Building, Subcomponont 2.2) are in Annex 1,
Table 1, 2, 3).



on Mt iut {tWof   muisi - s nunt
COW: 2. C41*   JI MI?            OI MILOlIt SIICUPOt  2.2 nP U=                   11 StICS                   M   BI0T: K60611U  SMIICK  1          4151
IIIbICATOIS
T u  OtM ?rs                                                  lninwoi                             no    FYI   1,2    n3   nP                      ns
:::::::::::::::::::::                    Btwiuiii                            ui        II        to       II        12        13
Ierit staff to deh prtelt *acaicie                           -S6ippate  ratio:                  135       20        1in       In       lot       lot
(Feaded pnoe.. -1scs) 
Folded posts     I 
-1 of planed recrlitmts                     10        tiO       1l0 III            IIt
filled by year-esd
-program  #tUlf deweleput                                     -t of  aremr paths flslised                  too       tIo       I01      III       top
-Stitt perforucet appraisal                                   -r stff iacladed is                                     25        iS      Iff       lIt
fall stff appraisal systn
mun tlUiIIi
Iu-boaa   afsamut modl"  deigd, TO                            -lo  rodcle                                    S
PS Din.               -lo. odeles                                              S         S          
lo-em    ablistrntios   dodl"  desited                        -lo. modules                                            10        IS        IS       15
1-oem  mamtamest truiusi   coadcktd  m                        -lo. atteuiases                               51
PS Din.           -lo. attedsce                                           St       Itl       Itl      IN
iu-hlse adalistratiom  traisi4s  cosdcted                     -lo.  tteNadaces                                        St      201       2to       2N
I mule        day coune (tick sa  cower sore tkoa  I topicl                      htteudaces: lo. of modles I haer p  h. of staff petr m le
laagent traitor aaud to cordlct 2  odoln, per moatb                                   (lam   staff sill otwed more tkas I modblel
Udeltratloe trainrs assued to coudct 4 sodules per soti eact
"I t lem7                                                                          Qeatitles                              gait                                   et. COOK)6
.it                      no        "I        1`2      Pt3       P74       Fs             Cost.         "I        "I        P12 m3              nt       M       Ttal 
is       19        90        91        92        93            'I"  I1      UU        t 1l9     It" 1     1111      52       15    ("I1-I)
11.Sarp etc. (Total staff)
-trmtn                       Staffpears                 3         4         1         6         6                           14 41                41 U              U4        64        I4       36
-liplemates                  Staffitan                  2         1         1         1         1         10D                         16        12         6         I         I        I        t4
-clerical                    Staffeara                  4         S         7         7         T        tIC                 6        24        2?        42       42        42        42       ItS
-OtLtns                      Sbtafears                   0        0         e         0         0         00                 4         I         4         I         I         I        p         I
-Cootract                    Stalffesrs                 0         2         2         2         2        2 CO               35         I        31        76                           7t is  To  315
Item  I Slbtotal                                        9        12        16        16        16       t6 82                                  121       2U4      264       2U4       21#       93l
ti2 tmel ste.                   trip                               110        to1       65        is        65               065         11        12         4        41        17       4        262
U.ltilitine                      Staff                      9       12        16        is        16        16               0.5I         2         1         1         1         I        J        43
ft.gsts. a sppl                 1.5m 1                                                                                                             I         5         5         S        5        25
WSPlast lTrap.                  hs                                   I   I          I         I              I              6.172??       I         I         I         I                   I        J
II.Special Sericas              Attedim                              I         I         9         I         I                1.1         2         I        to        1o      1         16        a
ItCapital   1et                 L. Cn                                                                                                     t        21        1         11        If        11       a
111.rossatmllu .                L.mm                                                                                                                                                                 I
n Otter                         L.Sn                                                                                                      I                                               6        36
16.Otr loilntn                  Staff                               12         6        16 t      i         16                1.4         1         5         I         t        6 I                     I iI
Itm   2-16 Sdhtotal                                                                                         2-11 Sltot                32       In 11               U         11        a        fN
Um   1-1  101111.                                                                                           1-11 tetatll                       253       114      2U3       262         3      I4
Coital hb9k Cfb 1w apori Lows)                                                                                                         I         I         I         I        I         I         I
tscmcal Insituce Cuts (sm tmort tabl                                                                                                   I        42        114      U         a         11 
101l, UD ml? Cas                                                                                                                     114 2tS   IU                 3         u1    321   im



-                                                                -           *4
4  gr    r ~r rs  PC vrg Cyr Fe 93ragatr                                        2M;[iZZ
-   '    ,^  _   .    ^-3"            -       g     ^533                
----- ----- -----
----   -- --- ---- - - -- - -- ------ - - -- ---              - - - --     -- --
-i-: -- a--                                                                 --  ---         - -- --
-                           -          - - - -  - - -    - -           - - - - -    - 
_  ._._ __  ,_____ a..   .  ..  .......... ____*__.a..... Co              _~                                        I
N  ~. -       -   -   -   -   - - -   -   -                           - -   --…-        -
a..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a~~~~~~   _,,-.                                  ., a  s     a.
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~r01
Z  *Tqv.                                   -                       -
C  'lav



* -.      .b.                  Lat -  C,                                                                      - Cs
4w                                                                                         - -  co o
0.~ ~~ -   a.        Co Cb    .4          i         -      .4         a>        *      .a     z
Ic               V   -      4   0-                         C :    -4 C             -      - -    4
_~~n                  w-a   |-                g        4    *  -                '         °    2 *  0  a-.          - 
in    5.    on    $                      0          0     a-  -         
C   b -                 0         c 0        M  _-
-                   alll-. t                    a-O W.               0                       CUP °.
V-                                                                                       . in-  0  -. a
L
'-A                           902                                                        10 
0.          0                       4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.C
s-M M                          0 S ' r a r   c r    1 V   R o 9   b
O  =  "  b  O   "  O  "       "  _  "       >  O      "  O ~~C  C~`  "  O      ON 
0  0  00    00         000   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~.0004   00         00000000 t
.4    .4  44.4   0.~~~~~4  - 0440         .4 0.         04          .4     40        040
go   100        00.0       10    aW   1 mc,          *1 0 Om  at0 C.    no0    040.
0-     -      a- 1     -          .44 0-.4.            0- .                 1- .4. .- ..4 0- o.4 1-
_UP
o-o
W.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~aa -
to  i4
*lO.                    .O_*             *,  _  *a  _                    I       
a:     !      a         :'         !                          :!         !                                    c-4:
_.2  ;;  CD is    - i          so C       I CDiCD o            o         o  cm ii     i o   o            c.m          o o
-s
C.f    of    of o   *. a o CD, *  a   o  a CD o                o  o  l cmocm 4m  is o a- 0I  00 cm o0 CD CD    o oo
Ca --
as    I                  l    .                               a.    .                     .. . la
oI a,    a              a , = so   a *a                                  a I cm, cm o40 CD o=, *a 4=o     44e=ar
cm,       ..      . ~ if              .~                          ..        .~ CD 10 CDC_ MC   MClC.C    ~O   M C     M~C,C   *C  o CJ
_4   sPo      a o    o            c                       cm.    c              a                                 0 I  & O  _  o  o  o r Co,
aS    aa  a  Sa  I   ~~~~~~~S                 a                                a . os4
Ot -0
go cm to en  I  o   _ of    _       cm    cm Ca  o2 CD Cb iseCn  o=  =, o=o o. CZ Cb i f I
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                a-B
5a      a,     a          m                                    a          50 
ma    sa      a         a,         aaa                                   a4(
00  S q 00L 00        0010    0a000000   005   000                               00000000



27.10.88 PS105 Lile 167                        LUND IOUILiSiTIOI PIOGIBK
IIO IIT INCINDTAL COSt ISTIUtIS
(PROJICT COSTS)
CONPORIMT  2  GINIIL INSTITIO1 BUILDING SgBCOIJ'OIIT: 2.2 PIISOIIIL SHIllCIS                                  loll UIIT: PIISONIIL SlltlCIS DIVISION
gnit                                     Coust  ('1001)              Total
bit                                FYI       P2        P3        P4        PY5               Costs      P  0        PFY       PY2       nf3       P74       P?S    Costs
A. Ites I (Costs of iscremeotal staff)                                89        90        91        92        93              '000 1      1988      1989       1990      1991      1992      1993  (Pt1-S)
('8001)
O1.Salary etc.
-Graduates                    Staff years                           1         3         3         3         3 0                14                   1        42        42        42         42       175
-Diploutes                    Staff years                          -1        -I        -I        -1        -I D                 8                  -4        -8        -8        -8         -I      -30
-Clerical                     Staff yeara                           1         3         3         3         3 C                 6                   3        11        Is        18         11        75
-Others                       Staff years                           0         0         0         0         00                  4                   0         0         0         0          0         0
-Contract                     Staff yeara                           2         2         2         2         2 CO               35                  35        70        70        70        71        315
Staff subtotal                                                      3         7         7         7         7                                      41       122       122       122        122       529
-J
bS  Items 2.-0. lscreseatal Programe Costs (1988 kse1liet °l
02.Travel etc.                                                                                                                                         54        46        25        25        25       174
13.3tilities                                                                                                                                            5         7         7         7         7        34
ilats. I Supply                                                                                                                                         4         4         4         4         4        19
05 Paat I Trasap.                                                                                                                                       0        0          0         0         0         2
06.Special Services                                                                                                                                     6         8         8         I         1        38
07.Capital  slaets                                                                                                                                     21         3         3         3         3        34
01Surabts A Suba.                                                                                                                                       0         0         0         0         1         0
090Otber                                                                                                                                                5         S         5         5         5        23
10.Obter boloueabt                                                                                                                                      4         5         5         5         5        25
2-10 S/tot                          Os        78         57        St        57       340
C. TOTAL ITIS 1-10. INCIEINTAL (PIOJICT) COSTS (8+B)                                                              1-10 Total                          139       200       179       179       179       817
D. CAPITAL WO0lS COSTS                                                                                                                                  0         0         0         0         0         0
1. TCnIciL AlssisTICI costs                                                                                                                            42        84        U4        42        21       280                  lat
I. TOTAL SOUCoNPOIIT IECIDIDIL (PBOJICT) COSTS  (C+D+l)                                                                                               181       284       263       221       287      1157                   W   S



AMNNE  6
- 77 _                                                Table 1
FAAPU4 MEN GUCINEA
LIAD IOSILIZATION PROJECT
Si'ry Accounts by Tear
(lMIA '0001
asa* Costs                      Foreign Exchang
89/90   90/91    91/92   92/93   93/94   Total      1        tmt
===sS==  .s:,::   :====:: ::::::::  =====           ::;  ::==::==
1. INVESTRENT COSTS
A. TECHNICAL ASSIStANCE      t, 236. 0  1. 267.0 1, 001. 0   612.0  303.0  4.419.0   88.0  3, 888. 
D. CAPITAL IlORtS              224.0 4,439.0 1,337.0  412.0  242.0  6,654.0   50.0  3,327.0
C. CAPITAL ASSETS            1,344.8  1.497.2   768. 2 2.301. 2   689.2  6,600.6   02.0  6. 072.6
Total INVEStFENT COSTS         2.804.8  7,203.2 3, 106.2 3.325.2 1.234. 2 17, 673. 6    75.2  13.286. 3
II. RECURRENT COSTS
*     A. SlAff SALARIES             362.2  1. 345.0 1, 654.29 1, 638.9 t. 768. 3 6.769. 3    0.0  0.0
S. TRAVEL                     170.8   184.8   184.8   165.6  108.8   815.0    0.0          0.0
C. UTIITIlES                 212.8   370.3  400.3  416.3  428.3  1.830.0         0.0       0.0
0. MATERIALS AND SUPPtIES     141 2    256.2  336.2  337.2  511.2  1.582.0   50.0    791.0
E. PLANt  ANDO TRANSPORI      96 8     96 8   97.8   97.8   87.8   477.0   50.0    238.5
F. SPECIAt SElVICLCS         293 2   2S4.2  450.2  683.2  646.2  2.327.0         0.0       0.0
6  OINER                      18 2    236.7   165.7   93.7   15.7   700.0    0.0           0.0
H. OIHER ENOLUElNTS           116.0   169.0  193.0  206.0  226.0   910.0   30.0    273.0
total RECURRENI COSTS           1.581.2  2,913.0 3.482.9 3.640.9 3,792.3 15,410.3    8.5   1,302.5
Total BASELINE COSIS            4.386.0 101t6.2 6,589.1 6,966..1 5,026.5 33.083.9   44.1  14,590.8
Physicul Contingencies         219.3   50S.8  329.5  348.3  251.3  t.654.2   44.1    729.5
Price Contingences              64.3    631.8  754.3 1.137.4 1.167.5  3.775.3    30.6  1.156.9
Total PROJECT COSIS              4,689.6 11,253.8 7,672.6 8,451.8 6. 445.3 38,513.3    42.8  16,477.2
::::s=::s =.:,:: :=== stEts... : st::  :=== 553*5...... st5:::;  .:::: 3s.Z
Taex                           447.2  1,0e5s.. 6   796.5   829. 7   729.6  3,862.9  0.0      0.0 
foreign Exchange             2. 761.0  5. 421. 7 2,6 75. 6 3, 711. 6 1, 707.0 16,477. 2  0.0  0.0
Narch t. 1989 19: 34



as$6 I6EtIha
StSS 'Ow
Phypsical Congtl.paa*4                                                                                                          b    ioetu
Saw  Cats                                 Prics Cmtisg set l*e total tIe. Ce.                                                 cent  Five   Om  Costs
*   tgat--..........................------------------ wc  test.  Pr fee Cose
tocal (fuel. WIleos 8              For.  hta. fEet. a                             Local (Ere.  utits 6                           tel n tt. BMWtee                     onps   itsl        as  ee
Fo      ie (c  isms)       louse    total    Esch. tasxsl  tases   Total    for. ECecI.    taxs$e    Tossu    Total    for. Each                 I"")e    lam          itota          Coot           Costst
........... .....,! °,E , !.! .......' 0..* 7;,w ....." ....." .....@.8  o   E   .., ........ ....... ......  ....   ......  .................
L  IEC  tCMt ISSISItICE            t420.                 -      811.2  4.610.0  216.0        -     2.S    2433           24 .4          -0.0      40.1   334.3                                                             MIT4         1.912           I
*. gwii*t 33665            2~~.6667      3.t03.2    "11.3  7.2313    164.6  155.3         26.    M66            231. 6        320.6      46. 6   I0?. )     4,11g.4        3,30  1      M.$  1161.210I561 1.
9. CWIT*t asims                    6.147 3               -    318   .1 7334. 0  331.4   -60        263   366.           366u2           -0. 0     32. 0   634.3      7. 62. S                   4.WI  0311.9              367 1        7.63S3. 
-----           -------           - --------
C  ahliIllIlS                                    2.22                2.02 s  >s          "g3    lOl   -   lol                         3)2                316  2446.8  1                             -  2.4416            116           2.2   2
tt  ItUI8IEt *54t1)1 SIPPI           6    t6       7tt2      t2.et 1,37         436 2    1.       264      so 5         316 46.                  662 22 t4t          t1t0tt 35 4 fl.   62.    ,t1.1 ftt                                1,04.45
.~~~~~~~~~~~~.  .. ......  ...... ... ..    ....    .....   .                                                   ... .... ....
I  P166h6110161P1)OI                  262.0       -Xtt           63.0   33t F010 12.2        o       13.2§    26tte3       2405          -0t.0    n    t24.  46.6       20225       tt           362.2    06.               266
.       1 S     C2........ ............                     -- --             ..... .... .. ..-..... - -2.3  -  - 3        -         4-3.1         -   42-.S - -                   ,..             - ,  46.4             46.. .0      2..3
Tota    *1E.IUITCOSTS              24.032           . Q  7 16  IS7      10.1S1.1  3 I.2  15L34         . -   "0.69       31.  4          112           - 11               4.            3.2-10.                               72113
local  1566KW   COtS144                            13973.2  1,120.3 17,5163 7.4          667.       6 6.0  036.1           330        2,166.0         A 2 11 2456.0 3   ,7.         16,711.3  22331.6I 30,361.             4m   e        L  lo 3
C otLal      f                      1621.          1.3336  3,6 .0 3630.8  61 06 T4.                 16.  1,3.0I         18.4          248. 4II         ? 4166.6        66.           2010.6   ,2 2.1  4,161.6 A.3 IN                      $40.74
Sttle I. #380  II 34
M3i4
PiANI  U  IUASNI  26S0  -    26. 0    50 0   133  13.3 265   240           -0.       24.0     0.6         M                   -    3022    1104 S             26             %?% 



AN= 6
~ 79 -                                                     Table 3
PAPUA NEN GUINEA
tAND MOBltiZAT ION PROJECT
Sumry Accounts by Y"r
Totals Including Contingencies                          Totals Including ContingenCiOs
(AlMA '000)                                             fUS$  000I
69/90   90/91    91/92   92/93   93/94   Total          89/90   90/91    91/92   92/93   93/94   Total
=:===== _:=:==== ==::::    ==::::  ---::  :::::   ::==:::z =====::: :=:=::  ====:.====== ==ss====
I. I1VESTIIET COSTS
A. TECMICNAt ASSISANCE          1,317. 3  1 390.8 1 137.4   723.2   372.4  4,941.0  1,463.6  1 545.3 1.263.7   803.5   413.7  5,490.0
8. CAPITAL NMS                    239.8  4.938.3 1. 549.9   498.9   306.2  7.533. 1    266.4  5 487.0 1.722. 1   554.4   340.2  8. 370. 1
C. CAPIALt ASSETS               1,433.2  1 643. 5   872.8 2 719. 3   847.0  7.515. 8  1.592.5  1 826. 1   969.8 3,021.4   941.1  8 350.9
total INVEStMENT COSTS             2.990.3  7.972.7 3,560.1 3.941.4 1.525.5 19.989.9  3,322.5  8.858.5 3.955.6 4.379.3 1.695.0 22,211.0
:====== ========_ =z-=: ==z- = ==   =  = :  ==zz  z= ======    ====== ===== zz=z                  : ==== =-====
II. RECURRENT COSTS
--_-_-_-_-_-_-_
A. STAFF SALARIES                389.81 5.I9.9 t.963.6 2.041.9 2,313.3  8,228.5    433.1  1,6S8.8 2. 181.8 2,268.8 2.570.3  9,142.8
8. TRAVEt                        183.8    208. 8   219. 3   206.6   142.3    960.8    204.2    232.0   243.6   229.5   158. 1  1, 067. 6
C. UTILITIES                     229 0    418 5   475.0   521.2   560.3  2,203.9    254.5    465.0   527.8   579.1   622.6  2,448.8
0. MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES        150 9    283.6   386.8   404.6   639.8  1865.8    t67.7    315.1   429.8   449.6   710.9  2,073.1
E. PIUIT AND TRANSPORT           103 2    106 3   111.1   115.6   107 9    544.0    114.6    118.1   123.5   128.4   119.9    604.5
F. SPtCIUA  SERVICES             31S 6    287 3   534.2   851.2   845.4  2.833.6    350.6    319.2   593.5   945.8   939.3  3. 148.4
G. OIHER                         202.6    267.5   196 6   116.7    20.5    803.9    225.1    297.2   218.5   129.7    22.8    893.3
H. OlIER EMOLUMENTS              124.5    189.3   226. 1   252.1   290.3  1,082.9    138.3    210.4   251.2   280.8   322.5  1,203.2
Total RECURRENT COSIS               1,699.3  3.281.2 4, 112.8 4,510.5 4,919.8 18.523.5  1,888. 1  3.645.8 4,569.7 5,011.6 5,466.4 20,581.6
:=::::: =::::=: ===:::= ====:e= =======  z====:=:   ::=:::: ::::=                              ....... ...==  ==::::=.==
total PROJECT COSIS                 4,689.6 11.253.8 7,672.8 8,451.8 6,445.3 38,513.3  5,210.6 12,504.3 8,525.4 9,390.9 7,161.4 42,792.6
M_=                                                           _ _  .4                                                _ _                   _   _   _
horch 1, 1989 IS: 34



AMNE 6
- 80-                                                    Table 4
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
LAND 1M1ILIZATlION PROJECT
Project Cononents by Yar
(NINA '000I
Basa Costs                        Total
89/90   90/91    91/92   92/93   93/94       INA 1M US$'@001
::-=s=== ::=:::::z  ,=:== =....==  -=====   =:=====  ======
A. PROGRAME tANAGENENT
ItANAGEMENT                                             465.8  3.394.4 1, 910.2   906.2   796.8   7,473.4    8,303.8
REGISTRAR OF TITLES                                      23.6    230.8    42.2    42.2    42.2       381.0      423.3
SURVEYOR GENERAL                                          71.0     39.2    66.0    53.8    60.8      290.8      323.1
VALUER GENERAL                                           43.0      65.6    65.6    65.6    65.6      305.4      339.3
CHIEF PHYSICAL PLANNER                                   180.2     96.0    69.0    40.0    33.0      408.2      453.6
_-   -    -- -- -   -- - -   -- - -   -- - -  -- -- - _-__--_ _--_ _--_ _ --__ -
Sub-Totai PROGRAMME MANAGEMENT                              783.6  3,826.0 2. 143. 0 1. 107. 8   998.4   8,8 8.8    9.843. 1
B. GENERAL INSTITUTION BUILOING
POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE                 234.0    408.0  429.6   397.6   334.6   1.803.8    2.004.2
PERSONNEL SERVICES                                       177.7    268.2   247.2   205.2   191.2   1.089.5    1.210t6
Sub lotal GENERAt INSTIIUIION BUILOING                     411.7    676.2   676.8   602.8   525.8   2,893.3    3.214.8
C. MOBILIZING ALIENAIED LAND
SOUIHERN REGION                                         194.7    374.3   422.3   408.5   447.5   1,847.3    2.052.6
NORTHERN REGION                                          52.6    209.9   240.5   231.2   259.0       993.2    1, 103.6
ISLANDS REGION                                           28.6    208.1   221.2   227.9   235.9      921.7    1,024.1
HIGHLANDS REGION                                         67.1   242.1  294.5  286. 1  337.1   1,226.9    1,383.2
Sub-Total MOBILIZING ALIENATED LAND                        343.0  1,034.4 1.178.5 1,153.7 1,279.5   4,989        6,6 543.4
0. MOBILIZING CUSTOIARY LAND                                83.9    l18.7   118.7   184.7   172.7       678.7      754. 1
E. DECENTRALIZATION OF ALIENATED LAND ADMINISTRATION         96.9    122.8   252.8   383.8   383.8   1,240.1    1,377.9
F. tAND AND RESOURCE INFORMATION
LAND INFORMATION UNIT                                 1,692.1   471.0   493.8 1,288.8   698.8   4,544.5    6,049.4
NATIONAL MAPPING BUREAU                                1,074.8B  3,867.1 1,725.5 2,244.5   967.5   9,879.4   10.,77.1
Sub-Total LAND kNO RESOURCE INFORMATION                  2,666.9  4.338. 1 2,219.3 3.533. 3 1,666.3  14,423.9   16,026.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                                        4,386.0 10. 116.2 6.589. 1 6.966. 1 6,026.6  33,083.9   36.759.8
Physical Contingencias                                    219.3    505.8   329.5   348.3   251.3   1.654.2    1,838.0
Price Contingencies                                         84.3    631.8   754.3 1,137.4 1,167.5   3,775.3    4,194.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                         4.689.6 11,253.8 7.672.8 8.451.8 6,445.3  38,513.3   42.792.6
Ta:.s                                                     447.2  1. @59.6   796. 6   829.7   729. 8   3,862.9    4.292.1
Foreign Exchange                                        2, 761.0  6,421.7 2, 875.8 3, 711. 6 1, 707.0  16, 477.2   18, 308 0
March 1. 1989  19:34



81                                       ~~~~~~AM=K  6
toomeintiiA;3mu NOJCI
Project Cop1 by Y.33.
Total% lincuding Contlng.~c..s                           Totals Incldinq Cont.ng.nmils
(RI"  '003                                               loss '0003
69/90   90/9?      93/92   92/93   93/94   local         89/90   90/91    91/92   92/93   93/94   total
A PROGRAMIU 338ANAG8N83
338338133(8                                                   498 8  3.777 8 2.218 7  .3106 51 .021 8  8.623 7    554 2  4.3191 6 2.465 2 1.229 5 1.135 3  9.581 8
REGISTRAR Of 331135                                            25i 4    255 2    50 0    52 5    55 3    438 I           28 2    283 5    55.5    58 3    61 2    486 a
SURVEYOR GEN18A1                                               75 9      43 7     77 0     64 9      765S    338.0       84 3      48 5     85 6    7`21    as50       375 5
VAIIJIR G1N*R*t                                                46 2      73 9    77 4    83 2    85 2    363 9           St 3      82 1    86 0    90 2    94 7    404 4
CHIff P3YSICAt P1i33N1R                                       192 6     30831    69 5    4931    42 7    462 0    214 0           12031    77 3    54 6    47 4        51333
Sub3-tot#l PROGRA18E I383GENfNt                                  838 9  4.258 6 2.4q2 7 1.354 3 1.281 3 10. 235 7    932 1  4.733 8 2.769 6 '. 504 7 1.423 8 11. 363 9
POLICY 8330 38s133U330NAt 181RASIRU3C33lR                     250 3    453 6   503 0   483. 0   431 7  2.122 6    778 3    504 0   556 7   540 0   479 7  2.358 5
PERSONNEL3 SIRVICIS                                           390 5    300 1   288 7   252 5   247 3  1.279 I    233 7    333 5   320 8   280 5   274 8  1.421 2
Sub3 total GENERAL1 IN53 33U3303  80330313G                      440 8    753 7   789 7   7385b   679 0  3.401 7    489 8    837 5   87`7 4   820 5   754 5  3.779 7
50333313RN 31G30N                                             208 8    419 7   495 A   502 3   576 8  2.202 9    232 0    466 4   550 4   558 3   640 9  2.447 7
80633H3RN REGION3                                              56 3    235 5   282 2   284 8   334 5  1.393 4            62 6    263.7   313 5   316 5   371 7  3.326i 0
ISIANOS R1EG0ON                                                33 0    234 9   263 4   283 1   301 2  3.137 6            34 5    263 0   290 4   314 5   341 3  1.241 7
33363383333  63G308                                            72 3    272 3   346 7   353 7   4W  2  1.4832 3           80 3    302 6   385 3   393 0   485 8  1.646 It
5ub. ot3 30333  08L318G6A 8331AI31  LA33D                        36332  3.3162 5 3.385 6 3.4238 3. 655 8   i. 995 9    409 3  1.291 7 3. 539 6 1.582 0 1.839 8  6. 662. 2
0  N3333313/N8  CU1S3033AR  38330                                 90 2      1333 4   339 7   228 6   225 0    817 0    300 2    348 2   355 3   254 0   250 0    907 8
I  133CfN38R3111A3303  03 A1303N81D LAND0 A80INI3StRAIION        304 2      1338 4   299 3   417 3   503 0  1.520 2    335 8    353 7   232 6   530 3   556i 7  1.689 3
F  18330 8330 RSOURC  IN33*0R3*3 363
1833  18108338t303  unit                                    3.b,98 5    523 9   569 3 3. 5312   872 b  5.199 6  3.887 2    579 9   632 6 1.708 0   969 6  5.777 3
863303381 MOAPING BURE1AU                                   3.3148 8  4.285 3 1.996 5 2.8921 3. 230 6 33. 353 2  1.275 4  4. 761 4 2..218 3 2.993 2 3.7367 3 32.634 7
5.1b total 3AND AND0 RfS0URC1  I830831*330                     2.847 3  4 607 2 2.565 a34.229 3 2.103 2 36. 552 8  3.363 7  5.341 3 2.8350 9 4.~699 3 2.336 9 38. 392 0
locla  PROJECT C0535                                             4.689 6 13.253 8 7.672 8 8.451 86.445 3 38.513 3  5.210. 6 12.504 3 8.525 492.390 9 7.363 4 42.792 6
Ap,.i 4. 3989 33 14



-82 -                               ANNEX 6
Table 6
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
LAND MOBILIZATION PROJECT
COFINANCING - GOVERNMENT OF AUSTRALIA
FundinE for Land Mobilization Proiect
Technical Assistance
TA No.                                             USS Value
2.1.1     Land Economist                               25,000   Funded
2.1.2     Valuer                                       25,000   Under
6.1.3     Data Verification                           481,400   Separate
6.1.4     PNGRIS                                       13,300   Arrangements
1.2.2     Land Registration Expert                     25,800
Subtotal         570,500
NMB Component
6.2.1     Remote Sensing System Specialist            238,000
6.2.2     Geodetic Surveyors (2)                      412,800
6.2.3     Geodetic Datum Specialist                   374,900
6.2.4     Geodetic Survey Contractors                 554,400
6.2.5     Data Processing Specialist                   37,500
6.1.5     Data Comms. Specialist                       26,700
Subtotal       1.644.300
Capital Works
NMB                                                 1,063,100
LIPC                                                  810,300
Subtotal       1.873,400
Equipment
PY1 Equipment                                         471,700
PY2 Equipment                                       1,346,500
PY3 Equipment                                         493,600
Subtotal       2.311,800
TOTAL NMB Component        5.829,500
TOTAL AUSTRALIAN FUNDING        6.400.000



- 83 -                              Agun 7
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
LAND NOBILIZATION PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
IBRD Fiscal Year                                      Proiect
and Semester          Profile /a       Semester        Cumulative    Cumulative
(Z)          (US$ '000)       (US$ million)       (Z)
1990     1                              1,006.0
2               1             1,006.0             2.0           10.2
1991     1                              2,860.0
2               5             2,860.0             7.8           39.8
1992     1                              2,065.5
2              16             2,065.5            11.9           60.7
1993     1                             2,497.0
2              37             2,497.0            16.9           86.2
1994     1                             1,352.2
2              65             1,352.2            19.6          100.0
1995     1
2              87
1996     1
2             100
/a Asia Region Technical Assistance projects disbursement profile
Note: Papua New Guinea disbursement profile is eight years. However
recent project experience has been seven years (see
para. 3.11).



LAMQ KOI7IzATTI.N mOJBr
Omaurteent of Land. and Physical Plannina
Technical Alet-ancae P_uiromnt.
T.A.        Definition                Qualificatione        Totel     Preferrad    Source      Physlcal Reuireant.        ulit                              Coat                         Total
i*ep                                                        Input    Source of       Of            (staff-mnthe)          Coate         PV1       P12 m     "m       P4        P15       cot
(sm)R   Con ult nt   Financing  PV1&  Pm2 P15 P14  P1S          K           K         K         K        K         K        K
C_omnmnt Io
Proram HInagnt
TA 1.1.1 Technical Amelatance       Accountancy/              1D    FPri/           SIw                              a a   S   s   16,000  45C000   44.000   48,000    4.000  46.000   240.000
Administration (V TAo)    ianaement                         Contract
TA 1.1.2 Head eq Programe           PI-Lend Plannning         56      Sole Source/ W           12    12  12                7,000       U.000 C    4.000 U4O000                          =.ON
ie"na-nt iranch            A economic experlmnce            International
TA 1.1.0  Development of "enumnt  K.I.S. Sp>iealist           10      Sole Source/ We           2      2   2   2   2    12.000         24.000   24.000   24.000   24.000  24.000    1O.005
Infor_mtien/Rnt Cal lec-                                    International
tie. System
TA 1.1.4  Developeet of publicity    liten comunication       6     Sole Source  We                        4   2   2    7.000                           62000    14,000   14.000       MUg0O
capacity                   Special It/Paychologiat          (Lol)/
International
TA 1.2.1 Prapration of Dlametar    Nlicrographica             12     Contract/    we            6      6                Contract                UO.000 oe0.Oic,
Record.                    Organisation                     International
TA 1.2.2 L_e Registration          Titles Draft               2      Contract/    AMAS         2                          7,000       24.000                                           S4 0
Aust,al I ia
TA 1.3.1  Cutomary Lend             DOmrcation and             S      Inter-       we           S                          12,000      56,000                                            600
Desrcation tehnique        Survey Speial it                 national
Ia  Steff-M0mth..
Ak PI is 1969



TA 1.5.1  Prpuration ot Physical    Physical Planner          10     Sole Source/ WO           10                         12.000      151.000 0O110.000
Planing N.wala                                              Internatinal
TA 1.8.2 Ibral Physical Planning    Rural Planmnr              6     UN            we                  2   2   2            .1SO                  8*000 C2000 $m                         9.000
Erci see                                                    Vol unter
Comint 2:  General
Institution Building
TA 2.1.1  Allocation Pricieng a      Financial PolicY/         2      Auetr,1ia    AMAS         2                          12.000      24.00                                            54.000
rat determination          Lan_ Sconomiet
TA 2.1.2  Allocation pricing, rent   Valuer with Cav           2      Australni    AIDS         2                          12.000      24.000                                           24.000
detrmination and           experience
computer-seeisted
valuation (CW)
TA 2.1.8  Legl/Socioloeical          Lawyer/Soceal             S      Sole Source/ W            1      1   1   1   1   12.000          12.000   12U000   12O000 U3*5 OOO    U0.40.
Rewvi  of plannd lAd'    anthropologiet                     Internatioal
legIslation
TA 2.1.4  Legal a*s_tence to         Lawyr-Al Insted Land      7      International W           2      2              1   12,000       24,000   24.000 U2,000 U212.0110  eo             114.00
formulate n_w alienated    (FM Experience)
lnd legislation (short
tera and "eus term)
TA 2.1.5 ievies af Diepute           Land Diepute Settlement   4      International WI                 4                   12.000                40.000                                 4eoo
Settlement bcbhniem        Special let
TA 2.1.6  Prwearation of Proceduree  Nmaial Writing Spc;i lIet 6      Intern atioal Wi                 2   2   2           12.000                24.000   24.000      4.000             72.000
1nu-le                     Specialist
TA 2.1.7 Study of different land    Laar/Land Tentre           a      International VI                           a         12,000 SO.00 000
allocation and tranefer    specialist
systems
TA 2.1.8  Organiation and ftnagement GUI Specialist                   Iternational WI                 12  12   3   S       7.000       42,000 i4.000   24,000   21,000  21,000   SM.0@O
advice                     (developing country
experi nce)
TA 2.2.1  Staff Development and      SDLT SpecialIit          40      International W           0    12  12   6   4    7.000           42.000   84,000   ".000   42,000   2  COO  m10000
Training
fr1)
.     a.         **   _.  se..u   _



Commnnt 4: Mobilizing
Custorj Land
TA 4.01  Customary Land Tanure      Social Anthropologlit     3      International W                 I   1   1          12.000                12,000   12.000    12,000              U.0001
Invowtisatblon
TA 4.02  Legl Assistance -          Laaer/Cusemry Land        3      International W1                1   1   1          12.000                 12,000   12.000   1#.00                o.000
cua_omry land             Specialalot
Cmengnjt: La  and
Pesource Inforetion
TA 6.1.1 Mlangement of Lend         EP Project Monnger       36      International U          6    12  12   6            7'000       42.000    4,000,  64,000   42,000        2       f,eoo
Info,etien Unit
TA *.1.2 Operations Hnager (LIU)   PNO.LI superi ence        36      Sal. Source/ We         12    12  12                7,000       64.000   34.000    64.000                       =.ao
Internatio nal
TA 6.1.*  Date Vertificetion        Survey Draft    (6)      6a      AutralIa    AM"         66                          7,000      442,000                                         442.000
TA 6.1.4  Investigate Linkage       P1N1S Specialist           1    Sole Source/   A                     1             12,000                          12.00                        12,000
"1a    a P"is             Tchnici an                       Australia
TA 6.1.5  Investigate linkae.       O Date Ca nicatina        2      Anetrelia    A11                          2        12.000                                    24.00              24.000      0D
hetean  Me and Pl4LS      Specialist
TA 6.2.1 ODfintion of Rnatb          Reest Sensing Syata    18      AustralIl    AMAD4        J      6   a   6          12.000 D      6.000   72,000   36.000   72,000              216.000
Sensing System riresnts Specialist
and ais-tance with
acquisition, installation
and iaplementation
TA 6.2.2 Geodetic date collection    Geodetic Surveyors/2    46      Australi     AMd        12    24  12                6.000        6,000  19m.000    6.000                       364.000
and editing
TA 6.2.8  Geodetic adjustment and    Geodetic Dotu"          27      Sole Source/ AMd                0   6   6   12   12.000                  W60OD   72.000   72.000  144.000   S4.000
enely.ls                  Specialists                      Australis
TA 6.2.4 ------    -------           ooid Survey             70      Contract     AIDA1             23  2S  23        Contract                1661.000   161,000  14.000            411.000
Contractors                     So" ice/
Austra I a
TA 5.2.5 Date Proessing Syatem      Date Processing           a     Australias    AMAD        a                         12,000       3.000                                           3.O
Consultnt
TOTAL                                                                                                                              i2O  zJ.m0   au.1n              M        1



- 87 -                            A     
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
LAND MOBILIZATION PROJECT
DEPARTMENT OF LANDS AND PHYSICAL PLANNING
Revenue Forecast 1/
1989-1993
Prior Year's Collections
1.   The bulk of revenue collections of the Department of Lands and Physical
Planning is from land lease rentals (LLR) which represented a collection
of 94.52, 90.32, 92.62 and 84.82 of the annual collections in 1984, 1985,
1986 and 1987, respectively. (Sourcet Public Accounts Books 1984 to
1987).
2.   The total collections for the years 1984, 1985, 1986 and 1987 were
K 5,308,000, K 5,416,000, K 6,417,700 and K 7,535,900, respectively,
which had shown gradual upward growth.
The forecast of revenue for the year 1989 to 1993 follows a review of the
collections in 1987-8.
Revenue Collections in 1987
3.       A total of K 7,535,900 has been collected in 1987 as followst
Amount         Percentage
Revenue Head and Subhead                              K '000              2
131-1         Land lease rentals                      6,391.93          84.82
131-3         Sale of allotments                        769.46          10.21
131-8         Sundry Receipts                           130.68           1.73
131-2         License fees and royalty payments          90.25           1.20
131-6         Valuation fees                             72.0             .96
131-4         Survey fees                                46.37            .61
131-11        Estate surplus earnings                    20.56            .27
131-10        Sale of maps                               12.42            .16
131-5         Surveyor's registration                     1.3             .02
131-7         Valuer's registration                         .5            .01
131-9         Objection fees                                .5            .01
Total                               7,535.9          100.02
1/ Received from the Government/DLPP, based on the most recent information
available to DLPP.



Page 2
Anticioated Collections - 1988
4.   At the 3rd quarter review ending September 30, 1988, it was reported that
a total of K 8,944,100 has already been collected. This collection has
prompted the Department to adjust its revenue target to K 11,634,000 by
December 31, 1988.
5.   The collection for land lease rentals (annual rents, arrears, and rents
for new leases) amounts to K 7,324,340 as at September 30, 1988 and is
broken down as follows:
Kina
Annual rent                                 4,783,949
LLR arrears                                 2,149,500
Rents on new leases                           390.900
7 324 340
A further collection of K 2,475,660 to December 31, 1988 is projected for
land lease rentals (LLR).
6.   The overall anticipated revenue collections to December 31, 1988 are
shown below:
Revised               Actual
to                   to
Revenue head                                  Original   31.12.88    Z of       30.9.86
& subhead       Description                    K'000       K'000     revised    K'000
131-1(A)   Land lease rental)
(B)   LLR arrears       )                7,200.0     9,800.0      84.24   7,324.34*
(C)   Vow leases        )
131-2      Lic. fees and royalty payments       100.0         85.0        .73      84.2
131-3      Sale of allotments                 1,200.0      1,000.0      8.60      852.5
131-4      Survey fees                           90.0         78.8        .68      61.1
131-5      Surveyor's registration                1.0          1.7        .01       1.6
131-6      Valuation fees                       117.0         65.0        .56      61.4
131-7      Valuer's registration                  1.0          1.0        .01       1.1
131-8      Sundry receipts                      180.0        480.0      4.13      452.3
131-9      Objection fees                        20.0          7.0        .06        .6
131-10     Sale of maps                           9.0         10.5        .09      10.0
131-11     Ectate surplus earnings               67.0         10.0        .08        .3
131-12     Lodgement fees                        15.0         95.0        .81      84.3
Total                         9,000.0    11,634.0    100.0    8J944.0
*    Includes collection of K 2,149,480 in LLR arears.



- 89 -                             AVNE  9
Page 3
Assumptions
7.   The following figures are presented to come up with a realistic a&sump-
tions of annual rent collections, LLR arrears collections and rentals for
new leases.
8.   Annual rents due in 1988 2
K 8,735,700
Annual rents collected as at 30.9.08                    4.783.940
Remaining to be collected                               3.951.760
Collection as at 30.9.88                                4,783,940
Anticipated rents collected by 31.12.88                 1.594.646
Anticipated collection to 31.12.88                      6.378.586
X collection of annual rent projected for 1988          6.378.586
8,735,700
- 732
9.  LLR arrears outstanding as at 30.9.88                    8,086,100
Plus LLR arrears collected in 1988 up 50 30.9 88        2.149.500
Total LLR Arrears                                 10.235.600
A further collection of K 716,500 to 31.12.88 is anticipated which will
bring the arrears collection to K 2,866,000.
2 LLR arrears collection to 31.12.88  -                 2.866.000
10,235,600
- 282
10.  Annual rent collected as at 30.9.88                     9,126,620
Annual rent due in l9M  estimated on 27.1.88           8.735.700
390.929
New leases collection as at 30.9.88 3                     390,929
Further collection to 31.12.88 -                        + 130.300
521.229
11.  Annual rent collection to 31.1.2.88                     6,378,586
LLR arrears collection to 31.12.88                      2,866,000
Annual rent new leases to 31.12.88                        521.229
9.765.845
21 As estimated oy DLPP on January 27, 1988.



- 90 -                            ANNEX 9
Page 4
12.  Assumptions for land lease rentals for 1989-1-93.  From 8 above, it can
be safely assumed that 752 of annual rents cat. be collectod annually.
13.  The collection of LLR arrears can also be assumed at 302 per year as
shown in 9.
14. It is estimated that new leases commands an annual leases rental of K 600
per parcel.
Forecast of Revenue Collections 1989 to 1993
15. The land lease rental collections (annual rent, arrears and new leases
rents) are as shown in Table 1.
16. The overall revenue collections inclusive of subheads 1 to 12 are as
shown in Table 2.
17.  The details of the revenue revised estimates ^or 1989 is as shown in
Table 3.
Current Leases. Sale of Allotment & Other Administrative Fees
18. Parcels leased, annual rents and arrears print out as at 11.10.88 has
been used in the assumptions of land lease rentals collection and are
shown as Tables 4 and 5.
19. The proposed amendment to Section 57 of the Land Act,3/ which imposes
6OZof the unimproved value of the land once passed upon by legislatiov
will have a dramatic reduction in the collection of sale of allotment
fees under subhead 131.3. Other administrative fees may gradually
increase because more allotments are likely to be mobilized with the
implementation of the land mobilization programme.
3/ Please note no amendments have been approved by NEC or Parliament to
date.



PAUPA NEW GUINEA
LAND MOBILIZATION PROJECT
Ferecast of Land Lease Rental Collections
PYl TO PYS
PYO      PY1     PY2       PY3      PY4      PYS
Southern Operations:
K4,860,000  752                       131-1-1 Annual rents)               3,645    3,685    3,924    4,073    4,221
3 022,000  302                           1-2 Arrears                       907    1,013    1.012    1,205    1,266
PY1-2(10) & PY3-5(330) K600lParcel           1-3 New rents   )                  186      186      198       198      198
Subtotal                      4.738    k.984    5.134    5.476    5.685
Northern ODerations:
11,688,100  752                       1' 1-1-1 Annual rents)              1,266    1,338    1,433    1,527    1,622
444,900  302                           1-2 Arrears                       134       227      302      364       507
PYI-2(160) & PY2-5(210) K600)Paael            1-3 New rents                       96      126      126       126      126
Subtotal                      1.496    1.691    1.861    2.017    2.255
9,800.0
Islands Operationst
11,589,800  751                       131-1-1 Annual rents)               1,395    1,544    1.762    1,978    2,203
4 235 800  30Z                           1-2 Arrears      )              1,271    1,043       906      833       803
PY1-5(33,485,480,500,530) [600/Parcel         1-3 New arrears )                 198       291      288       300      318
Subtotal                     2.864    2.878    2.956    3.111    3.324
Highlands Onerations:
K718,300  752                         131-1-1 Annual rents)                 539       565      597      636       679  
383,300  302                             1-2 Arrears      )                115      137       155      173       188
PY -5(59,72,86,95,104) [600/Parcel            1-3 New rents   )                  35        43       52       57        62      i
Subtotal                        689      745      804       866      929    ,
Annual rents)               6 845    7 232    ,.716    8 214    8 725
Arrears     )     9,800.0  7i47    z?4z0    Zi37       7575       7L4
New rents   )                         -646
TOTAL            9,800.0o  9.787   10.29b   10.755   11,470   12.193



- 92 -
ANNEX_9
Table 2
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
LAND MOBILIZATION PROJECT
Forecast of Revenue Inclusive of Sub-heads 1 TO 12
1989        1990         1991        1992        1993
PYl         PY2          PY3         PY4         PYS
K'OOO       K'000        K'OOO       K'OOO       K'000
Southern 131-1             4,738        4,984       5,134        5,476     5,685
Region  131(2-12)           368          301         281          329       310
Subtotal                5.106       5,285        5 415        5.805     5.995
Northera 131-1             1,496        1,691       1,861        2,017     2,255
Region  131(2-12)           142           89          96          103       110
Subtotal                1.638       1.780        1.957        2.120     2.365
Islands  131-1             2,864       2,878        2,956        3,111     3,324
Region  131(2-12)           426          167         183          199       215
Subtotal                3.290       3.045        3.139        3.310     3.539
Highlands 131-1              689          745         804          866       929
Region  131(2-12)          585          240         260          280       300
Subtotal                1.274          985       1.064        1.146     1.229
TOTAL                11.308      11.095       11.575      12.381    13.128
Notet    Sale of allotments on sub-head 131-3 has been reduced as at PY2 or
1990 onwards on the assumption that Sec. 57 of the Land Act gets
amended through legislation.



- 93 -
ANNX -9
Table 3
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
LAND MOBILIZATION PROJECT
Summary of Revenue Estimates :989
Head No. 131                                Southern   Northern   Islands   Highlands   Total
Subhead
Land lease rentals la                      4,738      1,496      2,864         689   9,787.0
License fees and royalty payments             10           5         5         100      120.0
Sale of allotments                           125         66        300         400        891
Survey fees                                   25       15.3       15.3          25      80.6
Surveyors registrations                      1.4           -         -           -        1.4
Valuation fees                                45           -         -           -         45
Valuers registrations                          1           -         -           -          1
Sundry receipts                              100        303         50          50     230.3
Objection fees                                 9           -         -           -          9
Sales of maps                                1.5        1.i        1.5         4.0        8.5
Surplus earnings and rentals                   -                  30.0           -       30.0
Lodgement fees                                50       24.,.      24.0           6      104.0
TOTAL                                5,106.0       1.638      3.290       1.274    11.308
la Comprised of 131-1-1 Annual rents)
1-2 Arrears      )   Please refer to Table 1.
1-3 New rents   )



- 94 -
ANNEX 9
Table 4
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
LAND MOBILIZATION PROJECT
Rent Position Smunary by Province la
Annual
No. of             rent
parcels          collected        Arrears
Western                      465         70,465.57            8,988.43
Gulf                         281         23,074.83           22,933.12
Central                    1,343        153,136.35          218,290.10
Milne Bay                    877         57,563.85           38,178.23
Northern                   1,813        103,870.54          114,448.54
Southern Highlands           446         44,461.20           34,651.51
Western Highlands          1,816        399,366.82          306,246.77
Chimbu                       291         18,990.61            7,015.24
Eastern Highlands          1,351        243,330.74           18,478.40
Morobe                     3,924      1,257,012.57          143,006.00
Madang                     1,396        201,614.63           73,079.50
East Sepik                 1,033        105,098.98           91,872.98
West Sepik                   479         20,509.12           22,480.52
Manus                        275         16,974.00           10,302.15
New Ireland                  669         50,055.37           40,897.78
West New Britain           3,552        223,036.64          364,372.36
East New Britain           1,707        215,533.63          162,560.31
Bougainville               2,606      1,354,236.07        3,657,714.69
Enga                         322         12,114.58           16,898.40
National Capital           9,206      4,556,183.80        2,733,667.41
TOTAL               33,850       9,126,629.10        8,086,082.43
la As of September 30, 1988. Figures are tentative.



_ 95 -
ANNEX 9
table S
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
LAND MOBILIZATION PROJEZ?
Rent Arrears
No. of     Annual                         Rent        No. parcels
Region                      parcels      rent         Arrears      outstanding    outstanding
Southern                   12,170   4,860,424.40  3,022,057.28   7,882,481.68          7,123
Northern                    8,645   1,688,105.04    444,887.54   2,132,992.58          4,198
Islands                     8,809   1,859,835.71  4,235,847.29   6,095,P33.00          5,007
Highlands                   4,226     718,263.95    383,290.32   1,101,554.27          1,724



- 96 -
ANNEX 10
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
LAND M,BILIZATION PROJECT
DEPARTMENT OF LANDS AND PHYSICAL PLANNING
Budget--1988 and 1989
1988
1989            1988         Actual
Appropriation   Appropriation   Expenditure
(kina)          (kina)          (kina)
Sunmmary of Expenses Items
1.  Salary and other employee payments        5,274.000        5,630,300        4,228,300
2.  Travel end subsistence                      646,000          413,700          347,400
3.  Utilities                                   689,000          551,800          571,600
4.  Materials and supply                        572,000          425,900          451,900
5.  Plant and transport hire                    753,000          503,600          532,000
6.  Special services                            701,600          461,600          424,200
7.  Purchase of capital assets                1,173,000        2,113,000       1,340,100
9.  Other                                       511,600          458,200          342,700
10.  Emoluments (wages, overtime, others)        794,900                           754,500
Gross Total                           11.115,100       10,567,100       8,992,700
99.  Appropriation-in-Aid                        105,000          100,000         121.A
Net Total                             11,315,100       10,467,100       8,870,800



"uater commencing                                            A            8       4   h            19490 15M               9149% IIB               /2Z        92 M .W /G                    O
b. Program budgeting structure In place Pep Steh d                                                                             1  
*  Pregr  g_tor:            t" ieun place PYO                 implr_nt                                                               or)
d.  Lean Negotiati jEff ecttv.m n_)                                                         Mf)
*. Doner Review (A-Annual Secondmry)                                                             (-A-)       (-S-)       (-A-)       (-6-)      (-A-)       (-S-)       (-A-)       (-)
*   Eff ettve publciety progrea  operating by PYI                        (…-...cru.t.---)  ------------- -------O                      rtion       -      -------------------)
1.2 Profeional Standarda DOfinition A Rual. Control
a. Rgiatrtio t; of titles,
stion of Registrar of title, created                     (Created)   (---------- --------------Stndarda Setting    weIlIty Contr.l                       -----
-4evew of title regibtration preeduree PY.                     (v)         (---Iplement--)
b. Survq-                                                                (---------------             ----  - ----Standard Setting & Quality Control------                               --)
Rvi   cuetomary  nd sorvey and dearcation mathod                                        (Rerch)  (Dir)
ce  Yalustiona                                                            ---------------------------tStnderd- Setting A Reality Control---------
. Physical planning                                                            -------------------------Stndrds Setting A goality C                 oi-trol------ -
erdination of land umn  urvey A evaluation               (Deign)            -Survey-----)
ef land pot ntal(------Evluton ---)
-IUIC funtitoning by Pm2.                                                               ---Prep --)   ----Convn 
13(aitel Works                                                                                                                                                                                         %O
a. Rgional office buildinga (6) completed by PY4.                        (--44mgn & RabauI--)  ---me------)
Dow;ion                                                                       A-4ge           Raebal)(--Ls---
Construction
b. Provinciel office buildings (6) compl-ted by PY4.
Deign A tender                                                                (------- offices--   --        2 off e-- off
Construct                                                                                             (--4   fice--    ----2 offt---   (---2 offtce.--)
c. NO office building complted by P2.                                    (-Desgn   Tender--)  ----onetruct---
d  Computer center completed by m.                                       (--e9sign    Teer--)  __-Cotrut----
*. Steff homue  (90) completed by PS.                                                               -gn & Iabaul---           -) (-------                         roeines--)
2. Xn-r   1r040tte        Idine
a.I FDP rnt ntured by PY1. (.
b. Relocation of Rtgioal Offices io Mn    .                                                                              (Rabaul A PS)           (-- --)
c  Clearly defined land develo    t and
administtive pollci  are In place by Pm2.                   (----Policy Formulation--)
d. Land Reform Studies completed
- rent detertinatien PYn.                                                    t      rceh--  PD
- rent coll etion  ystem  PYI.                                                Reh---    P1)
- btioal fr_emmork legislation for customery
land de ling and r gistration P.                     (Coneultant) (--Policy-)
- lhtioal land legIsltion  Icnotion Pm.                                             _  ro   (P.1)
- review of role  nd  tructure  f Land bard Pm.
*. Draft interim land legislation ie pr pered in PYn.                                 --craft--)
*. Str _Itn d *dloIntrtien pree durnn *r
Introduced by PY1 (Iesign-)I
consolidated land legislation is prepared bt Pm                            (-Design-)
hRevisd administrative procedures are introduced in
epport of consolidated land legislation in PO,                                                          --      .gn--)               pnpl_nt)                                                   l   !e
t  lprowd rent collection mechanim are introduced
by PU.                                                                               (>lnt)
J   Improved land dieute settlent infrastructure 
.    ,blhbed by P2.                                                                   twcea tent)      (Impl_nt)



Piirom Year _E                                                                                   .1/89 4/29 7/i11  1/90 4/4 M  WM    l/91  4/L1 2  19W   1/92  *      1/    */W  4/93         WM
Quarter comencing                                             17870/ 81                      WU1            W 1WW 11~711711rl8~i
2.2 Personnel Services
a. Key DLPP staff positions fIled by PYI.                                  --cntmnt-)
b   St aff trIng initiative. implemented to support:
-ftpartment reorganization         tTlt                            -       tran-:
-PiS  i pl_nXftten                 on- A tr In--
-Interi, land leg-ilation                                                               tD) r)
Deemtralization of alienated lend nadm.                               (-     .     -) S) ring  * Dowel)                (46) (56          (4) "             SW       R
-Custoamy land registration                                                       (Ongoi4ngr  Devl)                    -Dep    ((- ann-
*-cnolidated land l.oislation                                                                                                      (--Tratn-)
-Oenoing managnt training                                                         (*O      , lv-)9i
-Degoing technical training                                                                    -Delop-) (--------------- rni
rll cteff qunlificationc end motivation
Increased by Ps.                                                                (-----------aStff  d velopaant program  esabished and impl_nted------              )
S-W 1.1xn. All d L nd
a.1        n,        era.  .8 Islands, 8.4 Highland
a. The us   f sech percel of alienated land is
scertained through a land us  survey by PY.                         (-------Survay------
b. Thc potential of each parcel of vacant or under-
utilid al ;nated is detrmined                                                   (---E luation-----)
c. Apprepriate allocation. forfeiture or release
action taken an these parceli.                                                   C-…--44obiliation----            …     -)
d. Land adainistration proeses_ on all provinces
are meeting the demand                                                                       (---------Transaection proc ing------      --
a.  All balogW in aministration are cleared by PY3S                       (          -------Adr             bakloge------------------------)
a   Dra  namonia fraors   l        .eialtion for custoar
lend dealig and regition  io prepae d in PYO.           (Cnoultent) (--Policy-)       (Or)  (- oulttn---) (Lea)
b. Customary lend legOlatin t  nd  in    provinces
by PVS(46.(6
C. Customary land mobi l iation program are supported
In 2 provinces by PYS.                                              t5)
d. Clan lnd group registration masts demando                                  ev )   ------            ------------ ---Zmpem            neton-_
iS  D c ntr lia Impleentatiorn  irat r ain^
developed In PYO.                                       (-Develop-)
b   LanAd mnaemnt comittees operating in all
provinc by m.                                                               - ---------------------------Al Provlncee-- ---------
C. o rovincs  n ard    dntralied  lienated
land aministration posers by PFY.                       (-EK) (4) ()                                                                         ()
d. Retructured land administration servicew *re
operating in 5 provinces by Pm.                                                                    (-)  (E6 )  (8                        N      9  (-1)
6   i^dnd Rranurce Infeien
a. Temporary computer room contructed.                              (Ten) (C-n)
b   Dant Verification Proj act is complted by PYI.            (-      t  verification-)
C. ONOU5S ie fully inst.l led and operational in HQ and
the province  for allinted land by PYI.                 (----Inst ll d----) (-            --------------------Operstion-- -----                         --
d. Coputer hardars upgrade in PYI.                                         (--Acquire---) (---Implent--)
a.  Land Informtion Policy Comittes established in PYI.                                                      --p---)(- - - ---------_Conve---                     - -)-
f   Capture of Land u_s dat  comlsted by Pm2.                              (-sign-) (----------ptur                ---------)
PNM.IS supports customary lend registration ir.
2 prvince  by PYS.                                      (------------)
h   Torr  Title Register Is Ietal led on PNOLI5
by PmX. -      this I conditional upon as*tudy).                    (Con)       (-Develop) (-Ot                                               -------)
i.  Sptial  ererncingoef parcels is introduced in mf.                                                     ) (lt-
J.  Amended procedures to support consolidated land
legislatioJn devlopd on P92.5 by PYS.                                                 (------Ovlop------) (-------I- porational-------------)
k.  LUIS   te       d led thre   c          eferencing
of P948.15 and P928118 in PY4.                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Consul ten)(---mIe pt-
1. Linkag  to I  systems complet by PYS.                                                                                                                 (Conalten) (I.i_nt)
6.2 National Napping Sureeu
a   Godetic neteork  dJustment is comee_ncd In fY1.                                          (---'             extraction-----= 
b. Ieeomputing capacity I- incrased bPym.                                        fnsultay A Tender) tSyst_ Acquisition & Snetal) (----------------peAqtion------- ------)  
c. Reote sensing pilot study  ompleed dyPY                          (----Trn n----) (-PS)
d. Remote sensing **t_m acqu'-ition                                             (-Consultency * Tand-r) (Systs Acqui-sition &       l)  -------                 operation------
f :llc  ctrt~   1:l.0 opoin i-p cs larted  byt -eci t-) (--_-_--------4dates  ope^_                                                                ons-- -__                   ~-
ge  Compilation of 1:2-D,WO  topgrphic mpa is
lnitiated by FYS                                                                                                                 (Systom Acquisition A Instal)        (--Production-)



- 99 -
ANNEX 12
PAPUA NWi GUINEA
LAND MOBILIZATION PROJECT
Documents in the Protect File
1.  Appraisal Documents
1.1  Input-Output and Cost Tables for each DLPP Work Units
1.2 Terms of Referen_;e for Technical Assistance
1.3 Terms of Reference for Contract Staff for LIU and NMB
1.4 Consultants file on Alienated Land Component
1.5  Consultants file on Customary Land Component
1.6 Consultants fiel on Land Information Component
2.  Pacific Agribusiness:  2.1 !easibility Study
2.2 Project File
3. DLPP Land Mobilization Program
3.1 Program Description
3.2 Technical Assistance Requirements
3.3 Decentralization Issues Paper
3.4 Staff Development and Training Issues Paper
3.5 PNG Land Information System, Issues Paper
3.6 Land Dispute Settlement Issues Paper
3.7 National Mapping Bureau Initiatives
3.8 Physical Planning Issue Paper
3.9 Memorandum of Understanding
4. Customary Land Issues
4.1 R. Noronha, A Report on a Proposal to Register Customary Land and
Other Related Matters, January 31, 1985
4.2 J. Fingelton: Proposed National Frame Work and Legislation, 1988
4.3 R. Noronha: Back to Office Report, October 14, 1988
4.4 GOPNGs Chapter 45, Land Disputes Settlement Act
5. East Sepik (ES) Customary Land Registration
5.1 The Provincial Land Act
The Provincial Land Registration Act, Manual of Laws and Procedures
5.2 ES Provincial Land Regulation, 1987
5.3 ES Customary Land Registration Regulation, 1987
5.4 ES Draft Provincial Legislation, January 1987
6. Issues of Land Administration
6.1 Knetsch, Treblicock, Land Policy and Economic Development in PNG
1981 Institute of National Affairs Discussion Paper No. 6, 1981
6.2 INA Public Seminar, Land Policy and Economic Development in PNG,
June 10, 1981



GOVERNMENT OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
Policy Formulation and Resource Management Mechanisms
NxTnoNAL
EXEOUTIVE
OOUNCL
POLMCAL
...~~........ .... ,....   -...........................   .... .............. 
l  a   Ss             ,   i               . _           , 
_ ; NMC , . .....                        ....    ......    ....w,..
U            S                                       I                    I~I OM
.l   DLPP    |            Line Deparbtnts               Une Depawtments                      Uns Departmnt
PROGRAMME
MANAOM_W
COMMffTEES  ~  PROGRAMME                                                                           KW487



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0~~~'~p0a WWmp                                               *VOA.muP.4w.u                        naa
-4    D  W
q el'DSwo ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wm
*               9_S_t_                                  TY  r
79 -                        q   f
DogoNV 1 aUqp! 'poeiM eoW4
tWmldTi= W vwM-,  WONVIdr _w%O



DEPARTMENT OF LANDS AND PHYSICAL PLANNING
LAND MOBIUZAION PROGRAMME
EstabUshment- 1989,
Seglam[ C
IMnaI 1lYid IP e95r  onne  ITon 
MOrKKW  emcno2      egonal                                                        AOICwdPOS                        Dbect
1~~~~~sten P¢vX                               Rom"0 R9            ph
W&d DXA3843A



- 103 -CART4
| 411                                                                                                 I II
I



DEPARTMENT OF LANDS AND PHYSICAL PLANNING
Proposed Personnel Services Divlslon
r~~~~~~~~ PERSONNL 
|  K;O  i                        1  8~~~~~~~~~ERVICES 
PRINCIPAL. STAFF                      PWIA
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
STEFNIOR                                                     MNAEMN            TRAINE    R     TRRAINING  
RECRUJIETMB
STAFF CLERK     PAYMASTER          CLERK            AND                                                     TRAINM
CLERK                                    RESXRCE8~~~~~~~~CER
EK'E4UA
CA
'II



- 105 -
CHART 6
A I
~~IN
if
ill d~il
IIi                I
du              X
A II
X                             I
I~~~~~~~~~~~
0    - - III~~~~~~~~
- Ili~~~~~



DEPARIMEW OF LANDS AND PHVSCL   PLANNING
LAND MOULIZAlION PROGRAMME
ModCI d Poposd Ponei Lands DWon
Thu
~~~~~~~~~ I
U X e 1 " _>a 51 o T   T   1        l
%Cft*I                                       Ift I              I             E
UNOofXPEXA                                                                                               Hiwowr



NOTES    '
l



4
MAP SECTION
I
I
i
i
I
i
I
i
I



,,   X    ;- ;_, ,@,          ~I R I A N  J A YA  ( IN D ON E S I A )
L X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                             ~~~~~~ ----------- 0>>c
I   c    Q o          :        w      /         X I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~------- j-------- 
t O W AttA~~~~~~~~~~~---------------- _                   _______-
@ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                         ~      ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - -a  - - - - -;  - -2--------        
-§ - -/ - -X           
of,               O                               |  >  
=~~~~~~~~                         -7 -Q    
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~  S\_________  11
L_  o-s4-------l \  jQ,,k'  ita  6Fi8+o!m I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g 
st    i  Ij,iillXii|i   e/  \    2           |    |    s  '  8   r  



/A'AYSIA                                                                                                                                                                                PAPUA  NEW  (GUINEA
APPJA                                                                                                                                                       MLN GJINEA  O  I.OCATIONS O  CASI CROPS
IU ,    | COCONUTS
ZEAIANO,^                                                                                                                                                    |        |  COFFEE
NMN                           MANUS                                                                                \'COCOA
.CLN   _                                                                                                                                                                      RUBBER
______________________________________                                                                                                            OIL  PALM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OI   PLk
1420
142° zgtKaWenig                                     PYRETHRUM
| ;kaVenin,o                                                                                    >_______ \ -sa!. 7 TEA
1                      4,82           c                      _     PEANUTS
X I   _,  ,,  NEW IRELAND …>,                          -----  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
WEsr SEPHE r       s        _> T _ 3 0     W         e        \         ~         a        k                 s                  N                                          - S   -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
40    I         {,         r-        E45T SEPIKI IESTR>t
LANDS                                           V~~~~~~~~~~~~EST NEW BR/TAWNES  E   RT/
t I                                                                                                               - ---  O                       ¢I U     W/
<     ,1                    1       Q9SOUTHERN t                                                                                 O                                                     NORTH SOLOMONS. D           
HI GHI.AJOS
_  _ -                                                                        Mo 1XOROSE gw
>         #  5~~ULF                                                  --    -    -    ~--  
WESTERN                             eL                                                                                                                                       , -SOLOMON ISLAND
1             0                                         t   I ~ ~~~~~ --    -~                                            /- ----/
I   o  I  lI  -\_\                                    //'                                                            t
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                                                                                                        Wd ft' .f ->1 f  'Q
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IE                                                                                                                             i -\  -- f th 1-d f ,',
i.---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b d.-p -OR MORSB  CEIAt"f,         _
0                                                                                       7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~02040-
I~~~ vS                                                                   -
) ~~~~~~~I                                                                                                       C= 
AUSTRALIA                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS                                                  Wrffda>k-diu.ffilow .any
-1f112°                    (46-                                                                            150°                                                 1T4-           j .-'-R-hb ..d
1-12'~ ~~.



