Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3051 PNG
                    (Land Mobilization Project)
                              between
             THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                     Dated September 25, 1989
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3051 PNG
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 25,  1989, between THE INDEPENDENT
STATE OF PAPUA NEW  GUINEA  (the  Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project; and
     (B)  the Borrower intends  to  obtain  from the Government of
Australia a grant (the  Australian  Grant) in an amount equivalent
to $6,400,000 to assist in  financing  part  of the Project on the
conditions set forth in an  agreement  (the Grant Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Government of Australia;
and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions  Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
    Section  1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
    (a)  "DLPP"  means  the  Department   of  Lands  and  Physical
Planning of the Borrower;
    (b)  "Fiscal Year" and "FY"  means  the Borrower's fiscal year
beginning January 1 and ending December 31;
     (c)  "Kina" means the currency of the Borrower;
     (d)  "PNGLIS" means  the  Papua  New  Guinea Land Information
System;
     (e)  "Program"  means   the   Borrower's   Land  Mobilization
Programme as set  out  in  the  Department  of  Lands and Physical
Planning's document dated December 1988; and
     (f)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in this Agreement,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to nineteen million six
hundred thousand dollars ($19,600,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in Kina a  special  account in the Bank of Papua
New Guinea (its Central Bank) on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank.  Deposits  into,  and  payments  out  of, the Special
Account  shall  be  made  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be  June 30, 1994, or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
Page  3
half  of  one  percent  per  annum  above  the  Cost  of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end,  shall  carry out the Project through
DLPP with due  diligence  and  efficiency  and  in conformity with
appropriate administrative,  financial  and engineering practices,
and shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower  and the Bank shall
otherwise agree,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the  provisions  of Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
Page  4
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
               ably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified:
          (i)  Subject to subparagraph  (ii)  of this Section, the
               Grant   Agreement   shall   have   been  suspended,
               cancelled or terminated,  prior  to its completion,
               in whole or in part.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this section shall not apply if
               the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
               Bank that:  (A)  such  suspension,  cancellation or
               termination is not  caused  by  the  failure of the
               Borrower to perform  any  of  its obligations under
               such agreement;  and  (B)  adequate  funds  for the
               Project are available  to  the  Borrower from other
               sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
               obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional  conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  this Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the Borrower has employed  the  consultants to assist it
Page  5
in the carrying out of Parts A.1 (a), A.1 (f), B.1 (a) and B.2 (b)
of the Project; and
     (b)  the conditions  precedent  to  the  effectiveness of the
Grant  Agreement  have  been  fulfilled,  subject  only  to  those
relating to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
     Section 6.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister  for  Finance  and Planning of the
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
         Minister for Finance and Planning
         Department of Finance and Planning
         Post Office Wards Strip
         Waigani, N.C.D.
         Papua New Guinea
         Cable address:                      Telex:
              TREASURER                        NE 23331
              Boroko
              Papua New Guinea
    For the Bank:
         International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
         1818 H Street, N.W.
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         United States of America
         Cable address:                      Telex:
              INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
              Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties  hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
                   By /s/ Paul Pora
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  6
                   By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each  Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                          Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated             % of
                          (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil works             5,400,000         100% of expendi-
                                               tures incurred
                                               on or before
                                               December 31, 1989,
                                               and 90% thereafter
(2)  Equipment               5,100,000         100% of foreign
     and furniture                             expenditures,
                                               100% of local
                                               expenditures (ex-
                                               factory cost) and
                                               85% of local
                                               expenditures for
                                               other items pro-
                                               cured locally
(3)  Consultants'            4,400,000         100%
     services and
     contract staff
(4)  Incremental             3,700,000         80% in FY 1989,
     salaries of                               70% in FY 1990,
     local staff                               60% in FY 1991,
                                               50% in FY 1992 and
                                               40% in FY 1993
(5)  Unallocated             1,000,000
          TOTAL             19,600,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  the term "contract  staff"  means non-citizen government
employees on fixed-term contracts with DLPP; and
     (d)  the term "incremental salaries of local staff" means the
salaries of employees of DLPP paid  by the Borrower in each of the
fiscal years set forth in paragraph  1, and which are in excess of
the total paid for such salaries by the Borrower in FY 1988.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of  this  Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount  not  exceeding  the equivalent of $1,000,000,
may be made on  account  of  payments made for expenditures before
Page  7
that date but after January 1, 1989.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The  objectives  of  the  Project  are:  (i)  to  improve the
management  of  land  administration;  (ii)  to  improve  land use
planning,    policy,    management,    legislation,    procedures,
professional standards,  quality  of  land  services  and physical
facilities; (iii) to improve the  capacity of DLPP to develop land
policy, promote land registration, deliver land services, generate
land-based  revenues,  and  assist   in  the  settlement  of  land
disputes; (iv) to develop an improved and cost-effective system to
expedite identification and allocation  of  alienated land; (v) to
develop an acceptable and cost  effective method of customary land
mobilization; (vi) to develop a system for the decentralization of
land administration to the provinces;  and (vii) to develop an up-
to-date land and resource  information  base available to all land
users.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Program Management
1.   Management
     (a)  Management  and   coordination   of   the  Program,  and
provision of related technical assistance.
     (b)  Establishment  of  regular   meetings   of  the  Program
Management Committee and provision of secretariat support.
     (c)  Establishment of the  National Land Management Committee
and provision of secretariat support.
     (d)  Construction of  three  regional  offices  for DLPP (Mt.
Hagen, Lae and  Rabaul)  construction  of eight provincial offices
for DLPP; construction of about  90  houses  for DLPP staff in Mt.
Hagen, Lae, Rabaul  and  in  the  eight provinces where provincial
offices are  constructed;  construction  of  an  extension  of the
building of the National Mapping  Bureau of DLPP; and construction
of a building for the Land Information Processing Center of DLPP.
     (e)  Design  and  carrying  out   of  publicity  programs  to
encourage land mobilization,  and  provision  of related technical
assistance.
     (f)  Coordination and management  of the technical assistance
provided under the  Project,  and  provision  of related technical
assistance for coordination of Bank financed technical assistance.
2.   Office of the Registrar of Titles
     (a)  Study  of  the  nature  and  the  extent  of  incomplete
processed land  transactions  within  DLPP  as  identified through
PNGLIS, and provision of related technical assistance.
     (b)  Securing  of  title  documentation  by  microfiche,  and
provision of related technical assistance.
     (c)  Establishment of regional  and  provincial title offices
and provision of technical support to such offices.
3.   Office of the Surveyor General
     (a)  Definition and maintenance of professional standards for
the conduct of all cadastral  surveys undertaken by the Operations
Division in regional and provincial offices and private surveyors.
Page  8
     (b)  Provision  of   technical   support   to   regional  and
provincial surveyors.
     (c)  Determination of  an  appropriate  means  of  survey and
demarcation to support customary  land registration, and provision
of related technical assistance.
     (d)  Study of the  role  of  private surveyors in undertaking
surveys required  for  land  allocation  including  review of DLPP
survey fees.
4.   Office of the Valuer General
     (a)  Maintenance  of   a   quality   control   role  for  all
valuations.
     (b)  Provision  of   technical   support   to   regional  and
provincial valuers of DLPP's Operations Division.
     (c)  Review of  land  lease  rent  determination  policies in
cooperation with the Policy and Programming Division of DLPP.
     (d)  Investigation  of   the   appropriateness  of  computer-
assisted valuation techniques, and  provision of related technical
assistance.
5.   Office of the Chief Physical Planner
     (a)  Monitoring of the work output of physical planning staff
working in the  Operations  Division  and  the provinces to ensure
professional standards and adherence  to procedures, and provision
of technical support.
     (b)  Preparation of physical  planning manuals, and provision
of related technical assistance.
     (c)  Extension  of  the  professional  capacity  of  physical
planners to include peri-urban  and  rural  planning skills and to
prepare  rural  physical  planning  exercises,  and  provision  of
related technical assistance.
Part B:   Institution Building
1.   Policy and Institutional Infrastructure
     (a)  Completion of the restructuring  of DLPP, in association
with the Department  of  Personnel  Management, and improvement of
management  procedures   and   provision   of   related  technical
assistance.
     (b)  Preparation  of   procedural   manuals   for  DLPP,  and
provision of related technical assistance.
     (c)  Review of the  alienated  land  lease rent determination
policies  of  DLPP  in   relation   to  leasehold  properties,  in
cooperation with  the  Valuer  General,  and  provision of related
technical assistance.
     (d)  Review  of  the  existing  rent  collection  systems  in
operation in DLPP and the  Department of Finance and Planning, and
provision of related technical assistance.
     (e)  Preparation   of   draft   legislative   and  procedural
amendments to  support  improvements  in administration procedures
for alienated land, and provision of related technical assistance.
     (f)  Review of the  national  land legislation for consolida-
tion and simplification including a review of the role of the Land
Board and drafting of  new  legislation,  and provision of related
technical assistance.
     (g)  Study of different land  allocation and transfer systems
Page  9
for alienated land, comparing  the  present system of multilayered
Government controls  and  interventions  with  other systems which
would allow market forces  to  play  a  larger role in determining
land allocation, transfers  and  values,  and provision of related
technical assistance.
     (h)  Review  of  the  development  of  a  national  framework
legislation for customary  land  dealing  and registration and the
relationship of such  a  legislation  to provincial governments to
establish policy options  for  the  mobilization and management of
customary land, and provision of related technical assistance.
     (i)  Review of  existing  land  dispute settlement mechanisms
and investigation of  options  for  resolution  of existing diffi-
culties together with  the  Department  of  Justice  and the Chief
Magistrate, and provision of related technical assistance.
     (j)  Provision  of  assistance  to  the  Surveyor  General in
reviewing DLPP's fees for cadastral surveys and their influence on
participation of private surveyors.
     (k)  Drafting of an amendment  to the Survey Coordination Act
to require all organizations producing maps and aerial photography
to deposit copies with the National Mapping Bureau.
2.   Personnel Services
     (a)  Recruitment of about  150 professionally competent staff
for DLPP.
     (b)  Development of appropriate  staff  training policies and
programs, including management  training,  training in administra-
tive procedures, and training  for  provincial government staff to
support  the  introduction  of  customary  land  registration; and
provision of related technical assistance.
     (c)  Coordination  of  technical  training  requirements  for
DLPP, including overseas training and secondments.
     (d)  Development of career path  structures and regular staff
appraisal mechanisms for all DLPP staff.
     (e)  Conduct of ongoing personnel administration functions.
Part C:   Mobilizing Alienated Land
     The four regional offices of  the Operations Division of DLPP
to undertake the following activities in their respective regions:
     1.   Appointment of Regional Managers.
     2.   Appointment of Provincial Managers.
     3.   Establishment  of  coordinated  work  programs  for  the
          provincial offices and regional offices.
     4.   Promotion of the use  of  the lease-leaseback and tenure
          conversion mechanisms to  customary landowners and their
          incorporation into land  or  business  groups to support
          the mobilization of customary land.
     5.   Conduct of a stocktake  of  alienated land which has not
          been  leased,  including  a  survey  of  all  parcels to
          determine  current  land  use  and  occupancy,  land use
          potential,  evaluation  of  underutilized  parcels,  and
          undertaking   appropriate   allocation,   forfeiture  or
          release action  on  those  parcels  in  response  to the
          evaluation.
     6.   Undertaking of land  acquisition  as required for public
          purposes.
Page  10
     7.   Provision  of   land   services   (land  administration,
          surveys, valuation  and  physical  planning) to existing
          and potential land users.
     8.   Collection of monies  owed  to  the Government for lease
          rentals and other land-related service charges.
     9.   Handling of arrears in land administration processing.
Part D:   Mobilizing Customary Land
1.   Liaison with and assistance to the provincial Land Management
Committees in the formulation of  a policy framework for customary
land mobilization and registration for each province.
2.   Provision of technical assistance  to  the provinces to draft
customary land registration legislation.
3.   Provision of  assistance  to  the  provinces  to  develop the
necessary administrative  procedures  to  support  the legislation
referred to in Part D.2  of  the Project and associated procedural
manuals.
4.   Coordination   of   the   establishment   of   organizational
structures to  administer  the  implementation  of the legislation
referred to in Part D.2 of the Project.
Part E:   Decentralization of Alienated Land Administration
1.   Appointment by  DLPP  of  staff  to  the  Provincial Services
Branch of the Policy and Programming Division.
2.   Liaison with  the  provincial  Land  Management Committees to
ensure that suitable land management policies are developed.
3.   Liaison  with  the  provinces  and  with  the  Department  of
Personnel Management  to  establish  consolidated  Lands Divisions
within the departments of each province.
4.   Provision  of   assistance   to   the   provinces   with  the
establishment of  procedures  and  the  development  of procedures
manuals.
5.   Coordination of the transfer of DLPP staff to the provinces.
Part F:   Land and Resource Information
1.   PNGLIS
     (a)  Installation of PNGLIS  in  the  regional offices of the
          Operations Division to  support the land administration,
          survey, valuation  and  physical  planning work programs
          and the collection of revenue.
     (b)  Installation of PNGLIS  in  each  of the DLPP provincial
          offices to provide enquiry-only access to the database.
     (c)  Provision of  training  to  staff  on  implementation of
          PNGLIS.
     (d)  Completion of the  land administration data verification
          exercise, and provision of related technical assistance.
     (e)  Coordination of the data  capture for surveys, valuation
          and physical  planning  to  support their administrative
          processes.
     (f)  Capture of the  spatial  references  of the centroids of
          land parcels to enable  spatial searches of the database
          to be conducted.
     (g)  Investigation of  the  linkage  of  the  PNGLIS with the
Page  11
          National   Mapping   Bureau's   computer   systems   and
          strengthening  of  the   spatial   referencing  of  both
          systems; and provision of related  technical assistance.
     (h)  Investigation of the  linkage  of  PNGLIS with the Papua
          New Guinea Resource Information System maintained by the
          Department of  Agriculture  and  Livestock to strengthen
          the land use  planning  capabilities  of the system; and
          provision of related technical assistance.
     (i)  Provision of technical assistance for the management and
          operation of PNGLIS.
2.   National Mapping Bureau
     (a)  Policy Development and Coordination
          (i)  Establishment of a Mapping  Advisory Committee as a
               subcommittee  to   the   National  Land  Management
               Committee to:  develop  specifications for standard
               mapping;  decide   on   technologies  for  standard
               mapping;  liaise   and   coordinate  with  academic
               institutions on teaching surveying and mapping; and
               coordinate mapping  activities  of other Government
               agencies which would continue  to produce their own
               specialized maps.
         (ii)  Assistance to the  Policy  and Programming Division
               in amending the Survey Coordination Act, to require
               all organizations producing  maps  or aerial photo-
               graphy to deposit copies  with the National Mapping
               Bureau.
        (iii)  Assistance to the  Land  Information  Unit in their
               investigation into the  linkage  of  PNGLIS and the
               National Mapping Bureau computer facilities.
         (iv)  Establishment of  work  programs  for  the National
               Mapping Bureau's  activities  in  liaison  with the
               National Mapping Advisory Committee.
     (b)  Geodetic Network
     Comprehensive adjustments of  the  geodetic network including
provision of: (i) technical assistance; (ii) contractors' services
for densification of the existing  network; (iii) leveling and sea
level determinations; (iv)  computing  equipment; (v) three global
positioning systems for densification; and (vi) a geodetic network
adjustment software package.
     (c)  Topographic Maps
          Carrying out of a topographic mapping program including:
          (i)  a pilot study to investigate  and define the use of
               remote sensing technology  for topographic mapping;
               including    provision    of    related   technical
               assistance;
         (ii)  installation  of  remote  sensing  image processing
               systems in the National Mapping Bureau and training
               of staff;
        (iii)  updating  of   about   280   sheets   of  1:100,000
               topographic maps;
         (iv)  production   of   about   8   sheets   of  1:25,000
               topographic maps; and
          (v)  continuation of urban large-scale mapping.
     (d)  Cadastral Mapping
Page  12
     Increase of  the  production  of  cadastral  map  services by
enlarging 1:100,000 scale topographic  maps to allow completion of
the series in about 15 years.
     (e)  IGOS Mapping System
     Resolution of technical difficulties to make the IGOS digital
mapping system fully operational.
     (f)  Computing Section of the National Mapping Bureau
          (i)  Establishment  of  a   Computing   Section  of  the
               National Mapping Bureau.
         (ii)  Acquisition  and   installation   of  a  scientific
               computer.
                           *   *   *   *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
      beginning October 15, 1994
      through October 15, 2008            655,000
On April 15, 2009                         605,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                         0.90
     more than 18 years
Page  13
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                          1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those  set forth in Sections I and
II of the "Guidelines  for  Procurement  under  IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Papua New Guinea
may be granted  a  margin  of  preference  in accordance with, and
subject to, the  provisions  of  paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Civil works and furniture  shall  be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis  of  competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each  contract  for civil works and each
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or
more, and the first contract  for civil works for the construction
of a provincial office  and  for  the  construction of housing for
DLPP staff under Part A.1  (d)  of the Project, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4  of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contracts are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall  be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of  the contract required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Bank prior to  the  making  of  the  first  payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 10% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist  the  Borrower  in  carrying out Parts A.1
Page  14
(a), (e) and (f); A.2 (b); A.3 (c); A.5 (b) and (c); B.1 (a), (b),
and (d) through (i); B.2 (b); D.2; and F.1 (i) of the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions  of  employment  shall be satisfactory to
the Bank. Such consultants  shall  be  selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank  as  Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
1.   In carrying out Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  by December  31,  1989,  complete  the reorganization of
DLPP in accordance with the plan set out in the Program;
     (b)  by December 31,  1989,  reinstitute  regular meetings of
the Program Management Committee; and
     (c)  by  December  31,  1989,  establish  the  National  Land
Management Committee.
2.   The Borrower shall:
     (a)  by December 31,  1990,  carry  out  Part  A.2 (a) of the
Project and furnish the recommendations  of  the study to the Bank
for comments; and
     (b)  thereafter, prepare  and  promptly  carry  out an action
plan,  taking  into  account  the  comments  of  the  Bank  on the
recommendations of the study.
3.   The Borrower shall, by December  31, 1990, carry out Part A.3
(d) of the  Project  and,  thereafter,  prepare  and  carry out an
action plan acceptable to the Bank.
4.   In carrying out Part B.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  by December 31,  1989,  carry  out  Part  B.1 (c) of the
Project, and, by January 1,  1991, establish a system, taking into
account the comments of the Bank on the results of the review;
     (b)  by June 30, 1990, carry out Part B.1 (d) of the Project,
and, by December 31, 1991, establish a system, taking into account
the comments of the Bank on the results of the review;
     (c)  by June 30, 1990, carry out Part B.1 (e) of the Project;
     (d)  by December 31, 1992, carry  out  the study set forth in
Part B.1 (g) of the Project;
     (e)  by December 31, 1990, employ the consultants required to
assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B.1 (h) of the Project;
     (f)  by December 31, 1990, carry  out the review set forth in
Part B.1 (i) of the Project;  by December 31, 1991, furnish to the
Bank, for comments, a plan  of  action for the improvement of such
mechanisms; and, thereafter,  carry  out  such  action plan taking
into account the Bank's comments thereon; and
     (g)  by December 31,  1990,  carry  out  Part  B.1 (k) of the
Project.
5.   In carrying out Part B.2  of  the Project, the Borrower shall
by December 31, 1989, appoint  staff to the following positions in
DLPP: Deputy Secretary,  Technical  Services; Assistant Secretary,
Programme Management; Head, Policy  and Research Branch; Assistant
Secretary, Personnel Services; Regional Manager (Southern Region);
Regional  Manager  (Northern  Region);  Regional  Manager  (Island
Page  15
Region); and Regional Manager (Highlands Region).
6.   In carrying out Part F.2  of the Project, the Borrower shall,
by December 31, 1989, establish the Mapping Advisory Committee.
7.   The Borrower shall,  by  April  30  in  each  year, until the
completion of the Project, review with the Bank the implementation
of the Program, and shall,  thereafter,  carry out such changes to
the Program as agreed with the Bank.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1),
(2), (3)  and  (4)  set  forth  in  the  table  in  paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $1,300,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
                deposits into the  Special  Account at such inter-
                vals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the Bank the documents
                and  other  evidence  required  pursuant  to para-
                graph 4 of this  Schedule  for the payment or pay-
                ments  in  respect   of   which  replenishment  is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on  behalf  of  the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
                Account such  amount  as  the  Borrower shall have
                requested and as  shall  have  been  shown by said
                documents and other evidence to have been made out
                of the Special  Account for eligible expenditures.
                All such deposits shall  be  withdrawn by the Bank
                from  the  Loan   Account   under  the  respective
                eligible Categories, and in the respective equiva-
                lent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
                documents and other evidence.
Page  16
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at  such  time as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request, furnish  to  the  Bank  such  documents and otherevidence  showing  
that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible  Categories  less  the  amount  of any outstanding
special commitment entered into  by  the  Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions  with respect to the Project, shall
equal  the  equivalent  of  twice  the  amount  of  the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the   Loan   allocated  to  the  eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent  that the Bank shall have been satis-
fied that all such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of  such  notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account:  (i) was made for an expendi-
ture or in an amount not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not  justified  by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall,  promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence  as  the Bank may request; or
(B) deposit into the  Special  Account  (or,  if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or  the  portion  thereof  not  so  eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank shall otherwise  agree,  no further deposit by the
Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion  of  the  funds  on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or  for  cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of  this  Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
