Report No. PID7979
Project Name                     Thailand-The Social Investment Project
Region                           East Asia & Pacific
Project ID                       THPE56269
Borrower                         Kingdom of  Thailand - Ministry of Finance
Implementing Agencies            Ministry of Public Health (MOPH), Ministry of
Labor and Social Welfare (MOLSW), Ministry of
Industry, Ministry of Interior (MOI), Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA),
Tourism Authority of Thailand (TAT),
Bangkok Municipal Administration (BMA),
Government Savings Bank (GSB)
Date of  PID Preparation         April 1998
Appraisal Date                   April 1998
Projected Board Date             July 1998
I.      Country and Project Background
Thailand's development record over the past three decades has been
impressive. Real per capita income growth was positive every year and has
averaged almost 4 percent over the period. Thailand's rapid economic growth
translated into significant progress in all sectors, with absolute poverty
reduced from 57 percent in the late sixties to approximately 20 percent in
1997.
One of the major challenges facing the government of Thailand today
consists of sustaining the level of development achieved over the past
decades. In particular, the primary concern of the Government consists of
offsetting the adverse social impacts associated with the expected increase in
the level of unemployment resulting from the financial crisis of 1997. A
preliminary qualitative social assessment has indicated the immediate social
impacts of the crisis to be: a decline in labor demand (current estimates
indicate that approximately 400,000 jobs have been lost as a result of the
crisis, and another half million jobs are expected to be lost in 1998); a
reduction in hours worked; increased prices for commodities such as
foodstuffs and pharmaceuticals; reverse migration from urban to rural areas;
growing evidence of attempts to add to family incomes through increasing
school dropouts and use of child labor; and an increased tendency towards
illegal activities.
In response to the recent economic crisis, the Royal Thai Government
(RTG) has requested the support of the World Bank in the design of a Social
Investment Project intended to reduce the social impacts of the current crisis
on the disadvantaged segments of the population, while supporting the RTG's
longer term decentralization and community development efforts.
II.     Project Objectives
The major objective of the project is to respond to the social impacts
of crisis through: the generation of employment opportunities, and the
provision of essential social services to the unemployed and the poor. A
second objective of the project is to support bottom-up service delivery
through the financing of demand driven development initiatives, the promotion
of decentralization, local capacity building and community development.



III.    Project Description
As a result the of its dual objectives the project is designed with two
channels of interventions. In addition the project will support an overall
Project Management and Coordination Component.
Channel 1 Activities
Channel 1 will support over a period of approximately two years
activities of existing government programs. These programs were selected
according to criteria, including their high capacity to expand in the near
term, their efficiency, and their ability to target the unemployed and the
poor.
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
This sub-component consists of a program of small-scale labor-intensive
irrigation works under the Royal Irrigation Department.
Ministry of Public Health Programs (MOPN)
This sub-component will support two programs: The Public Assistance Scheme
provided with additional financing for the expansion of the low income
Health Card Scheme in order to assure access of the unemployed to health
services; and the Community Based AIDS Program supporting NGO-led
interventions for the prevention and care of HIV/AIDS at the community
level.
Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare (MOLSW)
This sub-component will support four training programs: the Skills
Development Training Program providing a ten month skills improvement
training for the unemployed and focusing on the use of new technologies to
improve their future job prospects; the Local Job Training Program for the
unemployed providing of a 5 to 10 day training for laid-off-staff to
improve their future job prospects; the Local Job Training Program for
Women and Children; and the Local Job Training Program for the
Disadvantaged.
Ministry Of Interior Programs (MOI)
This sub-component will support two programs: the Small-Weirs Construction
program consisting of the labor-intensive construction of small-scale weirs
and foreground dredging in rural areas where migrants are expected to
return as a result of job losses in the urban areas; and the Village Road
Construction program of small village roads in 75 provinces including any
related drainage facilities.
Ministry Of Industry Program
The Rural Industrial Development program contracts NGOs to: facilitate
industrial site location for private investors; to train the rural labor
force; and to facilitate arrangements between the investors and community
leaders.
Bangkok Metropolitan Administration Programs (BMA)
This sub-component will support three programs: the Small Scale
Infrastructure Program financing the construction and renovation of
district footpaths; the Occupational and Vocational Training Program
providing training for 6,100 newly unemployed workers; and the School
Rehabilitation Program, financing school repairs and rehabilitation.
Tourism Authority of Thailand Programs (TAT)
Local Recreation and Cultural Sites Program. This program consists of
labor-intensive construction of facilities, landscaping of sites, and
rehabilitation of local roads at historic sites.
- 2 -



Channel 2 Activities
The second channel of support flows from the RTG's Eighth Plan goal of
decentralization and community development and involves the creation of two
new sources of funds (the Social Investment Fund and the Regional Urban
Development Fund) that will provide financing for locally-generated projects,
and that will be implemented over a period of approximately three years.
Channel 2 is designed to support an initial phase of the decentralization
process while at the same time providing finance for local projects with
employment and service benefits during the crisis.
The Social Investment Fund (SIF).
This sub-component will finance on a grant basis small-scale sub-projects
in various sectors proposed by community groups, local governments, and
NGOs based on pre-determined eligibility criteria.
The Regional Urban Development Fund (RUDF).
This sub-component will provide long-term credit financing and capacity
building support to participating municipal governments for their priority
investment projects.
Project Management
This component will support the operation of the Project Coordination
Unit (PCU), and its responsibilities for oversight, targeting, monitoring,
accounting and procurement assistance to project agencies, and support to the
policy steering committee.
IV.     Project Costs and Financing
The World Bank, the OECF (Japan) and the RTG have agreed on the
components that would be appraised by the OECF. The OECF has identified for
cofinancing the Channel 1 programs of the Tourism Authority of Thailand and of
the Ministry of Agriculture. The total cost of the project is estimated at US$
480.4 million including contingencies, and OECF cofinancing is estimated at
US$ 141.8 million.
The other Channel 1 programs will be financed by the World Bank, and
costs including contingencies are estimated at: US$ 30.4 for the Ministry of
Public Health programs, US$ 34.3 million for the Ministry of Labor and Social
Welfare programs, US$ 7 for the Ministry of Industry program, US$ 67 million
for the Ministry of Interior programs, and US$ 14.7 million for the Bangkok
Municipal Administration programs. The RTG will contribute 10% of total cost.
The Channel 2 programs are estimated to cost US$ 173 million including
contingencies. The estimated cost of the SIF is US$ 132 million with US$ 120
million of World Bank financing. The RUDF is estimated to cost US$ 41.5
million with the World Bank loan contributing US$ 30 million, the
municipalities US$ 10 million, and the RTG US$ 1.5 million.
The Project Management Component expects substantial cofinancing from
UNDP. AUSAID will also cofinance selected activities in the Project
Management and Channel 2 components.
V.      Project Implementation
To oversee the implementation and monitoring of SIP, the RTG, at MOF's
recommendation, will appoint a broad based Policy Steering Committee to set
SIP policies, approve any major changes in SIP objectives or components, and
oversee project implementation as carried out by each implementing agency.
For both Channel 1 and Channel 2 a Project Implementation Units (PIU) will be
established within each implementing agency to manage World Bank resources
- 3 -



and assure timely implementation in accordance with SIP agreements. A Project
Coordination Unit attached to the MOF will carry out day-to-day project
coordination activities with the PIUs in each implementing agency.
VI.     Lessons Learned from Past Operations
The SIP incorporates lessons from similar World Bank post-crisis
projects. The major lessons are: (i) focusing on selected large government
programs facilitates implementation and supervision (SIP is limited to seven
sectoral programs and cofinanciers will supervise three of them on a parallel
basis);   (ii) agreeing upfront on the procurement and financial accounting
practices to be followed in government programs prevents implementation
delays;   (iii) not seeking far-reaching sector-wide reforms while giving
priority to efficiencies in, and better targeting of, existing government
programs; (iv) allowing for flexibility in project design and ability to
reflect emerging implementation experience based on a continued monitoring
both of the evolving impact of the crisis and the performance of crisis
related interventions; (v) tapping institutional capacity of all existing
agencies including community groups based on comparative advantage for the
efficient, speedy, and sustainable delivery of services; and, (vi) the prime
importance of high standards of transparency and accountability and the need
for strong supervision to insure good governance as well as to address
bottlenecks quickly so as to enable rapid disbursement and near term impact.
Poverty Category: Program of Targeted Interventions
Major Sector:
Poverty (   40%)
Human Resources ( 30 %)
Economic Management ( %)
Financial Institutions ( %)
Infrastructure (30 %)
Women in Development ( %)
Debt Adjustment ( %)
Natural Resources ( %)
Sector reform ( %)
Power ( %)
Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Processed by the InfoShop week ending July 23, 1999.
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
- 4 -



