                                       Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 30237

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (SCL-43730 TF-37040)

                                          ON A

                                         LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$300 MILLION

                                           TO

                                       THAILAND

                                         FOR A

                               SOCIAL INVESTMENT PROJECT




                                     February 15, 2005




Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                (Exchange Rate Effective October 2004)

                                       Currency Unit = Thai Bhat (THB)
                                         1 Thai Bhat = US$ 0.0241
                                           US$ 1.00 = 41.46 Thai Bhat

                                            FISCAL YEAR
                                       October 1    September 30

                                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ADB      Asian Development Bank                              OECF       Overseas Economic Cooperation
AIDS     Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome                              Fund of Japan
BMA      Bangkok Metropolitan Administration                 OED        Operations Evaluation Department
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy                         PAD        Project Appraisal Document
CDP-SP   Country Development Partnership for Social          PCU        Project Coordination Uni
DLPW     Department of Labor Protection and Welfare          PIU        Project Implementation Uni
DOLA     Departmentof Local Administration                   PRID       Program for Rural Industrial
DPW      Department of Public Works                                      Development
FIRR     Financial Internal Rate of Return                   PSC        Policy Steering Committee
FPO      Fiscal Policy Office                                PTFs       Provincial Task Forces
GSB      Government Savings Bank                             QAG        Quality Assurance Group
HIV      Human Immunodeficiency Virus                        QEA        Quality at Entry Assessment
JBIC     Japanese Bank for International Cooperation         RCs        Regional Committees
MOF      Ministry of Finance                                 RTG        Royal Thai Government
MOInd    Ministry of Industry                                RUDF       Regional Urban Development Fund
MOInt    Ministry of Interior                                SECAL      Sector Adjustment Loan
MOLSW    Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare                SIF        Social Investment Fund
MOPH     Ministry of Public Health                           SIP        Social Investment Project
NCB      National Competitive Bidding                        SOFO       Social Fund Office
NESDB    The National Economic and Social                    SSRP       Small-Scale Irrigation
Improvement
           Development Board                                             and Rehabilitation Project
NGO      Non-government Organization                         TAT        Tourism Authority of Thailand




                                     Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                                   Country Director:    Ian C. Porter, EACTF
                                    Sector Director:    Emmanuel Y. Jimenez, EASHD
                                 Task Team Leader:      Minna J. Hahn, EACTF

                                          THAILAND
                            TH-SOCIAL INVESTMENT PROJ I


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29

Project ID: P056269                                                  Project Name: TH-SOCIAL INVESTMENT PROJ I
Team Leader: Minna J. Hahn                                           TL Unit: EACTF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: February 25, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: TH-SOCIAL INVESTMENT PROJ I                              L/C/TF Number: SCL-43730; TF-37040
   Country/Department: THAILAND                                                           Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (47%); General industry and trade sector
                            (28%); Compulsory health finance (10%); Vocational training
                            (10%); General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (5%)
                  Theme: Improving labor markets (P); Access to urban services and housing
                            (P); Social safety nets (P); Participation and civic engagement (P);
                            Municipal governance and institution building (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/09/1998                                      Effective: 08/01/1998               11/09/1998
     Appraisal: 03/26/1998                                          MTR: 12/31/1999                 11/07/2000
      Approval: 07/09/1998                                       Closing: 04/30/2002                04/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Kingdom of Thailand/Ministry of Finance
                      Other Partners:      Ministry of Public Health, Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare, Ministry of
                                           Interior, Ministry of Industry, Bangkok Metropolitan Administration, Tourism
                                           Authority of Thailand, Ministry of Agriculture, Government Savings Bank, OECF
                                           (now JBIC), UNDP, AusAID

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               Ian C. Porter                                  Jayasankar Shivakumar
Sector Director:                Emmanuel Y. Jimenez                            Maureen Law
Team Leader at ICR:             Minna J. Hahn                                  Christopher Chamberlin
ICR Primary Author:             Minna J. Hahn


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Following the onset of the financial crisis that hit Thailand in mid-1997, the Royal Thai Government
(RTG) requested World Bank support in developing a Social Investment Project (SIP) on a rapid timetable.
As stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the objectives of the SIP were to: i) respond to the
financial crisis through the rapid creation of employment opportunities and the provision of essential social
services to the unemployed and poor and ii) use the crisis as an opportunity to support bottom-up service
delivery through financing locally-identified and managed development initiatives and through promoting
decentralization, local capacity building, and community development.

The SIP's objectives responded to critical social needs emerging from the crisis. By February 1998, the
RTG estimated that 8.8% of the workforce was unemployed and that the long-term unemployment rate was
twice the pre-crisis level. The SIP's objectives also supported the RTG's longer-term development
priorities of decentralization and community development as laid out in the Eighth National Economic and
Social Development Plan (1997-2000). In addition, the SIP was clearly linked to the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS), which was presented to the Board with the project. The SIP primarily
supported the CAS theme of "strengthening governance" through its emphasis on decentralization and
community-based development, and the theme of "sharing the benefits of growth and improving the quality
of life" through a lessening of social impacts of the crisis and targeting of benefits.

The SIP's dual objectives did increase the complexity of the project and posed a significant challenge for a
government in the midst of handling a national crisis. However, the project responded to RTG demand for
support on both short-term and long-term priorities.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives remained unchanged.

3.3 Original Components:
The project was comprised of three components, summarized in Table 1. The first component, known as
Channel 1, provided short-term support to existing government programs aimed at providing jobs and
priority basic social services to the unemployed and poor. This channel involved seven executing agencies
and was expected to close after 28 months. The second component, referred to as Channel 2, provided
grant and loan financing for locally generated projects through two new institutions: a Social Investment
Fund (SIF) and Regional Urban Development Fund (RUDF). The Government Savings Bank (GSB) was
the executing agency for this channel, which was expected to be operational over a 40-month period. The
third component focused on project management and supported the operation, staffing, and activities of
the SIP's Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and Policy Steering Committee (PSC).




                                                      - 2 -

Table 1. Thailand Social Investment Project ­ Project Description Summary

Component              Objectives                   Subcomponents/Executing Agencies            Est. Cost
                                                                                                (US$M)
Channel 1     To mitigate the immediate     Ministry of Public Health                           244.35
              effects of the crisis through  1. Public Assistance Scheme
              short-term support to          2. Community-Based AIDS Program
              existing government           Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare
              programs that provide jobs     1. Local Job Training for Unemployed Workers
              and basic social services to   2. Local Job Training for Disadvantaged Women and
              the unemployed and poor           Persons with Disabilities
                                             3. Local Job Training for Women and Youth
                                            Ministry of Interior
                                             1. Construction of Village Roads
                                             2. Construction of Small-Scale Weirs and
                                                Foreground Dredging
                                            Ministry of Industry
                                             1. Program for Rural Industrial Development
                                            Bangkok Metropolitan Administration
                                             1. School Renovation Program
                                             2. Occupational and Vocational Training Program
                                             3. Small-Scale Infrastructure Program
                                            Tourism Authority of Thailand (OECF/JBIC-financed)
                                             1. Tourist Facility Construction
                                             2. Tourism Training
                                            Royal Irrigation Department of the Ministry of
                                            Agriculture and Cooperatives (OECF/JBIC-financed)
                                             1. Small-Scale Irrigation Improvement and
                                                Rehabilitation Project
Channel 2     To promote fiscal and         Social Investment Fund (5 subproject menus)         174.14
              administrative                 1. Capacity and Learning Development in
              decentralization and build        Community Occupation and Community Economy
              local capacity and social      2. Community Welfare and Safety
              capital for longer-term        3. Restoration, Protection, Management and
              development; to finance           Promotion of Culture, Environment, and Natural
              local projects with               Resources
              employment and service         4. Community Capacity Building and Networking
              benefits during the crisis     5. Immediate Community Welfare for the Needy
                                                through Community Organization Networks
                                            Regional Urban Development Fund
Project       To support the Project        PCU/PSC                                             2.80
Management    Coordination Unit and
              Policy Steering Committee



Channels 1 and 2 were clearly linked to the SIP's short-term and long-term objectives, although the
inclusion of both increased the project's complexity. The project design was underpinned by lessons
learned from similar programs in other crisis-affected countries, particularly in the Latin America and
Caribbean region. Notably, the SIP came after a decade of very minimal Bank engagement in Thailand, so
the rapid scaling up of support during the crisis meant working with agencies that were unfamiliar with
Bank processes. Technical assistance for procurement, financial management, and evaluation was planned
to help strengthen the capacity of implementing agencies.

3.4 Revised Components:
As part of the RTG's response to the slow pace of disbursements in the early stages of the project, the



                                                         - 3 -

Channel 2 SIF subcomponent was modified in 1999. This subcomponent, which originally financed
community-based subprojects in four broad categories or "menus," was expanded to include Immediate
Community Welfare for the Needy (Menu 5) to support vulnerable groups who were not receiving
assistance through other Channel 1 activities. The only required change to the SIP legal agreement was an
increase in the aggregate threshold for the community participation procurement category. The addition of
Menu 5 demonstrated the flexibility with which the project responded to the country context and
implementation experience.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Overall quality at entry is rated as satisfactory based on i) the responsiveness of the project to critical
needs during the crisis, ii) direct linkages to the Government's immediate and longer-term development
priorities, iii) consistency with CAS objectives, and iv) the design features which addressed the risks
inherent in a crisis-response operation. Although the design was complex, it likely befitted the evolving
crisis. The inclusion of multiple subcomponents and the fact that most Channel 1 programs were already in
existence mitigated some uncertainty as to how the crisis would evolve and which programs would be most
effective. The project design also allowed for mid-term reallocations based on program performance.
Adequate attention was given to safeguards issues, for example in terms of mitigating potential
environmental impacts of subprojects and using social assessment findings to inform project design.

Quality at entry was also rated satisfactory in the Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA) by the Quality
Assurance Group (QAG). The QEA noted that while QAG/OED lessons on simplicity of design, rigorous
economic analysis, and institutional assessment were overlooked to some extent, they were balanced by the
innovative project approach, responsiveness to client needs, flexible design, and candid risk assessment.

Quality at entry could have been strengthened by a greater emphasis on outcomes and their linkages to
development objectives; explicit recognition of the tradeoffs involved in the project, such as rapid
employment generation versus quality of infrastructure created; and a more realistic assessment of
implementation capacity. Shortcomings identified by the QEA included project complexity, unknown
degree of Government ownership beyond the Ministry of Finance, and need for greater attention to financial
management issues. The QEA also suggested that the project could have been separated into two
operations to reduce complexity.

It has been suggested that the SIP should have been designed as an adjustment/investment hybrid operation,
with an adjustment component delivering rapid short-term crisis relief (Channel 1) and an investment
component supporting longer-term elements (Channel 2). However, the team had wanted very specific
targeting of resources and community involvement which would have been difficult in an adjustment
operation. The more fundamental issues to be considered are whether the types of programs being
supported were best suited for a crisis situation, whether the procurement required for the specific activities
could be handled quickly, and whether the implementing agencies had sufficient capacity to execute the
activities on a rapid timetable. For instance, the selected instrument was appropriate for many of the
programs but a sector investment operation or budget support could have helped with others.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall achievement of objectives and outputs is rated as satisfactory. Despite the challenging
economic environment and the pressures of the crisis situation, the project enhanced employment
opportunities and social services for the poor and unemployed as well as strengthened decentralized service
delivery and community development.



                                                       - 4 -

Regarding the first objective of responding to the crisis through the rapid creation of employment
opportunities and the provision of essential social services, the SIP appears to have delivered most of the
intended results through Channel 1. While performance across subcomponents varied, the activities did
create temporary employment and provided other social safety net benefits to the poor and vulnerable.
However, implementation delays and capacity constraints affected the speed and extent to which assistance
was delivered, which somewhat diminished the project's impact at the height of the crisis. Furthermore, the
quality, sustainability, and longer-term benefits of training and infrastructure created under Channel 1
appear to have been limited, although these factors were not included explicitly as project objectives.

The second objective of supporting bottom-up service delivery was also substantially achieved. Channel 2
helped build a foundation for locally driven development and generated employment and social service
benefits through the financing of almost 7,900 subprojects and over 50 RUDF loans. Channel 2 activities
appear to have had a significant institutional impact in promoting decentralization and strengthening the
capacity of local governments, communities, and NGOs to participate in development. The SIF, in
particular, has been widely recognized for its contribution to strengthening social capital in Thailand.

4.2 Outputs by components:
A. Channel 1 (estimated cost US$244.35 million)

1. Ministry of Public Health Programs (estimated cost US$23.80 million)

This subcomponent is rated satisfactory. Under this subcomponent, the Ministry of Public Health
(MOPH) managed two activities: i) the Public Assistance Scheme and ii) the community-based AIDS
program. Both activities, which were relatively well-targeted to the poor and vulnerable, supported
programs that came under pressure during the crisis due to high cost and/or budget cuts.

The objective of the Public Assistance Scheme was to sustain per capita subsidies to the low-income health
card scheme. The SIP provided financing for the scheme at 47 hospitals in six provinces, covering 1.15
million beneficiaries or 75% of the target. As the demand for low-income health cards was less than
projected, the subsidy per card holder was not simply sustained but was increased from the 273 baht
calculated originally to 400 baht. The PAD included only the target number of patient visits, but this
indicator was not tracked. A secondary objective was to improve the management and efficiency of the
Public Assistance Scheme. The program introduced a new payment mechanism and a performance-based
budgeting model which continues to be used under the new national 30-baht health care scheme.

The community-based AIDS program aimed to continue MOPH support to NGO-led programs for
prevention and care of HIV/AIDS. Although activities were delayed by almost one year due to
unfamiliarity with the Bank's procurement procedures among PIU staff and NGO officials, the number of
completed subprojects met or surpassed the number of planned projects in all regions. Actual beneficiaries
totaled 447,886, greatly exceeding the target of 115,406. An independent evaluation found that benefits
included: greater group participation of people living with HIV/AIDS and less discrimination against them;
increased awareness of HIV/AIDS among local institutions; and strengthened capacity of local NGOs.
NGO participation continues to be an important component of the RTG's overall HIV/AIDS strategy.

2. Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare Programs (estimated cost US$27.43 million)

This subcomponent is rated satisfactory. Under this subcomponent, the Ministry of Labor and Social
Welfare (MOLSW) managed three programs: i) Local Job Training for Unemployed Workers ages 15 and



                                                      - 5 -

older, under the Department of Skills Development; ii) Local Job Training for Disadvantaged Women and
Persons with Disabilities, under the Department of Public Welfare; and (iii) Local Job Training for Women
and Youth, under the Department of Labor Protection and Welfare. This subcomponent was included
because new labor market entrants plus the growing number of unemployed were creating a large pool of
potential enrollees for existing training programs.

This subcomponent achieved most of its outputs and objectives, despite the onerous administrative
procedures involved, the instability/fluidity of the target population, and lack of MOLSW experience in this
type of training. Two departments had no prior experience delivering training, and the third had experience
only in centralized training. The courses, which had a graduation rate of 91%, generated 467,300
person-months of training or 88% of PAD estimate. The courses also provided a temporary boost to
trainee incomes, as 50-baht daily stipends were given as a small safety net provision to help finance
subsistence of the unemployed. Beneficiary feedback suggests that the content and quality of some courses
may not have been sufficient for generating post-training benefits, and the degree to which the acquired
skills increased potential for employment is unknown. The PAD did include targets for person-months of
employment generated, but these were not tracked. Only the training program for disadvantaged women
and persons with disabilities included post-training employment assistance.

3. Ministry of Interior Programs (estimated cost US$52.51 million)

This sub-component is rated satisfactory. Under this sub-component, the Ministry of Interior (MOInt)
managed two activities: i) construction of village roads, under the Department of Public Works and ii)
construction of small-scale weirs and foreground dredging, under the Department of Local Administration.
This subcomponent aimed to create employment opportunities in rural areas, where migrants were expected
to return as a result of job losses, and to improve basic infrastructure and services in rural areas. The
programs were targeted to the unemployed and poor primarily through setting of wage rates.

All 1,025 approved road subprojects--well above the PAD target of 665 subprojects--were implemented
and resulted in the construction of 617 kilometers of new roads. A total of 2,365 weirs or 94% of the PAD
estimate were constructed, and 87% of foreground dredging subprojects were completed. Employment
generation benefits were less than expected due in part to the lower labor content of some activities and the
fact that some contractors used their own labor rather than local labor as the project intended. All
subprojects had difficulty employing local labor in certain areas where unemployment rates were low,
wages were insufficient to attract laborers, and/or work was considered too menial. The PAD provided an
indicator of person-months of employment generated, but it was not monitored.

Beneficiary feedback suggests that the programs provided better road access and increased water supply
and storage. However, some assessments found problems with construction standards and accessibility,
and maintenance was considered difficult. Greater focus was given to short-term employment generation
rather than the longer-term infrastructure benefits.

4. Ministry of Industry Program (estimated cost US$5.54 million)

This subcomponent is rated unsatisfactory. Under this subcomponent, the Ministry of Industry (MOInd)
managed one activity: the Program for Rural Industrial Development (PRID). The PRID aimed to
stimulate industrial investment and employment in rural areas by financing NGO-provided services to
facilitate industrial site location, match industrial sites with potential investors, train the local labor force,
and facilitate arrangements between the investors and community leaders. Although the PRID was an
existing program, it had been launched in 1997 just before the crisis. Its objectives were consistent with


                                                        - 6 -

SIP objectives only in the most general terms, and the program was not designed to provide immediate
benefits.

This subcomponent experienced implementation delays of about two years, and activities did not begin until
late 2000. Causes of these delays included lower demand by investors to establish new facilities during
crisis, difficulties in attracting private sector partners, and lack of NGO readiness to participate in the
project. The delays led to the cancellation of 38 subprojects and reduction of the total commitment to
US$3.9 million in February 1999 and later to US$1.32 million during the Mid-Term Review. In total, 57
subprojects were completed compared to the PAD target of 84. Beneficiaries expressed satisfaction with
the increased income gained from the program, but additional impact evaluations are not available.

5. Bangkok Metropolitan Administration Programs (estimated cost US$11.73 million)

This subcomponent is rated marginally satisfactory. The Bangkok Metropolitan Administration (BMA)
managed three activities under this subcomponent: i) the School Renovation program; ii) the Occupation
and Vocational Training program; and iii) the Small-Scale Infrastructure program. The objectives were to
create employment and provide training for unemployed individuals in the Bangkok metropolitan area. The
public works activities also had a secondary objective of improving infrastructure and facilities. This
subcomponent proved to be important because the impacts of the crisis on the Bangkok metropolitan area
were stronger than anticipated and less migration to rural areas occurred than was expected at the time of
project design.

The School Renovation program was most successful in delivering the intended benefits and received an
infusion of additional funds reallocated from other Channel 1 activities in July 2000. In total, 819 primary
schools--some of which were over 30 years old--were rehabilitated. Approximately 5,300 laborers were
hired for the program, although contractors sometimes used their own employees rather than workers from
the unemployed labor pool. In terms of infrastructure quality, less than 1% of the work was judged
unacceptable by BMA.

The Occupational and Vocational Training program also received additional funds from intra-Channel 1
transfers, allowing the number of training projects to be increased from 2,665 as originally planned to
5,007 and the number of trainees to be increased from 53,596 to 101,522, which represented about 2% of
the area's labor force. The quality of training and its relevance to the labor market are unclear, particularly
given the lack of follow-up data.

The Small-Scale Infrastructure program, which financed the renovation of district footpaths and sidewalks,
was least successful in meeting its objectives. Only 15 out of 18 planned contracts were completed--some
only partially--and the program created 7,165 jobs, considerably less than the 11,558 jobs expected.
Many of the renovated sidewalks have shifted and/or buckled from erosion, making them unusable.

6. Tourism Authority of Thailand Programs (estimated cost US$75.02 million, OECF/JBIC-financed)

This subcomponent is rated satisfactory based on inputs received during discussions with the Japan Bank
for International Cooperation (JBIC), which was formed by the merger of the Export-Import Bank of Japan
and the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan (OECF), a SIP co-financier. This sub-component,
managed by the Tourism Authority of Thailand (TAT), supported local tourist facility construction and
tourism training to improve the quality of services. The main objectives were to generate employment and
improve basic infrastructure for tourism, as tourism was correctly projected to increase with the
devaluation of the Thai baht during the crisis.


                                                        - 7 -

A total of 165 subprojects were implemented, generating 97,131 person-months of construction
employment or 85% of the target. The work was not as labor-intensive as expected, although facilities
generated important ongoing employment (i.e. food vendors, ticket attendants) not captured by the data.
Individual subprojects and overall subcomponent completion were delayed by 18-24 months as the PIU's
review of subproject designs took longer than expected, and often designs were not to standard and had to
be redone. Most subprojects have continued to operate, generating revenues to sustain themselves. The
subcomponent also delivered 434 training programs benefiting 15,782 people, but the quality of training
and its impact are unclear.

7. Royal Irrigation Department of Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (estimated cost US$48.32
million, OECF/JBIC-financed)

This subcomponent is rated satisfactory based on discussions with JBIC as well as a consultants' report
prepared for JBIC. Under this subcomponent, the Royal Irrigation Department managed the Small-Scale
Irrigation Improvement and Rehabilitation Project (SSIRP). The objectives of SSIRP were to rehabilitate
and improve existing small-scale irrigation projects and to extend distribution systems in existing projects,
thereby creating jobs and raising incomes in rural areas.

Of the 589 subprojects originally proposed to JBIC, 570 were included in the final workplan and
completed. Employment creation totaled 2.27 million person-days or 91% of the revised target. The
difference has been attributed to the need to use machines rather than manual labor for certain tasks. In
terms of indirect benefits, the SSIRP helped raise crop productivity and net household incomes from the
cultivation of land and livestock, and it increased public involvement in effective water management.

B. Channel 2 (estimated cost US$174.14 million)

1. Social Investment Fund (estimated cost US$132.57 million)

This subcomponent is rated highly satisfactory. The objectives of the SIF were to: i) improve the access
of poor people to basic social and economic infrastructure, services, and employment opportunities and ii)
to advance the decentralization process by strengthening decision-making and implementation capacities at
the local level. In financing subprojects proposed and managed by community groups or other local
organizations, the SIF represented the first time the RTG channeled significant amounts of money to civil
society. Subprojects included multipurpose community centers, cultural preservation activities, production
of community master plans, and savings group capacity development.

The SIF supported 7,874 subprojects and reached about 10% of villages throughout the country. Although
it did not achieve the PAD target of 11,590 subprojects, it appears that the target was overly ambitious,
requiring the approval of roughly 66 subprojects per week and assuming a level of standardization
inconsistent with SIF objectives. SIF subprojects appear to have created employment for 59,284
individuals (based on data from 7,052 subprojects) and benefited over 13 million individuals, including the
poor, unemployed, children, senior citizens, and disabled. The SIF met its regional targeting objectives,
with the poorest region of the country, the Northeast, receiving the largest proportion of resources at 47%.
The PAD indicators for person-months of employment created and for rural employment were not
monitored.

Beyond the more easily measured benefits of the subprojects, it is widely recognized that the SIF's
processes and investments helped strengthen community capacity and further governance objectives. The


                                                      - 8 -

SIF also instilled in the Social Fund Office (SOFO) and communities a level of discipline in operations by
requiring detailed planning, transparent financial management and procurement systems, a management
information system and unit cost database, and results-based management. The SIF's social capital and
economic impacts have been documented in a Participatory Impact Evaluation, and a more in-depth
evaluation of the social capital impacts is underway and is expected to be completed by June 2005.

Two key changes to the SIF enhanced its impact. As described above, Menu 5 was added after nine
months of SIF operation to provide immediate assistance to the most vulnerable groups. The approval of
Menu 5, which accounted for almost half of subproject disbursements, was an exemplary modification to
project design in response to implementation experience and circumstances. The second change made
around the same time was the decentralization of SIF's operations. The Social Fund Office (SOFO)
decentralized its activities to 76 Provincial Task Forces and 11 Regional Committees which were staffed by
thousands of volunteers. In addition, the SOFO established 11 Regional Offices throughout the country.
This decentralization helped increase the SIF's efficiency, enhance its responsiveness to community needs
and ability to reach targeted beneficiaries, and improve subproject quality.

The SIF closed in late 2002 due in part to a change in government and the RTG's decision not to seek
additional Bank financing for social protection programs. Local development is now being supported
through a village fund program, introduced in 2001.

2. Regional Urban Development Fund (estimated cost US$41.57 million)

This subcomponent is rated satisfactory. The RUDF was established to on-lend money to local urban
governments for subprojects of public benefit, such as markets, libraries, and child care centers. Its
objectives were to: i) improve basic infrastructure, facilities, and services; ii) create employment in
strategically important urban centers outside of Bangkok; iii) enhance capabilities at the national level to
provide technical guidance to local governments; and iv) improve the skills of key local officials in
administration, investment planning, project implementation, and financing. Like the SIF, the RUDF aimed
to strengthen the decentralization process.

Despite being extended by almost two years, RUDF disbursed only US$13.7 million, half the originally
planned amount of US$30 million and 91% of the revised target of US$15 million which was set in
February 2001. Slow disbursement was caused by: a one-year delay in the handover of responsibilities to
the GSB due to slowness in establishing appropriate mechanisms to assess subprojects and disburse loans;
a decision-making structure involving two separate committees, which slowed lending and disbursements;
and an initial lack of local government capacity to prepare pre-feasibility studies and meet other
requirements, which was then addressed by RUDF-provided technical assistance. Furthermore, demand for
RUDF lending was lower than anticipated, due in part to the abundance of free grant money available to
local governments from sources such as the Miyazawa fund. Some local governments used RUDF
technical assistance to prepare proposals then switched to another source of financing.

Despite these issues, the effectiveness of RUDF subprojects has been high. In total, 53
subprojects--compared to the PAD output target of 20--have been completed or will be completed shortly
under the RUDF, which has continued beyond the end of the SIP. The PAD provided a target for
person-months of employment created, but this indicator was not tracked for most subprojects. The
average lag between subproject appraisal and approval was reduced from 16 months in 2000 to 9 months
by 2002, although this is still higher than the PAD target of 60 days. The RUDF's most important
contribution has been its institutional impact in laying the groundwork for sub-sovereign lending in
Thailand.


                                                      - 9 -

C. Project Management (estimated cost US$2.8 million)

This component is rated satisfactory. As described above, this component supported the operation,
staffing, and activities of the PCU and PSC. Their responsibilities included: i) overseeing implementation
of the SIP; ii) setting its overall policies and evaluating and reporting on its performance; iii) providing
technical assistance and training to all PIUs in accounting, procurement, and monitoring; iv)
commissioning and financing a series of technical field reviews, beneficiary assessments, and social
assessments; v) studying and analyzing the social impacts of the crisis, including developing a targeting
map; and vi) developing a strategic framework for strengthening the RTG's social safety net programs. As
the PAD did not provide indicators for this component, the assessment of this component is based on the
performance of the PCU and PSC in carrying out the responsibilities outlined above.

Almost all activities were implemented, despite the newness of the PCU and PSC, the number of activities
and agencies involved, and the challenges encountered in Bank procedures. The PCU coordinated closely
with the PIUs, although it gave relatively more support to Channel 1 agencies despite the fact that the
Channel 2 institutions were newly created and arguably in greater need of assistance. The Bank helped fill
this gap to some extent through its continuous field-based supervision and prompt assistance to the Channel
2 institutions. In terms of governance-related achievements, the PCU helped install competitive bidding
procedures that increased transparency and helped keep unit prices low. Governance objectives were also
advanced by the SIP's innovative web-based management information system. Although data entry by
PIUs was delayed and information on Channel 2 activities was not included, this database has been viewed
as revolutionary for promoting transparency.

The PCU and PSC were less successful in the remaining activities. Project reporting focused heavily on
disbursements, inputs, and outputs, and the evaluation of project performance was not as comprehensive
and rigorous as envisioned during design. The social impact assessment was terminated and the targeting
map prepared after more than half of the project resources had already been spent. In addition, only
modest progress was made in developing the social protection framework, a task that has been incorporated
into the Country Development Partnership for Social Protection (CDP-SP) which is currently underway.
The CDP-SP is described in greater detail in the Thailand Country Assistance Strategy for 2003-05.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic rate of return was not calculated at the time of appraisal due to the emergency nature of the
project, nor was it calculated at project close due to data constraints. No rate of return analysis was
required for subcomponent activities related to infrastructure. For all Channel 1 activities for which unit
cost targets were calculated, actual costs were lower than projected. For the SIF, a unit cost database was
developed, and cost-effectiveness ratios guided subproject approval. For the RUDF, no systematic analysis
of benefits has been conducted, although it appears that most subprojects have met project feasibility
estimates of economic rates of return.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Financial internal rate of return (FIRR) analysis was carried out for RUDF subprojects only. FIRRs
varied significantly among the subprojects. Among the 36 subprojects for which FIRRs have been
calculated, three had negative expected FIRRs, and the others ranged from 5.17% to 33.86%. No
assessment has been conducted of how forecasted FIRRs are being met. Regarding RUDF subproject
repayment, the PAD target of 100% repayment has been achieved to date. Because of the three-year gap
before repayment of subproject loans starts, the full repayment stream will not be realized by the RUDF
until fiscal year 2007.



                                                       - 10 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The SIP's institutional development impact was substantial. The SIP introduced several new project and
financial management innovations, such as a new procurement framework for national competitive bidding.
However, institutional development impact appears to have varied across Channel 1 agencies. In the case
of BMA, SIP procedures regarding procurement and internet monitoring of inputs/outputs were dropped
after SIP support ended. In contrast, the MOPH adopted the performance-based budgeting model
introduced by the SIP for the current 30-baht health scheme. The MOLSW noted that the SIP provided
valuable experience in the delivery of training, selection of target groups, and budget utilization.

Channel 2 activities also had far-reaching institutional development impacts. The SIF enhanced the
capacities of over 300 community network organizations, helped communities develop skills in project
planning and management, and mobilized thousands of volunteers to help those affected by the crisis.
Social capital, inspired by the new Constitution promulgated in 1997 and "operationalized" by the SIF, is
now one of the main pillars of the national development agenda. The SIF's lessons have been incorporated
into policy initiatives, particularly in the Ninth Economic and Social Development Plan, and the SIF
experience has been informing the philosophies and operations of non-government and government
organizations.

The RUDF's institutional impact has also been substantial, particularly in pioneering the establishment of
sub-sovereign finance mechanisms. Domestic banks are establishing sub-national lending programs, and
the Fiscal Policy Office is designing a Local Development Financial Corporation. The RUDF has also
helped local governments become more adept at preparing effective subprojects. Furthermore, it has helped
encourage learning among urban centers, funding demonstration subprojects for which local officials from
implementing municipalities are being sought for advice by other interested municipalities. Finally, the
RUDF has furthered governance objectives, for example in its requirement that civic forums be held to
inform the design of subprojects which has now become normal practice.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The evolution of the crisis had both positive and negative effects on demand for SIP programs. While
demand for Channel 1 programs such as low-income health cards, MOLSW training, and public
works-type activities was lower than expected, the SIF faced an overwhelmingly large demand for its
resources when it launched. In its first six months, the SIF received over 5,000 applications totaling
US$460 million or four times the total available financing, which clogged the pipeline and temporarily
limited the SOFO's efficiency. Macroeconomic conditions after the crisis affected the RUDF, which faced
an initial lack of interest because commercial rates in Thailand fell more rapidly than RUDF rates could be
adjusted.

Local conditions also affected implementation. Some infrastructure subprojects were delayed by heavy
rains and flooding, and other activities faced difficulties mobilizing subcontractors, consultants, and NGOs
in certain areas. For the RUDF, the availability of new grant funding and the local elections in 2000 which
resulted in new mayors and councils in many local governments also affected implementation.

In the initial stages, problems with insufficient Special Account authorization and delays in reimbursement
from the Bank contributed to slow implementation. The Bank requirement that contracts and other
documentation be prepared in English placed additional burdens on implementing agencies. Other aspects
of Bank performance are discussed below.



                                                      - 11 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The SIP experienced a critical four-month delay between approval and effectiveness, during which time
preparation activities by most PIUs were effectively suspended. The lag was caused by a delay in the
RTG's legal opinion for the signed loan agreement. Slow Government approval or agreement on other
issues, such as the formal structure and processes of RUDF or labor content issues in the public
works-type activities, also resulted in some implementation delays. The 5% cap on SOFO administrative
expenses negotiated by the Government restricted the numbers of staff employed as well as technical
assistance, but this constraint was partly mitigated by the mobilization of thousands of volunteers.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Implementing agency performance was commendable given the magnitude of additional responsibilities
they were charged with handling and the project's tight timeframe. The decentralization of SIF's
operations, described earlier, provides a positive example of how PIUs adjusted to constraints during the
course of the project.

A critical factor causing initial implementation delays was lack of familiarity with Bank procedures among
the PIUs, but technical assistance from the Bank, cofinanciers, and PCU helped mitigate these problems to
some extent. Frequent staff turnover and insufficient allocations for staffing, administrative expenses, and
supervision of works affected PIU management of some subcomponents. In a couple cases, inability to
provide counterpart funding also affected implementation, but not significantly.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total amount disbursed from the Bank loan was US$253.5 million, about 85% of the appraisal
estimate. The lower cost was due mainly to the slower launch and implementation of subcomponents than
anticipated, which resulted in a reduction of project activities and cancellation of US$46.5 million as the
economy recovered.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall project sustainability is rated as likely. Sustainability can be considered in two ways:
sustainability of activities and sustainability of benefits created. Most Channel 1 programs were already
ongoing, and those programs (or similar ones) have continued after the close of the SIP. The longer-term
benefits of Channel 1 training and infrastructure activities are more difficult to gauge, since their impacts
have not been not closely monitored.

Sustainability of the Channel 2 subcomponents also appears likely. While the SIF ceased operations in
2002, its impact remains evident at many levels. The community assets created are reportedly being used,
maintained, and extended to new activities. Many communities benefiting from Menu 1 allocated a portion
of their profits to the establishment of community welfare funds, and community network organizations
continue to operate revolving funds with monies disbursed originally through Menu 5. The community
planning process was continued by the NESDB, and as noted above, social capital has become a pillar of
the national development agenda. The RUDF as an institution will continue to operate, and its impact on
sub-sovereign lending in Thailand is expected to be sustained.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
For Channel 1, programs were already existing and integrated into the regular operation of the executing
agencies, and the programs have continued with RTG funding. For Channel 2, the SIF was closed prior to
the end of the SIP. The GSB is continuing the RUDF's operation with a capital infusion of 1 billion baht.
The RUDF can use current and future repayment flows to meet operational costs and re-lend any remaining



                                                      - 12 -

funds, and it expects to be able to solicit new loan applications by the end of 2004. For at least the next
three years, its loans will be syndicated loans funded partly from SIP funds (perhaps 10%) and partly from
the new infusion of GSB money (perhaps 90%).

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during project preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. The Bank was very
responsive to the RTG's concern with mitigating the effects of the crisis quickly, preparing the SIP in only
four months. Although the short preparation time did not allow for thorough analysis or economic and
sector work, the Bank did use examples from other crisis-affected countries to inform project design and
prepared a strong risk analysis with specific risk minimization measures. In addition, the Bank took into
account the policy conditionalities under an existing sectoral adjustment loan (SECAL) supported by the
Asian Development Bank, which the SIP complemented with additional financing for selected programs. In
terms of support to the borrower, Bank pre-appraisal and appraisal missions included sector specialists to
work closely with implementing agencies.

Bank performance could have been improved by further appraisal of line agency capacity, potential
difficulties with implementing Bank procedures, and the Channel 1 programs themselves to determine how
quickly and effectively assistance could be delivered. This assessment may have required more time, but
the initial lag in implementation was a critical gap at the height of the crisis. In addition, stronger
indicators and mechanisms for evaluating impact would have been useful.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision was continuous and intensive, particularly in the early stages of the project, and most
implementation problems were identified early and addressed proactively. Beyond supervision missions
that included staff with social fund experience, the Bank's field-based staff provided day-to-day
procurement and financial management support to the PCU and PIUs. The Bank demonstrated prudent
flexibility in allowing implementing agencies to address disbursement problems or other constraints with
pragmatic alternatives and in working collaboratively to introduce Menu 5 under the SIF.

Supervision reporting could have placed greater emphasis on outcomes and impact, although this issue
should have been addressed from project preparation as noted above. Differences between Project Status
Report (PSR) subcomponent ratings and ICR ratings may be due partly to the focus on outputs, processes,
and disbursements during supervision. Only some PAD indicators were monitored during supervision, and
not always on a regular basis. Furthermore, context issues such as the evolution of the social impacts of
the crisis appear to have been largely overlooked as Bank staff members, like the PCU, were focused on
implementation details. Washington-based managers seemed to be less involved than Bangkok-based staff,
as illustrated by the fact that no manager comments were provided in PSRs until August 2001.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. Bank staff worked closely with local counterparts and
responded rapidly and flexibly to issues in both project design and supervision. The project's design and
implementation schedule could have been better informed by a more explicit assessment of the implications
of using an investment instrument to deliver support during the crisis and by a more rigorous evaluation of
implementation capacity, although this may not have been feasible given the tight timeframe. In both
design and supervision, increased attention to evaluating the outcomes and development impact of the
project was needed.




                                                     - 13 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The MOF was clearly engaged in the preparation process and demonstrated ownership through important
actions undertaken prior to loan approval, such as the appointment of the PSC and PCU. Channel 1
agencies participated in preparation and appraisal missions as well as prepared their own subcomponents,
with guidance from the Bank on standards and targets. Channel 2 was owned to a high degree by a civil
society working group which shaped the subcomponent activities, especially in implementation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
As noted above, some delays in the RTG's decision-making process slowed implementation, particularly
the four-month lag between approval and effectiveness during which most PIU activities were suspended.
To a lesser extent, reorganization and turnover of staff in the MOF and PCU affected implementation in the
early stages of the project. Timely audit reports were a challenge for the SIP and for the Thailand portfolio
overall. In general, provision of adequate counterpart funds was timely, and in some cases, the RTG even
provided up-front funding for activities when Bank funds were delayed.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
In an environment of intense public pressure and scrutiny, implementing agencies effectively managed their
subcomponents and made use of technical assistance. While staffing constraints and personnel changes did
slow implementation to some degree, it does not seem to have affected project outcomes. Overall, Channel
2 agencies were stronger in monitoring and evaluation. The SOFO continually revised its procedures to
improve implementation and impact and prepared comprehensive performance reports which were
disseminated across the country. In addition, the SOFO thoroughly investigated, took appropriate action
on, and publicly reported the small number of cases of misuse of funds by project contractors. Likewise,
the RUDF has maintained a database on disbursements, subproject status, and other indicators, and it
intends to undertake an impact evaluation based on an extensive field survey of all subprojects.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance was satisfactory. The RTG demonstrated a high degree of ownership
for the SIP, and the implementing agencies were effective in managing their activities despite the pressures
of the crisis and the agencies' limited prior knowledge of Bank procedures.

8. Lessons Learned

Key lessons learned from the project include:

l In crisis situations, project design should take into account the speed with which assistance can be
    delivered. Complex structures and processes that slow activities and disbursements should be avoided,
    and agencies should have a clear understanding of the requirements involved with Bank operations.
l During project preparation, an up-front assessment of implementing agency capacity is needed. The
    assessment should also evaluate the capacity and likely participation of partners such as local
    governments and NGOs. Such an assessment, although time-consuming, would help inform project
    design and the development of a realistic timeline, as well as identify necessary technical assistance to
    ensure smooth project implementation. For a crisis or emergency operation, in particular, the Bank
    must provide substantial on-the-job training and assistance at the beginning of the operation, which
    would likely require budget allocations higher than the norm.
l Risk management and flexibility are important, particularly for crisis operations in which support
    needs to be scaled up quickly. The structure of a crisis-response project should allow sufficient
    flexibility to accommodate changing circumstances and provide incentives which help mitigate risk. If
    the crisis abates faster than expected, the project should have reallocation options to direct funds to



                                                     - 14 -

    government priorities, perhaps from an appraised menu.
l Although short-term considerations are the main focus in crisis situations, a crisis can also be used as
    an opportunity to address longer-term objectives. While the inclusion of longer-term interventions does
    increase project complexity, such interventions may prove to be more sustainable and build a more
    solid foundation for future development. Momentum for such reforms may otherwise diminish once the
    crisis recedes.
l A focus on outcomes, both in design and supervision, is critical to determining whether a project is
    delivering the intended results and to informing adjustments during implementation. Furthermore,
    indicators should move beyond tracking outputs (i.e. number of trainees, number of roads constructed)
    to analyzing the quality and impact of such achievements (i.e. employment gained as a result of
    training, sustainability and benefits of infrastructure created). The challenge of developing measurable
    indicators for community empowerment, social capital, and capacity building objectives must also be
    addressed. In addition, more attention is needed at the project preparation stage to developing credible
    results-based monitoring and evaluation systems, with continuous management attention during the
    implementation stage.
l Field-based supervision offers multiple benefits such as close working relationships with counterparts,
    greater understanding of the context in which project staff operate, and more rapid response times. The
    Bank should explore options for documenting this continuous, intensive supervision that takes place on
    an informal basis and is not captured in standard Bank supervision documents.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Below is a summary of the Borrower's ICR. The full document can be found in the project files.

The Social Investment Project (SIP) was initiated by the Royal Thai Government (RTG) to protect the poor
and unemployed during the economic crisis, as well as to support the Government's longer-term reforms in
decentralization, local capacity enhancement, and community development. The majority of activities
implemented under the SIP were successful in achieving their intended objectives. Findings of field surveys
and interviews indicate that most programs had a high level of beneficiary satisfaction and helped mitigate
the impacts of the crisis for participants. Separate evaluations of the two SIP channels are given below.

Channel 1 Evaluation

The most successful Channel 1 subcomponents were those implemented by the Ministry of Public Health,
Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, Ministry of Interior, and Tourism Authority of Thailand as they
generated maximum benefits in line with the SIP's objectives. These programs were most effective for
solving urgent problems and met one or more of the following criteria: generation of longer-term benefits
for participants, greater geographical reach, enhancement of quality of life and social opportunities for
beneficiaries, and/or continued maintenance of subprojects after program completion. The Ministry of
Labor and Social Welfare programs were also successful, although the Department of Skills Development
should have been given full responsibility for vocational training since it had prior experience and was
therefore better equipped to respond than other departments. Under the Bangkok Metropolitan Authority
subcomponent, the school rehabilitation program achieved better results than the sidewalk rehabilitation
program. The Ministry of Industry subcomponent was the least successful, as it did not fit with the overall
objectives of the SIP. The activities required a longer timeframe and thus were not suitable for creating
short-term employment in a crisis situation.




                                                      - 15 -

One difficulty was the insufficient time to prepare for implementation. Since the SIP's aim was to help
alleviate the economic crisis quickly, the PIUs had very limited time for preparation. They were unable to
complete their preparation work, budgeting, and disbursement as scheduled, especially during the first 6-10
months. In managing subprojects in a crisis situation, approvals and implementation must be handled
quickly, otherwise the project will not respond to the needs of beneficiaries. Targeting was also difficult
without an initial survey on the location of the unemployed, which undermined the objective of alleviating
the urgent problem of unemployment. The suitability of each subcomponent for achieving project
objectives and local participation should also be considered carefully.

The biggest internal factor affecting implementation was lack of capacity and sufficient staffing among
implementing agencies. For future projects, each agency's readiness to implement should be studied.
Sufficient budget for operating costs should also be taken into account. Major external factors affecting
implementation included the use of procedures and regulations stipulated by the World Bank and
OECF/JBIC and the requirement to prepare various documents in English. Funds from foreign sources
may not be transferred as quickly as expected, which may result in urgent projects being delayed.

Channel 2 Evaluation

Social Investment Fund (SIF). Unlike Channel 1 activities, the SIF was not intended to provide
emergency relief during the crisis. Its main objective was to promote sustainable development by
strengthening communities, establishing strong community networks, and fostering local participation in
solving environmental and other problems.

One of the SIF's strengths was that it used local people to identify those in need of assistance, which they
were able to do accurately with their knowledge of the communities. This type of community participation
seems to be more efficient than top-down management. Furthermore, community involvement in subproject
implementation can help enhance basic social structures and strengthen the capacity of community
members and organizations for further development.

Continuous evaluation should be used so lessons learned can help improve implementation and inform the
expansion of successful subprojects. In addition, since social problems cannot be solved on a short-term
basis, subprojects should be continuous in nature. Community funds involve a collective learning effort
and require a certain amount of time to adjust thinking processes. The ultimate goal is for communities to
become self-dependent in order to foster sustainable, bottom-up development.

Regional Urban Development Fund (RUDF). Unlike other SIP activities, the RUDF did not focus
specifically on solving problems from the economic crisis. Instead, the RUDF provided funding
opportunities for municipality investments to enhance the decision-making process and to strengthen local
government, which was a longer-term objective. Given the crisis situation, it may have been useful for this
component to place more direct emphasis on helping the poor and vulnerable groups affected by the crisis,
for example by using infrastructure construction to generate employment opportunities.

The RUDF encountered a number of implementation challenges. One obstacle was local conflict or
political problems, which prevented some subprojects from being completed. The lack of technical
capacity within municipalities also delayed subproject design and execution. Furthermore, the various
criteria, regulations, and complicated procedures involved with RUDF discouraged municipalities from
applying for funds. While the RUDF had to be in compliance with the World Bank's procurement
regulations, in practice, the government agencies overseeing the municipalities as well as the municipalities
themselves did not agree with Bank regulations, resulting in the delay or cancellation of some subprojects.


                                                    - 16 -

Lessons for the Future

Based on the experience and lessons learned from the SIP, activities involving cash transfers should be
given the highest priority in an economic crisis to provide short-term assistance to poor and vulnerable
groups. Infrastructure activities which help generate employment and provide short-term income should be
given the next highest priority, although attention to continued maintenance is critical to ensure that the
infrastructure created is not wasted. Activities that build human capital should be conducted continuously,
not just in a crisis situation, in order to increase skills and boost the country's productivity. However,
training courses should be assessed to ensure that they are practical and respond to local job market
opportunities so beneficiaries can use the knowledge gained to find employment. Projects that are not
suitable for crisis situations are those that depend on weather or geographical conditions which cannot be
controlled and those that require over 4-5 months for preparation to completion

(b) Cofinanciers:
Inputs and comments received from JBIC have been incorporated into the above assessments of the two
OECF/JBIC-financed Channel 1 components.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                        - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                             1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
I. Channel 1 Indicators:
Man-months of employment                    Ministry of Interior 455,540                No. of beneficiaries (including laborers
                                            Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare 21,421 employed):
                                            Bangkok Metropolitan Admin 60,117           Ministry of Interior 316,256
                                            Ministry of Industry 64,000                 Bangkok Metropolitan Admin 262,465
                                                                                        Ministry of Industry 4,560

Man-months of training                      MOLSW 533,572                               MOLSW 467,300
                                            BMA 22,000                                  Number of trainees: BMA 101,522

% of employed within 3 months of training   MOIND 100                                   Number of trainees: MOIND 4,560



II. Channel 2 Indicators:
Man-months of employment created            SIF 352,500                                 No. of employed individuals under SIF
                                            RUDF 125,874                                59,284 (based on data from 7,052
                                                                                        sub-projects)

Man-months trained                          SIF 364,500                                 not available

Trainees employed within 3 months of        not available                               not available
training




Notes:
1. Projections are taken from the latest PSR and PAD.
2. For indicators that were not tracked during implementation, actual/latest estimates of similar or related indicators are
provided. Therefore, projections and actual/latest estimates may not be comparable across columns.




                                                                - 18 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
I. Channel 1 Indicators:
No. of units constructed/rehabilitated       Ministry of Interior 4,154                   Ministry of Interior 4,815
                                             BMA 406 schools (before Channel 1            BMA 819 schools
                                             reallocation)

No. of training courses conducted            BMA 2,710 (before Channel 1 reallocation)    BMA 5,007
                                             Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare 4,851   Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare 4,920

No. of patient visits                        Ministry of Public Health 7.7 million (under No. of beneficiaries (under Public Assistance
                                             Public Assistance Scheme)                    Scheme) 1.15 million

No. of rural enterprises established         Ministry of Industry 84                      Ministry of Industry 57
II. Channel 2 Indicators:
No. of sub-projects completed                SIF 11,590                                   SIF 7,874
                                             RUDF 20                                      RUDF 53

No. of infrastructure sub-projects completed SIF 7,930                                    RUDF 53
                                             RUDF 20                                      SIF Menu 1 (Capacity and Learning
No. of training sub-projects completed                                                    Development): 3,184
No. of capacity building sub-projects        SIF 1,180                                    SIF Menu 2 (Community Welfare and
completed                                    SIF 1,250                                    Safety): 1,207
No. of equipment, other sub-projects                                                      SIF Menu 3 (Culture, Environment, and
completed                                    SIF 1,230                                    Natural Resources): 790
                                                                                          SIF Menu 4 (Community Capacity Building
                                                                                          and Networking): 2,236
                                                                                          SIF Menu 5 (Immediate Community
                                                                                          Welfare): 457




1End of project
Notes:
1. Projections are taken from the latest PSR and PAD.
2. For indicators that were not tracked during implementation, actual/latest estimates of similar or related indicators are
provided. Therefore, projections and actual/latest estimates may not be comparable across columns.




                                                                 - 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     Appraisal       Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                                     Estimate          Estimate           Appraisal
                          Component                                US$ million         US$ million
A. Channel 1 Components:
Ministry of Public Health Programs                                     23.80               37.81            158.87
Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare Programs                          27.43               28.35            103.35
Ministry of Interior Programs                                          52.51               62.48            118.99
Ministry of Industry Program                                             5.54               0.77              13.9
Bangkok Municipal Authority Programs                                   11.73               12.63            107.67
Tourism Authority of Thailand Programs                                 75.02               79.40            105.84
Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives                               48.32               44.80             92.72

B. Channel 2 Components:
Social Investment Fund                                                132.57              114.60             86.44
Regional Urban Development Fund                                        41.57               13.69             32.93
C. Project Management Component                                          2.80               0.82             29.29

Total Baseline Cost                                                   421.29              395.35
  Physical Contingencies                                               12.22
  Price Contingencies                                                  20.45
                            Total Project Costs                       453.96              395.35
                     Total Financing Required                         453.96              395.35
Notes:
1. The Government cancelled US$23.9 million in 2002, US$21.25 million in 2003, and US$1.34 million in 2004.
2. Appraisal estimates for each component are taken from Annex 3 of the PAD. Due to an apparent calculation
error in Annex 3 of the PAD, the totals in the above table do not match those given in Annex 3 of the PAD.
3. The Project Management Component was financed by the Bank, AusAID, and UNDP. Latest estimates for
UNDP financing (appraisal estimate US$0.50 million) are not available, so actuals for the Project Management
Component may be slightly higher than shown in the table above.




                                                       - 20 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                       Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                 0.00              99.23             89.66            134.81            323.70
                                        (0.00)            (94.45)           (86.45)           (0.00)           (180.90)
2. Goods                                 0.00              0.00              16.59             5.71              22.30
                                        (0.00)             (0.00)           (14.91)           (0.00)            (14.91)
3. Services                              0.00              0.00              50.22             11.78             62.00
                                        (0.00)             (0.00)           (49.10)           (0.00)            (49.10)
4. Funds, Grants and                     0.00              0.00              46.86             0.00              46.86
Stipends
                                        (0.00)             (0.00)           (46.86)           (0.00)            (46.86)
5. Unallocated                           0.00              0.00               8.24             0.00              8.24
                                        (0.00)             (0.00)            (8.24)           (0.00)             (8.24)
6. Miscellaneous                         0.00              0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                        (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
    Total                                0.00              99.23            211.57            152.30            463.10
                                        (0.00)            (94.45)          (205.56)           (0.00)           (300.01)

Notes:
1. NBF consists of Tourism Authority of Thailand and Royal Irrigation Department of Ministry of Agriculture and
Cooperatives subcomponents, which were financed by the OECF/JBIC.
2. Cost figures are taken from Annex 5A of the PAD. Due to apparent calculation errors in Annex 5A of the PAD,
the totals in the above table do not match those given in Annex 5A of the PAD.
 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                        - 21 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                  Appraisal Estimate                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank       Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.         CoF.    Bank   Govt.   CoF.
I. Channel 1:
Ministry of Public Health     30.53                                 30.64         7.17                100.4
Programs
Ministry of Labor and         29.47                                 26.39         1.96                 89.5
Social Welfare Programs
Ministry of Interior          60.27                                 56.09         6.39                 93.1
Programs
Ministry of Industry           6.23                                  0.60         0.17                 9.6
Program
Bangkok Municipal             13.44                                 11.47         1.16                 85.3
Authority Programs
Tourism Authority of                                   75.02                                  79.40                   105.8
Thailand
Royal Irrigation                                       48.32                                  44.80                    92.7
Department of
Ministry of Agriculture
and Cooperatives


II. Channel 2:
Social Investment Fund        120.00                               114.06         0.54                 95.1
Regional Urban                30.00                                 13.69                              45.6
Development Fund
Project Management             2.00                    1.37          0.55                      0.27    27.5            19.7
Component
Unallocated                    8.24                                  0.00                              0.0
Total                         300.00      38.07       124.11       253.48        17.39       124.47    84.5    45.7   100.3

   Notes:
   1. For Bank financing, appraisal estimates for each component are taken from Annex 5C of the PAD.
   2. For Government financing, only a total estimate (US$38.07 million) was provided at appraisal. Therefore,
   percentage of appraisal by component is not available for Government financing.
   3. The Project Management Component was co-financed by AusAID and UNDP. Latest estimates for UNDP
   financing (appraisal estimate US$0.50 million) are not available, so actuals for the Project Management
   Component may be slightly higher than shown in the table above.




                                                         - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

An economic rate of return was not calculated for this project at appraisal, nor was it calculated at closure.




                                                  - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                       (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                  Month/Year     Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification
              11/26/1997                  2    Mission Leader (1); Poverty and
                                               Social Fund Specialist (1)
              Preparation                 2    Urban Development and Public
              12/13/1997                       Works Specialist (1); Public
                                               Finance Specialist (1)
              Pre-Appraisal             23     Country Director (1); Regional
              02/12/1998                       Manager (1); Sector Manager
                                               (2); Program Coordinator (1);
                                               Task Team Leader (1); Poverty
                                               and Social Fund Specialist (1);
                                               Social Fund and Public Works
                                               Specialist (1); Legal (1);
                                               Procurement Specialists (2);
                                               Private Sector Development
                                               Specialist (1); Monitoring
                                               Specialists (2); Education and
                                               Training Specialists (2); Poverty
                                               and Monitoring Specialist (1);
                                               Social Assessment (1); Public
                                               Finance Specialist (1);
                                               Accounting and Auditing (1);
                                               Urban Development and Public
                                               Works (1); Social Assessment
                                               Specialist (1); Health Specialist
                                               (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03/28/1998 /              10     Task Team Leader (1);
              04/06/1998                       Poverty and Social Fund
                                               Specialist (1); Social Fund
                                               and Public Works Specialist
                                               (1); Procurement Specialist
                                               (1); Private Sector
                                               Development Specialist (1);
                                               Education and Training
                                               Specialist (1); Public Finance
                                               Specialist (1); Accounting
                                               and Auditing (1); Urban
                                               Development and Public
                                               Works (1); Health Specialist
                                               (1)
              Pre-effectiveness           7    Task Team Leader (1); Social
              07/02/1998                       Fund and Public Works
                                               Specialist (1); Social Assessment
                                               Specialist (1); Public Finance
                                               Specialist (1);



                                                - 24 -

                           Accounting and Auditing (1);
                           Mission Team (1); Procurement
                           Specialist (1)

Supervision

           03/31/1999    6 Task Team Leader (1); NGO            S    S
                           Relations Officer (1); Social
                           Fund Operations (1); Urban
                           Specialist (1); Procurement
                           Specialist (1); Disbursement
                           Assistant (1)
           11/17/1999    6 Strategy and Operation (1);          S    S
                           Program Team Leader (1);
                           Program Coordinator (1); Social
                           Development Officer (1); Team
                           Assistant (1); Principal
                           Operations Officer (1)
           02/24/2000    5 Program Team Leader (1);             S    S
                           Senior Public Sector Specialist
                           (1); Social Development
                           Specialist (1); Operations Officer
                           (1); Procurement Officer (1)
           12/12/2000    6 Mission Leader (1); Task Team        S    S
                           Leader (1); Senior Public Sector
                           Specialist (1); Procurement
                           Specialist (1); Financial
                           Management Specialist (1)
                           Disbursement Assistant (1)
           07/16/2001    4 Mission Leader (1); Senior           S    S
                           Public Sector Specialist (1);
                           Financial Officer (1);
                           Procurement Officer (1)
           03/22/2002    1 Mission Leader (1)                   S    S
           10/01/2002    1 Task Team Leader (1)                 S    S
           01/27/2003    2 Mission Leader (1); Senior           S    S
                           Public Sector Reform Specialist
                           (1)
           05/20/2003    6 Mission Leader (1);                  S    S
                           Implementation Issues (1);
                           Procurement Review (4)

ICR
           06/23/2004    6 Mission Leader (1); Task             S    S
                           Team Leader (1);
                           Consultants (3); Program
                           Assistant (1)




                           - 25 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                     No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification                               80                        397.19
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                            174.14                          604.30
  ICR                                      10.22                          84.64
  Total                                  264.36                        1,086.13
Note: Numbers of staff weeks and US$ amounts for Identification and Appraisal/Negotiation are
combined.




                                                - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Aide ­ Memoires and PSRs:

·      Identification mission Aide ­ Memoire and PSR on November 26, 1997
·      Preparation mission Aide ­ Memoire and PSR on December 13, 1997
·      Pre-Appraisal mission Aide ­ Memoire and PSR on February 12, 1998
·      Appraisal / Negotiations mission Aide ­ Memoire and PSR on March 28, 1998 / April 6, 1998
·      Pre-effectiveness mission Aide ­ Memoire and PSR on July 2, 1998
·      Supervision mission Aide ­ Memoire and PSR on May 26, 1999
·      Supervision mission Aide ­ Memoire and PSR on December 8, 1999
·      Supervision mission Aide ­ Memoire and PSR on June 8, 2000
·      Supervision mission Aide ­ Memoire and PSR on December 12, 2000
·      Supervision mission Aide ­ Memoire and PSR on August 19, 2001
·      Supervision mission Aide ­ Memoire and PSR on May 1, 2002
·      Supervision mission Aide ­ Memoire and PSR on October 23, 2002
·      Supervision mission Aide ­ Memoire and PSR on May 8, 2003
·      Supervision mission Aide ­ Memoire and PSR on June 27, 2003
·      Supervision mission Aide ­ Memoire and PSR on December 19, 2003

Bank systems:

·      Integrated Controller's Systems: disbursement information
·      SAP: budget information

Co-finance Documents:

28 October 1998         Australian Grant for Implementation of the Social Investment Project TF037040:
                        Grant Agreement
25 October 2000         MOF Letter on Extension of the Australian Grant for Implementation of Social
                        Investment Project
16 February 2001        World Bank Letter on Australian Grant for Implementation of the Social
                        Investment Project TF037040: Amendment to Grant Agreement
30 March 2001           MOF Letter on Australian Grant for Implementation of the Social Investment
                        Project TF037040: Amendment to Grant Agreement
24 May 2001             MOF Letter on Australian Grant for Implementation of the Social Investment
                        Project TF037040: Request for Amendment to Grant Agreement
29 June 2001            AusAID Letter on Administration Agreement for the Cofinancing of the Australian
                        Grant for Implementation of Social Investment Project (Grant TF 037040)
14 June 2002            MOF Letter on Australian Grant for Implementation of the Social Investment
                        Project TF037040: Extension of the Disbursement Date and Reallocation of
                        Grant Funds
24 June 2002            Australian Grant for Implementation of the Social Investment Project TF037040:
                        Extension of the Disbursement Date and Reallocation of Grant Funds
20 January 2003         Australian Grant for Implementation of the Social Investment Project TF037040:
                        Closure of Grant Account

Consultant Reports

·      TDRI, An Evaluation Report on the Implementation of the Social Investment Projects,
       Executive Summary, November 2000
·      TDRI, Social Impact Assessment: Synthesis Report, January 2000 (funded by CIDA)
·      Sauwalak, K. Monitoring and Evaluation Review Services for Social Development Support
       Committee/Thai Fund Foundation: An Evaluation of Support to NGOs in Community­Based



                                                 - 29 -

        Prevention, Care and Assistance to People Living with AIDS
·      TEAM Consulting Engineering Management Co., Ltd and Sanyu Consultants (Thailand) Ltd.
        (May 2002), Kingdom of Thailand Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives Royal Irrigation
        Department Executive Summary and Final Report of Small Scale Irrigation Improvement and
        Rehabilitation Project.
·      SIP completion summaries received during ICR mission from MOPH, MOLSW, MOInt

Government documents:

·      Completion document from Bangkok Municipal Authority
·      Completion document from Ministry of Finance
·      Completion document from Ministry of Industry
·      Completion document from Ministry of Interior
·      Completion document from Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare
·      Completion document from Ministry of Public Health
·      Completion document from Regional Urban Development Fund
·      Completion document from Social Investment Fund
·      National Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB), Office of the Prime Minister,
       Summary The Eighth National Economic and Social Development Plan (1997-2001)
·      National Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB), Office of the Prime Minister,
       Summary The Ninth National Economic and Social Development Plan (2002-2006)
·      Periodic Operational Progress Reports
·      999 Days of Learning (February 2002)
·      37 Months of Social Investment Fund Operations (April 2002)
       § Volume 1: Development of the Social Investment Fund
       § Volume 2: Progress Report
·      Community and Social Empowerment Movement: Social Investment Fund Completion Report
       (1998-2003)
·      Participatory Impact Evaluation (December 31, 2002)

Implementation Documents:

·      26 October 1999                           Ex-Post Procurement Review Report
·      29 July 2002                              Ex-Post Procurement Review Report
·      20 May 2003                               Ex-Post Procurement Review Report
·      April 2003, November 2003, March 2004     EAP/SAR Advanced Operational Skills Training,
                                                 Rapid Quality Assessment of Implementation
                                                 Support Team Reports
·      25 July 2000                              Hoesch, Donata, Targeting Maps for Thailand
·      18 November 1999                          Srinivasan, Raghavan, Thailand Operational
                                                 Procurement Review
·      4 March 2002                              Internal Auditing Department. Report on an Audit
                                                 of Procurement of Goods, Works and Consultants
                                                 in the East Asia and Pacific Region.

Project documents:

·      Loan Agreement of Social Investment Project on July 13, 1998
·      Project Agreement of Social Investment Project on July 13, 1998
·      Project Appraisal Document of Social Investment Project on June 15, 1998
·      Regional Urban Development Fund: Operations Manual ­ November 6, 1998
·      Social Investment Fund: Operations Manual ­ October 1, 1999
·      Representations on Project Procurement Arrangements (procurement side letter), July 13, 1998




                                               - 30 -

World Bank Documents:

·       Thailand Country Assistance Strategy, CD 1 EAP, August 9, 1994
·       Thailand Country Assistance Strategy, Thailand CMU EAP, June 16, 1998
·       Thailand Country Assistance Evaluation, OED, November 9, 2000
·       Thailand Country Dialogue Monitor, February 1, 2000
·       Thailand ­ World Bank Group Partnership for Development, November 2002?
·       Thailand Country Development Partnership ­ Social Protection, HD Sector Unit, EAP, June 2002
·       Thailand Country Development Partnership: Governance and Public Sector Reform, Phase 1:
         Monitoring Workshop, 2002?
·       Thailand Country Development Partnership for Poverty Analysis and Monitoring,
         Annual Report, 2003
·       Thailand Country Dialogue Monitor, December 2003

Thailand Social Monitors
l       January 1999:    Challenge for Social Reform
l       July 1999:       Coping with the Crisis in Education and Health
l       January 2000:    Social Capital and the Crisis
l       July 2000:       Thai Workers and the Crisis
l       November 2000: Thailand's Response to AIDS
l       November 2001: Poverty and Public Policy

Social Capital Evaluation
l       Concept Note
l       Terms of Reference
l       Inception and progress reports

OED. (2004). Designing Social Funds: Key Questions and Options. World Bank:
Washington, D.C.

Other Supporting Documents:

7 February 1998         Cisneros, Rodriego SIP Ministry of Interior Progress Report
                        De Pietro-Jurand, Robin, SIP Proposed MOLSW Programs
13 February 1998        Soucat, Agnes (draft) Program of the Ministry of Health
                        Program of the Ministry of Industry
February 1998           Robb, Caroline and Chaohua Zhang (draft) Social Aspects of the Crisis:
                        Perceptions of Poor Communities in Thailand
14 April 1998           Office Memorandum: Appraisal Completion Note and Request for Issuance of
                        Invitation to Negotiate
17 April 1998           Notice of Invitation to Negotiate
22 April 1998           Minutes of Negotiations between Kingdom of Thailand and Government Savings
                        Bank and IBRD for the SIP
19 May 1998             Office Memorandum: Summary of Negotiations
20 May 1998             Status of Negotiations
15 June 1998            Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of IBRD to the Executive
                        Directors on a Proposed Loan to the Kingdom of Thailand for a Social
                        Investment Project
10 July 1998            Office Memorandum: Signing of Loans ­ Social Investment Project
10 November 1998        Office Memorandum: Effectiveness
1 November 1998         Memorandum of Agreement: Concerning Channel 2 of the Social Investment
                        Project between The Ministry of Finance and the Government Savings Bank
1 June 1999             MOF letter on Request for Amendment of Loan Agreement
10 June 1999            World Bank Letter on Amendments to Loan Agreement and Project Agreement



                                                   - 31 -

July 1999         QAG Quality of Entry Assessment for CY98 ­ Thailand Social Investment
                  Project
26 August 1999    MOF Letter on Request for Amendment of Loan Agreement
20 September 1999 World Bank Letter on Amendment to Loan Agreement
24 November 1999  MOF Letter on Request for Amendments of Loan Agreement
16 December 1999  World Bank Letter on Revised Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement
14 August 2000    World Bank Letter on Amendment to the Loan Agreement
20 October 2000   MOF Letter on Request for Amendments of Loan Agreement
30 October 2000   World Bank Letter on Revised Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement
31 August 2001    World Bank Letter on Reallocation of Proceeds of the Loan
4 April 2002      MOF Letter on Request for the Extension of the Closing Date and Loan
                  Reallocation
25 April 2002     World Bank Letter on Extension of Closing Date and Revised Schedule 1 to the
                  Loan Agreement
12 July 2002      MOF Letter of Request for the Loan Cancellation
24 July 2002      World Bank Letter on Cancellation of Loan Proceeds and Revised Schedule 1 to
                  the Loan Agreement
29 July 2002      World Bank Letter on Revised Amortization Schedule
22 September 2002 MOF letter on Request for the Amendment of the Loan Agreement
24 October 2002   World Bank Letter on Amendment to the Loan Agreement
21 January 2003   MOF Letter of Request for Loan Cancellation
11 February 2003  World Bank Letter on Reallocation and Cancellation of Loan Proceeds and
                  Revised Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement
26 March 2003     World Bank Letter on Revised Amortization Schedule
27 Sep 2004       Closure of Loan Account and Revised Amortization Schedule




                                          - 32 -

- 33 -

