Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17785 TH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$300 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A
SOCIAL INVESTMENT PROJECT
June 15, 1998
Health, Nutrition and Population Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 1, 1998)
Currency Unit = baht
1 baht = US$0.025
US$1   = 40baht
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
ABBREVLATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                      -   Asian Development Bank
AUSAID                   -   Australian Agency for International Development
BMA                      -   Bangkok Metropolitan Administration Programs
CAS                      -   Country Assistance Strategy
DSD                      -   Department of Skills Development
FPO                      -   Fiscal Policy Office
GSB                      -   Government Savings Bank
MET                      -   Thailand Management Education and Training Foundation
MOF                      -   Ministry of Finance
MOH                      -   Ministry of Health
MOInd                    -   Ministry of Industry
MOInt                    -   Ministry of Interior
MOLSW                    -   Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare
NFE                      -   Nonformal Education Program
NGO                      -   Non-Governmental Organization
OECF                     -   Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
PSC                      -   Policy Steering Committee
PRID                     -   Program for Rural Industrial Development
PCU                      -   Project Coordination Unit
PIUs                     -   Project Implementation Units
RUDF                     -   Regional Urban Development Fund
RTG                      -   Royal Thai Government
SECAL                    -   Sector Adjustment Loan
SIF                      -   Social Investment Fund
SIP                      -   Social Investment Project
SOEs                     -   Statement of Expenditures
TAT                      -   Tourism Authority of Thailand
UNDP                     -   United Nations Development Programme
USAID                    -   United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:      Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Country Director:    Jayasankar Shivakumar, EACTF
Sector Manager:      Maureen Law, EASHN
Task Manager:        Christopher Chamberlin, EASHN



Thailand
Social Investment Program (SIP)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A. Strategic Context and Project Development Objectives ......................... .................2
1. Strategic context .........................................2
2. Project development objectives and performance indicators .......................... ................3
3. Sector Issues and CAS goals ......4...................................4
4. Sector issues and strategic choices ..........................................5
B. Project Description ..........................................5
1. Project components and refonns ......             ...................................6
2. Project description summary ..........................................7
3. Benefits and target population ......8...................................8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                               .9
C. Project Rationale ........................................                                           10
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ........................................   10
2. Major related projects ........................................ 11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design ....................       .................... 11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ............................... 12
D. Summary Project Analyses ...............................                                              12
1. Economic assessment ............................... 12
2. Technical assessment ............................... 12
3. Institutional assessment ...............................                                              13
4. Social assessment ...............................                                                     13
5. Environmental assessment ............................... 13
6. Participatory approach ...............................                                                13
E. Sustainability and Risks ...............................                                              14
1. Sustainability ...............................                                                       14
2. Critical risks .....................                                                                  14
3. Possible controversial aspects .....................                                                  15



F. Main Loan Conditions ....................................................................................... ....... IS
1. Effectiveness conditions .....................................                                     ,                      15
2. Financial and other covenants .....................................                                  ,                     15
3. Dated covenants .1.....................................                                                                    16
G. Readiness for Implementation .....................................                                                        17
H. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................................................................18
Annexes
Annex lA. Project Design Summary .....................................                                  ,, 19
Annex lB   Project Performance Indicators and Targets ......................................,, 2.1
Annex 2.  Project Description ..............................                                                                  23
Annex 3.  Estimated Project Costs ..............................                                                             29
Annex 4. Financial Summary ................................ 30
Annex 5.    Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .............................. 3 l
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .35
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review.                                                36
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds ..........................                                               37
Annex 6.  Project Processing Budget and Schedule .......................... 38
Annex 7.  Documents in Project File ..........................                                                                39
Annex 8.  Statement of Loans and Credits .......................... 40
Annex 9.  Country at a Glance .......................... 41
IBRD MAP No. 25462



Thailand: Social Investment Project (SIP)
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Health, Nutrition and Population Unit
Date: June 15, 1998                                                  [j Draft      [X ] Final
Task Manager: Christopher Chamberlin               Country Manager: Jayasankar Shivakumar
Project ID: TH-56269                               Sector: Social Protection
Lending Instrument: SIL                            PTI:       [X] Yes          [ ] No
Project Financing Data              [X] Loan   I[]  Credit   I[] Guarantee  III  Other
[Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$/SDRm): $300
Proposed Terms:                       []  Multicurrency      [X] Single currency, US$
Grace period (years): 3          [    Standard Variable  [   Fixed          X     LIBOR-
based
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: .75%
Service charge: n/a
Financing plan (US$M):
Source                             Local             Foreign       Total
Government                                                      38.1                       38.1
IBRD/IDA                                                       298.0                2.0  300.0
OECF (Japan)                                                   121.3                2.0   123.3
UNDP                                                              .4                .1    0.5
AUSAID                                                            .2                .1    0.3
Total                                                          458.0                4.2  462.2
Borrower: Kingdom of Thailand
Responsible agency: Ministry of Finance
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$M):  1999     2000       2001       2002
Annual 136.7      192.1       108.4     25.0
Cumulative 136.7      328.8      437.2      462
Expected effectiveness date: August 1, 1998                   Closing date: April 30, 2002
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



A: Strategic Context and Project Development Objectives
1. Strategic context:
Following the financial crisis in mid 1997 and ensuing economic downturn, the Royal Thai
Government (RTG) requested that the World Bank assist in developing a' Social Investment Projecl: (SIP)
on a rapid timetable to help protect poor people from the emerging adverse social impacts of the crisis
(notably increasing unemployment), and to support the Government's longer-term reform agenda in the
areas of decentralization and community based development.
The social impacts of the crisis are substantial. With GDP expected to decline by 5% in 1998,
unemployment levels are increasing more rapidly than expected. The latest Government estimate
(February 1998) is 8.8% of the work force, or 2.8 million people (1.5 million long term unemployed and
1.3 million seasonally unemployed). The long term unemployment rate is more than twice the level
before the crisis. Wage rates are expected to be flat or falling. Inflation has climbed from 4.4% lasit June
to 10.2% in May 1998. Health utilization data show a sharp increase in recourse to public facilities and
free services as the poor and unemployed drop out of private care and insurance. As public revenues
have declined, cutbacks in Government programs have begun to affect services and activities, despite
efforts to protect social programs.
These official estimates of the social impacts of the Thai crisis are reflected in the results of a
preliminary qualitative social assessment conducted in February. Through interviews and focus groups
with NGOs, unions, urban poor, and others, the social assessment indicated the most immediate and
critical issues social issues to be: falling employment (especially in construction and finance sectors);
unusually high seasonal unemployment in the agricultural sector due to drought; reductions in hours
worked; rising prices for commodities such as foodstuffs and pharmaceuticals; increased return
migration from Bangkok and its environs to rural areas and, for some, thence to provincial cities;
growing evidence of attempts to add to family incomes through increasing school dropouts and use of
child labor; a shift toward utilization of public health providers and away from private fee based
providers; and an increasing tendency towards illegal activities.
These sudden and substantial impacts represent a marked departure from Thailand's long term
track record. Thailand has experienced high economic growth rates and low unemployment rates for
many years with brief recessionary periods. Real wages were growing at 8%; labor from neighboring
countries was being imported to meet demand. Poverty incidence had declined to 4% by 1996. Primary
enrollment reached universal levels. The health system evolved into a diversified public-private system,
with many payment options. In this relatively unbroken period of growth and poverty reduction, the
Government, understandably, took relatively modest steps toward establishing an integrated social
protection program composed of a social safety net, social security, and labor programs.
A set of social interventions emerged over time as an informal social protection framework,
The interventions include, for example: small scale indigent and elderly grant programs; national health
insurance schemes for the poor and near poor; national student loan programs for secondary students;
targeted school lunch programs for primary school students; short term vocational and technical training
programs; various publicly funded civil works programs that emphasize more labor intensive projects;
and the rural industrial employment program. Labor policies in place include a severance pay
requirement, working conditions and minimum wage standards, and a workmen's compensation fund,
but an unemployment insurance scheme is not available. Job information centers are now being
developed. Social security, although debated and planned, is not yet available except privately and for
civil servants.
2



Three key strategic issues thus were present at the outset for the Social Investment Project, as
for similar projects supported by the Bank in other crisis countries: (i) the balance between short term
and longer objectives within the social protection framework, that is of protecting existing social
programs and generating short term employment opportunities versus longer term policy issues in the
development of social protection policies, including a more comprehensive set of safety net programs;
(ii) targeting strategy, that is the choice between a focus on the poor, who may be employed versus the
unemployed, who may not be poor; and (iii) the implementation strategy, that is to attempt an investment
project in a very short preparation window versus a program loan focusing on policies and budget
envelopes.
In the Thai context, the Government has chosen to orient the Social Investment Project toward
increased support of existing safety net programs in the interest of speed and efficiency over the next 28
months, using an investment loan instrument to develop more transparent targeting of the poorer
unemployed and improved governance over the control of expenditures . The Government has also
decided to include a significant reform element in the Project. It will pursue a dialogue with support from
the Project on strategic development of a social protection framework, and the Project will support two
newly created institutions to support the Government's decentralization and community development
objectives.
2. Project development objectives and performance indicators:
The first priority objective of the project is to respond to the financial and economic crisis
through the rapid creation of employment opportunities and the provision of essential social services to
the unemployed and poor. The second project objective is to use the crisis as an opportunity to support
bottom-up service delivery through financing locally-identified and managed development initiatives and
through promoting decentralization, local capacity building, and community development.
The Project, therefore, incorporates two channels of support. The first channel supports existing
government programs aimed at providing jobs and priority basic social services to the unemployed and
poor. This channel of support is focused on short-term interventions utilizing existing Government
capacities that can deliver increased services and activities efficiently to the target population over a brief
period of 28 months. The Government is heavily focused on the short term: stabilization, restoration of
growth, and assisting the unemployed and the poor during the crisis. The importance of developing a
more coherent social safety net policy framework for the longer term is, however, fully appreciated by
the Government, and the Project will provide support for advancing the policy dialogue on social
protection generally and the safety net in particular.
The second channel of support flows from the Eighth Plan goal of decentralization and
community development and involves the creation of two new windows (a grant window and a loan
window) that will provide financing for locally-generated projects. Thailand has a highly centralized
government both administratively and in fiscal terms. The Eighth Plan stresses shifting away from "the
top-down approaches practiced by the public sector in the past" (page 3, Summary of the Eighth
National Economic and Social Development Plan (1997-2000), NESDB, Thailand), and a move toward
"people-centered development" (page 2, ibid). Achieving these goals will require fundamental reforms
in the inter-govermnental fiscal and administrative systems and concerted capacity building in local
government. To begin an operational approach to these issues, the Project's Channel 2 activities
represent a preliminary, but important, step toward fiscal and administrative decentralization through the
direct financing of local government and other community based projects. Both windows will be demand
driven, and will expose local institutions to competition for project resources and will tie the offer of
resources to the adoption of transparent and participatory operational procedures and practices. Such an
3



approach is expected to allow for a limited "kick start" for the decentralization process while at the same
time providing finance for local projects with employment and service benefits during the crisis (see
Annex 2 for detailed Channel 2 description).
As the effects of the economic downturn spread through the economy, the social impacts will
also evolve. This dynamic character of the crisis calls for a flexible response and underscores the need
for regular and continuous monitoring both of the social impacts of the economic downturn and the
performance of the Project. Project design, therefore, emphasizes the timely availability of social irnpact
and Project performance data and the need for quantitative data complemented by qualitative social and
beneficiary assessments. Such monitoring information will enable aLppropriate adjustments and
reallocations within the Project during its implementation.
Progress towards the project's objectives will be monitored through three sets of indicators:
project wide; Channel 1; and Channel 2 (see Annex IB). Project wide indicators will be applied to all
Project programs in Channel 1 and 2, and will provide the comparable data for evaluating their progress
and for justifying reallocations or redesign initiatives at mid-term and other junctures. The project wide
indicators include, by program (Ministry of Labor Training, for example) and by quarter: percentage of
estimated disbursements; percentage of target man months of employment and training; program
management indicators for procurement review success rate and replenishment request success rate;
technical quality of program supported activities as compared to specifications; beneficiary satisfaction
with program activities (as measured by beneficiary assessments); and a targeting efficiency indicator,
based on progress toward achieving the target provincial resource allocations.
Targeting will be an important aspect of project monitoring. A Project targeting map will
allocate Project resources by province and according to population, poverty level, and unemployment.
Individual programs may be assigned a sub-target by the Project Coordination Unit. Progress toward the
assigned resource allocation targets will be an important program indicator.
Program specific indicators for Channel 1 and 2 are organized into four categories: internal
efficiency; outputs; outcome; and targeting efficiency (see Annex IB). For example, the Social
Investment Fund and Regional Urban Development Fund in Channel 2 will be monitored according to
several internal efficiency indicators by quarter: the number of applications for financing received; ihe
number appraised; the number approved; the number completed; average unit cost per sub-project type;
and the average lag between approval and completion. The job creation programs in Channel 1 will be
monitored according to a set of targeting efficiency indicators by quarter, such as: rural employment as %
of total employment created; % female months of training out of total months of training completed.
3. Sector issues and Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goals (see Annex 1):
The Country Assistance Strategy (presented to the Board with the Project ) is structured arouLnd
three strategic themes: renewing competitiveness; strengthening governance; and sharing the benefits of
growth and improving the quality of life. The Project supports primarily the second and third themes.
In the area of governance the Project introduces several project management innovations in the Thai
context: (i) a new procurement framework for National Competitive Bidding in the form of a
supplemental letter, the first for Thailand; (ii) a requirement that all contracts procured under the Project
be announced in the press; (iii) a system of independent, random technical and beneficiary assessments of
project supported programs during implementation to verify progranm outputs and beneficiary satisfaction;
(iv) an independent, external annual audit of the programs under Channel 2 of the Project; (v) the
engagement of an accounting firm to provide technical assistance to Project Implementation Units during
4



implementation; and (vi) a broad based Policy Steering Committee, with members from civil society, to
oversee the Project.
Regarding the CAS theme of equity and quality of life, the Project's principal objective is to
lessen the social impacts of the crisis and to target its benefits to the unemployed in the lower income
deciles. This will be achieved by regional targeting (see above) of resources and also through support of
employment and services normally sought by the poor (unskilled and semi skilled construction
employment; vocational training courses; and health service scheme for the poor, unemployed and
elderly). The Project's support for decentralization and community based development in Channel 2 will
open up a new approach in Thailand to the mobilization of communities and local entities and their
control over decision making and resources.
4. Sector issues and strategic choices:
The Project design represents several strategic choices in response to sectoral issues: : (i) the
emphasis on an iterative and continuing review of investments and programs to be financed through
Channel I based on monitoring of both the programs and the crisis impacts they are attempting to
address; (ii) for the civil works programs, a pilot program through force account procedures to assess its
targeting and cost efficiency compared to competitively procured civil works; (iii) for the training
programs, the inclusion of a modest daily subsistence allowance for trainees in order to combine the
positive effects of the training with a small safety net provision for the unemployed; (iv) for the health
programs, focusing financial support to the "Public Assistance Scheme" and deferring support for the
Voluntary Health Card Scheme due to the relatively more accurate targeting of the poor and unemployed
of the former program; (v) contracting a single organization -- the Government Savings Bank -- to
manage both Channel 2 windows so as to maximize synergies in undertaking grant as well as loan-
financed local development initiatives and to leave open the possibility for putting in place a rationalized
system of inter-governmental transfers that combines loans and grants at a future date; (vi) limiting sub-
loan activities to the Regional Urban Development Fund (and not the Social Investment Fund) and
requiring that the on-lending rates to municipalities are market determined.; and (vii) placing the
procurement and disbursement operations for each sectoral program in parallel Project Implementation
Units with their own special accounts so that individual programs may proceed according to their
capacities, achieve rapid impacts, and be evaluated fairly by the Project Coordination Unit
B: Project Description
1. Project components and reforms (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed
cost breakdown):
Programs under Channel 1 were selected according to several criteria: (i) programs are well
targeted to the unemployed and the poor; (ii) they can be expanded rapidly without efficiency losses to
generate near term benefits for the target beneficiaries; and (iii) they are labor intensive or provide direct
social benefits to the target beneficiaries. This channel of support will close after about two years of
operation.
The second channel of support will finance new programs emphasizing the government's reform
objectives through the creation of two new institutional capacities: (i) a Social Investrnent Fund (SIF) to
provide grant support for small scale sub-projects proposed by local governments, NGOs, or community
groups; and (ii) a Regional Urban Development Fund (RUDF) to provide on-lending support to larger,
revenue generating projects in selected municipalities. Channel 2 activities will be operational over a 40
month period.
5



The Project also includes a Project Management component, which supports the operation,
staffing, and activities of the Project Coordination Unit and Policy Steering Committee attached to the
Fiscal Policy Office of the Ministry of Finance. Consultant and technical assistance will be financed by
UNDP grant funds, AUSAID grant funds and the loan.
Each of the two channels of support will be reviewed at mid-term before the end of calendar
1999. This review will focus on the evolving social impacts of the crisis and the Project wide indicaitors
listed in Annex 1 B, including the targeting effectiveness of the programs, the cost effectiveness of
programs, their disbursement and procurement performance, as well as the effectiveness of the SIF and
RUDF institutional arrangements. Based on the review, the Royal Thai Government (RTG) and the
World Bank will agree to appropriate reallocations both within components and between components,
and on any institutional changes. The three Project components are summarized below with total costs
including contingencies, as financed by the Bank, the Royal Thai Government and other cofinanciers.
2. Project description summary:
Component                                           Cost      % of
Incl.    Total
Cont.
__________________________________________________(US$M)  __
CHANNEL 1 COMPONENT
Ministry of Public Health
Public Assistance Scheme . This sub-component will provide additional financing for the low  27.8   6.0
income health card scheme in order to assure access of the unemployed to health services.
Comnmnity BasedAIDS Program. This subcomponent will finance MOH programs to support        2.6      0.5
NGO-led interventions for the prevention and care of HIV/AIDS at the community level.
Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare
Local Job Training for Disadvantaged Women and Persons with Disabilities Progranm  This     3.2     0.7
program will provide vocational training to 10,000 disadvantaged women and disabled in 40
provinces. Length of training is 140 days and 46,00 person months of training will be provided.
Skills Development Training Program. This subcomponent will finance the provision of a ten  2.0     0.4
month skills improvement training and stipends for 2800 people 15-16 years old focusing on the use
of new technologies to improve their future job prospects.
Local Job Training Program  This subcomponent will finance the provision of 90 day training and  26.9  5.8
stipend for 105,000 lower secondary graduates to improve their future job prospects.
Local Job Training Program for Women and Youth Program: This program will provide          2.2      0.5
vocational training to 8000 laid off and unemployed women and youth eligible to work, with each
course for 90 days.
Ministry Of Interior
Smnall-weirs Construction. This program under the Department of Local Administration will  40.4     8.7
finance construction of small-scale weirs as well as foreground dredging in rural areas where
migrants are expected to return as a result ofjob losses in the urban areas. The foreground dredging
work will be labor intensive techniques procured through force account.
Village Road Construction. This program under the Department of Public Works will finance the  26.6  5.3
construction of small (within-village) roads in 75 provinces including any related drainage facilities.
The subcomponent aims to create employment opportunities and improve basic road infrastructure.
6



Ministry Of Industry
ProgramforRural Industrial Developnent (PRID). This subcomponent will provide financing for  7.0      1.5
PRID which finances NGO-provided services: to facilitate industrial site location and rural industrial
development; to match industrial sites with potential investors; to train the local labor force; and to
facilitate arrangements between the investors and community leaders.
Bangkok Metropolitan Administration
SmaaU Scale Infrastructure Program. This subcomponent will finance the renovation of s of   11.2     2.4
district footpaths and sidewalks.
Occupational and Vocational Training Program. This subcomponent will finance the provision of  1.8   0.4
occupational and vocational training for 6,100 newly unemployed workers.
School Renovation Program. This subcomponent will finance the provision of minor repair services  1.8  0.4
for 429 local schools. It aims at increased community participation, employment, and improved
educational facilities.
Tourism Authority of Thailand (OECF financed)
Tralning/Interpretation Program; Toursm Sites Employment Program; Park and Recreational    75.0    16.2
Sites Improvement Program, Consultant
Royal Irrigation Department of Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
(OECF financed)
Rehabilittaton of small scale irrigation schemes                                           48.3    10.5
CHANNEL 2 COMPONENT
The Social Investment Fund
This program will finance small-scale sub-projects across e sectors proposed by community groups,    132.8    28.7
local governments, and NGOs based on pre-determined eligibility criteria. The component aims to
improve the access of the poor and unemployed to basic social and economic infrastructure, services,
and employment opportunities, and to give a fillip to the decentralization process by strengthening
decision-making and implementation capacities at the local level.
The Regional Urban Development Fund
This program will provide long-term credit financing for sub-projects at market rates to participating  41.7  9.0
local governments. The sub-projects would include rehabilitation, improvement, and expansion of
urban infrastructure and services under local government responsibility including public markets,
transportation terminals, piped water and sanitation systems, slaughterhouses, and recreational and
tourism facilities. The component aims to improve basic infrastructure, facilities, and services, and
create employment in strategically important urban centers outside Bangkok while at the same time
enhancing municipality capabilities relating to administration, investment planning, project
implementation, and financing.
PROJECT MANAGEMENT COMPONENT (WB, UNDP and AUSAID
financed)
This component will support the operation of the PCU, and its responsibilities for oversight,  2.8    0.6
monitoring, special account management and training, procurement oversight and training, Project
reporting, and support to the Policy Steering Committee. Costs include consultants, TA, equipment,
and operational costs.
Unallocated amount of Bank loan                                                             8.2       1.7
7



3. Benefits and targetpopulation:
Major project benefits include: (i) creation of short term employment opportunities; (ii)
construction/ rehabilitation of infrastructure and provision of basic services; and (iii) more cost-effective
and responsive service delivery through strengthening decentralization, local capacity building, and
community development.
It is estimated that the Project will deliver through the first channel of support over 1 million
person months of employment and over 900,000 person months of training. The Social Investment Fund
and Urban Development Fund will add about 700,000 person months of employment over the 40 montths
of implementation, based on estimated demand for infrastructure sub-projects.
The target population for the project is the poor and unemployed people in Thailand. The project
will adopt two targeting mechanisms: (i) geographic targeting based on a targeting map of Thailand
which will allocate Project resources according to population, poverty incidence (as of 1996), and
unemployment; and (ii) self-targeting based on support for services that are used primarily by the poor
and unemployed. Civil works projects to be supported, for example, will be relatively simple and labor
intensive, requiring a mix of low skilled and semi-skilled workers. Vocational training programs target
the unemployed, and low and semi-skilled workers. The public health insurance schemes will not be
attractive to higher wage employees and civil servants who utilize private insurance or the civil service
scheme or pay directly to private providers. Self-targeting for the Social Investment Fund will manifast
itself in a maximum sub-project size of $250,000 and support for basic -- rather than higher -- level
infrastructure and services. Periodic beneficiary assessments will check the targeting performance of
specific programs on a random basis.
The formal estimates of poverty and unemployment to be used for the targeting map will be
obtained from the Government's Statistical Office survey data (household consumption survey every 2
years and labor force survey every 4 months). Grant funds are available under the Project to support
additional analysis or processing of the survey data. Periodic social assessments of the impacts of the
crisis will be conducted under the Project and used to establish more detailed hypotheses and estimates
of household level social impacts. Monitoring of both Project impacts, targeting effectiveness, and the
evolving impacts of the crisis will feed into the redesign and reallocation decisions to be taken at the
mid-term review.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
a Executing agencies: (i) For Channel 1 Programs: Ministry of Public Health, Ministry of
Industry, Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare, Tourism Authority of Thailand (OECF financed
component), Royal Irrigation Department of the Ministry of Agriculture (OECF financed component),
Bangkok Metropolitan Administration, and Ministry of Interior; (ii) For Channel 2 Programs: the
Government Savings Bank through its sub-project agreements with local governments, NGOs, and
community groups
b. Project Coordination: A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) attached to the Ministry of Finance
(MOF) will carry out day-to-day project coordination with the Project Implementation Units (PIUs) in
each implementing agency. The PCU will also oversee project finances, accounting, and project
procurement as carried out by each implementing agency, contract for regular audits, and prepare
monitoring reports on Project implementation for the Project Director, Policy Steering Committee (PSC),
and the World Bank. The Director of the Fiscal Policy Office (FPO) of the MOF will serve as the overall
Project Director. The PCU will report to the Project Director, who in turn will report to the Project
8



Policy Steering Committee. A PIU will be established within each implementing agency to manage
World Bank resources and assure timely implementation in accordance with Project agreements. For
both Channel 1 and 2 programs, a PIU Director -- and for each of SIF and RUDF an Assistant Executive
Director -- will be appointed to serve as the focal point for management of the PIUs, the SIF, and the
RUDF.
c. Project oversight: In order to oversee the implementation and monitoring of the Project, the
RTG, at the MOF's recommendation, would appoint a broad-based PSC to set Project policies, approve
any major changes in Project objectives or components and oversee project implementation as carried out
by each implementing agency. As part of the agreements between MOF and the Government Savings
Bank (GSB), executive committees for the SIF and the RUDF will be established. GSB would also
manage RUDF repayments on terms to be agreed with the RTG/MOF in accordance with a Memorandum
of Agreement. RTG/MOF would sign the Memorandum of Agreement with GSB outlining mutual
responsibilities and obligations and any fees due GSB for such management services. GSB has been
selected based on its relative independence, management capacities, experience in financial
intermediation, and new mandate to serve as the "peoples bank", including grant support to priority social
objectives. The content of the Memorandum of Agreement is contained in the Loan Agreement
(Schedule 7), and its signing is a condition of SIF/RUDF disbursement.
d Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements(see Annex 5: The MOF would
delegate to the Project Director the day-to-day authority over the management of the Special Account at
the PCU level for PCU expenditures. MOF would set-up, under its authority, independent special
accounts at each of the PIUs as well as at SIF and RUDF. The PIUs, SIF, and RUDF would send copies
of replenishment requests to the PCU. Allowable expenditures from each of the special accounts will be
for activities described in the World Bank-RTG loan agreement and the eligibility criteria defined for
those activities. The PCU would request the Auditor General to conduct periodic accounting and
financial audits of the Channel I PIUs. An independent accounting firm would be engaged to audit the
SIF, RUDF and the GSB itself.
To ensure high standards of governance, the following measures have been agreed: (i) and
independent external annual audit of the Channel 2 programs; (ii) accounting firm technical assistance to
PIUs in the line ministries, the SIF and RUDF Accounting Unit at GSB, and to the Project Coordination
Unit in the Ministry of Finance; (iii) a full time procurement adviser in the PCU to provide technical
assistance to PIU as well as World Bank prior review of selected procurements and random ex-post
procurement reviews; (iv) random technical performance reviews and beneficiary assessments in the
field of SIP-financed activities; (v) a procurement supplemental letter to the Loan Agreement requiring
full compliance with Bank procedures for NCB, and the publication of all project contracts in the press;
and (vi) a broad-based Project Steering Committee, including members from civil society, to oversee
project policies and implementation.
e. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: Project indicators and their sources are listed in
Annex 1. The Project programs will be monitored at the level of the implementing units on a program by
program basis. Most of the internal efficiency, output, outcome and targeting efficiency indicators will
be obtained by the PIUs (including the SIF and RUDF) and reported to the PCU for review and checks
before preparing quarterly reports to the Bank. The Project wide indicators will be compiled by the PIUs
and supplemented by the PCU from its independent technical field reviews and beneficiary assessments.
The demand driven programs in Channel 2 will employ a more exhaustive monitoring system, based on a
computerized management information system (see Annex IB). Evaluation of the Project's impact will
be carried out through final beneficiary assessments.
9



C: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Based on Bank experience in similar country circumstances, five alternative project designs were
considered: (i) public employment workfare schemes (e.g., Trabajar Program in the Argentina Second
Social Protection Project); (ii) SECAL focused on policy reforms and protection of social expenditures;
(iii) social protection investment projects (e.g., Mexico PROSSE Project); (iii) social funds; and (iv)
training and labor programs. The Project utilizes desirable elements from each of these approaches.
The strategic context of the Project is dominated by the long, nearly continuous trend of rapid
growth, low unemployment levels, and declining poverty incidence in Thailand since the 1970s. The
relatively modest scale of social safety net and other social protection programs, although understandable,
limited the Project design options, given the urgency of putting in place as soon as possible basic safety
net arrangements. This was done through an iterative, competitive process of program review and
selection carried out by the Ministry of Finance, the National Economic and Social Development Board
and the Bank team over the four months of project preparation. This process culminated in the selection
of the Channel 1 programs to be financed by the Bank and the major cofinancier, the OECF. Channel 1
programs thus comprise (with the exception of the Ministry of Education and its scholarship and school
lunch programs that are already financed) a workable social safety program for the near and medium
term, including labor training programs. With speed of preparation and readiness for implementation as
central objectives of Channel 1, no new programs were introduced, such as a workfare program.
However, a pilot workfare type program will be carried out through force account to test different
approaches to wage setting and the choice of labor intensive infrastructure sub-projects. If the economic
crisis lengthens and deepens, a follow on Social Investment II project would aim to build more long
lasting safety net mechanisms, such as workfare.
TIhis will be an investment project, not a SECAL, primarily because the activities to be supported
are incremental activities, narrowly targeted to the unemployed and the poor, and based in several
ministries and agencies. To assure that incremental Bank funds flow directly to intended beneficiaries
and to allow for improvements in the governance of Govermnent programs, the investment instrument
was chosen as the most promising alternative. The Asian Development Bank is already supporting a
SECAL operation which includes important policy conditionalities which the Project will complement
with additional financing for selected programs.
10



2. Major related projects:
Sector                      Project                  Latest Supervision Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Bank-financed                                           Implementation  Development
Progress    Objective
Education         Skills Development (2)                     NA             NA
Second Secondary Education Quality          S             S
Improvement (4)
Universities Sci. & Eng Education (4)       S             S
Technical Education (4)                     S             S
Environment       Natural Resource Management (1)            NA             NA
Land Titling III (5)                        S             S
Public Sector     Economic Management Assistance (4)         NA             NA
Management
Structural        Economic and Financial Adjustment Loan     NA            NA
Adjustment        (1)
Finance           Financial Sector Implementation            NA             NA
Assistance (5)
Finance Companies Restructuring Loan (4)   NA            NA
Other development
agencies
Asian Development Social Sector Program Loan                 NA             NA
Bank                                                   I              I
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)
Project status: (1) Identification, (2) Appraisal, (3) Negotiations, (4) Effective, (5) Disbursing
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design:
The Project incorporates lessons from similar programs in other crisis-affected countries. These
lessons include the following: (i) focusing on selected, large government programs facilitates effective
implementation and supervision (Bank financing is directed to seven sectoral programs and OECF will
finance and supervise two others); (ii) agreeing up front on the procurement and financial accounting
practices to be followed in the government programs prevents implementation delays; (iii) not seeking far
reaching sector-wide reforms while giving priority to efficiencies in, and better targeting of, existing
government programs; (iv) allowing for flexibility in project design and ability to reflect emerging
implementation experience based on a continued monitoring both of the evolving impacts of the crisis as
well as the performance of Project interventions; (v) tapping institutional capacity of all existing agencies
including community groups based on comparative advantage for the efficient, speedy, and sustainable
delivery of services; and (vi) the prime importance of high standards of transparency and accountability
and the need for strong supervision to ensure good governance as well as to address bottlenecks quickly
so as to enable rapid disbursement and near term impact.
11



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Project is a direct response to the request for assistance received from RTG, in particular, the
Ministry of Finance. The cooperation and active participation from this Ministry as well as a range of
other Ministries which worked alongside Bank missions in identifying and appraising suitable programs
for financing in only four months time are indicative of high levels of commitment and ownership. The
willingness of the RTG to accept important conditionalities in respect to Project governance, social
protection policy dialogue, and the opening up to decentralized decision making under Channel 2 are
important indications of borrower commitment.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Bank support will add value in four ways: (i) the Bank offers international experience from
similar programs in other countries affected by economic and financial crises; (ii) the Bank's
involvement will ensure high standards of monitoring and impact evaluation; (iii) international standards
of transparency and accountability in the use and management of resources will result from the Bank" s
participation; and (iv) Bank resources have facilitated the leveraging of co-financing from three other
donors (OECF, UNDP, AUSAID).
D: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic assessment:
Due to the emergency character of the project, existing government programs and their
expenditures under SIP will not be subjected to economic analysis. Conventional rate of return analysis
will be carried out for the Regional Urban Development Fund sub-projects. With respect to the SIF, the
Operational Manual will provide appraisal criteria based on cost effectiveness ratios to guide the process
of appraising eligible sub-project applications. A unit cost database will be compiled by type of
infrastructure, updated regularly, and used to control costs of sub-projects procured through direct
contracting and local shopping.
2. Technical assessment:
Line agency technical norms and standards will be used by Channel 1 programs in order to
ensure sectoral coherence and compatibility. Technical appraisal of each activity by the line agency will
be conducted to ensure the use of appropriate and cost-effective technologies which make use of local
materials and labor. The appraisal will also ensure that infrastructure, equipment, and other inputs are
consistent in scale, quality, cost, and content with the proposed activities of the project and that
implementation is technically feasible. Technical appraisal for Channel 2 programs will follow appraisal
criteria developed for the initial menu of sub-projects as contained in the Operational manuals of the SIF
and RUDF respectively.
3. Institutional assessment:
a Implementing agencies: For Channel 1, the institutional capacity of the line agencies to
undertake the selected program was assessed through a competitive process of program selection
discussed above. For Channel 2, the GSB was evaluated and found to be a capable institution for
implementing the SIF and RUDF programs. The SIF staff will appraise the institutional capacities of
community groups, NGOs and local governments as part of the sub-project appraisal procedures. RUDF
preparation has already involved careful and systematic assessment of the administrative and financial
12



capacity of the participating municipalities, and this initial eligible group will be reviewed and confirmed
by the Ministry of Finance.
b. Project management: The roles of the PSC, PCU, and PIUs have been well-defined. The
composition and staffing of these units will be subject to Bank approval. The necessary technical
assistance will be provided to ensure that these units are able to perform the agreed functions effectively.
The roles, responsibilities, and skills of the Project Director, PIU Directors, and SIF and RUDF Assistant
Executive Directors are also well-specified. The candidates selected for these positions will be subject
to Bank approval and no modifications will be made to their roles and responsibilities without Bank
approval.
4. Social assessment:
A preliminary social assessment of the impacts of the crisis was conducted during project
preparation and will be expanded into a full baseline social assessment, followed up by mid term and
final social assessments. This information will complement quantitative survey data on social impacts of
the crisis -- and together -- such data will inform modifications in Project design during its
implementation phase.
5. Environmental assessment:
While specific Project investments might have environmental impacts, in general, given the small
size of infrastructure to be financed by the Project, no significant environmental impacts are anticipated.
Environmental assessments will be conducted as appropriate during the appraisal process in both Channel
1 and 2 civil works sub-projects. Environmental procedures for reviewing potential impacts of sub-
projects supported by the SIF and the RUDF will be included in the operational manuals, including
guidance for appraising environmental impacts and deferring sub-project processing until such impacts
are adequately assessed. If adverse impacts are foreseen, disbursements will not be made until there is
evidence of adequate mitigating measures. Investment proposals that involve excessive environmental
risk will be rejected. It is also possible that some Project investments have a direct positive effect on the
environment. The project is assigned a "B" environmental classification.
6. Participatory approach:
Identification/    Implementation          Operation
Preparation
Beneficiaries/community  IS, CON, COL     IS, CON, COL        COL (mainly channel 2)
Intermediary NGOs  IS, CON, COL       IS, CON, COL        COL (mainly channel 2)
(mainly channel 2)   (mainly channel 2)
Academic/ CON                 IS, CON, COL        COL (mainly social
research institutions                 (mainly social      assessments and
assessments and     evaluations)
evaluations)
Local government IS, CON, COL       IS, CON, COL         COL (mainly channel 2)
(mainly channel 2)   (mainly channel 2)
Note: IS = Infonnation sharing; CON = Consultation, COL = Collaboration
13



a. Project preparation process. Project design has benefited from the participation of line
agencies, local governments, non-governmental organizations, and academic and research institutions im
key project decisions. A social assessment as well as field visits to potential target areas helped to
incorporate the beneficiary perspective into project design. A number of donor agencies were also
consulted and have collaborated in designing the Project.
b. Design, implementation, and operation of Project investments. The extent of the
participatory approach with respect to the design, implementation, and operation of Project investments
varies by the nature of the investments and the channel of support. The beneficiary perspective is
required to be adequately taken account of in all Project investments; Channel 1 activities will be
implemented by line agencies, with community participation well developed for the smaller scale sub-
projects undertaken by Tourism Authority of Thailand and the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration and
the weir construction program under the Department of Local Administration. The demand driven
Channel 2 activities will involve the participation of a multiplicity of local governmental and non-
governmental entities including beneficiary groups themselves in various aspects of sub-project design,
implementation, and operation.
E: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The criteria for the selection of programs for Project financing in Channel 1 include the
requirement that they are existing programs with established budgetary mechanisms to assure
maintenance and operation of the assets created. The Health and Training activities under Channel 1
will support recurrent health service and training costs and will not incur longer term recurrent
obligations. Regarding Channel 2 programs (SIF and RUDF), counterpart contribution requirements
from the sub-project applicants are 10% and 25% respectively. Appraisal procedures for both programs
include an assessment of institutional capacities to manage and maintain the asset being financed.
2. Critical risks:
Project outputs to development objectives 
Risk                   Risk               Risk Minimization Measure
.__ __ ___ _   Rating
Low employment intensity of investments  Low   Project selection criteria that emphasize labor-intensity
Slow disbursements                   Moderate  Streamlined and parallel procurement, disbursemenit,
and implementation procedures; TA for procurement
and disbursement to PCU and PIUs
Lack of locally-responsive and sustainable Moderate  Project selection criteria that emphasize community
service delivery                               participation in different stages of the project cycle as
appropriate and include sustainability condiltions
Change of Government (loss of reform  Moderate  Political durability of current government cannot be
momentum)                                      assessed, but employment and reform objectives oF the
project have wide support.
14



Project components to outputs                                                                |
Risk                   Risk               Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Macroeconomic instability            Low       Good progress on macroeconomic management
Misallocation of project resources   Moderate  Strong supervision, accounting TA and independent
auditing, independent reviews of implementation,
publication of procurement results, , high NGO
participation
Poor targeting of project resources  Moderate  Careful choice of activities, strong monitoring of
impact, flexibility to allow mid-term reallocation of
project resources
Low demand for SIF or RUDF resources   Low     Extensive promotional efforts at local level; high initial
publicity to SIF and RUDF programs
OVERALL RISK RATING                  Moderate  The project incorporates strong monitoring
arrangements that will allow mid-course changes in
design and/or implementation as warranted
3. Possible controversial aspects:
The project has achieved a high public profile during the preparation process, and expectations
are high in terms of impact and governance. Many groups in Thai civil society are skeptical of
Government intentions and capacities. Some Thai groups oppose the Project because it involves
borrowing from external sources, even if the Project is intended to benefit the poor and unemployed.
Managing expectations and disseminating Project results will be an important challenge for the
Government and its project partners in civil society.
F: Main Loan Conditions
The Project legal documents include a Loan Agreement between the Borrower and the Bank and
a Project Agreement between the GSB and the Bank governing obligations under Part B of the Project.
In addition, the Borrower and the GSB shall enter into a Memorandum of Agreement containing the
mutual obligations of the two parties to carry out Part B of the Project. The following conditions, among
others, are contained in the Loan Agreement:
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
* the borrower will establish the Policy Steering Committee satisfactory to the Bank; and
* the borrower will establish the Project Coordination Unit satisfactory to the Bank.
2. Financial, Procurement, and other Covenants:
*  annual audits will be carried out the Auditor General of Parts A and C of the Project in
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank;
*   if the Auditor General requires additional external auditor capacity to conduct such audits,
such expenditures will be eligible for reimbursement under Part C of the Project;
*   audits required under Part B of the Project, including the auditing of the GSB, would be
carried out by independent, external auditors;
15



*   counterpart national budgetary resource allocations shall be made available to the project
each year for a grand total of US$9.9 million;
*   direct management of Project Special Accounts, including direct management of
withdrawals and replenishments, for each implementing agency would be appropriate under
the Project;
* retroactive financing will be available for eligible expenditures after January 1, 1998;
* payments for expenditures under Part A of the project will not be made unless the Borrower
provides evidence that the PIU for the corresponding implementing agency has been
established, with a Director and accounting and procurement capacities acceptable to the
Bank;
* payments for expenditures under Part B of the Project will not be made unless the Bank shall
have approved: the Memorandum of Agreement between GSB and the MOF; the
Administrative Manual; the Operational Manual for the SIF and RUDF; and the
management information system and unit cost data base for the SIF and RUDF;
*   the Borrower shall perform regular sub-project implementation performance reviews and
technical audits, beneficiary assessments, impact evaluation assessments and procurement
technical reviews with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank;
*   The Borrower shall conduct a baseline, mid term and final social assessment to measure the
social impact of the economic crisis and conduct analyses of labor force and poverty survey's
and updating of the Project Targeting Map in accordance with terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank;
*   The Borrower will take all measures to minimize or avoid the acquisition of land and assets
and the displacement of affected persons under Part A of the Project and provide
appropriate compensation and prepare such plans as are required in the event of acquisition
or displacement;
*   promptly upon the award of a contract for the procurement of goods, works, or services
under Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall advertise the award of such contract in its
local mass media; and
*   the Borrower shall provide at Loan signing a supplemental letter on procurement
arrangements for national competitive bidding containing assurances that the Borrower will
adhere to Bank Guidelines and in particular shall advertise bidding opportunities, allow the
participation of foreign bidders, award contracts to the lowest evaluated bid at the quoted bid
price, and other requirements.
3. Dated Covenants:
*   prior to the submission of the Project documents to the Board, the Government's formal
opinion furnished to the Bank shall include notification that the Project Agreement has been
duly ratified by GSB and is legally binding (completed);
*   to link the Project to a longer term strategic framework for social protection, the Borrower
shall no later than December 31, 1998 prepare a proposal for assessing the effectiveness of
its social safety net and social protection programs, including the potential contribution of
civil society to a more effective safety net; and not later than December 31, 1999 conduct a
participatory consultation process, production of reports and seminars, and exchange of
views to develop such strategic framework; and by June 30, 2000, review the results of such
consultations with the Bank and other stakeholders;
*   within 30 days after effectiveness, the Borrower shall engage an independent accounting
firm and qualified procurement consultant(s) acceptable to the Bank to advise and train the
PIUs and GSB;
*   not later than December 31, 1998, the Borrower shall establish a Technical Assistance and
Capacity Building Committee for the RUDF with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
16



*  the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank on or about November 1 beginning in 1998 an annual
report integrating the results of monitoring and evaluation activities under Part A of the
Project; and
*  not later than December 31, 1999, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a mid
term report on the progress of the Project, including proposals for reallocation and
modification to institutional arrangements for implementation of the Project.
4. Project Agreement Conditions
The following conditions, among others, are contained in the Project Agreement to be entered into
between the Bank and the GSB regarding the carrying out of Part B of the Project. The GSB shall:
*   establish an executive committee to approve sub-projects for the SIF and a second
executive committee in respect to the RUDF (completed);
*  maintain the Administrative, the SIF and the RUDF operational manuals satisfactory to the
Bank;
* maintain a unit cost data base satisfactory to the Bank;
* submit quarterly operational and financial reports, an annual report by March 31, and a mid
term report no later December 31, 1999 to the Bank and the Borrower;
* advertise the award of contracts for the procurement of goods, works or services in the
Borrower's mass media;
- limit SIF sub-grants to 90% of total sub-project cost with a sub-grant not to exceed
$250,000;
- limit RUDF sub loans to 75% of total sub-project cost with a sub-loan not to exceed
$3 million;
* shall determine RUDF sub-loan interest rates in accordance with methodology acceptable to
the Bank and said rates shall be reviewed and adjusted periodically in consultation with the
Bank; and
* ensure that goods, works or services financed out of the sub-grants or sub-loans shall be
procured in accordance with the procurement provisions of the Loan Agreement.
5. Memorandum of Agreement
The Memorandum of Agreement, as outlined in Schedule 7 of the Loan Agreement, will contain
the above provisions as well as other provisions regarding: the management of RUDF repayments; the
loan terms of RUDF sub loans; the agreed methodology for computing the sub-loan interest rate; the
payment of management fees to the GSB for managing the SIF and RUDF; the obligation of GSB to
advance to RUDF necessary financing for management expenses against future fee income; the
$300,000 limitation of aggregate sub-grant contracts to any single contractor through direct contracting
under SIF; and other conditions. The signed Memorandum of Agreement acceptable to the Bank is a
condition of disbursement for SIF and RUDF.
G: Readiness for Implementation
Regarding Channel 2 programs, the SIF and RUDF operational manuals were in draft at the time
of appraisal and are expected to be completed shortly after Board consideration. Accounting, MIS, and
procurement capacities at GSB are well developed and should be ready by end July to begin operations.
The Memorandum of Agreement is in draft and agreed in principle. The management team and executive
committees for SIF, RUDF and the Social Investment Project Office within GSB have been appointed to
17



the satisfaction of the Bank. Both programs will start more deliberately than the Channel 1 programs and
have an extra year to complete disbursements.
Regarding Channel 1 programs, all activities financed have been carried out in previous years
and pose no major difficulties in terms of design, procurement packages, and implementation procedures.
The procurement arrangements, as outlined in the side letter, will pose new requirements for civil works
procurements in the Ministry of Interior and the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration. Grant financing
for procurement advisory and training services has been secured in advance of effectiveness, and Bank
procurement specialists will participate in Project supervision from the Country Office and headquarters.
Similarly, the PIUs in Channel 1 will need to be trained in the operation of their Special Accounts, and
the grant resources are also available for recruitment of an accounting firm to provide sustained training
and advice. Bank staff will provide guidance before effectiveness and during supervision.
H: Compliance with Bank Policies
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: C stopher Chamberlin
Sector Manager/Director: Maureen Law
Country Manager/Director: Jayasankar ivakumar
18



Annex 1A
Thailand: Social Investment Project (SIP)
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary           Key Performance             Monitoring and         Critical Assumptions
Indicators               Supervision                 and Risks
CAS Objectives                                                              (CAS Objective to Bank
Percentage of beneficiaries   Beneficiary Assessments    Mission)
*  Strengthening          reporting a sense of       Surveys                    Strong economic and social
governance.           participation in the growth                           management lays the
*   Sharing the benefits of  process and satisfaction                           foundations for broad-
growth and improving   with SIP activities in                               based growth, and
the quality of life.  improving living                                      enhances government
conditions.                                          responsiveness to demand.
Project Development                                                           (Development Objectives to
Objectives         Provincial targeting       Management Information    CAS Objective)
*  Reduce adverse social   coefficient; direct       System (MIS) and service
impact of the crisis  beneficiaries as % of      utilization surveys. Data    The poor and the
through rapid creation   target; beneficiary     disaggregated by           unemployed are the
of employment         satisfaction with SIP      geographic location to be    beneficiaries of, and
opportunities and the    activities in addressing  monitored to ascertain the   participate in SIP activities
provision of essential   development objectives;  extent to which population   and local institutions
services to the poor  man-months of              groups in poor areas are   "learn-by-doing".
and unemployed.       employment as % of target;  benefiting.
*  Support bottom-up      man-months of training as
service delivery      % of target; % of trainees    Beneficiary Assessment
through the financing    employed within three   Surveys to assess
locally identified and    months of training; female   beneficiary satisfaction
managed development  employment as % of total;   with the infrastructure and
initiatives, and through  rural employment as % of   services provided
promoting             total; female training as %
decentralization, local   of total.
capacity building, and
community
development.
19



Narrative Summary          Key Performance             Monitoring and         Critical Assumptions
Indicators               Supervision                 and Risks
Project Outputs       Channel I Indicators:     Management Infornation    (Outputs to Development
*  generation of          number of units           System (MIS) and service    Objectives)
employment            constructedlrehabilitated;    utilization surveys. Data
opportunities         number of training man    disaggregated by           High labor-intensity of
*  Provision of vocational months completed;        geographic location to be    infrastructure investments;
training              number patient visits;     monitored to ascertain the   Rapid disbursements;
*  Provision of basic     number of rural enterprises  extent to which population   Self-targeted social
social services       established.              groups in poor areas are   services;
*  Provision of           Channel 2 Indicators:;    benefiting.                Locally responsive and
infrastructure services   number of sub-projects  Technical Performance    sustainable service
completed; number of      Manager to assess technical  delivery.
infrastructure sub-projects   quality.
completed; number of      Beneficiary Assessment
training sub-projects     Surveys to assess
completed; number of      beneficiary satisfaction
capacity building sub-    with the infrastructure and
projects completed;       services provided
number of equipment,
other sub-projects
completed.                                      _
Project Components              INPUTS             Activities will be        (Components to Outputs)
(see annex 2 for detailed     (in US$ millions)     monitored through regular   Channel I projects are on-
description)                                        project reporting and      going effective government
Channel I Activities                47.6            supervision by PCU/PIU,    programs.
*  Ministry of                                      MIS, independent surveys
Agriculture Program             30.4            contracted by PMU.         SIP entails strong
*  Ministry of Public               67.0            Monitoring and supervision  supervision, accounting,
Health Programs                                 of MOA and TAT             auditing, independent
*  Ministry of Interior             34.3            programs will be           reviews of implementation
Programs                         7.0            conducted by the OECF.    and procurement, high
*  Ministry of Labor and            14.7                                       NGO participation.
Social Welfare                  75.0
Programs                                                                   Careful choice of activities,
*  Ministry of Industry             132.8                                     strong monitoring of
Program                         41.7                                      impact, flexibility to allow
*  BMA Programs                      2.8                                       mid-term reallocation of
*  TAT Programs           Trends in project-wide                               project resources
Channel 2 Activities      indicators (i.e., actual
*  SIF                    disbursements as % of                                Large number of
*  RUDF                   target, problem post/prior-                          diversified and independent
Project Management        reviewed procurements as                             activities.
% of total, problem special
account replenishment
requests as % of total,
technical quality), as well
as, component specific
indicators (see Annex I-B)
will be examined at regular
intervals.
20



Annex 1B
Thailand
Social Investment Project (SIP)
Performance Indicators and Targets
Channel I Performance Indicators' and Targets
Ministry of                                                                                   Bangkok Metropolitan
Public Health        Ministry of Interior        Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare               Administration
Jo_       Job        Job
Public   Comm.                                  Training  Training   Training    Skills Dev.           Occ. and              Ministry   Tourism    Ministry
Assist.   Based'  Wiers                Village   for the   Women    for the        for the    School   Vocat.   Sidewalk         of       Auth. of        of
Scheme   AIDS   Const.  Dredging   Roads   Unemp.  /Child.   Disadvant.   Unemp.    Rehab.  Training    Const.                  Ind.    Thailand4    Agr.4
INDICATORS
Internal Efficieney Indicators
costperman-monthsofemployment(US$)               a                255        64        317      2,135     1,681        500         1,799      257       4,091       213        109
cost per man-months of training (US$)          na        it.a.     r.a       na        nta       63        67          70           80        n).ae      82        tn.         tbd
average unit-cost ofoutput (USS)2              n.a.      n.a      8,867    10,414    40,121      tbd       tbd         tbd         tbd       4,(96       tbd          1       83,333
Output Indicators
no.of units constructed/rehabilitated                             2,515     1,738      665       n.a       H.a        n.a.         n.a        429       na          tbd        na
no. of training courses conducted               A        na       na        na         tia       tbd       tbd         tbd         tbd        IUC        tbd        n.a.       tbd
no. of patient visits                          7.7 m     n.a.     n.a.      na.       tie.,     ti.         a. Na     Ma           n. a. ea        t          i.a  nia.        Mir.
no. ofrural enterprises established            tia n.  n.a.nn.a              a.na n.a           tn,        t.i         n.a.          a .      na        n.a.a       ni.         84
Outcome Indicators
man-months of employment                        n.a.     nea.    87,557   284,129    83,S54    12,600      1,309      6,400        1,112     6,994       440      52,683      64,000
man-months of training                         Ma         ea.     na        n.at      ti.a.    429,845    32,727     46,000       25,000      i.a.     22,000       nia        tbd
% of employed within 3 months of training3                .a,    nra.       tia.      ina        tbd       tbd         tbd         tbd        na         ibd tW.               100
Targefting Efficiency Indicators
female employment as % of total                n.a       n.a.      0         0          0        n.a t.e.             n.a.         ne.a       tbd       ti.a       tbd         tbd
rural employment as % oftotal                   n.a      n.a.      100       100       100       n.a.      i.         MC.a          na.,       0          0          0          100
female training as % of total                  'ia       tea.     1a        aC         iaa       20         75         75           20       tie.        i.c.      iii(.       tbd
1. Source f Daila: PC(I/PHJ AIlS'Reportis ad Or(,ifor TAI'andAMOA progranes, ihe prexetli dale repre.setits curreni lergeix.
2. Average cf.l per catrruclitit hkr ofroead, dredging wier, .scho/i/. ni' of. idewalk, traitlinigeour.e., rrral eteerprise laiiched, patieni ((forMOPHI'A..V,0 /indhospila/ (forAll).ISctre).
3 Independant surreys contraced by PIMU
, OECrfiuaneed
21



Annex 1B
Thailand
Social Investment Project (SIP)
Channel 2: Indicators and Targets
Social Investment Fund                         Regional Urban Development Fund
Internal Efficiency Indicators
number of applications received                                                      var.                                                 var.
number of applications appraised quarterly                                           300                                                    2
number of applications approved quarterly                                            800                                                    2
appraisal-approval lag (days)                                                         60                                                   60
approval-first disbursement lag (days)                                                45                                                   tbd
approval-completion lag (days)                                                       var.v                                                var.
cost per job created                                                                 359                                                   3)8
average unit-cost of infrastructure sub-project by sector                            var.J                                                var. 
average unit-cost of construction by sub-project type                                var.4                                                var.
average cost of training sub-project (US$)                                           var.'                                                var. X
average cost of capacity building sub-projects (US$)                                 var.v                                                var 4
average sub-project cost (US$)                                                       var.'                                                var. 4
loan repayment efficiency indicator (%)                                             n.a.                                                  t00
Output Indicators
number of sub-projects completed                                                    11,590                                                 20
number of infrastructure sub-projccts completed                                      7930                                                  20
number of training sub-projects completed                                            1180                                                  n.a.
number of capacity building sub-projects completed                                   1250                                                  n.a.
number of equipment, other sub-prqjects                                              1230                                                  n a.
Outcome Indicators
marn-months of employment created                                                   352,500                                              125,S74
man'months trained                                                                  364,500                                                n.a.
trainees employed within 3 months of training3                                       tbd                                                   n.a.
Targeting Efficiency lndicators
rural employment as % of total created                                                B0                                                    0
female employment as % of total created                                              tbtd                                                  n.a.
female training as % of total provided                                                tbd                                                  na.
1. Source of Data: PCU/PI U MIS Reports and OECF (for TAT and MOA programs,), the present data represents current targets.
2. Independant surveys contracted by PMU.
3. Beneficiary assessment based on independant surveys contracaed by PMU.
4. variable, no target.
22



Annex 2
Thailand: Social Investment Project (SIP)
Project Description
CHANNEL 1 PROGRAMS
Ministry of Health (MOH) Programs
1.    Health Card Scheme. Objectives and Rationale. The MOH has proposed that SIP finance
additional allocations to the Public Assistance Scheme (low income health card). The objective of the
additional support is to sustain per capita subsidies to the low-income scheme in the context of rapidly
rising demand during the crisis. The MOH analysis shows that the low income scheme has and will
continue to experience enrollment growth; it is already at 50% coverage of the population, an
unsustainable targeting profile. It is projected to rise from 21 million people covered (low income group)
in 1997 to 28 million by end 1998. Per capita subsidies to the provincial health departments are
therefore declining under current and expected budgets.
2.    During the crisis, with costs of medical inputs rising and patient use of public facilities rising,
provincial systems are under increasing financial stress. Provincial health facilities are responding to the
increasing demand through a reduction in the quality of services, the rationing of services, and the
imposition of fees for some services. The purpose of this program is to sustain services for the poor and
unemployed who are turning to Public Assistance Scheme in increasing numbers.
3.    Financing and Implementation. To finance the increasing enrollments in the low income scheme,
MOH is requesting supplemental financing to sustain per capita subsidies of 273 baht, based on the
anticipated enrollments or approximately $22 million for FY98-00. The additional low income funds
would be allocated to provincial facilities through the Public Assistance Scheme, using the formulas
currently employed by the MOH to allocate subsidies in response to patient utilization rates. To maintain
accurate and accountable project disbursements, the Project funded contributions to the Scheme will be
allocated to 5 provinces that together are expected to incur total MOH subsidies under the Scheme equal
to the $22 million plus contingencies. The MOH will utilize a facility specific allocation formula for the 5
provinces, an important improvement in current procedures.
4.    Community Based AIDS Program. Objectives and Rationale. Although Thailand has made
impressive strides in controlling the spread of HIV/AIDS, the decline in prevalence has slowed in recent
years, suggesting the need to broaden community involvement in HIV prevention and care. The crisis
has put pressure on AIDS care and treatment due to its high costs, and AIDS patients are among the
poorest in society. A MOH program to support NGO led programs for prevention and care of HIV/AIDS
at the community level has endured budget cuts. Even after ADB required reallocations, the program still
requires additional financing.
5.    Financing and Implementation. The MOH has requested an additional $2 million to make up the
financing deficit and to continue the program at planned FY98 levels in FY99 and 00. The funds would
be distributed through contracts with local NGOs from participating hospitals. The hospitals would be
selected by the AIDS Division in MOH and the 12 regional offices of the MOH.
23



Ministry of Industry (MOInd) Program
6.    Program for Rural Industrial Development (PRID). Objectives and Rationale. The objective
of the PRID (managed by the Departnent of Industrial Promotion) is to stimulate industrial investment
and employment in rural areas. It finances NGO-provided services to facilitate industrial site location, to
match industrial sites with potential investors, to train the local labor force, and to facilitate arrangements
between the investors and community leaders. Some training activities are supported by MOInd itself.
The program was launched in 1997 and has successfully supported 70 investments. Most are in the
garment and shoe manufacturing sectors. The employed workers are mostly young women and men, paid
well above the rural minimum wage after their training. The Program appears to be consistent with SIP
objectives, and the investmnent promotion subsidy seems to be worthwhile considering the long term
benefits. Well-reputed Thai NGOs are collaborating.
7.    Financing and Implementation. The MOInd budget for PRID has been cut severely during the
crisis. Current levels allovv for no new projects, only the completion of the existing portfolio. The
request from MOInd is to refinance the program so that it can expand its pipeline and create another 7000
rural jobs through the year 2000. The incremental cost above expected budget levels is $5.6 million for
FY 98-00, divided between NGO services contracts and training program contracts.
Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare (MOLSYV) Programs
8.    Vocational Training Program. Objectives and Rationale. New entrants to the labor market
plus growing numbers of unemployed due to the crisis are creating a large pool of potential enrollees in
existing vocational and skills training programs carried out by the Departnent of Skills Development, the
Department of Public Welfare, and the Department of Labor Protection in the MOLSW. There are four
programs that the MOLSW seeks to expand with SIP financing: Local Job Training (105,000 trainees);
Skills Development for lower secondary graduates 15-16 year olds focusing on new technologies (2800
trainees);Local Job Training Program for Women and Youth Program (8000 trainees); and Local Job
Training for Disadvantaged Women and Persons with Disabilities Program (10,000 trainees). Total
person months of training from these activities will be approximately 533,000. The training activities
would take place in FY98-00. They would include payments of small 50 baht daily stipends to enrollees,
thus helping to reduce the number of job seekers and help finance subsistence of the unemployed during
their training period.
9.    Financing and Implementation. The total request for SIP financing is approximately $27 million.
This represents a substantial increase in program activity levels, but is considered achievable over 28
months. Implementation challenges will be focused on assuring that stipends are paid to enrollees
transparently and that the quality of training is sufficient to generate post training benefits. The PCU will
finance random surveys of program graduates to ascertain their employment status. .
Bangkok Metropolitan Administration Programrs
10.   Objectives and Rationale. The objectives of these programs are to create employment, improve
infrastructure and facilities, and provide occupational and vocational training for unemployed
individuals. Financing will be provided for three activities: (a) labor-intensive, small-scale
infrastructure; (b) school renovation program and (c) vocational and occupational training.
11.   The rationale for this program is the need to create rapid employment opportunities in the
Bangkok metropolitan area which has experienced a recent decline in construction activity and job losses,
as well as to improve the quality of life in this area. Due to the migration of unemployed workers out of
24



Bangkok, the BMA program is relatively modest. As more information is obtained on the location of the
unemployed, the BMA program will be considered for adjustments at mid term.
12.   Financing and Implementation. The initial, screened set of BMA programs is estimated to cost
US$12 million. BMA will be responsible for managing and coordinating the preparation and
implementation of this component. It will rely on specific departments to implement specific
subcomponents. The departments and districts will be responsible for contracting with private firms or
community groups, and for procuring goods and services. BMA would be responsible for monitoring and
evaluating component results through its Department of Policy and Planning.
Ministry of Interior (MOInt) Programs
13.   Objective and Rationale. The objective of the programs is to create employment opportunities
and improve basic infrastructure and services in rural areas. The activities to be financed under the
programs component include: (a) construction of small-scale weirs and foreground dredging in 66
provinces; and (b) the construction of small village roads in 75 provinces. The rationale for these
programs is the need to create rapid employment opportunities in rural areas where migrants are expected
to return as a result of job losses in the urban areas, and the recognized deficiencies in rural infrastructure.
14.   Financing and Implementation. The amount estimated for the MOInt programs under the
Department of Local Administration (construction of weirs and foreground dredging) and the
Department of Public Works (village roads) is US$52 million plus contingencies. The foreground
dredging component will use labor in place of excavation machines and will be carried out by force
account procurement procedures to test workfare mechanisms. The PCU and the Bank will review the
force account procedures as a condition of the loan.
15.   MOInt will be responsible for the implementation of the programs. It will also be responsible for
ensuring that SIP requirements for improved efficiency and speed are met.
Tourism Authority of Thailand and Royal Irrigation Department Programs
(OECF Financed)
16.   Tourism Authority of Thailand (TAT) Program. This program, separately appraised by OECF
(Japan) in may 1998 as part of the overall Social Investment Program, is aimed at employment creation
and the improvement of basic infrastructure with benefit to the tourism industry. Implementing agencies
include the Fine Arts Department of the Ministry of Education and the Department of Local
Administration in the Ministry of Interior and other agencies. The Tourism Authority of Thailand will
manage the programs overall in the areas of basic infrastructure in parks, public recreation areas, and
historic sites. Total cost is estimated at US$75 million for approximately 150 different sub projects.
Procurement of civil works will be through national competitive bidding procedures. Appraisal was
completed in May 1998, and implementation is expected to commence in parallel with the Bank financed
programs.
17.   Royal Irrigation Department (RID) Program. Also financed by OECF under the same timetable
as the TAT program, the RID within the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives will rehabilitate and
expand existing small scale irrigation projects. The total cost is estimated at US$48.3 million for
approximately 585 sub-projects. Civil works under this component would be procured through force
account procedures.
25



CHANNEL 2 PROGRAMS
Social Investment Fund (SIF)
1.    Objectives. The objectives of the SIF are: (a) to improve the access of poor people to basic
social and economic infrastructure, services, and employment opportunities; and (b) to support the
bottom-up service delivery through promoting decentralization, local capacity building, and community
development.
2.    Description. The SIF will invite sub-project proposals that meet the above objectives from
community organizations, community institutions, peoples' organizations, Tambon Administrative
Offices, Municipalities, and NGOs. The SIF will finance these proposals if they are consistent with the
following eligibility principles:
*  the sub-project benefits poor communities as a group, not single individuals;
*  the sub-project is an economically and/or socially productive investment, not a giveaway;
*  the sub-project applicant is capable of effectively managing the implementation of the sub-
project, not necessarily implementing by itself;
*  the financial, technical, and institutional requirements for the operations and maintenance of
the sub-project are in place;
e  the sub-projects are small-scale, technically sound and technologically simple;
-  the sub-project is labor-intensive or otherwise generates a significant social impact;
-  beneficiary communities are involved in decision-making related to and/or management of
various aspects of the sub-project such as sub-project planning, implementation, and
supervision, as appropriate;
D  beneficiaries contribute in cash or kind towards sub-project costs; and
-  the sub-project represents "additionality" to existing or planned public investments.
3.    SIF's goals of bottom-up service delivery will be promoted, inter alia, through District Civic
Forums. District Civic Forums are informal district-level institutions expected to emerge spontaneously
from within communities with the aim of promoting networking and social learning and mutual
development among community organizations and institutions within the district. Any organization
applying for SIF financing would be able to seek their advice and assistance as needed. District Civic
Forums could develop into an innovative mechanism for local review and development of project ideas.
4.    The menu of eligible sub-projects is organized into three broad categories: Community Economy
and Capacity Building; Community Welfare and Safety; and Environment Protection, Culture and
Tourism. Within each category eligible sub-projects will support such purposes as capacity building,
infrastructure development, and community services. Average sub-project cost is estimated at just over
$10,000, thus allowing the SIF to support over 11,000 sub-projects. Although retail credit is not included
in the sub-project menu, capacity-building grants to community organizations for improving their
capacity to access micro-credit and other services from existing formal providers would be eligible.
SIF's coverage would be nation-wide and will be coordinated with other Social Investment Project
programs to achieve the national Targeting Map resource ceilings.
5.    Implementation Arrangements. The implementation arrangements for the SIF are as follows:
* The Ministry of Finance (MOF) will make the proceeds of the World Bank credit available to
SIF on a non-reimbursable (grant) basis.
* A Memorandum of Agreement will be signed between the MOF and Government Savings
Bank (GSB) contracting the services of the GSB to manage the SIF for a fee.
26



* The SIP Policy Steering Committee will be appointed by the RTG to oversee overall SIF
policies.
* The GSB will appoint a SIF Executive Committee to approve sub-projects and oversee
routine management of the SIF.
* For carrying out the day-to-day operations of the SIF (e.g., appraisal, financing, monitoring),
GSB will create a SIF operational unit headed by an Assistant Executive Director.
6.    Financing. The Project allocates US$120 million plus contingencies for this program.
Applicants will be required to contribute 10% of total sub-project costs. Maximum sub-grant amount is
$250,000.
Regional Urban Development Fund (RUDF)
7.    Objectives. This program, also under the GSB, aims to improve basic infrastructure, facilities,
and services, and create employment in strategically important urban centers outside of Bangkok. It
would also enhance capabilities at the national level to provide technical guidance to local governments,
and to improve the skills of key local officials in the areas of administration, investment planning, project
implementation, and financing.
8.    Description. Under this program, long-term credit financing for sub-projects would be channeled
at market rates to participating local governments via the GSB as manager of the revolving fund and its
credit and repayment operations, as agreed with the Ministry of Finance (MOF) in the Memorandum of
Agreement. The sub-projects would include rehabilitation, improvement and expansion of urban
infrastructure and services under local government responsibility including public markets, transportation
terminals, piped water and sanitation systems, slaughterhouses, and recreational and tourism facilities.
This component would also provide project implementation and capacity building technical assistance to
participating local governments and national agencies to cover the costs of consultancies, small
equipment purchases, and the preparation and delivery of training and instructional materials. Costs of
the capacity building activities would be covered by part of the fee collected by GSB for managing the
RUDF.
9.    Targeting. Urban centers participating in this component would be selected on the basis of their:
(a) strategic importance including economic role in the region and ability to generate employment and
absorb in-migration; (b) population size and demographic growth; (c) regional diversity; and (d) capacity
and motivation to participate. The interest and capacity of an initial group of fourteen urban centers to
receive support under this component is being confirmed through field visits. The sub-projects identified
and submitted by local authorities for RUDF funding must meet the following criteria: (a) are a public
facility, serving the community as a whole (and not directly enhancing the value of private property); (b)
supported by the affected community and endorsed by the locally-elected council (through a formal
resolution); (c) technically sound, and financially and economically viable; (d) have positive or neutral
social and environmental impacts; and (e) be consistent with local land use and development plans. The
sub-projects are expected to range in costs from US$200,000 to US$3 million equivalent.
10.   Implementation Arrangements. Institutional responsibilities for implementation are linked
closely to the SIF. The MOF will set up the RUDF, as a revolving fund, within the GSB. The GSB will
manage the RUDF, including the final approval of subloans to local govermnents. It would establish an
implementation unit, in parallel but separate from the SIF unit, to handle subloan processing, and oversee
sub-project procurement, reporting and auditing, and loan repayments. This unit will be assisted by an
Administration and Finance Unit, which will provide accounting, financial and administrative services to
both the SIF and RUDF. The GSB will appoint an RUDF Executive Committee to approve sub loans,
coordinate broad policies matters and facilitate inter-agency cooperation. The participating local
27



governments or authorities would be responsible for following RTG and WB contracting and
procurement rules in implementing their sub-projects with RUDF funds, as is the case for SIF.
11.   Financing. The amount of World Bank funding for this component will be US$30 million. GSB
will fnance management costs for the RUDF from its fee collected from loan repayments. It will also
finance from the same source (repayments) capacity building activities necessary to improve municipal
performance and reduce the risk of defaults. Participating local govermnents will cover a share of sub-
project costs (about 25 percent) through an equity contribution. They will also be required to provide
collateral for the sub-projects.
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
12.   The Project Management component (Part C) of the Project covers the operations of the PCU, the
PSC, and the Project Director in overseeing the Project, setting overall policies of the Project, monitoring
and evaluating the performance of the Project, and providing technical assistance and training to the
Project Implementation Units in accounting, procurement and monitoring. The PCU will commission and
finance a series of technical field reviews, beneficiary assessments, and social assessments to check
randomly on the performance of SIP financed programs. The PCU under the guidance of the PSC will
also study and analyze the social impacts of the crisis, working closely with relevant RTG agencies and
providing additional resources as necessary to obtain timely quantitative and qualitative data on the social
impacts of the crisis. Financing for the component is covered under the Loan ($2 million); however, it is
fully expected that UNDP will be able to allocate sufficient grant resources to cover these costs, in which
case the loan proceeds will be placed in the Unallocated category. AUSAID has made available
US$265,000 to assist in early implementation and technical assistance to the PCU. The PCU will be
located within the Ministry of Finance and attached to the Fiscal Policy Office. The SIP Project Director
is the Director-General of the Fiscal Policy Office.
28



Annex 3
Thailand: Social Investment Project (SIP)
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                      Local          Foreign       Total
---------------------US$ million------
A. Channel I
1. Ministry of Public Health Programs                    23.80        -           23.80
2. Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare programs         27.43        -           27.43
3. Ministry of Industry Program                           5.54        -            5.54
4. Ministry of Interior Programs                         52.51        -           52.51
5. Bangkok Metropolitan administration Programs          11.73        -           11.73
6. Tourism Authority of Thailand Programs                75.02        -           75.02
7. Ministry of Agriculture                               48.32                    48.32
Subtotal Channel 1                                         244.35                   244.35
B. Channel 2
1. Social Investment Fund                               132.57        -          132.57
2. Urban Development Fund                                41.33        0.24         41.57
Subtotal Channel 2                                         173.90        0.24       174.14
C. Project Management                                        1.96         0.84         2.80
Total Baseline Cost                                        428.45        1.08        429.52
Physical Contingencies                                    12.22        -            12.22
Price Contingencies                                       20.45        -           20.45
Total Project Cost                                         461.11        1.08        462.19
29



Annex 4
Thailand: Social Investment Project (SIP)
Financial Summary by Year
Fiscal Year Ending 6/30
(Thousands of US$)
Implementation Period
Project Cost         1999         2000          2001          2002        Total
Investment Costs    124,420.36    180,591.69    102,965.70  24,212.72 432,190.47
Recurrent Costs    12,305.31     11,527.13     5,419.25        748.85  30,000.53
Total               136,725.67    192,118.81    108,384.95    24,961.57 462,191.00
Financing Sources
IBRD               80,150.50    124,750.00    74,795.00     20,304.50 300,000.00
OECF               48,468.33     52,852.00    22,021.67         0.00 123,342.00
UNDP                  137.50       150.00        150.00        62.50     500.00
AUSAID                270.00         0.00          0.00          0.00    270.00
Governent
Central           4,126.13     6,447.08      3,868.25      1,031.53  15,473.00
Municipal            0.00      4,137.93      4,137.93      1,724.14  10,000.00
Communities       2,521.20     3,781.80      4,412.10      1,890.90  12,606.00
Total               135,673.67    192,118.81    109,384.95    25,013.57 462,1)1.00
30



Annex 5
Thailand: Social Investment Project (SIP)
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement Principles. Given the wide range of activities and agencies to be involved in
procurement and the need for rapid implementation, these procurement arrangements seek to achieve the
following goals: consistency of procurement arrangements across the project, with few exceptions for
individual components; emphasis on ex post review to facilitate rapid start up; reliance on procurement
transparency to ensure compliance with procurement arrangements under the Project; selective use of
direct hire methods for engaging casual labor and reliance on competitively procured contracts with the
private sector; and packaging of similar, smaller civil works into larger contracts to accelerate
implementation under Channel 1. Given the Project's substantial civil works procurement through
National Competitive Bidding procedures, a supplemental letter on procurement arrangements has been
agreed with the RTG; it sets out several important procedures to be followed, including advertising of
bidding opportunities, award to the lowest evaluated bid at the bid quote price, and other procedures.
Procurement Methods. All procurement under SIP will be carried out in accordance with the
Bank Guidelines for Procurement dated January 1995 and revised in January and April 1996 and
September 1997 and the Guidelines for Selection of Consultants dated January 1997 and revised in
September 1997. Responsibility for procurement will be assigned differently in respect to the Channel l
programs and the Channel 2 programs. Under the Channel 1 programs, the Ministry of Finance will
delegate to the implementing agencies and ministries the responsibility for procurement. Under the
Regional Urban Development Fund (RUDF) and the Social Investment Fund (SIF) of Channel 2,
procurement for sub-projects will be carried out by the applicant under the supervision of the RUDF and
SIF respectively and in accordance with Bank approved methods, thresholds and documentation.
Channel I contracts for the procured goods, services and consultants will be entered into between the
implementing government agency and the contractor/consultant/vendor. In the case of SIF and RUDF
procurements, the SIF and RUDF will be third party signatories in accordance with their role as
supervisor of and disbursing agency for the contracts.
a) Civil Works. Civil works will be procured in both Channel I and 2 programs. With the
exception of the SIF, procurement methods and thresholds will be project wide, as follows. For contracts
less than $100,000, informal shopping procedures would apply, with quotations obtained from at least
three qualified contractors, up to an aggregate limit US$25.5 million. For contracts equal to or over
$100,000, national competitive bidding procedures would apply, acceptable to the Bank. Force account
procedures are envisioned for two programs (BMA and MOInt.) for activities costing less than $50,000
up to an aggregate amount of US$27.5 million. Disbursement for the force account activities will be
against measured work performed. Given the relatively small scale and cost of the civil works envisioned
under SIP, no international competitive bidding is foreseen. The operational manuals of the RUDF and
SIF will include sample bidding documents developed in compliance with World Bank procurement
procedures. Both SIF and RUDF programs will include financing for procurement/legal staff to advise
localities and local groups on how to conduct procurement.
For the SIF, in addition to the above arrangements, direct contracting of small scale civil works
will be permitted for contracts equal to or less than US$50,000, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
US$42 million. These contracts will be awarded by community groups, local governments, NGOs and
other entities eligible to apply for SIF financing. A unit cost data base will be established and maintained
by the SIF so that efficient, standardized unit prices can be set for civil works contracts under direct
31



contracting. Also for the SIF, to encourage community and NGO participation in capacity building and
other projects, goods, works and services costing less than US$50,000 up to an aggregate amount of
US$7 million may be procured according to procedures acceptable to the Bank.
b) Goods. Goods and materials will be procured in limited quantities under Channel I and 2 sub-
projects, given the emphasis on job creation and services for the poor. Project Implementation entities
will require limited purchases of office equipment and vehicles. In those sub-projects in Channel I or 2
programs that involve procurement of goods through contracts valued as equal to or less than US$5o0,000,
national shopping procedures shall apply, for an aggregate amount not to exceed US$21 million. In the
case of the SIF, goods (expected to be vehicles costing less than $50,000) shall be procured through
international shopping, with an aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000. For contracts over
US$50,000, national competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank shall apply.
NCB civil works and NCB goods will follow a model bidding document prepared for the project
based on Bank sample bidding documents. The NCB procedures will follow the terms of the draft
supplemental letter, which will be signed at loan signing.
c) Consultant Services and Training. About US$48 million will be allocated to consultant
services procurement, including the contracts for NGO implementation of service contracts under the
MOInd and the MOH programs, and including the contracts for trainers to be procured under the
MOLSW and BMA training programs. Selection and appointment of consultants would be done in
accordance with Guidelines on Selection of Consultants, Section II, para. 3 of Appendix 1, Appendix 2
and paragraphs 3.13 to 3.18. Services to cost less than $100,000 may be procured in accordance wilh
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Guidelines providing for selection according to consultants' qualifications.
Services under certain Channel 1 programs costing less than $100,000 may be procured by single source
selection in accordance with paragraphs 3.8 to 3.11. Individual consultants may be procured according to
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 to 5.3 of the Guidelines. Training under the MOLSW, the MOInd, and
the BMA would be carried out by those agencies, and the costs covered would include trainer fees
(subject to consultant guidelines) allowances for trainees, and goods and materials needed for training
(procured according to the Guidelines on Procurement). Trainee allowances would total approximately
US$19.5 million, primarily for the MOLSW programs. Training projects carried out under the SIF would
be procured under the Consultant Guidelines.
d) Salaries and Fees of Personnel Contributed by the Government. As a contribution to the
Project, the Government will contract and pay for personnel services to help manage SIP, for a total
amount of $1 million (Channel 2 programs). The borrower will employ national procedures for these
services. In addition, various Government staff will be assigned to the project, also representing
counterpart.
e)    Operating Costs. Operating costs will be incurred by SIP Project Coordination Unit, Project
Implementation Units, the SIF and RUDF. It is expected that grant cofinancing or RTG counterpart will
cover most of these costs; the Bank loan is expected to finance US$900,000 in total. These operating
cost requirements would be procured using normal commercial procedures.
Review of Procurement
Prior Review Thresholds: Given the objective of minimizing prior review and the small scale
of the vast majority of procurements, prior review for a large proportion of the loan amount is
impractical. The Project will require prior review of all civil works contracts in excess of $2 million and
the first three contracts for goods and works procured by each method, or an aggregate amount of
US$38.5 million. Many civil works projects will be procured under local shopping and direct contracting
procedures under the SIF component, these will be reviewed ex post except for the first three of each
32



method. Prior review would also be required for all individual consultant contracts estimated to cost at
least US$50,000, with a total aggregate value of US$500,000. Prior review would be required for
contracts with firms estimated to cost at least $100,000 equivalent, or a total aggregate amount of
US$1,000,000. All single source procurements would be subject to prior review. The total estimated
value of contracts requiring prior review, for civil works, goods, and consultant services, is
US$40.5 million, or approximately 14% of the Bank loan. This relatively low percentage is justified
based on the need for rapid implementation during the crisis, presence of a procurement adviser/trainer
within the PCU, the small scale of most contracts, public advertisement of contract awards, and an active
ex post review supervision effort carried out from the Country Office.
For contracts not subjected to prior review, post review will be done at frequent intervals by
supervision mission/Country Office. Initially one in four competitively procured contracts will be
subjected to post review. This ratio and frequency would be reduced depending on the progress achieved
during implementation.
Disbursement
Disbursement of the proceeds of the loan would be made against categories as shown in Annex 5
C. These are organized according to the implementing agency, and within the agency, the respective
categories. This structure of disbursement categories corresponds to the special account structure
described below. Retroactive financing would be provided for up to 10% of the loan amount
(US$30-35 million) for eligible expenditures made after January 1, 1998.
Statements of Expenditure.  Statements of expenditure (SOEs) would be acceptable
documentation for payments on civil works contracts below US$2 million, goods contracts below
US$50,000, individual consultant contracts below US$50,000, and consultant firm contracts below
US$100,000. Full Documentation will be required for all other contract disbursements. Documentation
for expenditures under the Ministry of Health program for the Public Assistance Scheme (low income
card) would be in the form of reports from the provincial health committees indicating the number of
health card patient visits to each public facility provider and the cost of services provided. The
disbursement from the special account shall be calculated according to the formula currently used by the
Ministry of Health and payment shall be made direct to the health service provider in the selected 5
provinces. In the case of trainee allowances paid under the MOLSW programs and payment of wages to
workers employed in force account civil works (MOInt), the PIU will receive from the requesting
department a list of all payees, amounts payable and an acceptable identification for each payee. The PIU
will advance out of the SA the amounts payable based on this document. The paying department will
submit evidence of payment (list and signatures and identification) within five working days to the PIU.
Special Account. To facilitate rapid disbursement, a system of multiple special accounts will be
used corresponding to the implementing agencies and ministries. The MOF will open a project special
account to cover costs incurred by the PCU, Steering Committee, and Project Director. Under the MOF's
authority and permission, the implementing agencies will each open a Special Account, over which they
will be responsible for payments and for preparation of withdrawal and replenishment requests. The
MOF will exercise overall supervision over the system, including authorizing the establishment of the
accounts, approving signature authority, and receiving copies of the withdrawal and replenishment
applications to the Bank for ex post review. The aggregate limit on special account authorized allocation
will be 10% of the Bank loan amount, but individual special accounts will have customized authorized
allocations based on their expected disbursement rates.
33



Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements
Because the Government is not familiar with World Bank Special Account procedures and
standards, the Project will support accounting firn technical assistance to the PCU and PIUs, including
the SIF and the RUDF, so that acceptable accounting systems can be put in place before the component
Special Accounts are authorized by MOF. The technical assistance will be continued during the first year
of implementation so as to ensure adequate accounting record keeping, a functioning chart of accounts,
acceptable financial controls, and periodic financial management reporting.
Annual audits will be carried out by the Auditor General of the PCU and Channel 1 programs
and their special accounts, with additional outside accounting firm support financed under the loan if
necessary. An independent accounting firm will be engaged to audit the GSB, the SF and the RUDF and
their special accounts annually. Audits will be carried out within three months of the end of each year of
the project, beginning with calendar 1998.
The PCU will consolidate and submit to the Bank project financial statements, project budgets,
and other accounting reports.
34



Annex SA
Thailand: Social Investment Project (SIP)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Expenditure Category                 Procurement Method               Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
NCB        Local     Other      N.B.F
Shopping
1. Works
Civil Works                99.23      25.57      64.09     134.81       323.70
(94.45)    (24.35)    (62.1)      -         (180.90)
2. Goods
Goods & Equipment                     16.08       .51        5.71       22.30
(14.40)     (.51)      -          (14.92)
3. Services
Consultants                                      46.58       5.76        52.34
(46.58)     -          (46.58)
Training                                          1.62       0.32          1.94
(1.62)                  (1.62)
Operational Costs                      1.12       0.90       5.70         6.82
(896)     (0.90)                  (0.90)
4. Funds, Grants & Stipends                        46.86                   46.86
(46.86)                 (46.86)
5. Unallocated                                                              8.24
(8.24)
Total                      99.23      42.77     165.90     152.29      462.19
(94.45)    (39.65)   (165.90)               (300.00)
Note:  Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
35



Annex 5B
Thailand: Social Investment Project (SIP)
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure       Contract Value           Procurement          Contracts Subject to
Category          (Threshold)               Method          Prior Review / Estimated
Total Value Subject to
Prior Review
US$                                            US$
1. Works
less than $50,000      Direct Contracting      $45,000/first 3
less than $100,000     informal shopping       $200,000/first 3
more than $100,000     NCB                     $600,000/first 3
more than $2 million   NCB                     $37,000,000/ all
less than $50,000      community participation   $100,000/first 3
less than $50,000      force account           $300,000/first 3
2. Goods
less than $50,000      national shopping       $90,000/first 3
less than $50,000      international shopping    $150,000/first 3
3. Services
Firms           less than $100,000      consultant qualifications  none
less than $100,000     single source (NGOs)    $500,000/all
more than $100,000     quality and cost based  $1,000,000/all
selection
Individuals     less than $50,000       consultant qualifications  none
more than $50,000      consultant qualifications  $500,000
4.
Miscellaneous
Operating costs                        normal commercial
procedures
Trainee                                 force account
allowances
Health Insurance                        force account
Scheme
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: $40,485,000
36



Annex 5C
Thailand: Social Investment Project (SIP)
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category              Amount in US$000       Financing Percentage
A. Channel 1 Component
(1) Bangkok Municipal Authority Programs
a. Civil Works                                    11,645.30              90
b. Training                                        1,796.00             100
(2) Ministry of Public Health Programs
a. Consultant Services                             2,550.70             100
b. Health Service Grants                          27,802.50              80
(3) Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare Programs
a. Goods                                           6,722.40              80
b. Consultant Services                             5,839.80             100
c. Training                                       16,908.00             100
(4) Ministry of Industry Program
a. Consultant Services                             4,266.30             100
b. Training                                        1,962.80             100
(5) Ministry of Interior Programs
a. Civil Works                                    60,265.80              90
B. Channel 2 Component
(6) Social Investment Fund
a. Sub-Grants                                    113,453.00             100
b. Goods                                            513.00           100 for. & 80 loc. exp.
c. Consultant Services                             5,250.00             100
d. SIF Operating Costs                              784.00               80
(7) Regional Urban Development Fund
a. Sub-Loans                                      30,000.00              100
C. Project Management Component
a. Consultant Services                             1,648.00             100
b. Training                                         150.00              100
c. PCU Operating Costs                              202.00               80
D. Unallocated                                       8,240.00
Total Disbursement                                 300,000.00
37



Annex 6
Thailand: Social Investment Project (SIP)
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$'000)                     Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
200                350 app.
B. Project Schedule                             Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         5                    5
First Bank mission (identification)            11/26/1997           11/26/1997
Appraisal mission departure                    03/14/1998           03/28/1998
Negotiations                                   04/06/1998           04/20/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  05/3:1/1997          08/01/1998
Prepared by: Ministry of Finance
Preparation assistance: none
Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project include:
Name                                    Specialty
Jayasankar Shivahumar                       Country Director
Katherine Marshall                        Regional Manager
Maureen Law                              Sector Manager
Tom Tsui                             Program Coordinator
Christopher Chamberlin                        Task Manager
Soniya Carvalho                       Poverty and Social Fund
Rodrigo Cisneros                      Social Fund, Public Works
Mostafa El-Erian                              Legal
RI. Gopalkrishnan                           Procurement
Negda Jahanshahi                      Private Sector Development
William McCleary                             Monitoring
John Middleton                        Education and Training
Robin de Pietro                       Education and Training
Nicholas Prescott                      Poverty and Monitoring
Caroline Robb                           Social Assessment
Dana Weist                              Public Finance
Wijaya Wickrema                        Accounting and Auditing
Thomas Zearly                    Urban Development, Public Works
Chaohua Zhang                            Social Assessment
Agnes Soucat                                Health
38



Annex 7
Thailand: Social Investment Project (SIP)
Documents in Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan
1.    World Bank Financed Social Investment Project: Guidelines for Compensation and
Resettlement, June 1998
2.    Thailand Social Investment Project - Program of the MoH Pre-Appraisal Mission
Working Paper, February 1998
3.    Monitoring Economic and Social Impact, February 1998
4.    Thailand Social Investment Project - Working Paper - Tourism Component:
Recreational, Cultural, and Historic Sites, February 1998
5.    Thailand Social Investmnent Project - Working Paper - Bangkok Metropolitan
Administration (BMA) Component, February 1998
6.    Thailand Social Investment Project - Working Paper - Channel 2 Urban Development
Component, February 1998
7.    Thailand Social Investrnent Project - Working Paper - Education
8.    Thailand Social Investment Project - Working Paper - Labor
9.    Thailand Social Investment Project - Working Paper - Social Investmnent Facility
10.   Thailand Social Investment Project - Working Paper - The Promotion of Rural Industrial
Development: Program of the Ministry of Industry
11.   Social Investment Project (SIP), BMA Policy and Planning Department, March 98
12.   Social Investment Project - MOInt - Progress Report, February 1998
13.   Project Proposal for World Bank SIP, Department of Local Administration, MOInt.
14.   Project Status and Information under SIP, Department of Public Works, MOInt
15.   Draft Operational Manual Social Investrnent Fund, SIP, March 29, 1998
16.   Draft Operational Manual Regional Urban Development Fund, March, 1998
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1.    The East Asian Social Model After the Crisis, March 1998
2.    Social Aspects of the Crisis: Perceptions of Poor Communities, SIP-Thailand, January
1998
3.    Protecting the Disadvantaged in a High Growth Economy: Safety Nets in Thailand, July
1996
4.    Thailand: Country Assistance Strategy Poverty Note, December 1997
5.    Thailand: Public Finance in Adjustment, November 1997
C. Other Background Papers Consulted
1.    Discussion Note - The Social Action Project, Royal Thai Government, January 1998
2.    Plan for Rehabilitating the Society and Economy of Communities, TDRI, 1998
3.    Role and Status of NGOs in Thailand
4.    Summary - The EightNational Economic and Social Development Plan (1997-2001)
39



Annex 8
Thailand: Social Investment Project (SIP)
Status of Bank Group Operations in Thailand
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
(as of June 12, 1998)
Differnect
Between expected
and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                Original Azount in US$ Millions           disbursments a/
Project ID    Credit    Year            Purpose
No.                                      ISRD   IDA   Cancellations   Undisbursed             Orig
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 112
Active Loans
TR-PY-4787    L34460       1992  EWAY IV                   177.50   0.00          13.03       7.10          20.15
TS-PZ-4796    L35980       1993  DISTRIB. SYS & EGY Z       109.00   0.00          0.00      18.30          18.28
T!-PF-4802    L38S90       1995  CLEAN FUZLS a EA QUA        90.00   0.00          0.00      74.57          50.90
T5-YZ-4799    L3884A       1995  LAM TAKBONG PUHP STO       70.47   0.00           0.00      60.97          24.29
TH-PZ-4797    L3799A       1995  SZCON  GAS TRANSM3SS        2.00   0.00           0.00       2.00          44.58
TH-PW-4801    L37980       1995  DISTRIBUT.SYSTEN SKI       50.00   0.00           0.00       7.91           6.90
TR-PK-4803    L37970       1995  LAND TITLING III          118.10   0.00           0.00      71.46          27.32
TB-PZ-4793    L40530       1996  TECHINCAL EDUCATION        31.60   0.00           0.00      31.60          12.34
TS-Y2-4791    L40S20       1996  SEC.EDUC. QUALITY Dn       81.90   0.00           0.00      81.90          19.34
TS-PZ-4600    L39680       1996  HIGHWAYS V                150.00   0.00           0.00     149.65         112.65
TH-PZ-37086   L41990       1997  )STROPOL'N DIST REIN      145.00   0.00           0.00     134.71          -8.62
TK-fl-4805    L41600       1997  UNIVER SCI t. ZN6.EDU     143.40   0.00           0.00     143.40          20.00
TH-PS-42268   L40670       1997  DISTR AUJTC  & IELIA      100.00   0.00           0.00      98.17          34.57
TU-7W-54799  L42880        1998  ZOO MGT IMPLE ASSIST       15.00   0.00           0.00      15.00           0.00
TS-PE-53616   L42330       1998  FIN SEC nDPL ABST          15.00   0.00           0.00      13.14          -1.135
Total                                                    1,298.97   0.00          13.03     909.88         380.135
Active Loans        Closed Loans           Total
Total Disbursed (13KB and IDA):               392.66           4,543.25           4,935.91
of which has been repaid:                 9.93          3,102.72            3,112.65
Total now held by IBBD and IDA:             1,326.13           1,448.08           2,774.21
Amount sold                    :                0.00             196.73             196.73
Of which repaid             :                0.00             196.73             196.73
Total Undisbursed              :              909.88               7.26             917.14
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note: Disbursament data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
40



ANNEX 9
Thailand at a glance                                                             11112197
Lower-
POVERTY and SOCiAL                                              East  middle-
Thailand      Asia  income       Development diamond'
Population mid-1996 (millions)                       58.7      1,726    1,125
GNP per capia 1996 (US$)                             3,020       890    1,750                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (b/ilhons US$)                              177.3     1,542    1,967
Average annual growth, 1990406
Population (%)                                         0.9       1.3      1.4     G                                 G
Labor force (%)                                        1.3       1.3      118     per                             Gpnmary
Most recent estmate (bltest year available since 1989)                            capita                        enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)             13
Urban population (% of total populatfon)               20         31      56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       69        68       67
Infant mortalty (per 1,000 lwe births)                 35        40       41                Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             13
Access to safe water (% of population)                 81         49
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    6         17                     -   Thailand
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  87        117      104                  ar n
Male                                                  ..      120       105             Lower-mdde-ncome group
Female                                                ..      116      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1978     1986      1996    1996
Economic mdtos'
GDP (bilhlons US$)                           14.9     38.9     168.4   185.0
Gross domestic investment/GDP                26.7     28.2      42.3    41.0
Exports of goods and services/GDP            18.4    23.2       41.7    38.6              Openness of economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   22.1     25.5      36.7    36.3
Gross national savings/GDP                   22.7     24.2      34.3    33.1
Current account balance/GDP                  -4.1     -4.0      -8.0    -7.9
Interest payments/GDP                         0.7      2.3       2.5      2.4     Savings                     Investment
Totai debt/GDP                               12.5    45.1       49.4    49.1
Total debt service/exports                   12.0     31.9      11.6     11.5
Present value of debt/GDP                      ..
Present value of debtlexports                 ..        ..        ..       ..                 Indebtedness
197646  1986-96     1996       1996  199746
(average annual growth)                                                                    Thailand
GDP                                 6.5      9.6       8.7       6.4       ..Li
GNP per capita                      4.1      8.3       7.8       4.1       ..              Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        9.5    15.9      14.8       2.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996    1996
(% of GDP)                                                                        Growth rates of output and investment (%)
Agriculture                                 26.9      15.8      10.8    10.7    40
Industry                                    25.8     31.8       39.4    39.8    30
Manufacturing                              18.7     21.9      28.5     28.6    20
Services                                    47.3      52.3      49.7     49.5    10
0      i
Private consumpton                          67.6     61.0       53.8    54.1             91   92   93   94   95   go
General govemment consumption                10.3     13.5       9.5      9.6
Imports of goods and services               23.0     25.9       47.3    43.2               -     GDI      GDP
197646  1986-96       1996    1996
(average annual growth)                                                           Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                  4.1      3.7        3.2      3.0   2a
Industry                                     7.9    13.2        11.3      7.7     20 
Manufacturing                               7.0    13.6       12.4      7.3    1s
Services                                     6.7      9.1        7.7      6.0    10.
Private consumption                          5.2       8.2       8.3      6.2      5
General govemment consumpton                 9.1       5.1       0.8      4.5      0
Gross domestic investment                    6.1      15.1      13.3      8.2            91   92   93   94   95   sB
Importsofgoodsandservices                    6.2      17.8      16.9      2.8
Gross national product                        6.3      9.4       8.4      5.4                   Expo1ts  Impons
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estmates. Figures in balics ifor years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. if data are missing, the diamond wii
be incomplete.



.          o~       ~~r                '00              K                  or                                            1 MYNf                 5bANA
Ar            $~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
LAO  PEOPLE'S  DEM. REPUBLIC                                              M
&   000Mt l:  Cb ai  N  0      a    A /         /       /    ; /   ~~~~~~~~~~d i ...   .
\1)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
i\$E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tba ff. bood,do, OOIoM.
R.,~~~~~~~~~~t,,Afoooio.oo
S TiM ,b o,  'oo G-oop.
12-                   >                                                                 .1
<>1  <f ) t   F . 0 '.   _   MPSRhmto Khor   ooy   toitOflo
AIVZAMYANM  GAH Rho// 2;
F          .  A                    RT H A I L A N D                                                   VIET NAM
iC               ..         -                              L.A          YS
,'     Rg _.              oPAVED
THAILWANDYVITA
T.kc                                                           MO18NrAaTAWOUAREAS                        i        :5SOOT   CHINA
IC                                                            NA1B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S NAT L)IGWALYSE
SiX TbT h.-             i   PEROVNCAITALDS
L~ ~~~~~~~~~~LAE
S~~~~~~~~MMIR 1*R0RJOJ,,.A
aE Zh-   t: /~~~~~         PhRtP oo,o           A  OTBVATCTOM#NS         0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-8 -  INRNIl ROVJBrAAtS  
hn -6                      :           ., t      ;  9      \,                        VI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RLES 0   20  4 0   60  E0  IC0R
b:                                        ts U                 \\                K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rl(OMETIERS 0    40   bO   ISO  IRA  To
<2~~~~e I28-                                100                                                                                                         A. 0fMLYIA>l416



