Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4373 TH
Project Agreement
(Social Investment Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK
Dated 
July 13, 1998 
LOAN NUMBER 4373 TH 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 13, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the “Bank”) and GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK (the “GSB”).
WHEREAS: (A) By the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Kingdom of 
Thailand (the “Borrower”) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount equal to three hundred million dollars ($300,000,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the GSB 
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement;
WHEREAS: (B) By a Memorandum of Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, on behalf of the Borrower, and the GSB, part of the 
proceeds of the Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to 
the GSB for purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project; and
WHEREAS: (C) The GSB, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions 
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project 
Section 2.01. (a) The GSB declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, economic, engineering, environmental, financial, 
management and banking practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Part B of 
the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Bank and the GSB shall otherwise agree, the GSB shall carry out Part 
B of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program for Part B of the 
Project set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) For purposes of Part B of the Project, the GSB shall enter 
into a memorandum of agreement (the Memorandum of Agreement) with the MOF providing 
for the establishment and operation of the SIF and the RUDF under terms and conditions 
which shall have been approved by the Bank, and which shall include, inter alia, those 
terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 7 to the Loan Agreement.
(b) 
The GSB shall exercise its rights under the Memorandum of Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the GSB and the Bank, and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan and the objectives of the Project, and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the GSB shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Memorandum of 
Agreement, or any provision thereof.
Section 2.03. (a) In respect of each Sub-project under Part B (1) of the 
Project, the GSB shall enter into a SIF Sub-project Agreement, under terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Bank and which shall include, inter alia, those terms and 
conditions set forth in the Memorandum of Agreement and in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, providing for the transfer to the corresponding Applicant, on a 
non-reimbursable grant basis, of the proceeds of the Sub-grant allocated to the 
corresponding Sub-project, and the obligation of the parties thereto to carry out 
their respective obligations and exercise their respective rights for implementing the 
corresponding Sub-project and achieving its objectives.
(b)
In respect of each Sub-project under Part B (2) of the Project, the GSB 
shall enter into a RUDF Sub-project Agreement, under terms and conditions acceptable 
to the Bank and which shall include, inter alia, those terms and conditions set forth 
in the Memorandum of Agreement and in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, providing for the 
transfer to the corresponding Municipality, on a reimbursable loan basis, of the 
proceeds of the Sub-loan allocated to the corresponding Sub-project, and the 
obligation of the parties thereto to carry out their respective obligations and 
exercise their respective rights for implementing the corresponding Sub-project and 
achieving its objectives.
(c)
The GSB shall exercise its rights under each SIF Sub-project Agreement 
and each RUDF Sub-project Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
GSB and the Bank, and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan and the objectives of the 
Project, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the GSB shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive any SIF Sub-project Agreement or RUDF Sub-project Agreement, 
or any provision thereof.
Section 2.04. The GSB shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to the progress achieved in carrying out Part B of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement, the Memorandum of Agreement, each 
SIF Sub-project Agreement and each RUDF Sub-project Agreement, and such other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Loan and the achievement of the objectives of the 
Project. 
Page  3
Section 2.05. The GSB shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by GSB of its 
obligations under this Agreement, the Memorandum of Agreement, any SIF Sub-project 
Agreement or any RUDF Sub-project Agreement.
Section 2.06. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto,  the GSB shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing  
Date, or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Bank and the GSB, a plan for the 
future operation of Part B of the 
Project and the continued achievement of its 
objectives; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the GSB on 
said plan.
Section 2.07. The GSB shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Agreement and Part 
B of the Project. 
Section 2.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the 
Loan Agreement. 
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of GSB 
Section 3.01. The GSB shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, economic, financial and banking practices under 
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers. Section 3.02. The GSB shall at all times manage the SIF and RUDF in 
accordance with the Memorandum of Agreement, and administer the SIF in accordance with 
the Administrative Manual and the SIF Operational Manual, and administer the RUDF in 
accordance with the Administrative Manual and the RUDF Operational Manual, and 
otherwise in accordance with sound administrative, economic, financial and banking 
practices, and pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The GSB shall establish and maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in 
accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately 
the operations, resources and expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out 
of Part B of the Project.
(b)
The GSB shall: 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each Fiscal Year 
audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements referred to in 
Paragraph (a) above for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an 
Page  4
opinion on such statements and a report of such audit by 
said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts 
and financial statements, and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request. 
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of the GSB 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify the GSB thereof. 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the GSB:
Government Savings Bank
470 Phahol Yothin Road
Bangkok  10400
Kingdom of Thailand
Telex:
84115 GSBHO TH
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the GSB, may 
be taken or executed by its Director General, or such other person or persons as the 
Director General shall designate in writing, and the Director General shall furnish to 
the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature 
Page  5
of each such person. 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Julian Schweitzer 
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK
By /s/ Nitya Pibulsonggram 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program For Part B of the Project
Without any limitation or restriction upon any other provision of this Agreement 
or of the Loan Agreement, and for the purposes of Section 2.01 (b) of this Agreement, 
the Implementation Program for Part B of the Project shall consist of the following 
provisions:
Section I:
Implementation Actions
1.
For the purposes of Part B of the Project, the GSB shall:
(a)
administer and manage the SIF and the RUDF in accordance with an 
Administrative Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth the administrative, 
financial and personnel procedures, including, inter alia, accounting, financial 
reporting and auditing procedures, for the day-to-day operation and administration of 
the SIF and the RUDF, and the conduct and monitoring of their respective activities;
(b)
in the case of the SIF, in accordance with a SIF Operational Manual, 
satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth the operational procedures of the SIF in 
respect of, inter alia, the eligibility, preparation, appraisal, financing, 
implementation, supervision and monitoring of Sub-projects to be financed under the 
SIF; and
(c)
in the case of the RUDF, in accordance with a RUDF Operational Manual, 
satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth the operational procedures of the RUDF in 
respect of the eligibility, preparation, appraisal, financing, implementation and 
supervision and monitoring of Sub-projects to be financed under the RUDF.
2.
(a)
the GSB shall establish, and thereafter maintain, a SIF executive 
committee and a RUDF executive committee, with terms of reference, membership and 
resources as shall be satisfactory to the Bank. The SIF executive committee and the 
RUDF executive committee shall be assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers 
possessing qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank, including: (i) a SIF 
assistant executive director; (ii) a RUDF assistant executive director; and (iii) a 
SIF-RUDF assistant executive director for administration. Said executive committees 
shall be responsible for, inter alia, the overall supervision of the administration 
Page  6
and management of the SIF and the RUDF, including inter alia, approving annual work 
plans and budgets for SIF and RUDF, approving Sub-grants and Sub-loans, evaluating the 
overall implementation of Part B of the Project, and reporting on its progress to both 
the Borrower and the Bank.
(b)
The SIF executive committee and the RUDF executive committee shall report 
to the PSC which shall be responsible for providing overall policy guidance for the 
implementation of Part B.
3.
The GSB shall: 
(a)
maintain in effect the SIF Operational Manual and the RUDF Operational 
Manual satisfactory to the Bank, and shall administer and manage the SIF and the RUDF 
and carry out their respective operations in accordance with the provisions thereof, 
including: (i) operational procedures for the eligibility of Applicants, 
Municipalities and Sub-projects, and the appraisal and financing criteria therefor; 
(ii) procedures for the procurement, disbursement, supervision and evaluation of 
Sub-projects; (iii) policy and procedures to provide compensation and rehabilitation 
for Affected Persons in accordance with the Guidelines for Compensation and 
Resettlement; (iv) cost-sharing arrangements between the GSB and the Applicants and 
the Municipalities, as the case may be; and (v) procedures for the monitoring and 
reporting of Sub-project activities; 
(b)
not amend, delete, suspend or waive any part of the Administrative 
Manual, the SIF Operational Manual or the RUDF Operational Manual without the prior 
written approval of the Bank;
(c)
ensure that the proposal for each infrastructure Sub-project is approved 
only if: (i) an analysis of the environmental effects of such Sub-project has been 
undertaken; and (ii) if applicable, an environmental impact assessment or other 
environmental requirement provided for under the Borrower’s laws, satisfactory to the 
Bank, shall have been undertaken, and effective mitigation measures designed, on the 
basis of environmental standards acceptable to the Bank as set forth in the SIF 
Operational Manual and the RUDF Operational Manual; and 
(d)
ensure that the proposal for each infrastructure Sub-project incorporates 
a plan for the appropriate compensation and rehabilitation of Affected Persons in 
accordance with the Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement.
4.
The GSB shall: 
(a)
maintain in effect the Administrative Manual satisfactory to the Bank, 
and shall not modify the provisions thereof without prior consultation with the Bank; 
(b)
comply with the accounting, financial reporting and auditing procedures 
set forth in such Manual; 
(c)
establish, and thereafter maintain, a computerized management information 
system satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with the provisions of such Manual; and 
(d)
establish, and thereafter maintain, a computerized accounting system 
satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with the provisions of such Manual. 
5.
The GSB shall develop, based on terms of reference and a methodology 
satisfactory to the Bank, and thereafter review and update at least once every six (6) 
months, a unit costs data base for Sub-projects, and shall provide the Bank with such 
data base promptly upon completion of its periodic reviews and updates.
6.
The GSB shall: 
(a)
enter into a SIF Sub-project Agreement with the relevant Applicant and 
Contractor in regard to each Sub-project approved for financing by a Sub-grant under 
the SIF under Part B (1) of the Project, under terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank which shall include those set forth in Section II of this Schedule; and 
(b)
enter into a RUDF Sub-project Agreement with the relevant Municipality 
Page  7
and Contractor in regard to each Sub-project approved for financing by a Sub-loan 
under the RUDF under Part B (2) of the Project, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank which shall include those set forth in Section II of this 
Schedule. 
7.
The GSB shall exercise its rights under each SIF Sub-project Agreement and RUDF 
Sub-project Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the GSB and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the corresponding Sub-grant and Sub-loan, 
respectively, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the GSB shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive such SIF Sub-project Agreement or RUDF Sub-project Agreement, 
or any provision thereof.
8.
The GSB shall, not later than September 30 in each Fiscal year, commencing 
Fiscal Year 1998, furnish to the Bank an annual work plan and related financial 
budgets for the administration and management of the SIF and the RUDF (including its 
program for Municipality capacity building) for the Bank’s review and comments and, 
thereafter, carry out such plan taking into consideration the Bank’s comments and 
recommendations. 
9.
The GSB shall prepare and furnish to the Bank within thirty (30) days after each 
of March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 in each Fiscal Year, commencing 
Fiscal Year 1998, a quarterly report based on the management information system 
referred to in Paragraph 4 (c) of this Schedule, in respect of the implementation of 
Sub-projects and the evaluation of the impact thereof.
10.
The GSB shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with performance indicators acceptable to 
the Bank, the carrying out of Part B of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Borrower and the Bank, on March 31 in each Fiscal Year, commencing Fiscal Year 
1998, an annual report, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this Paragraph, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of Part B of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of each such report, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of said Part of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Borrower and the Bank each report referred to in 
Sub-paragraph (b) of this Paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of Part B of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following the date of such report, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the view of the Borrower and 
the Bank on the matter.
11.
The GSB shall: 
(a)
prepare, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank and the Borrower a mid-term report, not later than December 
31, 1999, setting forth in detail the overall progress achieved to date in 
implementing Part B of the Project, and any proposed measures, including, inter alia, 
reorganization, alterations or modifications to existing institutional arrangements 
for implementing Part B of the Project, to ensure the continued due diligent and 
prompt implementation of Part B of the Project and the furtherance of the objectives 
of the Project; and 
(b)
promptly thereafter, exchange views with the Bank and the Borrower on 
said mid-term report, and immediately afterwards take all measures in relation 
thereto, including all required changes to any institutional arrangements, as shall 
have been agreed between the Borrower and the Bank pursuant to said exchange of views. 
12.
Promptly upon the award of a contract for the procurement of goods, works or 
services under Part B of the Project, the GSB shall advertise the award of such 
Page  8
contract in the Borrower’s local mass media and daily publications of mass 
circulation.
Section II:
Terms and Conditions of Sub-project Agreements
1.
The GSB shall not disburse a Sub-grant or a Sub-loan to finance any Sub-project, 
unless the relevant Applicant, Contractor and Municipality, as the case may be, has 
entered into a SIF Sub-project Agreement or RUDF Sub-project Agreement, respectively, 
with the GSB, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank which shall include, 
inter alia, the following obligations: 
2.
(a)
The amount of the Sub-grant shall not exceed ninety percent (90%) of the 
estimated aggregate cost of the eligible Sub-project. The Applicants of such 
Sub-projects shall be required to contribute at least ten percent (10%) of the total 
Sub-project costs, in material or cash or in services in the design, implementation 
and supervision of the Sub-project.
(b)
The maximum amount of any Sub-grant shall not exceed the equivalent of 
two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000). 
3.
(a)
The amount of the Sub-loan shall not exceed seventy-five percent (75%) of 
the estimated aggregate cost of the eligible Sub-project. The Municipalities of such 
Sub-projects shall be required to contribute at least twenty-five percent (25%) of the 
total Sub-project cost, in material or cash or in services in the design, 
implementation and supervision of the Sub-project.
(b)
The maximum amount of any Sub-loan shall not exceed the equivalent of 
three million dollars ($3,000,000).
(c)
The interest rates charged by the GSB to the Municipalities on the 
Sub-loans shall be determined in accordance with a methodology acceptable to the Bank, 
and said rates shall be reviewed and adjusted periodically in consultation with the 
Bank. 4.
Disbursements out of Sub-grant and Sub-loan proceeds for works may be 
made directly to Contractors against receipt of satisfactory documented evidence of 
completion of works, in accordance with modalities and procedures which shall have 
been approved by the Bank.
5.
Each Applicant and Municipality shall undertake, in respect of its respective 
Sub-project, to: 
(a)
implement such Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency, in 
accordance with sound administrative, economic, financial, engineering and 
environmental standards and practices and pursuant to the terms and conditions of the 
Sub-project proposal approved by the GSB; 
(b)
ensure that goods, works and consultants’ services financed out of the 
Sub-grant or Sub-loan, as the case may be, shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement; 
(c)
ensure that all goods and services financed under the Sub-grant or 
Sub-loan, as the case may be, shall be used exclusively for the purposes of such 
Sub-project; 
(d)
furnish to the GSB and the Bank any relevant documents, records and 
reports in respect of such Sub-project, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
may reasonably request; 
(e)
furnish to the GSB and the Bank an operation and maintenance plan to 
ensure the sustainability of such Sub-project, in accordance with the guidelines and 
standards set forth in the SIF Operational Manual and RUDF Operational Manual, as the 
case may be, and thereafter carry out, or cause to be carried out, such plan; and 
(f)
carry out, where applicable: (i) mitigation measures designed on the 
basis of environmental standards acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) a plan for the 
appropriate compensation and rehabilitation of Affected Persons in accordance with the 
Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement.
Page  9
6.
The GSB shall have the right to: 
(a)
inspect by itself, or jointly with the Bank and/or the Borrower, any 
facilities or sites included in an eligible Sub-project, and to examine the goods 
financed out of the proceeds of any Sub-grant or Sub-loan, and records and documents 
relevant to the performance of the obligations of the Applicants, Contractors or 
Municipalities, as the case may be, under the corresponding SIF Sub-project Agreement 
or RUDF Sub-project Agreement; 
(b)
obtain all such information as the Bank may reasonably request relating 
to the carrying out of a Sub-project, to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the respective Applicants, Contractors and Municipalities, and to the 
benefits derived from such Sub-project; and (c)
suspend the rights of the 
Applicant of a Sub-grant or a Municipality of a Sub-loan upon failure by such 
Applicant or Municipality to perform any of its obligations under its SIF Sub-project 
Agreement or RUDF Sub-project Agreement, respectively.
