Page  1
August 14, 2000
Mr. Suphachai Phitsitvanich
Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Finance
Rama VI Road
Bangkok 
Thailand
Re:
Loan 4373:TH (Social Investment Project)  
Amendment to the Loan Agreement                  
Dear Sir:
1.
I refer to the Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand (the Borrower) and 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), dated July 13, 1998, 
(the Loan Agreement), as amended.    I also refer to your communication of  June 5, 
2000 requesting the amendment of the Loan Agreement to raise the aggregate amount of 
the Loan that may be disbursed against goods, works, and services procured through 
community participation procedures from $50 million to $100 million.
2.
I am pleased to inform you that the Bank concurs with your request and, to give 
effect thereto, agrees to amend Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement as set forth in the 
following paragraphs.
3.
Paragraph 1 of Part C, Section I of said Schedule 4, is amended to read as 
follows:
“1.
International Shopping
Goods required for Part B (1) of the Project estimated to cost less than 
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000)  equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($ 250,000) equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.”
4.
Paragraph 4 of Part C, Section I of said Schedule 4, is amended to read as 
follows:
“4.
Direct Contracting
Small-scale works required for Part B (1) of the Project estimated to 
cost less than fifty thousand dollars ($ 50,000) equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed two hundred thousand dollars ($ 200,000) 
equivalent, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured under contracts 
awarded after direct negotiations with contractors in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines and procedures acceptable to the 
Bank.” 
5.
Paragraph 6, of Part C, Section I of said Schedule 4, as amended by the letter 
dated June 10, 1999, is further amended to read as follows:
“6.
Community Participation
Goods, works and services required for B (1) of the Project, estimated to 
cost less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) equivalent per assignment, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000) 
equivalent may be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Bank.”
Page  2
6.
Except as specifically amended hereby, all other provisions of the Loan 
Agreement remain in full force and effect.  The above amendments shall enter into 
effect as of the date hereof upon the receipt by the Bank of a copy of this letter 
duly countersigned by the representative of the Borrower.
7.
Please confirm the agreement of the Borrower to the amendments set forth above, 
by countersigning and duly dating the corresponding form of confirmation set forth 
herein below, and returning one fully signed copy to us for our files.
Sincerely,
By /s/ J. Shivakumar
Country Director
World Bank Office, Bangkok
CONFIRMED:
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
By /s/ Somchainuk Engtrakul
Authorized Representative
Date:
December 27, 2000
