Page  1
February 16, 2001
Mr. Somchainuk Engtrakul
Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Finance
Rama VI Road
Bangkok, Thailand
Re:
Australian Grant for Implementation of 
      the Social Investment Project -- TF 037040
Amendment to Grant Agreement
Dear Sir:
I refer to the Grant Agreement dated October 28, 1998 between the Kingdom of 
Thailand (the Recipient) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(the Bank), for the implementation of the Social Investment Project (the Grant 
Agreement).  I also refer to a letter dated October 25. 2000 from the Ministry of 
Finance on behalf of the Recipient, proposing that certain additional activities be 
financed under the Grant and requesting an extension of the closing date thereof.
I am pleased to inform you that the Bank concurs with the Recipient ‘s proposal 
and, to give effect thereto, agrees to amend Paragraph 1.1 of the Annex of the Grant 
Agreement by (i) substituting a semi-colon to the period at the end of sub-paragraph 
(f): (ii) adding the word "and" immediately after the semi-colon; and (iii) adding a 
new sub-paragraph (g) as follows: 
"(g)
carrying out of the audit of the Social Investment Project for the fiscal 
year 2000."
I am also pleased to advise you that the Bank has established June 30, 2001 as 
the later date for the purposes of paragraph 4.3 (a) (v) of the Annex to the Grant 
Agreement.
Except as specifically amended by this letter of amendment, all provisions of 
the Grant Agreement otherwise remain in full force and effect.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating and returning to us the enclosed copy of this letter of amendment.  
Upon our receipt of a countersigned copy of this letter of amendment, this letter of 
amendment will become effective as of the date first above written.
Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ J. Shivakumar
Country Director, Thailand
East Asia and Pacific Region
CONFIRMED:
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
By /s/ Somchainuk Engtrakul
Authorized Representative
Permanent Secretary
Date:
March 30, 2001
Page  2
