Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11713
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
YUGOSLAVIA
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA FORESTRY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2568-YU)
MARCH 8, 1993
Agriculture and Water Supply Operations Division
Country Department II
Europe & Central Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
December 1983 (Appraisal)      February 28. 1985 /
US$1  Dinars (Din)  125.0      Dinars (Din)  250.0
ABBREVIATIONS
BOAL   -    Basic Organization of Associated Labor
COAL   -    Compound Organization of Associated Labor
FAO/CP -    Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank
Cooperative Program
SIPAD  -    Compound Organization of Associated Labor covering
wood production, mechanical wood processing,
manufacture and trade
PBS    -    Privredna Banka Sarajevo-Udruzena Banka
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
In the appraisal report the exchange rate of Din 250.00 to the dollar
was used.



FOR OFFICIAL USE3 ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
March 8, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Note on Yugoslavia
Bosnia-Herzegovina Forestry ImDrovement Project (Ln. 2568-YU)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Note on Yugoslavia
Bosnia-Herzegovina Forestry Improvement Project (Ln. 2568-YU)" prepared by the Europe and
Central Asia Regional Office.
The loan was approved by the Board in 1985 but never signed. The attached
Project Completion Note is provided in lieu of a PCR.
The Note is frank in its description of the fundamental differences of view
between the Borrower and the Bank on project scope and coverage of local work
organizations, on the availability of local financing, and on procedures for sub-project
appraisals. These differences were argued throughout the protracted project preparation
period (over five years and two appraisals), a time of overall deterioration in the country's
economy and in its relationship with the Bank. The project concept had considerable merit
and sustained Bank efforts to reach a substantive agreement with the Borrower were well
justified. The project is not rated and will not be audited.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
YUGOSLAVIA
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA FORESTRY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2568-YU)
1.    This is a short Project Completion Note for the Yugoslavia Bosnia-
Herzegovina Forestry Improvement Project (Ln. 2568-YU). The loan was approved
by the Board on June 6, 1985 but remained unsigned. The offer of the Bank
loan was withdrawn on July 31, 1986.
Loan Summary
2.    The Bosnia-Herzegovina Forestry Improvement Project was identified in
June 1980 and subsequently prepared by the borrower and the FAO Cooperative
Program in 1981-82. The project was justified and designed to focus on
primary forest production and supporting services for the following reasons:
(a) 53Z of the republic was under forest; (b) there appeared to be an
overcapacity in the associated processing industry; and (c) it was estimated
that there were large gains to be had in logging productivity through
investments in forest roads and modernization of harvesting technology. The
basic information related to the project is provided in the Annex.
3.    The project was appraised in September 1982.  The project's main
objectives were to sustain and increase commercial forest production and
exports from the major productive part of the Republic's forests, improve the
efficiency of forest harvesting operations, increase domestic pulpwood
supplies to replace pulpmill raw material imports and strengthen forestry
institutions.
4.    Differences between the borrower and the Bank on the following issues
became apparent following project appraisal:
(a)    Proiect Composition and Scope.  The project was originally
conceived as a five year time slice of the Republic's overall
forestry development program, but because of delays, increases in
project costs and increasingly limited local funds, SIPAD (the
local implementing agency) proposed at appraisal a project
comprising only selected components which in the Bank's view would
affect the viability of individual investments. After some time,
the fully integrated Bank project design was accepted by the
Borrower.
(b)     Implementation Capacity.  The implementing agency had insisted on
providing comparable investment packages to all local level work
organizations despite their technical or managerial capacity. The
Bank felt that the project should concentrate on areas/work
organizations with a greater capacity to implement the project, a
concept unacceptable to the borrower. A compromise position was
finally agreed upon whereby SIPAD would assess and furnish



information on the capabilities of each work organization and
tailor each investment package, providing more modest packages for
less developed investors.
(C)     Availability of Local Cost Financing.  SIPAD had assured the Bank
that local financing would be available, but the borrower,
Privredna Bank Sarajevo (PBS) indicated that funds were sufficient
to cover only one third of the local costs.
Assurances were finally given as to the availability of local cost financing
and the project was reappraised in December 1983. Project scope was reduced
from five to four years and would include only 28 of the 52 local work
organizations (as per the Bank position in (b) above). After fifteen months,
the borrower met conditions relating to the project's institutional, technical
and onlending arrangements, the project was negotiated in March 1985 and was
approved by the Board of Directors on July 6, 1985.
5.    The final project design was as follows:
(a)     Modernization of harvesting operations through construction of
about 1,200 km of logging truck roads and supply of modern logging
and maintenance equipment;
(b)     Installation of debarkers in selected sawmills to provide chips
for pulp and particleboard to increase raw material for
industries, and;
(c)     Rehabilitate tree nurseries, strengthen research capabilities,
provide technical assistance to assess, and if necessary, make
investments in genetic program.
6.    Overall Bank relations with the borrower, PBS, deteriorated during the
period after board presentation. Requests for information and the general
format of subproject appraisal reports previously agreed upon were rejected as
unreasonable and protracted exchanges of correspondence ensured. Hints were
being dropped by the borrower as early as August 1985 that they might not be
willing to sign the loan. PBS stated in November 1985 that they would not
sign the loan until the Bank approved a model appraisal report, forestry
investment plans, tender documents and an advance extension of the closing
date by one year due to the delays. The bank agreed to these conditions and
informed the borrower in December 1985. In the beginning of 1986 new laws on
the assumption of foreign exchange risk were enacted which created uncertainty
on the part of the project's investors. Despite attempts by the Bank to find
a solution, no response was forthcoming and the offer of the loan was
withdrawn as of July 31, 1986.
7.    The history of this ill-fated project reflects the overall deterioration
of conditions at the time in Yugoslavia, and the difficulties the Bank was
encountering in its relations with the country.



ANNEX
Basic Information
Project:              Bosnia-Herzegovina Forestry Improvement Project
Estimated
Project Cost:         US$ 94.8 million
Loan Amount:          US$ 35 million
Borrower:      .      Privredna Banka Sarajevo-Udruzena Banka (PBS)
Implementing
Agencies:             SIPAD and Krivasa COALS (Compound Organizations
of Associated Labor)
Guarantor:            Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Beneficiaries:        Forestry and nursery Basic Organizations of
Associated Labor (BOALs)
Onlending Terms:      The Bank loan would be onlent at the Bank
variable rate plus a fee of not less than 1X to
cover PBS' administrative costs. The foreign
exchange and variable interest rate risks would
be borne by the subborrowers. The repayment of
the subloan would not exceed 15 years, including
3 years grace (the terms of the Bank loan).
Time taken to
prepare project:      3.5 years
Project Appraisal:   September 1, 1983
Completion of
Negotiations:         March 20, 1985
Board Presentation:  June 6, 1985



