Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCUIL USE ONLY
0/U .2a%cia 5eo
Report No. P-4068-YU
.
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$ 35.0 MILLION
TO
PRIVREDNA BANKA SARAJEVO - UDRUZENA BANKA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA FORESTRY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
May 9, 1985
Thi document has a resbicted distribuflion and may be used by recipients only in the performnce of
their offiei duties  s contents may not otherwise be dscloed wiffiout World Bank arthoration.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency-Unit 1/           Cae ender 1984 2/          February 28, 1985
USti                      Dinar 152.822             Dinar 250.0
Dinar 1                  UStO.0065                  USt0.0040
Dinars 1,000,000         USk6,500.00                USi4,000-
Exchange Rate used in Staff Appraisal Report: US§1 - 250.0 Dinars
YUGOSLAV FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BB       =   Basic Bank
BOAL     =   Basic Organization of Associated Labor
COAL     =   Compound Organization of Associated Labor
FEA      =   Forest Economic Area
GN4P     =   Gross Material Product
KRIVAJA  =   Compound Organization of Associated Labor, Industrial
Complex, KRIVAJA - Zadovici
NMDS%        More Developed Region
PBS      =   Privredna Banka Sarajevo-Udruzena Banka
SDK      =   Social Accounting Service
SFRY     =   Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
SIPAD    =   Compound Organization of Associated Labor for Forestry
and Wood Processing
SRBH     =   Socialist Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina
UNICEP   =   Coal Involved in Pulpwood Production, Chemical Wood
Processing and Trade
WO       =   Work Organization
1/ The dinar has not been maintained within announced margins since July 12,
1982. Its parity is reviewed frequently to ensure maintenance of external
competitiveness.
2/ Period average.



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVIM FORESTRY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECr SUMMARY
Bo-rower:            Privredna Banka Sarajevo-Udruzena Banka (PBS)
Guarantor:           Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY)
Beneficiaries:       Forestry and nursery basic organizations of associated
labor (BOALs)
Amount               $35.0 million equivalent.
Terms:               Amortization in 15 years, including a three-year grace
period, with interest at the standard variable rate.
The Bank loan would be repaid on the basis of an
adjustable repayment schedule, reflecting repayment of
subloans by subborrowers.
Onlending Terms:     The proceeds of the Bank loan would be onlent at the
prevailing Bank variable rate plus a fee of not less
than 1X to cover PBS' administrative costs. The foreign
exchange and variable interest rate risks would be borne
by the subborrowers. The repayment of subloans would
not exceed 15 years, including three years of grace.
Project Objective
and Description:    The proposed project would support the Socialist
Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina's long-term forestry
development program and thereby help strengthen
Yugoslavia's balance of payments. The project would
improve the Republic's institutional and policy
framework in forestry through a more rational investment
allocation, and improved organizational and financial
management within PBS and the forestry institutions.
The project represents a four-year (1986-1989) time
slice of the Republic's long-term forestry investment
program for 28 of the Republic's 52 Forest Economic
Areas (FEAs), and includes financing for: (a)
modernization of harvesting operations, covering
construction of logging truck roads and the supply of
logging equipment; (b) installations for debarking
equipment at selected sawmiiling BOALs; and (c) forestry
sector improvement, including rehabilitation and
equipping of nurseries; provision of forestry research
This document has a ntrtiedditibution and may be used by rccipients only in th peofonmanceI
of their ofd dudItiebls contents may not otherwae be dackmse vnthout World Blgk authorizaton |



- ii -
equipment, fellowships and study tours; provision for
consulting services to assist in the review of the
existing genetic research and seed supply programs and,
if warranted on the basis of said review, construction
of a seed processing facility.
Benefits and Risks:  The milling, manufacturing, marketing and service BOALs
which are commercially integrated with the project BOALs
would benefit from the project. Three pulpaill and
paper manufacturing Work Organizations would also
benefit from the increased supply of raw materials. In
addition, continuation of the current level of
operations under the project would maintain active
employment for over 5,000 forest workers. Indirectly,
the project would support a large portion of the nearly
80,000 full-time employees in the mills and
manufacturing plants which rely on the output in the
project area. At full development, the project would
result in annual foreign exchange earnings/savings of
nearly $l1O million per year. The main risk is whether
the project investors are capable to economically
structure their individual investment programs and to
make efficient use of the new technology. Measures such
as annual reviews of investment programs and financing
plans are included in the project to minimize this risk.
Project Cost Estimates:
Local  Foreign   Total Foreign
-     (ust Million) -      (Z':
Logging Road Construction                 32.6       8.2     40.8     20
Logging Equipment                          9.2      13.7     22.9     60
Debarker Equipment                         3.3       5.5      8.8     62
Workshop Equipment                         1.1       0.3      1.4     23
Nursery Modernization                      0.4       0.2      0.6     32
Seed Processing Center                     0.9      0.2       1.1     21
Research Equipment                         0.1       0.1      0.2     70
Fellowships, Study Tours and
Consultants                              0.0      0.4       0.4     90
Base Cost                                 47.6      28.6              37
Physical Contingencies                     2.0       0.9      2.9     29
Price Contingencies                       10.2       5.5     15.7     35
Total Project Costs 1/                    59.8      35.0     94.8     37
1/ Includes taxes and duties amounting to t3.4 million.



- iii -
Financing Plan:                       Local        Foreign     Total
-(USS Million)
Sources:
World Bank                           _          35.0         35.0
PBS and Basic Banks                 25.2         -           25.2
Federal/RepUilic Funds               9.9         -            9.9
Investors' Contributions            24.7         -           24.7
Total Financing Requiremenes    59.8         35.0         94.8
Estimated Disbursements;
r     (USl Million)-
Bank Fiscal Year                   86     87     88      89     90     91
-  (usa Million)       -
Annual                            0.1    4.1    8.8    8.8    8.8    4.4
Cumulative                        0.1    4.2   13.0   21.8   30.6   35.0
Economic Rate of Return: Over 45Z
Appraisal Report            Report No. 5253-YU, dated May 6, 1985.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO PRIVREDNA BANKA SARAJEVO-UDRUZENA BANKA WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA FORESTRY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Privredna Banka Sarajevo-Udruzena Banka, with the guarantee of the
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY), for the equivalent of USt35
million to finance a forestry improvement project in the Socialist Republic
of Bosnia-Herzegovina. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including
three years of grace, with interest at the standard variable rate. The Bank
loan would be repaid on the basis of an adjustable repayment schedule,
reflecting repayment of subloans by subborrowers. The proceeds of the Bank
loan would be onlent at the prevailing Bank variable rate plus a fee of not
less than IZ to cover PBS' administrative costs. Local bank funds would be
onlent in accordance with the policy on agricultural onlending rates set
forth in the Letter of Dev2lopment Policy sent by the SFRY in connection with
the Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan 2326-YU). The foreign exchange and
variable interest rate risks would be borne by the subborrowers. The repay-
ment of subloans would not exceed 15 years, including three years of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report, Yugoslavia:  Adjustment Policies and Development Per-
spectives (No. 3954-Y'J), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
November 2, 1982.  Updating economic missions visited Yugoslavia in the con-
text of Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) programs and this section reflects
their findings. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Institutional Setting
3.        The social sector which includes government, public institutions
and enterprises accounts for approximately 85% of Gross Domestic Product
(GDP) and employs over half the total labor force. The private sector con-
sists predominantly of peasant farms and small enterprises. Decision-making
at all levels is governed by the principle of workers' self-management,
involving a unique set of institutions and instruments of economic policy.
The control of workers' collectives over production decisions has been
increased by a restructuring of all economic organizations into legally
autonomous Basic Organizations of Associated Labor (BOALs) which are the
smallest units producing, a marketable output.
4.        In addition to this strengthening of workers' participation at the
microeconomic level, the concept of workers' management has been extended to
encompass macroeconomic decisions. A set of instruments, called Social
1/ Part I is substantially unchanged from Part I of the President's Report
for the Visegrad Hydroelectric Project (Report No. P-4019-YU, dated
April 8, 1985), which was approved by the Board on April 30, 1985.



-2-
Compacts and Self-Management Agreements, enables the participation of economic
agents in the formulation of macroeconomic policy, while maintaining decen-
tralized responsibility for policy implementation. These instrusents are
used to supplement more conventional monetary and fiscal measures, parti-
cularly in the areas of prices, incomes, and employment.
5.        The 1974 Constitution established a framework for economic and
social planning, designed to reconcile decentralized decision-making with
consistent and coordinated action. The system of planning first seeks to
establish, through a set of social compacts, a national consensus on the
major medium-term goals for the economy. Thereafter, plan formulation is
based on participation of all economic and social units, including government
bodies. Once consistency is achieved, economic units enter into medium-term
agreements on supply, demand and investment intentions. In case agreements
cannot be reached by the prescribed date, state bodies at the relevant level
are permitted to intervene, but only on a temporary basis.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
6.        The economic development of Yugoslavia in the 1960s and 1970s was
impressive, characterized by rapid economic growth and structural transforma-
tion. Between 1960 and 1980, GDP grew at an average annual rate of 5.5Z in
real terms. The share of investment in GDP has been high throughout the
period, above 302 in most years. With population growth at about 1Z per
annum, real per capita income more than doubled over this period. The past
two decades have also witnessed the growing integration of Yugoslavia into
the world economy. Between 1960 and 1981 merchandise trade grew by around 7X
per annum in real terms. However, Yugoslavia's export performance to the
industrial market economies showed increasing weakness during the 1970s,
particularly after 1973.
7.        While overall growth performance has been impressive, larie regional
disparities persist. The Republics of Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia,
Montenegro, and the Autonomous Province of Kosovo, are officially designated
as less-developed regions (LDRs). The LDRs account for 37% of population and
22Z of output. The per capita output in these regions account for only 60Z
of the national average. The ratio of per capita output between the most-
developed region in the country, Slovenia, and the least-developed, Kosovo,
is about 7 to 1 (1983). These disparities reflect several factors: notably
the greater incidence of low productivity of agriculture in the LDRs, their
higher dependency ratios, and their higher population growth rates. Since
1965, concessional investment credits have been granted by the more developed
regions (MDRs) to the LDRs through the Federal Fund for the Accclerated
Development of the Less Developed Regions and, together with supplementary
resources for social sector expenditures from the Federal budget, these
resources account for about 10% of the social product of the LDRs.
8.        Since 1965, employment in the social sector has increased by around
3.1% per annum. Despite this very good record, substantial productivity and
income differentials remain between the modern (mainly social) and the tradi-
tional (predominantly private) agricultural sectors. These differentials



-3-
have resulted in high demand for modern sector employment on the part of the
rural labor force. Large numbers of Yugoslavs have sought temporary employ-
ment abroad since the late 1960s. At its peak in 1973, there were about 1.1
million Yugoslavs working abroad. Since 1973, however, this trend has been
reversed, and returning emigrants have added to the pressure on the social
sector to create new jobs. Unemployment rates have risen rapidly from about
7% in 1971 to over 12% in 1982. 1/ The incidence of unemployment is highly
regionalized; in 1982 unemployment rates ranged from 2% in Slovenia to 29% in
Kosovo.
Effectiveness of Public Policies
9.        Yugoslavia today faces perhaps its most difficult economic situation
since the difficulties which accompanied economic liberalization in 1965; high
debt service payments, sluggish domestic output, high level of inflation, and
difficult access to international commercial bank credit. The severity of
Yugoslavia's economic problems reflects structural deficiencies in the pattern
of its development which became increasingly apparent in the seventies.
Yugoslavia's economy until the late 197Qs was marked by high rates of economic
growth, impressive increases in savings and investment and rapid growth in
income per capita and employment. This performance, however, was charac-
terized, on the one hand, by rigidities and distortions in prices and, on the
other hand, by a widespread socialization of losses incurred by inefficient
enterprises. The policy framework allowed the development of production
oriented towards domestic markets, and led to high capital and energy inten-
sities. Liquidity in the international capital markets allowed for substan-
tial foreign capital inflows, and the recovery of the OECD countries from the
first oil price increase, to a limited extent, sustained exports but more
importantly allowed a continuation of the inflow of workers' remittances.
10.       Yugoslavia initially absorbed the second oil price shock through
additional borrowing and managed thereby to cushion its effects. This
resulted in a rapidly increasing foreign debt. With the subsequent increases
in world interest rates and the recession in OECD countries, the servicing of
che debt became a substantially heavier burden. In turn, the events in Latin
America and in Poland created a reluctance in international capital markets
to provide additional funds. As a result, the balance of payments constraint
became critical.
11.       In 1980 Yugoslavia launched a program of adjustments to cope with
the short-term liquidity crisis and to allow the economy to move to a sound
and sustainable growth path. The Long-Term Program of Economic Stabilization
(LTPES) articulated and consolidated the envisaged changes. The thrust of
this program is towards increased domestic resource mobilization and an
1/ These rates are not directly comparable to those in other countries.
They represent the ratio of registered job-seekers (including some
currently employed) to the social sector labor force. The ratio of
registered job-seekers to the total resident labor force was about 9% in
1982.



-4-
efficient economic resource allocation within the context of the basic objec-
tives of self-management relations in Yugoslavia. The Long-Term Stabilization
Program is conceived and being implemented in two phases: the first ending
in 1985 and the second starting with the 1986-90 Plan. The first phase,
supported in particular by the IMF and IBRD through a standby agreement and
SAL I, has largely achieved the short-run stabilization of the economy with
the major exception of inflation, the control of which remains an important
objective of the Government. (para. 16).
12.       A number of measures were taken by the Government over the course
of the last two years to overcome the short-term liquidity problems of the
economy. Restrictive monetary and fiscal policies were used to control the
rise in aggregate demand and to restrict investments in non-commodity or non-
commodity-related producing sectors. Moreover, a more realistic exchange rate
policy was adopted to encourage exports and curb imports. These policies were
successful in converting a large current account deficit in 1979 to a small
surplus in 1983 and a more substantial one in 1984 (para. 15). Apart from
demand management policies, this performance reflects a substantial realign-
ment of the real exchange rate in 1983, with a real depreciation of the dinar
of approximately 25Z against a basket of currencies over the course of the
year.
13.       During the last two years, in addition to stabilization policies,
steps towards a longer-term reform were taken or have been initiated. A new
price policy is in place since January 1985. It essentially liberalizes
prices. Prices of energy, railways and postal and telecommunication services
remain administered but are regularly adjusted to catch-up with opportunity
costs. Significant adjustments have already been made to tariffs in power
and transport and to petroleum and natural gas prices. A major reform of the
whole framework governing foreign economic relations is under consideration,
including measures that would increase the presently limited inter-regional
mobility of foreign exchange earnings. Resolute adjustments in interest
rates were made. Real interest rates on three-month deposits are expected to
become positive by mid-May 1985. Floor real lending rates are to reach
positive levels by 1987 and 1989 for non-priority and priority sectors
respectively. A number of laws have been passed to penalize loss-making and
illiquid enterprises and a reform of the banking system is under considera-
tinn. In the field of investment, nationwide joint development programs for
major sectors (e.g. power) are being formulated for the 1986-90 period. In
short, the objective is to ensure that the emergence of a less binding
financial constraint does not lead again to a substantial misallocation of
resources jeopardizing the long-run stabilization program.
Recent Economic Developments
14.       In recent years, Yugoslavia's economic growth has slowed markedly.
Between 1980-82, the economy grew by 1.4% per annum. The rate of growth of
output declined by about 1.3% in 1983 and a modest recovery is estimated for
1984. The slowdown in growth is partly a result of the controls on domestic
demand, but is also due to shortages of imported inputs. Mining and manufac-
turing production has been particularly affected. There have been marked



fluctuations in agricultural output mainly due however to weather conditions.
Fixed investment has also fallen markedly. Whereas fixed investment
increased at an average rate of 9.5Z between 1975 and 1979, it declined by
more than 8.8Z per year between 1980 and 1984. Despite these slowdowns,
Yugoslavia has continued to create jobs in the social sector at the cost
however of declines in labor productivity. Social sector employment
increased by 2.6% between 1980-83 and is estimated to have grown by 2% in
1984. Employment growth has been most rapid in the LDR, where the incidence
of unemployment is more severe.
15.        As a result of its stabilization efforts, Yugoslavia succeeded in
bringing the current account of its balance of payments from a deficit of
k3.7 billion in 1979 to an estimated surplus of $50O million in 1984. Over
the same period, the current account with the convertible area moved from a
deficit of $3.3 billion to an estimated surplus of t865 million. Import
levels have been cut such that the value of merchandise imports in 1984 was
14% below its 1980 level. Export trends were erratic over the period, both
in the aggregate aud between market areas with, however, a strong showing in
exports to the convertible area in 1983 and 1984.
16.       One of the major goals of the Government's stabilization program
has been to reduce the rate of inflation. Despite significant declines in
investment and real domestic demand, however, inflationary pressures have
continued. In 1980 and 1981, inflation accelerated to 30% and 38% respec-
tively. In an effort to bring it under control, the authorities introduced
temporary price ceilings on a wide range of goods in July 1982. This policy,
however, met with only limited success. Retail prices increased by 30% in
1982, and by over 58% in 1983. As a result, a temporary price freeze was
reimposed at the end of 1983. The price freeze was lifted at the beginning
of May 1984 as part of the overall set of measures agreed upon with the IMF
under the Standby Arrangement of 1984. Inflation remained at about 53% in
1984. As part of the price liberalization effort, in Januarv 1985, a new law
on prices went into effect which decontrolled most prices. The persistence
of inflation has been due to a combination of factors. After the lifting of
each price freeze, enterprises have tended to increase prices sharply, partly
in anticipation of future freezes. Severe restrictions on imports have
reduced competition in the domestic markets. In addition, the efforts of the
authorities to restructure the pattern of relative prices to promotL " more
efficient resource allocation, stimulate agricultural production and
rationalize energy use have also put upward pressure on the price level as
have the cumulative effects of the substantial depreciation of the dinar.
The Government expects an inflation rate of about 45Z for 1985, gradually
decreasing to less than 10% by the end of the decade.
17.       Yugoslavia's adjustment efforts have been complicated by adverse
develooments in the international capital markets. Increases in prevailing
world interest rates since 1979 helped push interest payments from $0.8 bil-
lion in 1979 to t2.0 billion in 1981, and to an estimated $1.9 billion in
1984. 1/ While there is recognition of the magnitude of Yugoslavia's
1/ This excludes interest on short-term debt.



-6-
adjustment efforts, the international commercial banks have tended to adopt a
cautious position toward increasing their exposure. This has partly been due
to adverse developments in other parts of the world and partly to liquidity
problems experienced by some Yugoslav banks. However, following the
anticipated conclusion of a third debt restructuring exercise (para.21), the
international commercial banks are expected to slowly return to limited
financial transactions with Yugoslavia, some of which may be in the form of
cofinancing with the Bank.
Medium-Term Prospects
18.       Yugoslavia is aow in the process of preparation of the next five
year plan (1986-90). Guidelines have been issued which envisage reforms in a
wide range of areas. Foremost among these are the system of prices, the
fiscal system, the system of foreign exchange allocation, and the financial
system.  These reform support the development strategy outlined under the
Long-Term Program of Economic Stabilization (para. 11). In the area of
prices, the emphasis is on achieving efficiency in resource allocation
through an increased role of markets, the prevention of distortions and the
elimination of monopolistic tendencies. In the area of fiscal policy, a
uniformity of fiscal policy across the country would be sought given that
decisions on most taxes and expenditures rest with the regions. As regards
the foreign exchange allocation system, the intention is to liberalize the
circulation of foreign exchange resources and create conditions for gradually
achieving the convertibility of the dinar. As regards the financial system,
the objective is to increase mobilization and efficient reallocation of
financial resources. Many of these reforms nave already been initiated
(para. 13); others are under consideration.
19.       The macroeconomic framework of the 1986-90 plan is formulated around
4Z growth of output with industrial and agricultural growth rates of 5X and
3Z, respectively. The growth rate of output would be led by an avcjage annual
increase in exports of 5.5Z while imports would grow at a lower rate of 4.5Z.
The above performance would be accompanied by a 22 growth in social sector
employment mainly in labor intensive activities. This scenario is based on
an average increase in labor productivity between 2% and 3Z. If this produc-
tivity increase is not achieved, a somewhat lower growth rate of 3% seems more
likely. The authorities expect a reduction of foreign debt by t3 billion by
1990 and to bring the debt service ratio in convertible currency to 25X by
the end of this decade.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
20.       Before 1980, about three-quarters of the debt contracted by
Yugoslavia was provided in convertible currencies through commercial
sources. The bulk of this was in the form of suppliers' credits, although
financial credits from commercial banks were also of importance. In response
both to unsettled conditions in international capital markets and to the
balance of payments difficulties faced by Yugoslavia, there was a significant
decline in commercial financial credits to Yugoslavia after 1980. Gross
medium- and long-term capital inflows declined sharply from t4.6 billion in



- 7 -
1980 to $2.3 billioni in 1982. Total medium- and long-term debt repayable in
convertible currency, outstanding and disbursed, is estimated at about $18
billion at the end of 1983, while short-term debt stood at about l.1
billion. During 1982, there was a substantial decline in foreign exchange
reserves, which at the end of the year amounted to $1.7 billion, or roughly
equivalent to one month of imports of goods and services. Taking account of
gross workers' remittances, the debt-service ratio averaged 16% between 1976
and 1981, while it averaged 19Z over the same period for convertible currency
loans. In 1983, the estimated aggregate debt service ratio climbed to 27Z,
reflecting the increase in interest payments on floating rate debt and the
decline in exports. 1/ Similarly, the debt service ratio on convertible
currency debt rose to 40% in the same year.
21.       In light of the depleted reserves position, the thin pipeline of
financial credits, the insufficient stocks of imports, the liquidity problems
encountered by some Yugoslav banks since 1982 and the consequent unwillingness
of commercial lenders to maintain their exposure on a voluntary basis, a major
multipartite financing effort involving certain OECD countries, international
commercial banks, the Bank for International Settlements and the IMF was
launched in early 1983 to assist Yugoslavia in maintaining orderly debt
repayment. Agreement was reached on a foreign assistance package amounting
to about t4 billion in gross medium- and long-term commitments and in the
deferment of maturities on short-term debt. A similar exercise on a smaller
scale was concluded for 1984. Moreover, in December 1984, commercial banks
agreed in principle on another round of multi-year rescheduling for 1985. A
Standby Arrangement for 1985 was approved by the IMF on April 29, 1985.
Creditor governments have also agreed to reschedule 90Z of maturities falling
due to them or their agencies between January 1985 and May 15, 1986. While
Yugoslavia's liquidity situation may remain difficult in the near-term, both
the aggregate and the convertible currency debt service ratios are expected
to decline somewhat over the next few years. The Government's objective is
to reduce the amount of debt outstanding by the end of the 1980s by between
t2 billion-*3 billion and have a debt service in convertible currency of
around 25%. Given its past debt servicing record, pragmatism, the debt
objectives the Government has set, and demonstrated capacity to implement
firm stabilization policies, Yugoslavia is considered creditworthy for
additional Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA 2/
22.       The proposed loan would be the 87th loan made to Yugoslavia by the
Bank, bringing the total to about t4,276.4 million, net of cancellations.
Approximately 30% (M1,232.5 million) of the total has been for 22 loans for
1/ Debt service does not include amortization and interest payments on
short-term debt.
2/ Part II is substantially unchanged from Part II of the President's Report
for the Visegrad Hydroelectric Project (Report No. P-4019-YU, dated
April 8, 1985), which was approved by the Board on April 30, 1985.



-8-
the transport sector: 12 for highways, 8 for railways, and 2 for ports. In
view of the important potential contribution of agriculture to exports and
import substitution and in view of the considerable scope for improved yields
in primary production, Bank lending in recent years, has increasingly focused
on the agriculture sector where 20 loans totalling about *1,183.4 million (27X
of the total) have been made; the proposed loan would be the 21st loan for
that sector. Loans totalling about 6694.2 million (161) were made for the
energy sector, of which eight were for power projects including the recently
approved *125 million loan for the Visegrad Hydroelectric Project; and one
loan each for a natural gas and an oil pipeline. Twenty-one loans, amounting
to about *531.8 million (12Z of the total) have also been made for industry.
Other loans made to Yugoslavia include six for water supply and sewerage; two
multipurpose loans; two for tourism and one each for air pollution control,
telecommunications, and structural adjustment.
23.       Due to a shortage of local funds, Yugoslavia's disbursement perfor-
mance deteriorated somewhat in 1981. Following subsequent implementation
reviews of the whole loan portfolio with borrowers, project execution accele-
rated. To further expedite the utilization of Bank loan proceeds as well as
to allow for increased Bank financial participation, disbursement percentages
were increased under the Bank's Special Action Program (SAP), for the follow-
ing ongoing projects; Metohija I Multipurpose (Loan 1360-YU), Tenth and
Eleventh Highway (Loans 1678-YU and 1819-YU respectively), Montenegro Earth-
quake Rehabilitation-Port of Bar (Loan 1768-YU), Morava II (Loan 1951-YU),
and Serbia Regional development (Loan 2307-YU). In the case of the latter
two projects, revolving funds were also established. Yugoslavia's perfor-
mance now compares favorably with Bank-wide averages. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of March 31, 1985.
24.       The interrelated objectives which the Bank has pursued recently in
its lending to Yugoslavia are to: (i) expand exports and improve the
efficiency of import substitution; (ii) enhance the effectiveness of domestic
investment with a view to increasing production with the more limited finan-
cial resources available; (iii) improve access to capital markets; and (iv)
reduce unemployment, particularly in the LDRs. Not every Bank operation can
address all these objectives nor be entirely oriented towards the LDRs, but a
basic thrust of the Bank's activities in Yugoslavia continues to be toward
development of LDRs. The Bank has concentrated its lending operations in
areas where its institutional and policy coordination impact is expected to
be greatest. Accordingly, a shift to more program, sector, and SAP opera-
tions, including the FY83 Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) (Loan 2326-YU),
has occurred to help consolidate and strengthen policy and institutional
changes critical to Yugoslavia's long-term structural development, while at
the same time assisting the Government to overcome its immediate foreign
exchange needs. In addition to SAL, other SAP lending to Yugoslavia includes
a supplemental loan for the Middle Neretva Project (Loan 1561-1-YU) and the
FY84 Fertilizer Sector Loan.
25.       Future Bank lending strategy is geared t-: (a) concentrate on those
sectors and projects which provide maximum economic benefits; (b) take into
account the current difficult economic situation and the shortage of



-9-
resources; and (c) ensure a continued strong policy and institutional impact
where needed. To that end, Bank support is envisaged for projects in :he
agriculture, energy/power, and industry sectors.
26.       A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment to
Yugoslavia's ability to maintain its growth momentum and to address the
critical issues of unemployment and regional disparities. The Bank has
helped attract additional sources of credit through cofinancing arrangemrnts
and the establishment of new banking relationships for Yugoslavia. The Bank
intends to continue its emphasis on increased cofinancing, recognizing, how-
ever, the commercial market constraints that Yugoslavia faces. Until this
problem is overcome, the Bank is likely to remain one of the principal
*        sources of long-term external capital.
27.       Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank in 1984 amounted to about 9.5% of its
total debt outstanding. In light of the planned reduction in the total debt
outstanding and the limited access to international capital markets
Yugoslavia is expected to have during the 1980s, the share of debt owed to
the Bank will most likely rise. The extent of the increase will depend on
the speed with which Yugoslavia is able to regain normal access to the
international capital markets. Service on Bank loans as a proportion of
total debt service was 6.6% in 1984 and is projected to rise gradually to
about 9% by the end of the decade. 1/
28.       IFC ttarted its involvement in Yugoslavia in 1970.  Since chen, it
has made 20 investments in the country and, as of March 31, 1985, its port-
folio amounted to $416.4 mil]ion gross and k180.9 million net of participation
and repayments. The basic objectives of IFC in Yugoslavia are to: (a) assist
priority subsectors in industry and natural resources development; (b) en-
courage foreign investment on a joint venture basis; (c) foster technological
transfers; and (d) mobilize other financial resources in addition to IFC's
own funds.
PART III - THE FORESTRY SECTOR
Forestry in Yugoslavia
29.       Yugoslavia's forestry seccor is a major raw material source for
domestic industries which contribute significantly to the national economy.
Forestry and wood industries account for 4.7% of Gross Material Product
(GNP) 2/, engage over 5% of the labor force, and account for about 9% of the
value of Yugoslav exports. Export of wood and wood products totalled
1I Total debt service includes debt service on short-term debt.
2/ Gross Material Product (GMP) corresponds to Gross Domestic Product (GDP)
less the output of certain services, such as public administration,
defense, education, health and social insurance.



- 10 -
some 850 million equivalent in 1983. Currently, about half of exports are
timber and half are processed and finished wood products. Forestry alone
(forest management and wood harvesting) accounts for over one quarter of the
combined forestry and wood industries value and employment in the Yugoslav
economy. Yugoslavia's forest area occupies 40X of the productive area. This
large resource base and favorable climatic conditions have fostered a
well-diversified forestry sector with significant untapped potential.
30.       About 80% of the country's forest land is operated by Social Sector
enterprises, in contrast to only about 19% of the country's arable land. The
balance of forest land is operated by small individual owners. Development
efforts over the past decade in forestry, as in other sectors, have increased
processing and manufacturing capacities while raw material production has not
kept pace. In addition, forestry operations have been constrained by inap-
propriate investment choices, weak financial discipline, and outdated techno-
logies.
Forestry in Bosnia-Herzegovina
31.       The forestry sector is particularly significant in the Socialist
Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina (SRBH): forestry and wood industries cur-
rently account for about 8% of SRBH's GMP, about 13% of its exports, and
employ about 9% of the population. Over half (53%) of the productive land
area or 2.7 million hectares is under forest management, compared with 40X in
Yugoslavia. SRBH wood industries are highly developed, producing sawn timber,
plywood and veneer, furniture components, cellulose and paper with trade out-
lets in Europe and North America.
32.       The Republic's 1981-85 Five Year Plan considered forestry and
allied wood industries as one of the critical sectors (along with energy,
food and essential raw materials, machinery and tourism), and included it in
the priority category for Bank financing as access to other foreign LLedits
was reduced. The Plan stressed raw material production linked to import
substitution and increased export potential. The Government now is focusing
on efficient resource utilization and creating conditions for faster growth
in agricultural and forest production as a foundation for addressing the
economy's critical tasks which include: (i) increasing the output of finished
products for domestic consumption and export; (ii) increasing the output of
raw materials required to meet underutilized industrial capacities; (iii)
alleviating pressing foreign exchange constraints; and (iv) reducing rural
poverty and the disparity of incomes between rural and urban households.
Bank Group Strategy in the Agricultural and Forestry Sectors
33.       The Bank has provided financing of t4.5 million for a forestry
component in the Macedonia III Project (Loan 2039-YU), including equipment
for establishing a pilot plantation and logging demonstration site. Imple-
mentation of this component is progressing satisfactorily. The FY84
Montenegro Regional Development Project also includes provision for a
forestry component covering logging road construction and purchase of logging



- 11 -
equipment, vehicles and other equipment for nurseries, and experimental
plantations. Recent Bank strategy has stressed the development of primary
production and support for Yugoslavia's economic restructuring effort through
institutional and policy initiatives with sectoral significance, such as
investment selection, financial ma.aagement, and strengthening the development
orientation and institutional capacity cf the banking system. The Bank is
supporting a series of in-depth studies of agricultural development issues.
Recently a study of agroindustry development was completed. The Bank also
has provided technical and financial assistance for a study by the Yugoslavs
of primary agricultural production which is now being reviewed in the Bank.
Future Bank lending and sector activities would draw on the conclusions of
these reviews and support Yugoslavia's current emphasis on investments with a
strong impact on the balance of payments, institutional development, and
strengthening of the policy framework.
Performance of Previous World Bank Projects in the Republic
34.       In SRBH, the Bank has made 12 loans totalling i445.7 million, net
of cancellations, of which three have been for agriculture projects. SRBH is
also a recipient of t3l.9 million under three national Agriculture Credit
Loans, for one of which (Loan 1129-YU) a Project Completion Report (PCR) was
prepared. The principal lessons learned from the PCR are that greater atten-
tion must be focussed on (a) enhancing social sector enterprises' efficiency;
and (b) improving the productive capacity of individual farmers, where the
the greatest production potential lies. An action plan has been drawn up for
another Agriculture Credit Loan (Loan 1801-YU), under which crop production
in both individual and social sectors for which demand exists will be in-
cluded. Due largely to the recent sharp rise in domestic inflation, stabili-
zation measures, local funding constraints and inadequate managerial capacity,
implementation of the Bosanka Krajina Agriculture and Agroindustries project
(Loan 1621-YU) was nearly two years behind schedule when in 1983 an action
program was agreed upon and the loan closing date was extended by 18 months
to December 31, 1984. This date was again recently extended by one year to
December 31, 1985. The loan is now fully committed and implementation has
advanced significantly. Implementation of the other three projects is
generally satisfactory.
35.       Other projects for which SRBH received Bank financing either
directly or through nationwide loans include five industrial credits; four
for power; two each for railways, highways, and water supply and sewerage;
and one for air pollution. Three industrial credit projects, two highways,
one each of the railway and water supply and sewerage projects, and the air
pollution project were completed and five PCRs have been prepared.
36.       Under the 1982 Sixth Industrial Credit Project (Loan 2132-YU), the
oorrower, Privredna Banka Sarajevo (PBS), who is the Borrower for all SRBH
agricultural projects and is proposed as the Borrower for this project,
agreed to strengthen subproject supervision and coordination capacity by
expanding its staff in the supervision unit for Bank financed projects, and
engage services of consultants where necessary. PBS also has undertaken
efforts to improve appraisal standards for subprojects and strengthen



- 12 -
investors' financial management practices. These efforts would be continued
under this project. Pertinent lessons from Bank lending in Bosnia-Herzegovina
to date stress the need for: (a) improving the capabilities of the banking
system in subproject appraisal and supervision; (b) strengthening support
services for investors; (c) improving social sector investor management; and
(d) stressing the development role of the associated and basic banks. The
proposed project seeks to address these issues.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       The World Bank/FAO Cooperative Program identified the proposed
project in April 1980 and assisted SIPAD, the Republic's leading compound
organization (COAL) for forestry, wood processing and retailing, to prepare
the project. A Bank appraisal mission in September 1982 found that the
available financial and managerial resources were not adequate to carry out
the entire project as originally proposed, and Privredna Banka Sarajevo
(PBS), SIPAD and the Bank could not agree on a suitable allocation of these
resources or on project scope. In April 1983, PBS and SIPAD confirmed their
agreement with the Bank to a limited project scope, fully integrated project
composition, and criteria to be applied to determine investor participation.
In December 1983, a Bank mission appraised the revised project. Negotiations
were held in Washington on March 11-20, 1985. The Yugoslav Delegation was
led by Mr. Miroslav Romic, Vice President, PBS. A Staff Appraisal Report,
Bosnia-Herzegovina Forestry Improvement Project No. 5253-YU, dated May 6,
1985, is being circulated separately to the Executive Lirectors. The Loan
and Project Summary describes the main features of the project. Annex III
s-ummarizes key events and special conditions.
Project Objectives and Description
38.       The proposed project would support SRBH's long-term forestry
development program and thereby help strengthen Yugoslavia's balance of pay-
ments. It would be the Bank's first full-scale forestry project in
Yugoslavia. The investments would increase output and rural incomes as well
as improve the Republic's institutional and policy base in forestry through
more rational investment allocation, improved organization, and financial
management of the Borrower and subborrowers. The proposed project would be
located in the socially managed forests extending over half of the Republic's
forest land and accounting for 65% of the Republic's productive high forests
(Map Nos. IBRD 18150 and 17970R attached).
39.       The project would comprise a four-year (1986-89) time slice of the
Republic's ongoing forestry investment program for selected social sector
organizations (BOALs) responsible for forest management and production. In
addition, the project would support efforts to strengthen on-going research
and training programs in the Republic. It would consist of a credit program
covering (a) Modernization of Harvesting Operations: subloans for (i) con-
struction of about 1200 km of logging truck roads; and (ii) supply of modern
logging equipment, vehicles, and related spare parts and maintenance equip-
ment; (b) Increase in Raw Material for the Pulp and Particle Board Industries:
subloans for installation of debarkers in the yards of about 15 sawmills to



- 13 -
provide bark-free chips for conversion into pulp and particle board; and Cc)
Forestry Sector Improvement: (i) subloans for rehabilitation and upgrading
of three nurseries for providing improved seedlings for the Republic's
reforestation and afforestation programs; (ii) provision for consulting ser-
vices to assist in the review of the Republic's genetic improvement and seed
supply program; (iii) provision of forest research equipment, overseas
fellowships, and study tours; and (iv) possible provision of a subloan for
the establishment of a seed processing facility, based on the review under
(ii) above.
Project Organization and Implementation
40.       Institutional Arrangements  Privredna Banka Sarajevo (PBS) would be
the Borrower under the proposed loan. Under subloan agreements with PBS,
selected forestry and nursery BOALs would carry out subprojects for construc-
tion of logging roads, equipment purchases, nursery modernization, installa-
tion of debarkers and possible seed center construction. The BOALs (subbor-
rowers) participating in the project are members of either SIPAD or KRIVAJA
COALs (compound social sector organizations). Proceeds from the Bank loan
would be channelled by PBS to these BOALs through the participating basic
banks (BBs). Under a Project Agreement, SIPAD and KRIVAJA, through a Project
Unit (PU) to be established, would be responsible for overall project
technical coordination and support to the subborrowers. The PU would have
organization, terms of reference and staff acceptable to the Bank, and would
be responsible for day-to-day subproject coordination and liaison with PBS
(Project Agreement, Section 2.01(b)(ii) and Schedule 2). SIPAD Export-Import,
a work organization of SIPAD COAL, would carry out the procurement of goods
on behalf of the subborrowers (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, Part B.5(a)(ii)
and Project Agreement, Schedule 1, Para. 1). To ensure proper implementation
and to link the subborrowers and other participating organizations under the
project, SIPAD and KRIVAJA COALs, SIPAD Export-Import, and the subborrowers
will sign ar Implementation Agreement. Execution of this agreement will be a
condition of loan effectiveness. (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(a)).
41.       PBS, an Associated Bank with 22 member Basic Banks (BBs), dominates
the mobilization and allocation of financial resources in SRBH. A major
appraisal of PBS was undertaken by the Bank in 1981 as part of the Sixth
Industrial Credit Project (Loan 2132-YU). The financial and operational
performance of PBS was found to be acceptable to the Bank, and a number of
measures (para. 36) were agreed upon with PBS. The Bank is periodically
monitoring PBS performance in relation to specific financial targets in the
course of supervising ongoing industrial and agricultural credits.
42.       As with all banks in Yugoslavia, PBS operates not to maximize
profits but rather to provide services and earn income adequate to cover
expenses. One of its largest financial sources remains long-term borrowing
from the Federal and Republic Funds and from the Bank and other foreign
banks. In 1982 such borrowings accounted for 44Z of the total financing
resources of PBS. Its equity to total assets ratio has been maintained
consistently at 4Z while the equity to long-term debt ratio showed a marginal



- 14 -
increase from 11.4 in 1980 to 12.0 in 1982.  PBS registered a record net
income of Din 3430 million in 1982, about three times more than the previous
year. In 1981 the principal amount of loans in arrears over three months as
a percentage of long-term lo&ns outstanding amounted to about 1.7%. However,
as a result of the economic recession and adjustment measures, PBS' long-term
loans were affected by arrears in 1982 (2.6Z) and the arrears situation
further deteriorated in 1983 (3.2%). PBS has agreed, (a) to take all action
required to ensure that its arrears do not exceed at any time 3% of its
outstanding long-term loan portfolio, and (b) by November 30, 1985 and there-
after, no later than July 31 of each year, to review its arrears position and
(c) if this review shows that the 3% limit is exceeded, to furnish to the Bank
proposals to reduce its arrears (Loan Agreement, Section 5.05(b)). Measures
to keep arrears down include charging real positive penalty interest rates on
principal and interest payments overdue. In addition, PBS would increase the
Mutual Liability Fund amount available for loan write-off to 3% of its long
term loan portfolio by December 31, 1989, according to an agreed schedule
(Loan Agreement, Section 5.05(a)).
43.       Implementation.  As a condition of effectiveness, PBS would furnish
to the Bank a four-year project implementation program (Loan Agreement,
Section 7.01(c)). PBS would appraise each subproject in accordance with
appraisal criteria and procedures agreed with the Bank (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.03, Schedule 4) and would prepare and furnish to the Bank for
review and approval an appraisal report for the first sub-loan for: (a)
forestry development including logging equipment and forest road construction;
(b) forestry development as in (a) above including debarker equipment; (c)
nursery improvements; and (d) seed processing centers. (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.03 and Schedule 4, Part A.2). Subborrowers will be required to
furnish PBS every year with their schedule of expenditures and financing
plans for the following year.
44.       The Project Unit (PU) to be established by SIPAD and KRII%JA would
be headed by a Project Director and include a financial analyst, forestry
engineer, roads engineer, procurement specialist, translator, and adequate
support staff (Project Agreement, Section 2.01 (b) and Schedule 2).
Establishment of the PU and appointment of a Project Director and a roads
engineer would be conditions of loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section
7.01(b)).
45.       SIPAD-IRC SILVA, one of the subborrowers, would by November 30,
1985, engage a forest genetics consultant for about five months to assist in
the review of ongoing genetic research and seed supply programs on the
Republic and to propose appropriate measures for strengthening the programs.
The consultant would also make recommendations concerning the possible
requirements for establishing a seed processing center, for which provision
is included under the project (Loan Agreement, Schedule 2, Parts B.2 and B.3
and Schedule 4, Part B 5,(d)). The project includes funding for 66 man-
months of overseas fellowships and 24 man-months of study tours for
subborrowers, as well as for SIPAD and KRIVAJA COALs, to improve training in
all aspects of forest management and management of wildlife. The cost of the
training program, including training at the COAL level, would be borne by the



- 15 -
subborrowers; each subloan would include financing of the cost attributable
to the subborrower. The PU would be responsible for overall coordination for
implementing the program, which would be completed by December 31, 1988 (Loan
Agreement Schedule 4, Part B 5(b) and Project Agreement, Schedule 2,
Part 2(b)5.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
46.       PBS would be responsible for monitoring and evaluating the project
implementation and would annually review and report to the Bank on investors'
projected schedules of expenditures, and financing requirements. Under the
individual subloan agreements, investors would be required to furnish to PBS
through the PU subproject progress and completion reports and annually updated
schedules of expenditures and financing plans (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4,
Part B.5(a)(vii)).   PBS would furnish to the Bank mid-year and annual
progress reports and a Project Completion Report (PCR). The mid-year report
will be submitted by August 31 of each year, annual reports by February 28
each year, and a Project Completion Report within 6 months after the Loan
Closing Date (Loan Agreement, Sections 3.04(c) and 3.07). COALs, SIPAD and
KRIVAJA will also monitor the progress of subprojects carried out by their
respective BOALS (Project Agreement 2.03).
Accounts and Audits
47.       Social Accounting Service (SDK) audits of PBS under other Bank pro-
jects have been satisfactory. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that PBS would have its accounts and financial statements audited by SDK and
submit the audited accounts to the Bank within six months of the close of each
fiscal year (Loan Agreement, Section 5.01(c) and (d)). Assurances were also
obtained that the auditors would give a separate opinion as to the adequacy
of the accountiag system and internal controls and whether satisfactory pro-
cedures are in operation to ensure that Statement of Expenditure (SOE) sup-
ported withdrawals have been used for project purposes. PBS would maintain,
and cause its BBs to maintain, accounts for the project including separate
accounts for each sub-loan covering disbursements and repayments thereof. In
addition, it was agreed that PBS would maintain procedures adequate to monitor
the financial condition of the subborrowers (Loan Agreement, Section 5.06 and
Schedule 4, Part B 5(a)(viii)). These procedures would include furnishing
each year to the Bank a statement on its selection and review of six subbor-
rowers which would have their accounts and financial statements audited for
each fiscal year in accordance with the auditing principles of SDK.
Project Cost and Financing Plan
48.       Total financial requirements, including physical and price contin-
gencies, are estimated at 094.8 million, of which about $35.0 million, or 37%
would be the foreign exchange component. The estimate includes taxes and
duties amounting to $3.4 million. Unit costs were derived from December 1983
Dinar estimates and adjusted to March 1985 prices. Average physical contin-
gencies of 4% of base cost, and price contingencies which amount in aggregate



- 16 -
to 20X of base cost plus physical contingencies (based on estimates of
international inflation rate), have been included. Cost estimates have been
prepared in US dollars since the Government adjusts the value of the Dinar to
compensate for differences in domestic and international price movements. A
separate project cost in Dinars based on estimates of domestic inflation
rates has been prepared for purposes of project implementation. The proposed
Bank loan of t35 million would finance OOZ of the foreign exchange costs.
By February 28 of each year, and beginning in 1986, the PBS will submit to
the Bank an updated financing plan, including a revised schedule of estimated
expenditures taking into account the effects of inflation on costs (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.04(c)(ii)). The Bank loan would be made to PBS for 15
years, including 3 years of grace. PBS would onlend to subborrowers in
accordance with the terms and conditions described in para. 49 below. The
Bank loan would be repaid on the basis of an adjustable repayment schedule
reflecting repayment of subloans by subborrowers.
Onlending Terms and Conditions
49.       Under the project., subborrowers would be required to meet specified
criteria including technical criteria, minimum financial and economic rates
of return of 12Z each, and cash flow requirements, as a-condition of eligi-
bility for a subloan from PBS (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03, and Schedule 4
Part A (3)). The terms of the subloans would be based on cash flow projections
for each investment. Repayment of subloans would not excecd 15 years from
the date of the Loan Agreement, including a grace period of three years. The
subborrowers would contribute from internal resources not less than 20 per-
cent of total investment costs (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03 and Schedule 4,
Parts (B(O) and B(4)).
Interest Rates
50.       In accordance with its decision to have interest rates play a more
important role in resource mobilization and allocation, the Federal
Government proposed, in its Letter of Development Policy (LDP) furnished to
the Bank in the context of the first SAL, to introduce over time a structure
of positive real interest rates by gradually adjusting nominal rstes upward
while concurrently attempting to reduce inflation. The new mechanism for
annual interest rate adjustments of locally intermediated funds would result
in real interest rates for social sector investors in forestry reaching
positive levels by 1989. The Government made the first interest rate
adjustment as of May 1, 1984. Under the April 1985 adjustment, local
commercial bank funds are to be onlent at a minimum rate of 31% in 1985. PBS
would be required to onlend local commercial funds to be used for the Project
at a rate of not less than 31%, such rate to be adjusted in accordance with
the understandings set out in the Letter of Development Policy of May 1983.
For Bank funds, the onlending rate would be the prevailing Bank variable rate
plus not less than 1Z spread for PBS to cover administrative costs. The
foreign exchange risk on Bank funds would be borne by the subborowers (Loan
Agreement, Section Schedule 4, Part B 2, 3). Based on the current Bank rate
of 9.29%, the interest rate on these Bank funds would not be less than



- 17 -
10.29%. 1/ For Federal and Republic Funds, since they are derived through
obligatory contributions from enterprises to meet specific social objectives,
and their mobilization and allocation are inelastic to interest rate changes,
their cost in SRB. vary between 4-10Z. On average, the composite interest
rate to the final beneficiary in 1985 would be about 27%.
Procurement and Disbursement
51.       Procurement of goods would be done by SIPAD Export-Import on behalf
of subborrowers. Procurement of equipment, vehicles, and debarkers (about
t37.4 million) would be carried out through International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Qualified domestic manufacturers
would be allowed a preference of 15X or the applicable customs duty, whichever
is lower. Contracts for much of the logging equipment would include provi-
sions to train local staff in operation and maintenance. Procurement of
research equipment (about $0.2 million) would be carried out through Limited
International Bidding (LIB). Civil works for construction of logging roads
(about t52.0 million) and nurseries and seed center (about $1.0 million)
would be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally. Civil works involved are not suitable for ICB as they
are unlikely to attract foreign bidders due to the dispersion of investors,
relatively small sizes of contracts, and in the case of logging roads, the
need to coordinate with logging operations. Sufficient commercial channels
and civil works contractors are available in Yugoslavia to provide adequate
competition for the supply of proposed civil works. About 5 man-months of
internationally recruited forest genetics consultancy services would be pro-
cured in accordance with Bank Guidelines. In addition, about 90 man-months
of training, fellowships, and study tours would be arranged. Total projecc
procurement would amount to an estimated 095.4 million including contingenuies
but excluding taxes. Of this, procurement of goods totaling about k37.6 mil-
lion wouldi be subject to the Bank's prior review of documentatioa. Procure-
ment of works for the first 10 roads contracts and for each additional road
contract estimated at more than $4OO,O0O would be subject to prior review by
the Bank except that in view of the standardized nature of these works, the
prior review requirements of the Bank's Guidelines for these works contracts
would be modified so that before any bids are invited, the Bank would only
review sample bidding documents.
52.       Disbursement of the Bank Loan of t35 million would extend over
approximately 6 years and would be made as follows: (a) for civil works, 25%
of total expenditures; (b) equipment, vehic-les and spare parts, 100% of
foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 85Z of
local expenditures for other items procured locally; (c) for consultants,
fellowships, and study tours, 100% of total expenditures. In order to
expedite disbursement, it was agreed that a revolving fund, in the form of a
1/ The imputed interest rate for Bank funds, taking into account a foreign
exchange risk factor of 20% per year to be borne by the sub-borrowers,
will amount to 30.3%.



- 18 -
special account, would be established by PBS; the initial deposit would be
*2.0 million from the Bank loan which represents the estimated average dis-
bursements over three months (Loan Agreement, Section 2.02(b) and Scheduae 1).
53.       With the exception of contracts valued at i20,000 or less, dis-
bursements would be supported by full documentation in the case of foreign
exchange expenditures. For contracts valued at i20,000 or less and for all
local expenditures, the Bank would disburse against Statements of Expenditures
(SOE), and documentation supporting SOEs would be subject to SDK audit and
made available for Bank review upon request. The estimated disbursement
schedule is faster than the average disbursement profile for agricultural
projects in Yugoslavia, which spans nine years, because the major part of
Loan proceeds would be disbursed against the four-year time slice of ongoing
programs of road construction and equipment procurement.
Markets and Prices
54.       Markets.  For more than a decade, SRBH has exported about one-fifth
of forest jutput in the form of semi-finished and finished products. Over
this period, domestic consumption has increased but remains below per capita
levels in Western Europe. SRBH forestry organizations and associated wood
industries are well integrated and over nearly a century have established
marketing channels to Europe, North America, the Middle East, and elsewhere.
Forest output under the project will go towards meeting domestic requirements
and increasing export potential.
55.       Prices.  Since prices were liberalized in November 1984, BOALs
within SIPAD, KRIVAJA and other organizations are free to set prices in
relation to prevailing market conditions. The prices charged at roadside for
forest products (logs and other forest outputs) and prices charged for
intermediate wood products are negotiated between forestry, wood processing,
and manufacturing BRALs. Under the new law, intervention by Governnent in
the form of regulation of forest and wood product prices is precluded, except
under extraordinary circumstances which would otherwise disrupt the market
forces and price movements. In view of high domestic inflation, SIPAD and
KRIVAJA plan to review prices periodically and to assist their BOALs in
keeping abreast of market conditions and the effects of inflation on costs.
By March 1 of every year SIPAD and KRIVAJA will prepare and furnish to the
Bank (and to PBS on request) a report on changes during the preceding year in
market conditions, inflation and prices for forest and wood products (Project
Agreement, Section 3.04).
Cost Recovery
56.       The forestry operations in SRBH are carried out by BQALs whose
financial objectives are to generate a sufficient cash flow to meet debt
servicing needs and future investment requirements. SIPAD's incremental
costs for the PU would be recovered from the forestry BOAL investors through
additions to established management fees levied on participating BOALs. The



- 19 -
cost of procurement and training services would be recovered from forestry
BOAL investors through professional service charges levied by the respective
Work Organizations (WOs) involved.
Benefits and Risks
57.       Project benefits would derive from:  (a) preventing a potential
decline in manageable output over the next ten years; (b) increasing produc-
tion at the end of a six-year development period by nearly 10X above current
levels; (c) avoiding increases in machine repair frequency and decline in
machine productivity and (d) maintaining or expanding current levels of
employment in the forestry and forestry-related industries. The 28 forestry
BOALs and one nursery BOAL would be the direct beneficiaries of the project.
The milling, manufacturing, marketing, and service BOALs which are commer-
cially integrated with Project BOALs in SIPAD and KRIVAJA also would benefit.
The three UNICEP pulpmill and paper manufacturing Work Organizations (WOs)
would benefit from the increased supply of inexpensive local raw material.
As a result, nearly 13,000 employees in the project forestry and milling BOALs
would benefit directly. Furthermore, continuation of the current level of
operations under the Project would maintain over 5,000 full-time forestry jobs
in project BOALs. Indirectly, the Project would support a large portion of
the nearly 80,000 full time employees of SIPAD and KRIVAJA in the mills and
manufacturing plants which rely on project area output.
58.       Export earnings from the project area amounted to an estimated k130
million equivalent in 1982. By preventing a potential decline in manageable
output, the project would contribute to foreign exchange earnings estimated
at about t61 million per year. In addition, through the gradual production
increase above current levels, at full development, the project would contri-
bute additional foreign earnings of $25 million per year on the assumption
that three quarters of increased sawlog production would go towards exports.
The investment in debarkers would save about 09 million equivalent per year
in foreign import costs. Altogether, at full development, the Project would
result in annual foreign exchange earnings/savings of nearly $l00 million
equivalent per year.
59.       The economic rate of return to the overall project is expected to
be high (over 45%), because the investments are part of on-going production
operations with large sunk cost (access roads, existing equipment and
experienced staff) and project output would be realized beginning in the
initial year of investment. Sensitivity analysis demonstrates that the
project would be viable even with substantial changes in costs or benefits.
For example, investment costs would have to increase by more than 100% over
appraisal estimates, or benefits decrease by more than 75% to lower the
economic rate of return to 12%. Also, under reasonable possibility of
adverse conditions, the financial rates of return of sub-projects which will
be included in the project are expected to remain above 12Z.
60.       Risks.  This project entails low risk because it would support a
viable on-going operation having good prospects for expanding domestic and
foreign markets. The capability of project investors to prepare and



- 20 -
implement economically viable investment programs and to make efficient use
of the new technology is the main risk to achieving the project objectives.
Measures are included in the project to minimize this risk. Technical and
financial onlending criteria have been agreed with the Bank. In addition,
training programs in work methods and techniques would be strengthened
through fellowships and study tours. Other risks to achieving the project
objectives and a satisfactory ERR are minor. The revenue-earning capacity of
the extraction operations in general minimizes the likelihood of local
currency shortages. Forest management practices include measures to minimize
risks of catastrophe, disease, or damage to environment and wildlife. The
project would not have any adverse environmental impact.
PART V-- LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The Loan Agreement between the Bank and Privredna Banka Sarajevo-
Udruzena Banks, the Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bank, the Project Agreement among the Bank,
SIPAD and KRIVAJA, and the Report of the Committee, as provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, are
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
62.       In addition to the features of interest of the loan which are
referred to in the text and described in Section III of Annex III of this
Report, special conditions of effectiveness for. the proposed loan (Loan
Agreement, Section 7.01) are that: (i) the Project Unit has been established
and the Project Director and a road engineer have been appointed; (ii) the
four-year program of project implementation has been approved by the Bank;
and (iii) the Implementation Agreement acceptable to the Bank has been signed
by the parties thereto. Bank Ican proceeds for a subproject requiring Bank
approval would be disbursed only after such approval has been obtained (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 1, Para. 4(b)). An additional condition of disbursement
of funds allocated for road works would be receipt by the Bank of sample bid-
ding documents for the first 10 civil works contracts for roads.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64. I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 9, 1985
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
TAB L XJA                                     Page  1 of 6
TUGOSLAV             - SOCI  INDICATR DATA BUT
YUGSLLAVIA                        RUEhEhCRPS (WZIGT  AVEES) /a
MOST              (HOST RECENT ESTIMAU) /b
RC RI7NT      NIVBLE ICOKE         NDuSw2.AL
196al!   1970h!!   ESTIINATEL        EUPROE         HAMS?T ECONOIIIS
A    (2Ub0SAND SQ. 36)
TOTAL                            255.8      255.8       255.8
GRICULTURAL                      149.2      146.3       L42.5
GO MM CAPT (CUS                     350.0      760.0      2800.0           2345.3               11071.0
mlOusuwno. Pm CArT
(KILOGRAMS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)    659.0    1139.0       1844.0           1122.8                4996.9
_ =PLAfTON AS VIA BTATCS
FOPULATION.,ND-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   18402.0   20371.0   22646.0
URBAN POPULATION (2 OF TOTAL)     27.9       34.8        43.9             46.8                  78.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (CILL)                         25.4
STATIONARY POPULATIO (HILL)                            29.Z
POPUIATION MENTWR                                       1.4
POPULATION DENSITY
PER Sq- Kro.                    71.9       79.6        88.0             82.9                 139.3
FER SQ. 171. ACRI. LAND        123.3      139.3       15B.0            158.9                 519.2
POPULATION AGE STRDCTURE (Z)
0-14 YRS                       30.5       27.4        24.4             31.6                  22.1
15-64 IRS                       63.2       64.8        66.8             61.1                  66.1
65 AND ABOVE                     6.3        7.8         8.8              7.1                  11.7
POPILALTION GROWER RATE (Z)
TOTAL                            1.2        1.0         0.9              1.6                   0.8
URAN                             3.6        3.2         2.9              3.7                   1.3
CRCDE BIRTH RATE (PER TDOUS)      23.5       17.8        14.9             23.4                  13.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE CPER TWO)         9.9        8.9         8.9              8.8                   9.2
GCSPS REPRODUCTION RATE            1.4        1.1         1.1              1.6                   0.9
FAMILY PLANIN
ACEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)          ..
USERS (C OF MARRIED WMEN)         ..       59.0        5S.0 /c
FOOD  iD ff28110
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                     85.0       93.0       126.0            114.5                 114.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQREMNTS)      12B.0      130.0       144.0            128.6                 132.3
PROTEINS (CRANS PER D;-:7       95.0       93.0       100.0             89.7                  98.5
OF WHICH ANMAL AND PLSE       29.0       32.0        39.0 /d          34.5                  61.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE       10.0        4.6         2.0              5.2                   0.4
gALTEI
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (TEARS)     62.5       67.5        71.1             67.4                  74.9
INFANJT hDRT. RATE (PER 730)      88.0       56.0        34.0             54.2                  10.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (ZPOP)
TOTAL                                      ; n 
URBAN                           42.4 /e    62.0 7
RURAL                             ..       12.37e.
ACCESS TO EZCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..         ..
URBAN                             ..         ..
RURAL                             ..         ..
POPUtATION PER PHISICIAN        1620.0    1000.0        550.0           1065.8                 553.7
POP. PER NURSINC PERSON          630.0 If   410.0       280.0            764.4                 166.9
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          200.0      180.0       160.0            326.3                 120.8
URBAN                           90.0 /f   160.0       100.0 Ic         201.5                 143.1
RURAL                          1040.0 7    6io.o0    1840.0*-*
AMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..       17.3        18.2 Ic          20.0                  17.8
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                            4.0        3.8         3.8 /c
URBAN                            3.3        3.2         3.3 7Te
RURAL                            4.4        4.3         4.1 T.                   
AVERAGE NO. OF PMRO1NS/RO01
TOTAL                            1.6        1.4          .                 ..
URDAN                            1.7        1.3
RURAL                            1.5        1.5
ACCESS TO ELECT. CZ OF IELLIES)
TOXAL                           54.5       87.9
SURAN                           92.7       98.4
RURAL                           36.1       80.1



-22-                                                 A     I
SLLLU..h X                                      P!e 2 of 6
K       lO I 30N=   UTI U)
AW33 SUDOWIE XATIOB
PRMUS.  TOTAL                    111.0       106.0         °.0             101.1                  11.
1L*                    113.0      106.0        100.0             102.5                  103.0
VIMIS                  106.0      104.0        61.0               66.7                  101.7
UCOIAI!a TOMAL          'll.0                 63.0        53.0              53.1                   90.2
mmLl                    63.0       U.0          36.0              ".3                    64.6
Films                  s3.0        5.0         60.0               50.6                   17.1
VOCATZOnL (s 0r s0con)                ..        26.6        25.4              21.6                   17.9
ltPIL-TIACU3R LaTzo
FrDIAXT                           33.0        27.0        24.0              25.1                   20.2
*CN0111                           13.0        22.0        11.0              20.5                   15.0
£wL0   L  nZTAC! UTZ (S)            76.5       83.5         15.0              73.6                   99.1
FASEUUU CAwlUsI1AND M0r              3.0       35.4         A6.7               4.7                  367.2
UDDO 3Z    Ew Un   lP VW.9                     165.3       207.4             164.9                 1090.7
TV Eh6vKRhUOUsmI Po                  1.4        88.3       192.4             123.8                  451.0
NuWSPg.m CUDAIL 03113*2
1CZ) C          1CUIAI
Pn  T1001AND 1013T10              70.3        65.3       103.0 .i           96.3                  331.2
C01l1 ANL  ACMZM/CuAITA              7.1         4.2         3.5               2 .9                   3.6
TOTAL LA1OR FIORM (1303)          8302.0       636.0 8    9602.0 .
PUIAIZ (PIRCKUT)                  35.0        35.9        36.1              34.5                   36.2
AS3IUILU3.3 (CU=)                63.0        51.0        29.0              40.7                    6.2
0muST  (13t DT)                   18.0        23.0        35.0              23.3                   37.7
PAITICI1ATICS R311 (11 C101!
TOTAL                             45.1        43.4        42.4              42.9                   45.7
Z                                 Go40.0      56.6        54.'              54.7                   59.3
FEMIX                             30.9        30.6        30.0              31.0                   32.7
!COONIc UZIKUDNC  3RA10              0.6        o.s          0.8               0.9                    0.7
3613 wsuummE 
1CCUT 0F MXYA  ZN0M
RRMVZ n
110331? 5Sor 06WISiUL             16.4 hk    1.1          13.1 .
11015 20S or HOIICOLO             41 41      4 .4         38.7 J. .                                43.1
LOST 20I1 Or 101LS                6.9 h      6.6 7        6.6                ..                    5.4
LOWsZ 4001 OFODUSEUL               19.0 11         7  1S.4' 18.7 A            ..                   16.4
TAnD AISOLI PO0UTT 13C
LKVm (US:p HR CAPTA)
STD15A2CD 312.1111 103332 iUco
'Lan CU  PM CAPITA)
03.*                                .. . ..
ukAL                                ..          ..       530.0
zBT15AnZD POP. 311.01 A380OL13M
POLT DC=          CLIs()
031*3........
RURAL~~,                              ..        53.
ror AV*LM
OTZ S
/a  mm        averqae for each Inicator are populationa-wagbtd aritIetic usa. CoveraP of countries aOms the
iniltatoa dep_mia a avaolablity of data and Is not  ifo
Ab  UmIe" othere  .mtad, -hat  for 1l60 refer to amy year betwem 1959 and 1961; 'Dta for 1970 between 1969 and
1971: ad data for 'Rest hcmt Wstlate betwem  19S0 and 1982.
le  1976; Id 3977; le I!reat of ccupied   _ullip mgrbh ppd eater; If 1962; jL 1975; /A 1978; 11 1979; /j Including
.rant emrdeabrod; A  1963; h 1966.
JUN. 1984



-23-                                                              ~~~~~ANNEX I
Sr SOCIAl. 15550*053Page    3   of                                                             6
eeqsrbla bureau   uS t NO ela at sisrdissd deisi  s   i  ca-ae. seed by diif-aei eussri. . isctieectt  the dee..  Ml   eer.  casbl... eefa  Sm
deecsths -rdar  F5e5ise         Iblisap.  -,Ai.. aid s-resrsc             .si  -eJ.r JLFEer.sr   h-.s.aa  _essis..
The  rateaoe  Ir-eP. are ill she  is  rosuls  sflp 55 55  subje.t Ossity  Me  ill. ceaeiq  Reu  wish  .ctsa   hither a-ri. ice   sham   h. -aan, sea  uP it.
es 'er  aues  (ea tenP.c  lsih lIs-  slIt Sspartssn  grup whre '155551. le-. barth Aisles aMd Kiddie  as   isW L.         se  he-icue.1 *teemrR       siseeiu
aellsts L-)        Z             &. I  h   esrue aP deS. 'hr  -crs  r  pirst1ld  seisbea  srtstsetiC - sea.Si ears it-icse   ai  55es  s.Ip  aP  -I-eICY  f Sb. eaaeirie  lb
ar-P ha. dZs  ta   tridstt.  qitor  the esuers  ct -esla   ms  tht  Wldpteto depesd. -  te  aao."Itahlsttp at dai  and   s-I asPwf                        teti.  sea. t is
...rrisd L. aelsauae  1as  ted1ruser ts  seise.-   These a-ara5.  itealy setfrse  is teup.ri    test oat.. ci a  Sssdiasts  at   5. tiseesigf eha anr  ssd
ORf (ih.ca.  oa.he.lI fr3lfs                                                                                         ir5as - Pursiets. dIid.d& by   P. e leheo praetteir
I10T s.  1445 dusa.                                                                           ?l55yp y Vri.jtca   - Ps,ui.tsas dtrad by  .ste  at patietitie
ar -a-11. patuel-..efi cM       d kisehe  safs e  sed ii.11 fallen                            M  451.  trutas aasipieerie..
-lk-t  W lLtICk- 9-*-  - t- that  ad rtesdli.ld b  teirresie us ass.r a  tem-al  ed
ISp rem eyiltA t!il            e  espits euist:c- as crest  o-r..  price.. asaiebse is Pebti  aid priest. essasrI teWpeiie  haaptts1  W.
,115Q. Ilia. asS 5551 dana.                                                                       by .i ledas  a  psrarl. tiatab1lehucec  ~rrdlssi gss.aptipii  macaset
i.e...  u.s  eetuie.  butl. hasr.iiel. beasl.t5  tered  kseli  0.
mIs?  suueegs *WU CWI  aR PIT  - eneas eppsriei c-esqisa   et racit1                               sdeI       ue,seP;e-..uesl  nuttd by a phy.let.s (hu  hV i  shote.
peL-lar  esiry  'asiA Letuite. rerls..auara  as. aid hyle.-                    - earirae.tt.c  a_a5s. .Iic.ae.   bueala  IPtwpieat etce-PatiSs fle
end 5atharet etitrielc) te  liss   O .5 1 al  .eiasb   a  eyi;  S                        PreciS  a halted raass at etitrit  raeiieus
57.as   i t di.                                                                        adiscs  a   lsrtltd - Te-t swwer                            L.insis   i  rdshru
Pfafihatsnd-ertsseue                                at 1 Ist is  ie. 5PT5. an  tiM11           "1slIst
Luerse  ire  t Osaussal Crr-s  pertsns 4sld  -  Pteed,  ra.. e    ao
Uris ". P  `sltlas cretrea  o  tesail - bile or ath.. us tuual psyuttsu;                          - A Osusaadaacee     teru   esai   h  shea-IM!..51 osose
dlIeSsne  deittleias  aW  -r.s  ir-  sy Otre.s sarehiiity if data                              as  thei  nei a. aI.       hairier at Mild5  se  assa ati  tnldsd is
Wt ~ ~    2000 - Cartue   baeate  rlciss   r               " as 15Wsfpuee  parPtee  is itt sre.5  s  tutu  seisd aasseeIl
*esIU    -l~      Yee Pi  so. -Ad ibsr  -seiu, dad  .Are Uit,                                 -etts.  .rae.l.heies   sld  nAcV--pe t  se.- -re  sAt
rets.- Prajsataa P-tC.s   at1 es.eIftyrae  caueli      ihbs                                  awsipid pat..
la_ci  as_adft  uSe. swa..ya  b"htreb          -  ir slu   ties   ea .ir  per              Aeee - citicrli    rs s at d-euSti----oaa.us..u    ae
ce   stsr.  tassel  seat Pals  ills aspueesa   oihiiss   si .1                            _inntoei dclii  wth4._ elrrttly   5. iwesqetue  spa
Tear .Th  pVrecer  fur Persiltts  rot  else bee  Ctut   L-si                             ar tstel. urhe. an  tote  daeliegw  rpeeletiesl.
asisghurtl. I- Census  eaedis  ts issn  leas  s.d eat fastL,
Plain.1 pa1rSure-s.  lath si . -     the  . aeismd -   eSiee. tes                        tOWAttt
eahoiia   at mata.ti  ad rersilsr tMeS   Sec trat   seas                             tussi   Psrsiu  nise
iterawer asetilet- Is et  is eSss sIw- Md sseee-stir rifUer                               Pror       =rs.l- te-t od  ai  See.i - C-sd  tacit, sets e Sal
reprdeeseetratil.   s wthP pepuiettes  the hire.  rat   iuceens                        rcs sdjusted ta  difrerM taath  et pt.ic  euts re
srseo  ret  Tsers   he sitiasry pepalcati   stt  e   uisco    thesns.a   papii   r  hen1e er    ekesth  efticie  edt Me..
ispei  'th  tis- that  rceuoi.i.t Sree1it  ta  baaa as--td; cues                               iwytia woall, up2 it ta  7 ta.o   s;acepuss  eae
Lu.eae ete  te nc  errdetis rteba  re-aaelw.ic                         -wsrli  .twewe.
eass.5eppiatiaIn  he.ea I      t 5  eauodiersel. the                               teitlsuat teolstt  rrc.t Suiaie                    - lattitas    -issietie
elttatr  lseteirpppL-sa  iC. ehe carsie  i L. the  ear  It...ee                       is-Lsel                                    P.tnii,te4tie,a  1-trese  chid  spaesf
Per-    -s.usc -re toa  tes-d  Ceerta  a  Ot.ta  S.c aei.telat-ctoe                            a p-rweAia   ci itatl adul pipelia  essd It rsae  a  nar
ass~swas.  uG ad is Ste.cuildr-  5555 teatw. -ekL______
bh y.eo.  aidreird ill react ad earl atprtt                   t thd-ye                        Peasasso  Cantr   haedseuits                    ae   sure ceqtte   dPea
perLaslee   1950. 5470. -Jd II62 dais.                                                         its.  -eieam     tha  e5st  Ws l   cus   taes  heets   ad
peasIete  Creth beta(sisa) - t-s   - An-t attac   rae. .5 totl Md-                                ,tiss".     bel.
parueste. tr sld-S   nO-St.s.  sl- I-.                                                  eaieaedtteece1fctnre.el nyer as                        satietao  i    ef rm.
tesS. leach Sate teat rheeae) -   - ant-des btr t5sedu  st-veerf t1c br tasr   tlee tissd. asmlacea V- -5 resessPt b radwastbi .t
pwplese   IIS  ile, ass us?  date.                                                              g atpb.It par tlsei   eattas   ses.atlsd  5teea
Peres-t rpeaeetsa   ari  I -he euerses  pes -1                                       TVtt.    batweere   Cieteta  free  IhVsdeasat  -   Ses Sb sasra          M
Sersttyras.  eeeip   it-garie.agu  esia  s  toe.s-as5  sssireiea  atW P.,5 hse.ro  taseawue esesmer   deta Va  a peLa
te   tfeste-Aecete.  aese   Cccsaei)                                                     M n.eara   t.ae  . i  he -dtiytA itLt ep-ac at IPeet ts    taamsh- 
rasl etae  - net terr.s at tereSe                   Iso  -           Ccrasd  uSntldebit  ssc
flu    e chid-.1.ia  a4  u.e    rieittsee5 -   des .teaeid  it
thl-.ere    ew ae-eret,  ,mcaed ift.esnwu   a                            ~lfL                     ee  ceuee   tcmaeesltw  alas pan-. teUAledi    e.sud
FO  wetttM   eeItreeis   sI  eeardts   te   g   rMlci   i                                                            [egmiye  hut eutidtt JM etes,seges,t. tsc
`_4 I.-                           ".~~~~~~~~~~eeltsifeiieo   lwsiei ene  ercs-a
t MP-&a Vmstcylcq                                                                                aspesbte;slAd    Si sbd lI.- dat. f fk              -.%t
s.aad  t ettsat weractrde-  pric  eelsbt; IOU1-At. Ism'. ad intadiU   a.
date.)-    -. ,                                                                               Pet-tate  Sat -aisst     - ttt. -al . a                 Case   L- Pitstna  at
L:Mset erl .r reoa..  PE;re  at I..: .ewtrnssL.eL -   Osesutd P          pe                  atetasty        stsar     -oe.  as teat. seiagus  ttE .a11      Pure
eeitj  astselea  at -   -Pee  spp.a  e-wi sabl  t. retrypr ete   e                             pecetae I'.1" mtl,g ea-  seal tal   beatui  at siM             a  ueeua
Woet.a    tlseeg. is  ta.  Sac wappitee eseLea  iese.l fea. icds.                         retz c.leW if-was s            Psir r the p"palaitas  Wi laq tste  inS. A
sseshctEa se- oed d-E-    reeesig.as   leo.    destruhe-so.  isuira                             Preutistee ac  fce  -.t-ma  ese.
ate  -. astises  by F.*  -aae  --ersasistewd   t I                 -1                        Peei tseaadaae  ti  - ltis of pwplatma aide  it ad 01 ad -l to
ret tetcs ser tr  t tcet (ii          a)-taei   et-   rr crtwtle t    .ta (es  waha    i) - vetasse   byea  
ea rs. :et "i rat day.  ,ateasl  et tad isdla   aac-.4                                   ecs  rieen  bptseepet 20               W ease   5 tee   ASpems   Cf
ettitea    S  I are   It total pretele pet deY   d IC  res  eP ail a
L-lut peseets. sP assithLi-I.fre .1essewidhe atist prete-es.  ibsuelPOrtER ra  Ier.car
at astee   -rtt as  -s eesa  ts  the  -sLi.  -teasd by taO ie the                               stals be teterrecd etch cesde..eble casts_
deta.                                                                       s~~~~~~~~P  --t  .ttstdible-t.                            .   _ewP--pe
cssactla  d.. detad -w  liltsbe;tt. I(5. 9.10 aid 1061 dee.                                     rtoaletalheb tosty..                  - Urlalwt a doctod Pa the reie
are tec-attay at etrc  (star.) -  tct ao   p  er   t  t.c Stot                                     eeM.ri-rts.i  eaa  e  Seheen1eet  ic t    helc
tuae  at-eLceR. Sat ;frt shese) -deu-L deatla eS tcts.c  Mdr 
=e Sae  e   seas   b   ni-cte  bli. Li7i ad tOS. dta
nt peatlat latr cetia efM cereltl  -t   te-    orhac4 Wnd total -
erbs its. C pahLt Pasua-   c    uta Cdpae  l-etad wa esr  thee te  a
wn    esu, eq ctsi cuoelce-   ble tetee. lreieas.   atese.l at chub
tkseheec et the- tssaeetd . - thear toaadaSecytt             iast ca  peat at:C
teeda  15       byteu  tIeb. Pau-5Ch.uMeuter  tsede.



-24 -
IWrof 6
-WU - OCE   C
pldmiz  3.0 oU1im (d-18M3)
GN Pw Cpitu 112.570 1983)
---~~~~~~~u  ,,,ur. h a)--
(dtwUmi ial a)                                           t Pso
1913         1979   1910    1961   1982   1963            b/ 195    1       967   19      1       1
IIIL -s
i   bebx  ^/o&wc           45.131          4.2    2.3     1.      0.5   -1.3    2.1    2.6    3.0    3.1    3.2    3.2    3.3
Apiaibz                   7,05           5.4    0.0    2.8    7A    -1.0    1.9    2.0    2.5    2.5    2.6    2.7    2.7
7Id0                     22,Y&1          8.5    3.2    2.2   -1.1   -1.9    6.3    2.6    3.5    3.3    3.2    3.1    3.1
SUdrn.                   15.70           3.1    4.6     0.0    0.7   -0.6   -3.8    3.4    3.0    3.1    3.3    3.4    3.4
oZuatia                    30,966         3.0    0.6   -1.7   0o     -0.4   -1.0    0.5    2.1    2.5    3.0    3.3    3.4
-     m t _mot                14,0l U.A   -6.    -0.5   -L3    -5.9   -4.7    2.6    4.2    3.6    3.1    3.0    3.0
0y esof CM                 13,095         12.7   1OA      0.5  -11.5   -0.7   10.0    5.3    4.4    4.5    5.0    4.9    4.6
bada of QWs                12,992         11.    -6.6  -IOA   -15.3   -5.6    4.8    1.3    3.1    3.9    4.7    5.0    4.8
Gkum  umui MAW             14,251         2.0    3.0   -6.0   -0.6   -0.7   -3.9    3.6    4J           4.0    2.0    2.3    2.7
-dd1ana    (1982 -00)         145.2       41.6   54.2   76.0  0W.0   145.2  2293   3a3.3  472.2  608   733.3  854.2  955.8
_ ur                          92.8        19.0  27.6   35.0   50.3   92.8  152.8  203.6  262.9  312.6  356.4  3W.5  4(L9
--n of (  St '-t P       ( ZC                           b.m  Amal 1m  CZ)
(at a)wt                                             (at intut p    )
1960   1970    1975       0     15    1990              29W-7  1970-75  97540-19869 5  1985-0
am= uue dc P nadct af    10.0  100.0    10.0  I0.0    10.0   100.0                   5.9      6.5     4.1      1.0      3.1
ecu1ti                  22.5   16.1    13.8  U11         15.3    15.6               3.3     2.9      2.0     2.4      2.5
mn&utcy                 42.2   37.4    (4.3   40.5    3Z.5    34.2                 6.3      8.3      7.5     1.5      3.2
s-zvims                 29.0   38.1    33.1   35.8    3Z.5    33.7                 6.9      4.7     4.9    -0.8       3.2
67.2   72.8    74.3   68.7    67.1    66.5                 6.5     6.9      6.3    -0.3      2.6
GM0uinnubm                36.5   32.3    33.5   31.1    3L.7    32.7                 4.7      5.5     5b      -2.9      3.3
facts cS                  13.9   18.5    20.2   29.7    21.9    25.2                10.2      6.7     5.2      0.6      4.8
botCU GUS                 17.5   23.5    28.0   29.5    2D.7    24.4                 9.8      6.7     5.0    -6.6      3.9
GM &    ima m mngu.  uinwis  32.6   29.6    25.6   28.5    31.8    33.7              5.3      6.2     3.2    -1.4       3.2
As Z of GO
1I6     L970    1975   1910    i981    183
Tan  _a1rn                27.9   33.1    36.8  3X.0    32.3    31.8
_C1 aiit.m                24L1    33.2    37.2   34.6    31.6    31.5
Iuplns (.) o    cit (-)   +3.8   -0.1    -OA    -0.6    40.7    40.3
1960-70 1970-75  197540 19805  1985-W
amm umrmu
w  guih cm CZ)             6.1    6.7      6.0    0.2       3.1
GP p   cqra g-M urn        5.0    5.8      5.1   -0.7       2.2
11s                        5.4    4.6      5.6   30.2      7.2
at elcit,                  1.6    1.0      L2    -6.6       1.3
a/ At       Pam; Cta ome       eitnm ed at      cost ad wii wt add ui to total dm to ew-huimi of na ialirsc twa. It" fipze is  at
- aaN1e with thie OW pw cpits.        aba duse   g the 11brld tuik  imss  di-a.
Ny 3. 1985



-25-                                                                     1
Pae 5 of 6
AA - ERUL Wam
Ppulationu 23.0 milliort (u-1963)
GM Per Cpwita. 1S$2,570 (1983)
Amul CL=ft Rates (Z)
(uL1Lion MS at                                    (at constant pricen) d/
Tzdiatr           ores        )               bDctu                            -          -          -     t.
(1983)         1979     1960   1981   1982    1983     1964 */ 1985    1966   1987    198B    1989    1990
Hercbm,*ise eqmrca      9,693          1.6    10.9    4.5    -9.4       2.5     8.4     4.7     4.6     4.8     5.2     5.0    4.8
Priumy at                  1,829          -0.8    10.5  -17.5   -2.3    11.3    8.3        4.6     5.0     5.1    5.3      5.1    4.9
_lva_cturea b/             7,864           2.4    12.4    11      -9.8     0.2     8.4     4.6     4.6     4.7     5.2     5.0    4.8
Mdwaiie  vwtID               11,825         18.0  -10.5   -12.3   -14.0   -4.7       4.2     1.3     3.1     3.9    4.7      5.0    4.8
Food                         520          56.9   -2.7   -15.0  -14.9   -7.1        4.6     1.4     3.2     3.9    4.7      5.0    4.9
PetroLeam c/               3,221          10.6   -3.1    -9.4      0.3     5.8     4.0     0.8     3.1     3.9    4.7      5.0     4.8
!ihiy  awld eqipest        3,039          2.7   -21.7   -22.5   -19.2  -24.0       4.2     1.4     3.1     3.9    4.7      5.0    4.8
Odwees                     5,015          10.8   -3.8    -7.3   -18.6      2.4     4.3     1.4     3.1     3.9    4.7      5.0    4.8
1RI5 (1982 - 100)
price, iex                  98          72      86      93     100      98      95      92      99     106     113      121     131
T1Cat pde i;z                 1C0O        74      89      98      t00    100      103      96     102     109     12D     13      140
le   of Ieiule                  98.0        97.3    S6.6'  94.9   100.0   98.0   92.2    96.7    97.0   96.8   94.7   93.5    93.0
0pitio  of )kdidlie Trae (Z)                                 verge Axud .1 zee (2)
(at curet prics)                                         (at c nta   pricn)
1m60    1970    1975      1960    1985      1990             1960-70  1970-75  1975-80 1960085  1905-90
Ecportt 100.0    IO.0   1W0.0                                   MO    U100.0    10.0                8.1      5.7      2.9     2.3     4.9
Primy at                          49.6    29.4       19.5    21.5      16.9    174                 -      -1.3      4.2     1.3     5.0
1. cturea bt                       50.4    70.6    80.5    78.5    83.1    82.6                    -       8.1      2.3     3.0     4.8
lpet                               100.0    tO.      1O.O   tC0.0    1OD0    100.0                  9.0      7.4      4.0   -6.4      4.3
F<od                               9.1      7.2      5.5      7.0      6.5      6.6                -       5.0      8.7   -6.7      4.3
PetDomm C/                         54       4.8    12.3      23.6     19.6    19.6                 -       8.2      B.7     0.3    4.2
tahimuyw led Np.t                  36.8    33.2    33.9       2B.1    28.2    28.1                 -       9.4      1.8   -15.2    4.3
Odverv                            48.7    54.8    48.3    41.3    45.6    45.7                     -       6.0      2.6   -4.4    4.3
are of Trade vith      9        m  Of Trde f1ih       S3ie of Mmd with Capital         Sre of 1ide with
Izkatria1 CGatrie  CZ)        D          Caitres C)       surplus Oil Peptrs CZ)    Grtrally Plmmed Dmma. (2)
1965   1970    1980    1984    1965   1970   19B0   W964  1965   1970   19H0   1984    1965   1970   1960   1964
Eqrcs              40.1   53.3    37.4    36.5    174   U.6    8.2    7.8   0.4    0.7    8.1    8.6   42.1   32.4   46.3   47.1
Prity            61.0   70.2      -       -       9.1    8.2    -      -     0.2    0.2    -       -      29.7   21.A   24.0     -
:koaftuea         F4.0   41.9    25.0     -      23.8   17.2   18.    -       0.6    1.0    4.0    -      5t.6   39.9   53.0     -
TOP-Ts             55.3   66.1    52.8    44.7   16.0   12.7    6.9    4.8   0.1    0.1   10.2   17.8   28.6   21.1   30.1   32.7
a/ SllM: 0-4
b/ S1C 5-8
cl SfC 3; inclm   Luricants, coad ad electiitiy.
dl Projected yes at cartmn 1982 prices; for historical  rs be yew prices are dwme of the preceding vear.
at   0 .imt.
16696
aMM ic
Mw 3. 1985



-26                                                               kuI
6 ef 6
nx -AYPA - BN           PAIW, EDOUL CAITL AJeD 1
Cu9S ui0ifm)
Pkp:atia   23.0  uilUin (d-1983)
aW Paw Capita: us2,570 (1983)
-1979    1960            1962    L963                                         Mg6             - 91965    1966    17  98    19    19I0
IUZI 0W
39ita of   -avd smvices                   14.526  18.09B  19,515  18.352  16,535  17,35 6 16,669              MA, N 28.066  22,311   A.81  27,717
of hdid-   )dimxise f.o.b.               6.794   8.97  1,205   9,923   9,693  10,254  U,021  12.336  13u,36  15,567  17,557  19,777
Iqiocta of pad.    o mvic                 18,187  20.389  2D,461  18,976  16,3Z2  16,82  15,169  17,22   18,8e2  21.313  23,963  26,819
oE whic:    Mt,modiae c.i.f.            14.019  15.06,  14,528  12,751  11,115  U,993  U,2    14.549  16,287    8,568  21,169  23,979
bw.mm                      -3,661  -2,29L    -946    -4S         211     50     1-1D   1,00    l,Zf        996      896     US
apital inf;n (nec)                         2.519   2423   1.18.    -365    -256         30    -480    -6        -862    -65      -55      -58
qpu  in re                                 1,362    -13Z    -238   1,012        55    -534    -330    -360    -340    -360    -31D0   -340
BntutAtirna temmmcs b/                     2,319   2,451   2,689   1,677   1,622   2,156   2,456   2,796   3,136   3,476   3.816   4.156
OfE    : Gild loff         valuation)       73      78       78      78       78      73       78      73       78       7d      78       78
amz        a a iqx xta l.9                             1.6      1.7     1.1      1.2     1.5      1.8     1.       1.9     1.9   I.8         1.8
EmER CAL pMD Mir
Ixm  disbacwmnts, tEF                      3,891   4.596   3,1D7   2,314   3.710   2,978
Official ctmlitB                           519     676      712     4n7      558   1,142
abtilatu                               318s    Ms       218    3YA       292      745
9 n                                 294     281      218     33D      292     406
Billated                               201     368      494      128     266     397
Private uxsito mad m-gui eed             3,372   3,92D   2,395   1.843   3,152  I1,36
Ektem1 ddt
Debt atstmWizg and
disburgd c/                           15,170   19,15   19,868  20,016  2D,516  2,06
Debt aervka d/
Total sv2ra pujints                      2,582   3,357   4,008   4,006   4,529   5,121
interet                                 821   1,281    1,9B7   2,01.9   1,688   1A%
icdtatimx                              1,761   2,076   2,021   1,957   2,%11   3,267
Pamta          oc m 2                       17.8    18.5  20.5    21.8    274    39.5
Aage interest xte ac new lns CZ) el          7.5    15.0    12.5    14.5    10.9    10.7
Auece    a_turiLy of  .n 1     (years)        14.9     8.9    11.7      9.6    10.9    10.0
a/ &"imxm..
S1    -gim pg        fncigp aoseca of      1  bairn.
dl Deb iite elclbxs    iatimr      i and iua reat m d ct        e dtad   -ct editexta"by  oinsavia.
Public and pblicly gaurte  d         o nly.
1669
1rn IC
Hay 3, 1985



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
As of March 31, 1985
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
US* Million
Amount (Less
Loan   Fiscal                                                    Cancellations
No.    Year      Borrower(s)              Purpose           Bank   Undisbursed
Fifty-two loans fully disbursed                1,880.9       -
916     1973  NAFTAGAS                Gas Pipeline               59.4       2.9
1360    1977  METOHIJA                Multipurpose Water         54.0       9.5
1561    1978  Elektroprivreda Bosnia Hydropower                  73.0       3.3
1561-1  1984  Elektroprivreda Bosnia Mostar Suppl. Loan          61.0      53.6
1621    1979  Privredna Banka         Bosanska Krajina
Sarajevo                Agric/Agroind.          55.0       7.2
1678    1979  Five Road Org.          Highways X               148.0        3.1
1756    1980  Zagrebacka Banka        Croatia Sava Drainage    51.0        14.1
1768    1980  Port of Bar             E'quake Rehab-Bar Port   35.0         5.0
1769    1980  Montenegro Railway Org E'quake Rehab-Railways   14.0           .05
1801    1980  Vojvodjanska Banka      Agric. Credit III         86.0       30.1
1819    1980  Four Road Org.          Highways XI              125.0       24.4
1909    1981  Kosovska Banka
Pristini              Industrial Credit V       50.0      22.6
1910    1981  Privredna Banka
Sarajevo              Industrial Credit V       30.0       2.4
1911    1981  Investiciona Banka
Titograd              Industrial Credit V       20.0       4.4
1912    1981  Stopanska Banka Skopje Industrial Credit V        10.0        0.3
1951    1981  Investbanka             Agr/Agroindustries        87.0       52.1
1977    1981  Pristina Railway Org.  Railways                   34.0       17.2
1993    1981  Kosovska Banka
Pristina              Agric/Agroindustries      90.0      65.7
2039    1982  Stopanska Banka Skopje Agriculture                80.0       56.7
2055    1982  Radna Org. Vodovod      Kosovo Water Supply       23.0        2.4
2132    1982  Privredna Banka
Sarajevo              Industrial Credit VI      33.0      18.4
2133    1982  Stopauska Banka Skopje Industrial Credit VI       33.0       19.9
2136    1982  Privredna Banka
Sarajevo             Agriculture Dev.           23.3      12.4
2161    1982  Privredna Banka         Drainage                  26.1       18.6
Sarajevo
2233    1983  Reg. Work Org. KOMPRED Tuzla Water Supply          19.7      15.8
2306    1983  Kosovska Banka
Pristina              Kosovo Regional Devt.    79.0       73.4



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
US* Million
Amount (Less
Loan     Fiscal                                                Cancellations)
No.     Year     Borrower(s)              Purpose          Bank   Undisbursed
2307     1983 Udruzena Beogradska
Banka                Serbia Regional Devt.   136.0      124.7
2326     1983 Udruzena Beogradska
Bank                 Structural Adjustment   275.0       31.8
2336     1984 Four Railway Org.      Railways VI              110.0      98.2
2338     1984 Eight Power Org.       Power Transmission III  115.0      113.6
2339     1984 Kosovska Banka
Pristina             Industrial Credit VII    45.0       44.9
2340     1984 Investiciona Banka
Titograd             Industrial Credit VII    25.0       23.6
2410 /1  1984 Vojvodjanska Banka     Fertilizer Sector         90.0      90.0
2467 72  1985 Investiciona Banka     Montenegro Reg'l Devt.   40.0       40.0
Total (less cancellations)                     4116.4 /3
Of which:  Repaid                             920.8
Total Outstanding                              3195.6
Amount Sold                          9.2
Of Which:  Repaid                 9.2           -
Total now held by the Bank                     3195.6
Total undisbursed                                        1102.4
/1 Not yet signed.
/2 Not yet effective.
/3 In addition to the above loans, a $125 million loan for the Visegrad
Hydroelectric Project was approved by the Board on April 30, 1985.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1985)
Fiscal                                          Type of        Amount in USt Mln
Year             Obligor                       Business       Loan Equity Total
1970   Internat'l Investment Corp.    Investment Corporation   -    2.0    2.0
1970/ Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat
1980     S.p.A.                        Automotive Industry      12.4  0.6   13.0
1971/  Tovarna Automobilov in
1980     Motoriev Maribor (TAM)
Klockner-Humboldt Deutz A.G. Automotive Industry        9.2  0.9   10.1
1972/ FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler
1980     Benz A.G.                     Automotive Industry      16.3  0.8   17.1
1972/  Sava Semperit                   Tires                    12.5  2.5   15.0
1978/
1980
1973   Belisce-Bel Tvornica Papira    Pulp and Paper            70.9  -      70.9
1974   Zelezarna Jesenica/ARMCO        Special Stepl            10.0  -      10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                  Cement Plant             10.0  -      10.0
1975   RMK Zenica                      Steel                    50.0  -      50.0
1977   Frikom RO Industrija Smrnzute
Urane/Unilever                Food/Food Processing      4.0  2.4    6.4
1977   Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze    Pulp/Paper Products       15.6  2.6   18.2
1978   Soko-Mostar                     Hermetic Compressors      7.0  -       7.0
1980   Investiciona Banka Titograd    Tourism                   21.0  -      21.0
1980   Radoje Dakic                    Machinery                18.7  -      18.7
1980   Eight Republican/Provincial
Banks                         Small-scale Enterprise  30.2  -      30.2
1982   Igalo                           Physical Medicine Ctr.  14.1  -       14.1
1982   Industrija za automobilski
Delovi I Traktori             Motor Vehicle Accessory 10.6  -       10.6
1983   LBZB                            Development Finance      31.4  -      31.4
1985   ISKRA                           Telecommunications       22.9  -      22.9
1985   Ina-Naftaplin                   Chem. and Petrochem.    37.8  -       37.8
Total Gross Commitments                                 404.6 11.8  416.4
Less: Cancellations, terminations, exchange
adjustments, repayment and sales               230.3  5.2  235.5
Total commitments held by IFC                           174.3  6.6  180.9
Total undisbursed held by IFC                            18.3  0.8   19.1



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
YUGOSLAVIA
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA FORESTRY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHIEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)    Project first presented to the Bank:      April 1980
(b)    Time taken to prepare the project:         3.5 years
(c)   Agency which prepared the project:          SIPAD, with assistance from
the FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Program.
(d)    First Bank mission to review the
project;                                1981
[e)    Departure of Appraisal Mission:            September 1, 1983
(f)    Completion of negotiations:               March 20, 1985
(g)    Planned Date of Effectiveness:            October 30, 1985
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
Loan Effectiveness
(i)     Establishment of the Project Unit and appointment of a Project
Director and road engineer to the Project Unit (para. 44).
(ii)   Execution of the Implementation Agreement by the participating
enterprises (para. 40).



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Other
(a)   By December 31, 1989, PBS to increase its Mutual Liability Fund
amount available for loan write-off to 3Z of its loan
portfolio. PBS to ensure that its arrears do not exceed 3Z of
its loan portfolio (para. 42).
(b)   By November 30, 1985, SIPAD-IRC SILVA BOAL to employ a forest
genetics consultant for about five months. Technical
fellowships and study tours to be completed by December 31, 1988
(para. 45).
(c)   By January 31 of each year, subborrowers to furnish PBS with
updated schedules of expenditures and financing plans and
subproject progress and completion reports (para. 46). By
February 28 of each year, PBS to furnish to the Bank an updated
financing plan, including a revised schedule of estimated
expenditures, taking into account the effects of inflation
(para. 48).
(d)   PBS to maintain procedures adequate to monitor the financial
condition of subborrowers (para. 47).
(e)   SIPAD and KRIVAJA to facilitate subborrowers' charging prices
for wood products which are adequate to cover operating costs
and financial requirements. By March 1, SIPAD and KRIVAJA to
review and furnish to the Bank and to PBS if it so requests, a
report regarding-such prices (para. 55).



IBRD t81SOF
1 '                       17-                         8.                        19                          0'                       21
*N         BeLOucL                                                                                                                              e]
RIAN)A    Toslic                           5       SERIA          YUGOSLAVIA
T ffie|@OATANVAR,                                                      B T 1IN  l  S  ,  g   aOSNIA- HERZEGOVINA
42 8                                                      FORESTRY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
A/                                             REPUBLIC FORE8TS
CROATIA  SOS."                                                                  Zyavnil. ~~IDOICIAND
C 4ROATIA                                                   toS           w  /51;0 '  ,p  \KIA  t.Y 's4 tADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARIES
CROA <,  TI\^ 4A PO.i*s.
NAN  * SQSRQNI                       (Imt Ic _iik FIA%)
;LAMOC.                                                                                              $10Al Rfrn Map NE4jmbet
, \   #  X   o     wo    *o    ep        o    loo                   .Oubto*si *2 *f ___________
.IOR    . ,           *0    1i                                 *    ?     Oubiuibk                                                             R in.  BoundariEs
fl    ifl  MI  tAR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ifroto oudto
AN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0
17'~ ~~~';1                                                                                           HUNG2ARY 
.436  N                                                                                   439                                 MMAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IA



IBAD l7b70Rl
1o                                          1a~~~~~~~~Io-l -2.2
ISKA                                                                                               43--~~~~~~~~~UO8A   I
/                  ~~~BOSNIA - HERZEGOVINA
FORESTRY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
A10C                                                                        Fd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aflcipttl  KAIVAJA locs
Ku                 V&R I                                                      PartidpatiogIIS  ~    SIPAD took        44
APaible Treubd Canitor
.          (~~~) ~SPAD Reforamc Map Nwffber
*  Adriatic    Sea                                                                                         I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IJ*,  H~wstAmikraie IZGOVIAs
43-                                            NNI
KILOMITECS                                                                                                         - -~~~~~~~ON EN GR
00 
~~~~~61~~~~~~~-
I,.          20                  *,..~~~~~~~~.   ~~   AY Ge



