Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
1W/f a? gC - fr'L
RePoftNe. 5253-IU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
BOSNIA-HERZECOVINA FORESTRY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
May 6, 1985
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
iThis docient has a rdstiiesd ditotns on so t andse ue  by weipitot odyin Dane pauftorma  of
t deir offical dudes. Its coknts ouq not otherwmo  be disdosed winto  Wadd Bank tuftofzdio .



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
December 1983 (Aoora¶sal)   FebruarX 28. 1985 1/
US$1       Dinars (Din) 125.0            Otnars (Din) 250.0
Din 1      US$0.0080                     US$0.0040
WEIGHTS ANO MEASURES
(metric system)
1 meter (m)                                              1.09 yards
1 square meter (m2)                                      10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)                                         0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)              =                  0.384 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                                           2.47 ac:es
1 liter (1)                                              0.264 US gallons
1 hectoliter (hl)                                        100 liters
1 cubic meter (m3=                                       1.31 cubic yards
1 kilogram (kg)                                          2.20 pounds
1 metric ton (m ton) = 1.000 kg       =                  0.98 long tons
ABBREVIATIONS
AAC        -   Annual Allowable Cut
B          -   Billion
BB         -   Basic Banks
BOAL       -   Basic Organization of Associated Labor
COAL       -   Compound Organization of Associated Labor
FAO/WB CP  -   FAO-World Bank Cooperative Program
FEA        -   Forest Economic Area
FMU        -   Forest Management Unit
FFLOR      -   Federal Fund for the Oevelopment of Less Developed Regions
GMP        -   Gross Material Product
ICB        -   International Competitive Bidding
KRIVAJA    -   COAL covering wood production. mechanical wood processing.
manufacture and trade.
LCB        -   Local Competitive Bidding
LID        -   Limited International Bidding
H          -   Million
MAI        -   Mean Annual Increment
MLF         -   Mutual Liability Fund
PBS        -   Privredna Banka Sarajevo
PCB        -   Project Coordinating Board
PCR        -   Project Completion Report
PIF        -   Project Implementation File
PU         -   Project Unit
SOK        -   Social Accounting Service
SIPAD      -   COAL covering wood production. mechanical wood processing.
manufacture and trade.
SFRY       -   Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
SMA        -   Self Management Agreement
SRBH       -   Socialist Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina
TOR        -   Terms of Reference
UNICEP     -   COAL involved in pulpwood production, chemical wood
processing (pulp & paper) and trade
WO          -   Work Organization
m3         -   Cubic meters wood volume.  Except where stated otherwise.
all wood %olumes in the report are in terms of net
utilizable volume (under bark).
YUGOSLAV FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
1/ In the appraisal report the exchange rate of Din 250.00 to the dollar
was used.



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA FORESTRY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Table of Contents
PaRe No.
I.    INTRODUCTION
Economic Situation and Government Goals ............................. 1
Forestry in Yugoslavia .............................................. 1
Forestry in Bosaia-Herzegovina ...................................... 2
Bank Group Strategy in the Agricultural and Forestry Sectors ........ 3
Performance in the Republic Under Previous World Bank Projects ...... 4
Project Need, Concept and Objectives ................................ 4
II.   FORESTRY IN BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
A. The Forest Resource and its Management             . . . .   5
The Forest Resource                     ....  5
Forest Management .     .     ........................................... 6
Reforestation/Afforestation and Nurseries           . . .   7
B. Forest Production .     .      ............................ ................. 7
Forest Roads .     .      .............................................   7
Logging               ......     ........................................ .. 8
C. Forestry Institutions .     .     .......................................... 8
Industrial Integration .    .     ...................................... 8
SIPAD and KRIVAJA COALs .    .     ..................................... 8
Training, Research, Planning and Design           . . .    9
D. Forest Industries ...............................................   9
E. Privedna Banka Sarajevo .    .     ........................................ 10
III.  THE PROJECT AREA
A. Location .......................................  12
B. Topography and Climate ...................................... 12
C. Geology and Soils ......................................          13
D. Project Forests ...................................... 13
IV.  THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Suimmary Description .............................. 14
B. Detailed Features ......................................          14
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission to Yugoslavia in
December 1983 comprising Messrs. E. Hunting, R.D.H. Rowe, W. Wickrema (Bank)
and Messrs. D. Gardiner and N. Read (Consultants).
This document ha a restrctd dtuibution and may be usd by recpients only in the perfonnmwe of
their oflicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS Continued                                                                                                                                                      Page No.
Forest Roads .................................................. 14
Equipment ..................................................... 15
Forestry Sector Investmenzts ................................... 15
C. Environmental Impact ............................................. 16
D. Project Cost Estimates ........................................... 16
E. Status of Design and Implementation Schedule ..................... 17
F. Financing ....................................................... 18
G. Disbursements .................................................... 18
H. Procurement ...................................................... 20
Equipment Procurement ......................................... 20
Civil Works ................................................... 20
Fellowships, Study Tours and Consultants ...................... 20
Contract Review ............................................... 22
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Institutional Arrangements ....................................... 22
B. On-Lending Policies, Procedures and Terms ........................ 23
On-Lending Policies ........................................... 23
On-Lending Procedures ......................................... 23
On-Lending Terms and Conditions ............................... 25
C. Accounting and Audit ............................................. 26
D. Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation ............................. 26
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES
A. Production ............                                                                                                                                                27
B. Market Prospects ................................................. 28
C. Prices ........................................................  29
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS AND COST RECOVERY
Financial Analysis ............................................ 29
Cost Recovery ................................................ 30
VIII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits ....................................................... 30
Foreign Exchange Impact ....................................... 31
Employment Impact ............................................. 31
B. Beneficiaries .................................................... 31
C. Economic Justification ........................................... 31
Prices ........................................................ 32
Exchange Rate Adjustment ...................................... 32
Unskilled Labor Wage .......................................... 32
Economic Rate of Return and Net Present Value ................. 32
Sensitivity Analyses .......................................... 33
D. Project Risks .................................................... 34
IX.   RECOMMENDATIONS
Assurances at Negotiations .................................... 34
Conditions of Loan Effectiveness .............................. 36
Conditions of Disbursement .................................  36



AANNEXES
1. Forest Area & Production Tables
2. List of SubBorrowers and Participating Basic Banks
3. Subproject Appraisal Guidelines
4. Forestry Genetics Consultant TOR
5. Project Cost Tables
6. Estimated Schudule of Loan Disbursement
7. Prices Used in the Financial and Economic Analyses
8. Financial Analysis
9. Economic Analysis
10. Selected Documents and Data Available in Project Implementation File
CHARTS
1. Organization Chart of SIPAD COAL
MAPS
IBRD No. 18150R   Republic Forests and Administrative Boundaries
IBRD No. 17970R1 Project Area
IBRD No. 17971R1 Sample Subproject Area (Mrkonjic-Grad Forestry BOAL)



APPRAISAL OF
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA FORESTRY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
I. INTRODUCTION
Economic Situation and Government Goals
1.01     Since 1979, Yugoslavia has experienced serious economic
difficulties. These difficulties, like those being faced by other middle
income countries, originate partly from higher oil prices and interest rates,
sluggish world trade and reduced access to international commercial bank
credit. The adverse impact of unfavorable developments in the world economic
situation has been accentuated by structural weaknesses in the Yugoslav
economy. As a result, economic growth has slowed markedly over the period
since 1979 and declined by 1.31 in 1983; in the same year, agricultural
production declined by about 2X. Inflation accelerated in 1979; it reached
about 60X iu 1984. Consequently, personal incomes have declined by more than
252 in real terms since 1979. The high real interest rates have increased the
debt-service burden on an external debt estimated at US$19.0 billion
(convertible currency) as of the end of 1983.
1.02     In 1980, the Government initiated a program of stabilization which
relied on restrictive fiscal and credit policies to curb uneconomic
investment, a realistic exchange rate policy to promote exports and
adjustments in key administered prices to encourage more efficient use of
scarce resources. This adjustment program was supported by the Bank and the
IMF. Largely as a result of these efforts, the external current account
deficit was reduced and turned into a surplus in 1983 and 1984. The
Government remains committed to pursuing sound economic adjustment measures
and has sought assistance from the Bank and other donors to revitalize the
economy. The financing for forestry in Bosnia-Herzegovina is part of the
Bank's general support of the efforts of the Government.
Forestry in Yugoslavia
1.03     Yugoslavia's forestry sector is a major raw material source for
domestic industries which contribute significantly to the national economy.
Forestry and wood industries account for 4.71 of Gross Material Product (GMP),
engage over 51 of the labor force, and account for about 9S of the value of
Yugoslav exports. After more than two decades of industrial development, the
forestry sector's importance has grown as value added from production and
exports of wood manufactures have increased. Exports of wood and wood
products totalled some US$850 million equivalent in 1983. Currently, about
half the exports are timber and half are processed and finished wood
products. Forestry alone (forest management and wood harvesting) accounts for



-2-
over one quarter of the combined forestry and wood industries value and
employment in the Yugoslav economy. Yugoslavia's forests and forest land
occupy 401 of the productive area. This large resource base and favorable
climatic conditions have fostered a well-diversified forestry sector with
significant untapped potential.
1.04    lluch of the Yugoslav economy including the forestry and wood
industriea sector, is based on a unique framework of economic management and
decision-making under a system of workers' self-mnsagement, a system
characterized by social ownership and workers' control of a large segment of
the means of production (Social Sector). About 80% of the country's forest
land is operated by Social Sector enterprises, in contrast to only about 19X
of the country's arable land. The balance of forest land is operated by small
individual owners (Individual Sector). Development efforts over the past
decade in forestry as in other sectors have increased processing and
manufacturing capacities while raw material production has not kept pace. In
addition, forestry operations have been constrained by inappropriate
investment choices, weak financial discipline, and outdated technologies.
1.05     Yugoslavia's Annual Plan resolutions for 1983 and 1984 have given
investment priorities to export activities, energy, agriculture,
transportation and deficit raw material production. The Stabilization
Com.ission, a high level Government body, was established in 1981 and devised
a framework of policy and institutions to guide Yugoslavia's medium-term
adjustment efforts. This framework was adopted by the Federal Assembly in
1983 and calls for a decisive shift toward a more open economy, export-led
growth and increased resources to the export sector through reductions in
domestic demand and active exchange rate policies; it also aims at a
moderation in domestic inflation. Over the long term the orientation is
toward increases in the productivity of factors of production and lower
investment and output growth than in the past, with a more sparing use of
external capital. Orientation also will be towards development of labor
intensive activities, including small-scale enterprises and increased shift
work, and continued efforts to reduce regional disparities. The Government
recognizes the increasing importance of policy and organizational changes and
resource allocation mechanisms for the achievement of its objectives.
Forestry in Bosnia-Herzegovina
1.06     Forestry is a si&aificant sector for the Socialist Republic of
Bosnia-Herzegovina (SRBH): forestry and wood industries currently account for
about 81 of SRBH's GMP, employs about 91 of the population, and about 13% of
SRBH exports, higher than for Yugoslavia as a whole. Over half (531) of the
productive land area or 2.7 million hectares is under forest management,
compared with 40X in Yugoslavia. SRBH wood industries are highly developed,
producing sawntimber, plywood and veneer, furniture components, cellulose and
paper with trade outlets in Europe and North America.
1.07     Nevertheless, the Republic's forest resource is capable of
contributing far more to the economy than it does today. Mature and
over-mature trees of inferior quality dominate much of the inaccessible high
forest and depress incremental growth of younger trees; forests which have



- 3 -
adequate road access are being overcut to ensure that the annual log
requirements of the vigorous wood industry are met; and logistical
difficulties and expense of maintaining the forest work force of increasingly
remote sites call for increased mechanization in wood harvesting operations.
Thus, if the Republic is to implement its forest management and silvicultural
plans, remove mature and over-mature trees, cease felling in areas already
overcut and yet maintain its log production to meet the industry requirements,
investment in two main areas is urgently required: roads and logging equipment.
1.08     The Republic's 1981-85 Five Year Plan considered forestry and allied
wood industries as one of the critical sectors (along with energy, food and
essential raw materials, machinery and tourism), and included it in the
priority category for Bank financing as access to foreign credits from other
than international agencies such as the Bank were reduced. The Plan stresses
raw material production linked to import substitution and increased export
potential. Although the plan's target is ambitious in view of the last plan's
performance, the Government now is focusing on efficient resource utilization
and creating conditions for faster growth in agricultural and forest
production, as a foundation for addressing the economy's critical tasks which
include (i) increasing output of finished products for domestic consumption
and export; (ii) increasing raw material requirements to meet underutilized
industrial capacities; (iii) alleviating pressing foreign exchange
constraints; and (iv) reducing rural poverty and the disparity of incomes
between rural and urban households.
Bank Group Strategy in the Agricultural and Forestry Sectors
1.09     The Bank plans that agriculture and forestry should continue to
account for an important share (about 30S) of lending while increasing the
share for energy, maintaining the share for industry, and reducing the share
for transport and infrastructure. In agriculture and forestry to date the
Bank has made 20 loans totalling US$1183.4 million, net of cancellations,
about 27% of all loans to Yugoslavia. The Bank has provided financing for a
forestry component in the M4acedonia III Project (Loan 2039-YU), including
equipment for establishing a pilot plantation and logging demonstration site.
The FY84 Montenegro Regional Development Project also includes provision for a
forestry component covering logging road construction and purchase of logging
equipment, vehicles and other equipment for nurseries, and experimental
plantations.
1.10     Recent Bank strategy has stressed development of primary production
and support for Yugoslavia's economic restructuring effort through
institutional and policy initiatives with sectoral significance, such as
investment selection, financial management, and strengthening the development
orientation and institutional capacity of the banking system. The Bank is
supporting a series of in-depth studies of agricultural development issues.
Recently, a study of agro-industry development was completed. The Bank also
has provided technical and financial assistance for a study by the Yugoslavs
of primary agricultural production, which is now bei:6g reviewed by the Bank.
Future Bank lending and sector activities will draw heavily on the conclusions
of these reviews and will support Yugoslavia's current emphasis on increasing
the efficiency of investments with high balance of payi3ents impact,
institutional development, and evolution of policy framework.



Performance in the Republic Under Previous World Bank Proiects
1.11     In SRBU, the Bank has made 12 loans totalling US$445.7 million, net
of cancellations. The Privenda Banka Sarajevo (PBS), the borrower for the
majority of these projects, is also the borrower for this project. In the
agricultural sector, loans ha-re included the 1978 Bosanska Krajina Agriculture
and Agro-industries Project (Loan 1621-YU), $55 million); the 1982
Bosnia-Herzegovina Agricultural Aevelopment Project (Loan 2136-YU, $23.3
million); and the 1982 Semberija Drainage Project (Loan 2161-YU, $26.1
million). Due largely to the recent sharp rise in domestic inflation,
imposition of stabilization measures, local funding constraints, and low
managerial capacity to respond to in the crisis, the Bosanska-Krajina Project
suffered implementation setbacks. In 1983, Bosanska-Krajina implementation
was nearly two years behind schedule when an action program was agreed and the
Loan Closing Date was extended 18 months to December 31, 1984. The Loan is
now fully committed and implementation has advanced significantly. However,
in order to implement an agreed action plan for restructuring agro-industries
and the completion of the primary production subproject the loan Closing Date
has been extended to December 31, 1985. The Bosnia-Herzegovina Agricultural
Development Project implementation began in 1983 and is underway somewhat
behind schedule.
1.12     In addition, SRBH is also a recipient under nationwide Bank loans for
three Agricultural Credits (Loans 1129-, 1477- and 1801-YU). The Agricultural
Credit I and II projects were completed on schedule. A Project Completion
Report (PCR) was prepared for the First Agricultural Credit Project (Loan
1129-YU). Under the Second and Third Agricultural Credit Projects, investment
absorptive capacity has been a problem and under the Third Credit Project
commitment and disbursement levels are low for all participating Republics.
The principal lessons from the PCR are that greater attention must be focused
on (a) enhancing social sector enterprise efficiency; and (b) on improving the
productive capacity of individual farmers, where the greatest production
potential lies.
1.13     Other Bank loans made to SRBH include four Industrial Credits (Loans
1013-, 1612, 1910- and 2132-YU); two each for water supply and sewerage (Loans
1263- and 2233-YU) and for power (Loans 1561- and 1561-1-YU); and an air
pollution project (Loan 1264-YU). SRBH is also a recipient of Bank funds
under nationwide loans for two highway projects (Loans 1377- and 1678-YU); two
power transmission projects (Loans 1469- and 2338-YU); two railway projects
(Loans 1534- and 2336-YU); and one Industrial Credit (Loan 1277-YU).
1.14     Pertinent lessons from Bank lending in Bosnia-Herzegovina to date
stress the needs for: (a) improving the capabilities of the banking system in
subproject appraisal and supervision; (b) strengthening support services for
investors; (c) improving social sector investor management and financial
discipline (annual audit and accounts); and (d) stressing the development role
of the associated and basic banks. The project seeks to address these issues.
Project Need, Concept and Objectives
1.15     The prime objective of this project is to finance urgently needed
investments in forestry roads and logging equipment. In addition, it will
also finance other needs such as nursery improvement, research and training
which would provide important support for the long term forest development



- 5 -
program. The financing, in particular, of the modernization of nurseries and
a new vigorous genetical program would improve tree breeding and species
trials for both indigenous and exotic conifers and thereby increase forest
yields. These project objectives will be in line with tb2 Republic's 1981-85
Five Year Plan discussed in paragraph 1.08.
1.16     The project would form an integral part of Yugoslavia's economic
utabilization program by rationalizing investment decision-making, promoting
export earnings/savings, and improving the institutional base in a priority
sector. In one of Yugoslavia's less developed Republics, where over half the
productive land is under forest management, the project is aimed at
stimulating productivity in the utilization of a resource which is critical
for a major segment of the economy's exports and employment. Through the
application of economic efficiency and performance criteria, the project would
assist the Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina to concentrate investments in
priority areas, and improve financial discipline in forestry operations. The
project would thus assist the management of the largest productive forest
resource in Yugoslavia. It will be the Bank's first full-scale forestry
project in Yagoslavia and the Bank's first forestry project in SRBE. The
project is designed to:
(a) modernize and improve the forest operatinns by increasing access to
commercial forests and mechanization of certain logging operations;
(b) provide the raw material needed for a rapidly expanding furniture,
joinery and prefabricated housing export market;
(c) increase the long-term sustainable yield and improve the balance of
coniferous and broadleaved species in natural forest areas;
(d) reduce the importation of long-fiber pulpwood; and
(e) strengthen the institutional base in the forestry sector.
rI. FORESTRY IN BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
A. The Forest Resource and its Management
The Forest Resource
2.01     Nearly half the resource is highly productive forest containing
coniferous and broadleaf species; 35X is low productive forest and about 201
is bare land (Annex 1, Table 1). Through ongoing, locally-financed programs
of reforestation and afforestation, the Republic aims to increase its forest
resource (para 2.07).
2.02     Growing stock data shows that the high forests contain barely 5C
percent (250 gross m3 per ha) of what the land is capable of producing under
intensive silvicultural and forest management practices using genetically
improved planting stock (Annex 1. Table 2). The low forests (coppice and
scrub areas) contain less than 70 gross m' per ha, although the areas would
be capable of achieving 500 gross m3 per ha at maturity if clear felled and



converted to artificially regenerated mixed fir-spruce-beech or exotic
coniferous stands. In addition, forest structure and the distribution of
volume by diameter classes in the high forests is markedly off balance. In
the high forests which have not yet been provided with road access, the
position is worsening as the volume of mature and over-mature trees (50 cm
diameter and larger) with low growth rates increases. As a result, the mean
annual increment (MAI) of forest growth in the socially managed high forests
currently averages only 6.7m3 per ha per year and in thie coppice forests
only 2.1 m3 per ha per year, on sites capable of yielding over 8m' per ha
per year.
Forest Management
2.03     Republic forest land is administered under 52 Forest Economic Areas
(FEAs). Forty-five are administered by Basic Organizations of Associated
Labour (BOALs); the remaining seven are administered by the Federal Government
as national parks (2), and by Republic Communal bodies as forest
administrative areas (5). ""he average size of an FEA is 42,000 ha.
Throughout the remainder of the report, FEAs are assumed to be synonymous with
BOALs. Forest land distribution in 1982 was as follows:
Social         Individual    Total
Sector         Sector          SRBH
-- ---000 ha)-                 --  M~ X
High Forest (high productivity)  1,158              107          1,265     47
Coppice Forest (low productivity)  631              296            927     34
Bare Land                           388             120            508     19
Total               2,177            523          2,700    100
(X)                    81             19            100
2.04     SRBH forest management practices are regulated by law and based on
principles developed by the Austrians who first introduced scientific forestry
into Yugoslavia during the 1890s. Ten. fifteen, or twenty-year forest
management plans are prepared for each BOAL by forest management specialists.
Annual logging plans contain details of volumes to be removed and road
construction requirements. There is room for improvement in management
practices which can be brought about by a shift from the single tree selection
system introduced after World War II to the group selection system which
better suits the mixed beech-fir-spruce forests of SRBH. Steps are already
being taken in this direction and will be extended under the project. Full
details are contained in the Project Implementation File (PIF) Report Cl.
2.05     Under SRBH Forest Law, the annual allowable cut (AMC) is closely
linked with the MAI. For the project period 1986-89, the MAC in SRBH will be
8.3 million m' or 90 percent of the annual increment (9.1 Mm3).  Although
the law gives little flexibility to foresters in overall harvesting targets,
forestry BOALs have begun to adjust management/silvicultural systems in line



with the Republic's goals to remove a higher proportion of mature and
over-mature trees, to convert coppice to high forests, and to improve the
balance of softwoods to hardwoods.
2.06     Forestry BOALs plan to step up the felling of mature and over-mature
trees to achieve a gr%dual increase in the growing stock cntd in MAI and AAC.
This will be linked Lo the needs of the industry and the absorptive capacities
of the growing domestic and overseas markets. Although only about half of the
forests are presently accessible, every forestry BOAL is undertaking a forest
logging road construction program aimed at opening the balance of inaccessible
forest over the coming 15 to 25 years. The BOALs thus are able to set current
felling volumes in relation to the MAI for the entire rather than only the
accessible forest area.
Reforestation/Afforestation and Nurseries
2.07     Every forestry BOAL by law is obliged to plant an area of 14 square
meters for each gross cubic meter harvested with funds from log sales.
Reforestation of this type is treated as a cost of logging operations. Other
plantations are also established by each BOAL in the coppice, degraded forest
and bare land areas but there is no formula for determining the area to be
planted annually. These additional afforestation activities are funded by
forest and wood industries (301), republics and communes (50S), Water
Management Authority (101). and Power Authority (101). This combined
reforestation and afforestation program will eventually more than double wood
production from SRBH's social sector forests to around 10 Million m'.
During the project period, since funds required for afforestation have been
com_itted from these sources, Bank financing would not be required. Thus, the
ongoing reforestation and afforestation programs are not shown as components
to be financed under the project.
2.08     Until recently there were a large number of small, uneconomic forest
nurseries in SRBE but, in order to better supply seedlings for the ambitious
reforestation/afforestation program, these are being replaced by a small
number of large nurseries strategically located and better managed. This
project will assist in completing this task (para. 4.06).
B. Forest Production
Forest Roads
2.09     Although logging has been done in SRBB for over 100 years, the
present techniques of truck transport and increasing logging mechanization
have occurred only since 1945. Before then, special logging railroads were
constructed, with about 2,000 km of railway line in use at any one time. Use
of railways ceased in 1970 due to high cost. Currently, a total length of
8,900 km of forest roads exist in the Republic and about 6,400 km in the
project area. Even so, only about 501 of the forest area has suitable road
access. To maintain logging production volumes at their present level and
meet forest management objectives, requires that the forests presently without
access should be completely developed within 15 to 20 years.



-8-
2.10     Forest logging roads are constructed to one standard.  Construction
is undertaken either by a forestry BOAL's own construction unit or by separate
construction BOALs hired for the purpose. In the earlier years, the easier
terrain in valley bottoms was made accessible. Now the road program has
become more difficult and expensive as the steeper areas are opened up. Road
maintenance is done by the forestry BOAL's own unit, or contracted over three
to six-year intervals, depending on frequency of use. The logging roads are
adequately constructed and maintained; it is the road density that has to be
improved. This project will assist in increasing the average density from
8./ha to an optimum of about 12m/ha.
Loggina
2.11     Mechanization was introduced to logging operations in the mid-1950s.
Due to the increasing distance from inhabited areas and more difficult
terrain, provision of shelter and supplies for workers and animals at logging
sites has become more difficult and wages and transport more costly. Now
about 501 of the harvesting operations are mechanized. Further mechanization
has been increasingly impeded by scarce financial resources and imported spare
parts shortages. Mechanized techniques used in the production of logs
currently suffer from poor work organization, inefficient equipment operation,
excessive equipment do'a time, and insufficient tractor roads. Forestry BOALs
aim to increase productivity of mechanized operations by more than 501 through
strengthening operator training, improving work techniques, introducing
equipment monitoring systems, and continuing to modify forest harvesting
systems.
C. Forestry Institutions
Industrial Integration
2.12     Each wood production forestry BOAL is integrated both horizontally
and vertically with other BOALs (wood processing, transportation, services,
etc.) at the Work Organization (WO) level to form a self-contained, fully
independent, productive entity with its own wood supply, processing and
manufacturing, transportation and technical services. The 45 forestry BOALs
in SRBH are united in 28 such WOs. All but two of these are united into three
Compound Organizations of Associated Labor (COALs): SIPAD COAL encompassing
23 WOs and 37 forestry BOALs; KRIVAJA COAL encompassing 10 WOs and three
forestry BOALs; and UNICEP COAL encompassing one WO and three forestry BOALs.
Two WOs are not associated with any COAL. SIPAD, KRIVAJA, and UNICEP handle
marketing, imports/exports, training, research, planning, etc. in a fashion
similar to trade associations in other countries.
SIPAD and KRIVAJA COALS
2.13     By far the largest COAL, SIPAD is the leading organization for
forestry and wood industry development. KRIVAJA COAL was the first to market
abroad and continues to lead in extraction technology, but remains relatively
small. SIPAD comprises 257 BOALs grouped in 23 WOs and has 76,000 employees.
Nineteen of these WOs are operationally organized around the EEAs and are
involved in forestry, primary and final wood processing and associated
services, including in some cases log transport and logging road construction



- 9 -
and maintenance. The remaining 4 WOs are headquartered in Sarajevo to provide
common services in export/import (SIPAD Export-Import), domestic marketing and
procurement (SIPAD Commerce), domestic and foreign engineering (SIPAD Invest),
and design, planning and research (SIPAD-IRC). A fifth service WO, the SIPAD
Internal Bank, is being formed to provide common financial services to the
group. Coordination of the group is carried out by SIPAD, a small centralized
body staffed by about 70 employees. SIPAD's operating authority, business
policies and financial condition are outlined in PIF Report C12 and its
organization is shown in Chart No. 1.
Training, Research, Planning, and Design
2.14     Forestry BOALs in SRBH fulfill practically all their requirements for
professional training, research, planning and design services under contract
with WO SIPAD-IRC, WO KRIVAJA Design Unit, or other service WOs. SIPAD-IRC
and KRIVAJA Design Unit also provide their professional services throughout
Yugoslavia and abroad.
2.15     Training capacity in SIPAD and KRIVAJA is generally adequate but
efforts are being made to improve training coordination and linkage with
introduction of new technology and work methods. This training is currently
undertaken with the assistance of Sarajevo's Forestry Facult,, the Forest
Training School at Ilidza and Krivaja's Training Center. Fifteen middle level
forestry technical colleges already exist in SRBH th;  provide three year
courses for high school and technical graduates who i.-tend to enter the
forestry and forest industries sector. Each operating BOAL and WO organizes
comprehensive on-the-job training courses for its work-force, which are
supported by several institutes within SIPAD-IRC. In addition, five
experimental areas have been established and two additional areas are planned
on forest land for testing new harvesting equipment, techniques and work
methods. These sites, and logging sites in the BOALs will be used iu
demonstrations and training of operational forestry staf;' Funds for the
development of training facilities are not provided under the project as
provision has already been made by SIPAD and KklvxJA for these expenditures.
2.16     Research facilities and programs are generally adequate but there is
a shortage of research equipment in S_PAD, KRIVAJA and the Forestry Faculty,
Sarajevo. This equipment is not available and has to be purchased overseas.
One weakness in SRBH's research coverage is in the field of forest genetics
where improvement of planting stock using high quality certified seed and
better nursery practices is urgently required. There is great scope for
improvement through the creation of seed orchards, seed processing facilities
and provenance and species trials.
D. Forest Industries
2.17     Forest industries in SRBH developed rapidly following World War II;
89 plants operate for primary processing and semi-finished wood products (57
saw mills, six veneer producing plants, 23 plants for production of various
types of boards, three pulp and paper plants), and 88 plants for final wood
working (50 furniture factories, 30 plants for joinery production and eight
factories for rotary peeled veneer). In total, nearly 180 mills and factories
operate in the mechanical wood-using industry sector. The mechanical wood



- 10 -
industry uses about 3 million m3 of wood annually or about 63X of the total
forest production; sawmills use about 831 of this wood. The balance is used
for veneer, plywood, chipboard, fiberboard and other secondary uses.
2.18    The established pulp industry has a fiber requirement which exceeds
the present domestic supply by some 516,000 m3per annum. This shortfall is
met by importing pulpwood at a cost nearly three times the domestic cost. The
local pulpwood supply has been constrained due to lack of mechanical debarking
facilities at sawmills and increasing costs of labor needed for manual
debarking at the felling sites. Chipperwood production at the sawmills is
currently sold off as low value fuelwood due to their high bark content.
2.19     In response to increasing domestic and overseas markets, SRBH wood
product industries are preparing for long term parallel improvements in
industrial capacity, degree and quality of finalization of wood products, and
productivity and structure of forest output.
E. Privredna Banka Saraievo
2.20    PBS is an Associated Bank, comprising 22 BBs operating throughout
SRBK. A major appraisal of PBS was undertaken by the Bank in 1981 as part of
the Sixth Industrial Credit Project. The financial and operational
performance of PBS was found to be acceptable to the Bank, and a number of
measures (impro-re the quality of PBS project appraisal, introduce a system of
project supervision, and streamline PBS operational and financial projections)
were agreed upon with PBS. During supervision of PBS under the existing
industrial and agricultural credits, the Bank monitors PBS performance in
relation to its financial viability aimed at a gradual improvement in its
operational efficiency.
2.21    PBS financial statements, including balance sheets, income and
expenses, and sources and uses of funds for the years 1980-1983 are given in
the PIF Report Cll. Total assets of PBS reached Din 561.1 billion at the end
of 1983. The financial statements show that PBS has maintained its asset base
in real-terms over the 1980-83 period and its asset and financing structure
has been consistently maintained over the period. Short and long-term loans
averaged around 65-75Z of total assets although a slight increase in
short-term loans was offset by a decline in the long-term loans. The total
volume of loans in 1983 year end were about 1451 higher compared with 1980 but
slightly declined in real terms. Borrowing accounted for 441 of the financing
with borrowings from Federal and Republic Funds being the largest single
source. Short and long-term savings and demand deposits accounted for about
502 of the financial requirements over the period. The equity ratio has been
maintained consistently at about 41 of total assets.
2.22     PBS registered a record net income of Din 7.7 billion in 1983, about
8 fold increase over 1980's net income and 1201 increase over the previous
year. Gross income rose by 971 in 1983 when compared with 1982, while total
expenses increased by 93S, comprising 1041 increase in financial expenditures
and only 371 increase in administrative costs, including payroll
expenditures. Over the next ten years, PBS expects to develop its capacity
for financial resource mobilization and intermediation and reduce its use of
Federal and Republic Funds on concessionary terms.



- 11 -
2.23     Arrears.  The loan amounts in arrears situation in PBS has been
increasing over the past few years as seen in the table below:
Long-term Loans in Arrears (Principal)
(as of year's end)
1980        1981         1982        1983
Million Din
A.  Long-term loan Portfolio        112,404      139,980     182,389      249,246
B. Long-term loans affected
by arrears                    36,838      40,944       78,100     107,664
C.  B as a percentage of A             32.8         29.2        42.8         43.1
D. Principal in arrears of
-  up to 3 months                1,371        1,400       2,483        7,472
-  3-6 months                    1,215        1,316       1,375        2,022
-  6-12 months                     657          654       1,057        2,046
-  over 12 months                  773         404        2,385       3,916
Total                  4.016        3,774        7,300      15.456
E.  D as a percentage of A              3.6          2.7         4.0          6.2
F. Percentage of arrears over
3 months to A                     2.4         1.7          2.6          3.2
PBS long-term loans were adversely affected by arrears between 1981 and 1982
and the arrears situation has deteriorated in 1983. PBS has made provisions
of Din 713 million against possible loan losses and believes that all losses
have been identified and adequate provisions made.
2.24     In order to significantly improve the PBS arrears situation,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that PBS will:
(a)  take all necessary measures to ensure that its arrears will not
exceed at any time 32 of its long-term portfolio (aggregate principal
amount of its portfolio);
(b)  not later than November 30, 1985 and thereafter not later than July
31 annually, review its arrears situation and exchange views with the
Bank on this matter; and
(c)  in the event that arrears exceed the 3X limit referred to above,
within 60 days furnish to the Bank an action program proposing
remedies to rectify the situation.
Measures by PBS to reduce arrears would include, among others, the following:
(a)  increasing loan cvl1ection staff of PBS and BBs by l0S or more;



- 12 -
(b)  consideration with its borrowers of revisions of subloan maturity and
grace periods through refinancing of the original subloan at the
prevailing highest current comnercial rate applicable to such loans,
with due consideration to its debt service obligations and within the
limits of its lending regulations;
(c) when 201 of its borrowers in arrears comprise 40S or more of the
total principal of long-term loans in arrears, development of
specific individual measures to rehabilitate the arrears situation of
each of these borrowers; and
(d)  application on all repayments of principal and interest which are
overdue for 90 days or more, an increased penalty interest rate of
not less than the current inflation rate (calculated on the basis of
the producer price index most recently published by the Federal
Bureau of Statistics) plus 5 or the current highest commercial loan
rate, whichever is higher, plus 5.
2.25     In addition assurances were also obtained during the negotiations
that PBS will undertake measures to ensure that by December 31, 1989, it shall
have in its Mutual Liability Fund (MLF), available for the purpose of writing
off bad debts, an amount equal to not less than 31 of its long-term loan
portfolio.
2.26     In order to obtain better financial monitoring of its loan portfolio
under the project, selected participating subborrowers' accounts would be
audited. Details are contained in paras. 5.08 (f) to 5.12.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Location
3.01.    The project area will comprise the forests under the jurisdiction of
28 of the 52 forestry BOALs: 26 within SIPAD COAL and 2 within KRIVAJA COAL
(Annex 2 and Maps, IBRD Nos. 17970 and 18150). It will also include one
nursery BOAL and one service BOAL. SIPAD and PBS selected these BOALs on the
basis of development priorities for the existing forest resources and
infrastructure in the BOALs and the past performances, managerial
capabilities, and financial conditions of the forestry BOALs. Privately-owned
forest land, which contain largely degraded forest and bare land, will be
excluded from the Project area. The Project area is served by some 2,900 km
of public roads and 6,400 km of forest logging roads.
B. Topography and Climate
3.02     Over 65X of the terrain, encompassing the greater part of the forest
area, is mountainous. Elevations range from sea level to the highest peak of
2,387m, with an average elevation of about 500m. There are basically three
climatic zones: temperate alpine climate in the central mountains, moderate
and dry Mediterranean climate in the limestone region along the coast, and
continental climate in the north. Highest temperatures exceed 210C and
lowest temperatures are below freezing. Rainfall averages 900 mm in the north



- 13 -
to 1,300 om in the south, falling largely during the winter months. Humidity
is usually below 70S. Temperatures and rainfall are very favorable to forest
vegetation in all areas except the southwest.
C. Geology and Soils
3.03     Calcareous and dolomite rocks comprise a large part of the Bosnian
mountains, but schists and other crystalline rocks often occur at lower
elevations. Dominant soil types are redzina, brown forest soils and
pseudo-gleys. Limestone substratum and poor soils, typical of the Herzegovina
forest areas along the coast, would be excluded from the project area.
D. Project Forests
3.04     The project area accounts for 731 of the Republic's wood production.
Nearly 95% is cut from the 57,000 ha of high forests treated annually, the
balance from the 9,200 ha of project area coppice forest treated annually.
The 1982 distribution of land by forest types in the project area as compared
to SBER was as follows:
Outside
SRBH         Project         Project
Total         Area             Area
Forest Types                                  -  (000 ha)
High Forests                        1,265             468            797
Coppice Forests                       927             627            300
Bare Land                             508             360            148
TOTAL                      2,700           1,455         1,245
3.05     Project area forests contain somewhat higher densities of growing
stock (279 gross m3 per ha in high forest, 85 gross m3 per ha in coppice)
and have  marginally better MAI's (7.0 m3 per ha per year in high forests,
2.4 m3 per ha per year in coppice) than SRBH as a whole. Past wood
production from project area BOALs for the period 1979 to 1982 was as follows:
Net Utilizable Volume
(000 m3)
1979          3,615
1980          3,650
1981          3,710
1982          3,885



- 14 -
Broadleaf species accounted for nearly 60S of production, conifers for 40Z.
Production assortments comprised about 54Z sawiogs and 6S other roundwood such
as poles and pit props. Pulpwood and fuelvood comprised the remaining 40S.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Obiectives and Summary Description
4.01     The project's main objectives are to sustain and increase commercial
forest production and exports from the major productive part of SRBH forests,
improve the efficiency of forest harvesting operations, and increase domestic
pulpwood supplies to replace pulpmill raw material imports. It also aims to
strengthen forestry institutions. The project will comprise a four-year
(1986-89) time slice of the Republic's long-term forestry investment program,
and will provide financing to subborrowers for the following:
(a) Modernization of Harvesting Operations in 28 BOALs:
Ci) Construction of about 1,200 km of logging truck roads;
(ii) Supply of modern logging and maintenance equipment and vehicles
and spare parts;
(b) Increase in Raw Material for local Pulp and Particle Board Industries:
Installation of debarkers in the yards of 15 selected sawmills to
provide bark-free chips for conversion into pulp (coniferous) and
particle board (broadleaved);
(c) Forestry Sector Improvements:
(i)  Rehabilitation and upgrading of three nurseries and provision of
equipment for providing improved seedlings for the Republic's
reforestation and afforestation progras ;
(ii) Provision of a short-term consultancy to advise on the
Republic's genetic improvement and seed supply program;
(iii) Provision of forest research equipment, overseas fellowships and
study tours; and
(iv) Provision for possible seed processing facilities, to be
determined by studies and assessment by the forestry genetics
consultant.
B. Detailed Features
Forest Roads
4.02     Forest management practices in SRBH require a continuous road
construction program to gain access to new logging areas. Based on the
current harvesting cycle of 15 to 25 years, the total length of road



- 15 -
construction required to complete the project area road network would be about
4,600 km in addition to the existing 6,400 km of logging roads. This would
envisage a pace of annual construction of about 230 km per year over the next
20 years. The project will finance a four-year segment of this road
construction program. During the four-year project period 300 km per year of
road construction is planned to catch up with the existing backlog. Details
of the project road construction and maintenance program are contained in PIF
Report C3. Design standards are shown in Annex 3.
4.03     Project logging roads will be built to simple feeder logging road
standards acceptable to the Bank. These roads will be used, generally, for
the upper last 2-3 km of logging road, where traffic is concentrated only
during short harvesting periods. These standards will be compatible with
satisfactory serviceability and conform with forest law in SRBH. At
negotiations the Borrower provided, for Bank's review and approval, designs
for feeder road construction which have been found acceptable by the Bank.
Average costs are estimated at US$34,000 per km. Forestry BOALs undertake
forest road maintenance by force account or contract on continuous cycles for
primary sections and minimal structural maintenance to preserve the investment
on sections unused between logging cycles.  Adequate provision for maintenance
is estimated at about US$240 equivalent per km per year over the road
network.  Assurances were obtained from PBS during negotiations that under the
project each forestry BOAL subborrower will construct project roads in
accordance with standards acceptable to the Bank and maintain all forest roads
in its jurisdiction in accordance with sound technical and engineering
practices (para 5.08 (a)).
Equipment
4.04     Logging and Workshops.  The project will assist modernization of
forest harvesting techniques by introducing new equipment and increasing
mechanization levels from about 50X to nearly 80% of harvesting operations.
It will also provide replacements for equipment which has reached the end of
its economic life. The logging equipment includes: bulldozers for tractor
track construction enabling better utilization of mechanized skidding; power
saws for felling operations; wheeled agri-tractor and articulated tractors for
skidding; cableways for operations in steep terrain; and cable and hydraulic
cranes for loading operations, and spare parts and workshop equipment to
provide a good equipment maintenance and a repair program.
4.05     Debarkers.  The project will provide for installation of mechanical
debarking in 15 sawmills which would enable production of about 200,000 m3
of debarked chipperwood (40% of the current pulpwood shortage). Each facility
will consist of a 900 to 1100 m ring-debarker, electric-hydraulic chain saw,
bark chopper and log transfer works.
Forestry Sector Improvements
4.06     Nursery Modernization.  The project will assist in modernization of
nurseries to support the reforestation and afforestation programs. The
current practice of operating small uneconomic forest nurseries will be
abandoned and nursery production for the entire Republic will be concentrated
in ten large nurseries. Modernization of six nurseries has almost been



- 16 -
completed, and a seventh nursery will not need major investment. The project
will thus provide for equipment and upgrading and rehabilitation of buildings
at the three remaining nurseries. These investments will enable the nurseries
to (a) increase seedling production to meet SRB1 planting targets, (b) improve
quality of seedlings, and (c) reduce seedling production costs.
4.07     Consultants.  SIPAD-IRC SILVA BOAL will engage a forest genetics
consultant for about five months to review the Republic's ongoing genetic
research and tree improvement program and to propose appropriate measures for
strengthening the program. The consultant will also make recoumendations
concerning the possible requirements for establishing a seed processing
center, for which provision is included under the project. The consultant's
terms of reference are contained in Annex 4. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that SIPAD-IRC SILVA BOAL will by November 30, 1985, employ the
consultant in accordance with World Bank Guidelines and with qualifications,
experience, and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank (para 4.22 and
5.08 (g)).
4.08     TraininR and Research Support.  The project also includes funding for
66 man-months of overseas fellowships and 24 man-months of study tours to
improve training of professional trainers and staff of investors and
participating organizations in all aspects of forest and wildlife management.
The Project Unit will be responsible for the coordination of the
implementation of the fellowship and study tour program. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that SIPAD in consultation with KRIVAJA and the
investors, as a condition of loan effectiveness, will prepare and furnish to
PBS a program of fellowships and study tours acceptable to the Bank.
Assurances were obtained from PBS that it will ensure that by December 31,
1988 the subborrower will complete implementation of the program of
fellowships and study tours approved by the Bank (para. 5.08 (h)). A modest
increment of research equipment to support ongoing research and training
programs in forestry management and operations is also provided. It will
comprise equipment for tree seed testing, site evaluation, and measurements in
forest protection, silviculture, exploitation and work study.
C. Environmental Impact
4.09     The project would not have any adverse environmental impact; the
construction of forest roads will follow proven practices to minimize soil
erosion. The forest plantation program, although not financed by the project,
is expected to have a favorable impact on the environment. The project also
includes an overseas fellowship on wildlife management.
D. Proiect Cost Estimates
4.10     Total project cost during the four-year investment period, including
physical and price contingencies is estimated at US$94.8 million. The
estimate includes direct and indirect foreign costs which amount to US$35.0
million or 37% of the total, and taxes and duties which amount to US$3.4
million (Annex 5 Table 1). Equipment estimates are based on recent
quotations, and road construction and other civil works estimates are based on
actual costs of similar work recently undertaken by forestry BOALs. Physical
contingencies are added to the base costs at 5X for civil works, 2X for



- 17 -
logging and debarker equipment, and 10 for other equipment. Price
contingencies which amount to 20S of base costs plus physical contingencies,
are calculated using international inflation rates of 5.0 in 1985, 7.5S in
1986, and 8.0S per year in 1987-89. Cost estimates have been prepared in US
dollars as the Government has decided to adjust the value of the Dinar to
compensate for differences in domestic and international price movements. The
project cost in Dinars is estimated using projected domestic inflation rates
(452 in 1985, 302 in 1986 and 252 per year in 1987-89) (Annex 5, Tables 2 and
3). In Dinar terms, price contingencies amount in aggregate to 89Z of base
costs plus physical contingencies.
Project Cost Estimates
Local   Foreikn   Total  Foreign
(US$ Million) --      (S)
Logging Road Construction                 32.6       8.2     40.8      20
Logging Equipment                          9.2      13.7     22.9      60
Debarker Equipment                          3.3      5.5      8.8      62
Workshop Equipment                          1.1      0.3      1.4      23
Nursery Modernization                      0.4       0.2      0.6      32
Seed Processing Center                     0.9       0.2      1.1      21
Research Equipment                         0.1       0.1      0.2      70
Fellowships, Study Tours and
Consultants                              0.0       0.4      0.4      90
Base Cost                                 47.6      28.6     76.2      37
Physical Contingencies                     2.0       0.9      2.9      29
Price Contingencies                       10.2       5.5     15.7      35
Total Project Costs                       59.8      35.0     94.8      37
E. Status of Design and Implementation Schedule
4.11     The 30 investors who will participate in the project have been agreed
with the Borrower during negotiations (Annex 2). A model investment package
has been developed for each of the BOALs, and financial and technical criteria
for subproject appraisal were agreed during negotiations (para 5.06). Sample
designs for two road subprojects have been reviewed by the Bank and found
satisfactory. Future designs of logging roads will be prepared following the
same standards. PBS will prepare, for the Bank's approval, a four-year
logging and road construction program as part of the four-year project
implementation plan. Provision of a four-year project implementation program
acceptable to the Bank is a conditiou of loan effectiveness.
4.12     Project implementation would be as follows:  (a) logging road
construction and logging equipment procurement - 1986-89; (b) debarker
purchase and installation, nursery equipment purchase and modernization -
1987-88; (c) fellowship and study tour program finalized in 1985 and
implementation by end-1988; (d) forest geneticist engaged for five months over



- 18 -
a three year period - 1986-88; and (e) construction of a seed processing
center (subject to findings of the forest geneticist) - 1987-89. Project
completion is scheduled for December 31, 1989 and loan closing on December 31,
1990.
F. Financing
4.13     The Bank Loan .f US$35 million will finance 37S of the total
financing requirements and 100Z of foreign exchange costs. At negotiatlons,
the Borrower furnished to the Bank a project financing plan and decisions by
14 participating BBs and by PBS confirming the investors' equity contributions
and domestic financing commitments from local banks and Federal and Republic
funds. At negotiations the following financing plan was confirmed by PBS.
Local Foreign Total Share
Funding Sources             (USiSMillion Equivalent)   Z
World Bank                     0.0    35.0    35.0    37
Federal Fund                   8.2     0.0     8.2      9
Republic Fund                  1.7     0.0      1.7     2
Local Banks                   25.2     0.0    25.2    26
Investors                     24.7     0.0    24.7    26
Total                   59.8    35.0    94.8   100
The Borrower will prepare and furnish to the Bank by February 28 annually, an
updated schedule of project expenditures and project financing plan, which
takes into account the effects of inflation on Project costs. An assurance to
this effect was obtained during negotiations.
4.14     The Bank Loan will be for 15 years including three years of grace.
The Loan will be repaid within this period on the basis of an adjustable
repayment schedule reflecting repayment of subloans by the subborrowers.
G. Disbursements
4.15     The Bank Loan of US$35 million will be disbursed over 5 years, one
year longer than the implementation period to allow time for final processing
of withdrawal applications, as follows:



- 19 -
Loan Amount
(USS M)
I. Civil Works
(25S of total expenditures)                            9.0
II. Machinery, Vehicles and EquiDment
10OZ of foreign expenditure, lOO of
local expenditure (ex-factory cost) and
851 of local expenditures for other items
procured locally                                       22.0
III. Consultants, Fellowships and Study
Tours (10OZ)                                           0.8
IV.  Special Account                                           2.0
V.   Unallocated                                              1.2
35.0
4.16     Disbursements will be supported by full documentation in the case of
foreign expenditures. For local expenditures, the Bank will disburse against
Statements of Expenditures (SOE), and documentation supporting SOEs will be
subject to SDK audit within six months after the end of each fiscal year, and
will be retained by PBS for inspection by supervision missions during project
implementation. An estimated disbursement schedule is given in Annex 6 and is
suu-arized as follows:
Bank Fiscal Year                   86     87     88     89      90     91
____________-    (US$ Million)  -
Annual                            0.1    4.1    8.8    8.8    8.8    4.4
Cumulative                        0.1    4.2   13.0   21.8   30.6   35.0
This schedule is faster than the average disbursement profile for Agriculture
projects in Yugoslavia, which spans nine years. The average disbursement
profile would not be realistic in this case, since the project will finance a
four-year time slice of an ongoing investment program and the major part of
Loan proceeds will be disbursed against ongoing programs of road construction
and equipment procurement.
4.17     During negotiations it was agreed that:  (a) Bank approval of a model
subproject would be a condition of disbursement in respect of the subloan for
such subproject (para. 5.07); and (b) Bank approval of sample bidding
documents for the first ten civil works contracts for roads would be a
condition of disbursement in respect of expenditures for such works.



- 20 -
4.18     Revolving Fund:  PBS will establish a special account to be
maintained i& Dollars for the purpose of a revolving fund to expedite the
processing of withdrawal requests. The initial deposit in the Special Account
will be US$2.0 M. representing the estimated average disbursements over three
months, which will be drawn from the Bank Loan. The Special Account will be
maintained in a commercial bank acceptable to the World Bank. Payments from
the account for expenditures eligible under all categories of the Loan will be
reimbursed from the Loan. Assurances to these effects were obtained during
negotiations.
H. Procurement
4.19     Procurement in the approximate amounts indicated below will follow
international competitive bidding (ICB), limited international bidding (LIB),
and local competitive bidding (LCB) in accordance with World Bank Guidelines
and acceptable to the Bank, as described in paras. 4.20 to 4.23 below:
Procedures
Ilat        Other               ICB       Project
Applicable   Procedures   LCB   and LIB       Total
--- ---------(US$ Million)
Civil Works                  -         -        53.0       -          53.0
_       *,(11.0)              (11.0)
Equipment                                                 37.6        37.6
(23.2)      (23.2)
Fellowships, Study Tours
and Consultants                      0.8       -         -           0.8
(0.8)                           (0.8)
Taxes                        3.4        -        -         -           3.4
3.4       0.8      53.0      37.6        94.8
(0.0)     (0.8)    (lJ.0)   (23.2)       (35.0)
The figures given in the above table are total costs including
contingencies. Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be
financed by the Bank Loar.
Equipment Procurement
4.20     ICB & LIE.  The following equipment would be procured through ICB
procedures in accordance with World Bank Guidelines:



- 21 -
(US$)
Logging                                        25.3
Debarker                                        9.7
Workshop                                        1.6
Nursery                                         0.4
Possible Seed Center                            0.4
Total                                     37.4
In the case of ICB procurement, qualified domestic manufacturers would be
allowed a preference of 15S or the applicable customs duty, whichever is
lower. Contracts for much of the logging equipment would include provisions
to train local staff in operation and maintenance. The research equipment
(US$0.2 million) comprising specialized forestry instruments would be procured
through LID procedures. Procurement of goods would be carried out by SIPAD
Export-Import, a Working Organization of SIPAD, on behalf of subborrowers.
The subborrowers would be required to enter into arrangements with SIPAD
Export-Import for this purpose. SIPAD Export-Import WO, which has had long
experience of international procurement, is qualified to carry this out.
Civil Works
4.21     LCB:  The following items will be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally.
(US$ )
(i) Logging road construction       Z   52.3
{ii) Nurseries modernization               0.1
(iii) Seed Center Construction             0.6
Total                             53.0
Works involved are not suitable for ICB as they are unlikely to attract
foreign bidders due to the dispersion of investors, relatively small sizes o0
contracts, and, in the case of logging roads, the need to coordinate with
logging operations. Logging road construction will be contracted on the basis
of amnual work plans; an investor's average annual logging road program would
be about 10 km (less than US$350,000), and in widely scattered locations.
Sufficient commercial channels and civil works contractors are available in
Yugoslavia to provide adequate competition for the supply of proposed civil
works.
Fellowships, Study Tours and Consultants
4.22     The project will finance services of an internationally recruited
forest genetics consultant (para 4.07). The consultant will be selected in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. In
addition, the project will finance about 90 man-months of training
(fellowships and study tours), both within and outside Yugoslavia.



- 22 -
Contract Review
4.23     Procurement documentation for goods and equipment estimated to cost
US$37.6 M will be subject to the Bank's prior review. Due to the numerous
(100-150) civil works contracts for feeder logging roads expected to be
awarded under the project, the Bank will limit its prior review of procurement
documentation for such contracts to the first ten contracts, regardless of
value, and each additional contract of US$400,000 or above. In view of the
relatively standardized nature of such procurement, the Bank's normal prior
review process would be modified in one respect: instead of reviewing actual
draft bidding documents, the Bank would review only sample invitations to bid
and other bidding documentation to be used in procurement of such works.
Assurances to these effects were obtained during negotiations.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Institutional Arrangements
5.01     PBS will have the overall responsibility for project implementation -
furnishing of the investment plan, appraisal of subborrowers, maintaining and
reporting on implementatior. SIPAD and KRIVAJA, through the Project Unit to
be established will assist PBS and the investors. Responsibilities of these
respective institutions are briefly described below. However, the
subborrowers will remain responsible for actual subproject implementation.
5.02     SIPAD/KRIVAJA:  Under the Project Agreement to be signed with the
Bank, SIPAD and KRIVAJA will be responsible for technical coordination,
assistance and support to project investors and SIPAD Export-Import WO and
liaison with PBS on their behalf. They would also provide coordination in the
carrying out of ongoing programs of research and study of the genetic
improvement and seed supply programs in the Republic and coordination of
training for all levels of investors' staff. Under the Project Agreement,
SIPAD in consultation with KRIVAJA and the investors, will furnish to PBS and
the Bank for review and approval, the four-year implementation program
including the program of study tours and fellowships (paras. 4.08, 4.11 and
4.12 (c)).
5.03     Project Unit (PU):  The PU to be established by SIPAD and KRIVAJA
under the Project Agreement will be headed by a Project Director whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of service shall be
acceptable to the Bank. The PU will be staffed by competent professional and
support staff in sufficient numbers and will have adequate vehicles and
equipment, including a copying machine. It will have the following full-time
professionals: roads engineer, forestry engineer (who in addition to providing
assistance in all engineering matters shall be responsible for coordinating
the implementation of fellowships and study tours), financial analyst,
procurement specialist and translator who will assist and coordinate the
investors and SIPAD and KRIVAJA service WOs. Establishment of the PU and
appointment of a Project Director and roads engineer with qualifications and
experience acceptable to the Bank is a condition of loan effectiveness. The
PU also will assist SIPAD and KRIVAJA in reporting to PBS on subproject
implementation (para. 5.14).



- 23 -
5.04     An Implementation Agreement, the draft of which was discussed during
negotiations, will be signed by SIPAD, KRIVAJA, the investors, SIPAD
Export-Import WO. The agreement will set forth procurement arrangements, and
undertakings to provide the documents and information required by the PU to
undertake its coordination activities and by SIPAD IRC to carry out the
genetif research review. Execution by all parties of an Implementation
Agreement acceptable to the Bank is a condition of loan effectiveness.
B.  On-Lending Policies, Procedures, and Terms
On-Lending Policies
5.05     PBS on-lending policies for long-term investments are formulated
against the background of a regional development plan, PBS's own medium-term
plan, and member BB plans. All projects are first examined and approved by
BBs and those that exceed their resources and/or tiiese involving Federal
funds, Republic funds, or foreign exchange, are forwarded to PBS for further
detailed appraisal and approval. The quality of appraisal reports by PBS are
generally good and include sufficient details on technical and financial
viability and calculations of financial rate of return (FRR).
On-lending Procedures
5.06     Eligibility For Credit.  Under the project, to be eligible for a
subloan from PBS, the subborrower will be required to meet specific criteria,
which were agreed during negotiations (Annex 3). In brief, in approving
subloans under the Project, PBS will ensure that (a) subprojects have
financial and economic rates of return of at least 12% each estimated on the
basis of a methodology acceptable to the Bank, or if the financial or economic
rate of return is less than 12X, then the Bank shall have determined that the
investment is justified on special grounds and has approved the subproject;
(b) the subborrcwers, based on analyses of balance sheets and income and
expenditure statements made in accordance with criteria on the basis of a
methodology acceptable to the Bank, are creditworthy and their projected
internal cash generation is sufficient to cover debt service requirements and
all other financial obligations; (c) subprojects are technically feasible and
conform to standards and specifications acceptable to the Bank; and (d) the
investor has organizational, managerial and financial resources adequate to
carry out the subproject. PBS will prepare for each subproject an appraisal
report using the agreed criteria. Assurances to these effects were obtained
from PBS during negotiations.
5.07     Subloan Approval:  Assurances were obtained from PBS at negotiations
that prior to approving a subloan for the following subprojects, PBS will
furnish the respective appraisal reports to the Bank for its approval:
(a)  first subproject for logging equipment and forest road construction;
(b)  first subproject for debarker plus logging equipment and forest road
construction;
(c)  first subproject for nursery improvements;
(d)  the subproject for the seed processing center; and
(e)  each subproject which does not meet the 12X ERR or FRR required
(5.06 (a)).



- 24 -
5.08     Obligations of Subborrovers:  Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the subloan agreements between PBS and the investor BOALs
will incorporate, among other things, the following requirements to be
fulfilled by the subborrowers:
(a) in the case of subloans covering construction of logging roads,
construct the roads in accordance with standards acceptable to the
Bank, and maintain all forest roads within the BOAL's jurisdiction in
accordance with sound technical and engineering practices (para 4.03);
(b) in the case of subloans covering purchase of equipment, use the
services of SIPAD Export-Import WO to procure on their behalf all
subproject equipment following ICB or LCB procedures acceptable to
the Bank (paras 4.19-4.23);
(c)  in the case of subloans covering civil works construction, carry out
the works following LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank (paras 4.21
and 4.23);
(d) by January 31 every year during project implementation, commencing in
1985, furnish to PBS through the PU projected schedule of
expenditures and financing plan covering subproject works and road
maintenance, where applicable, for the coming year taking into
account the effects of inflation on costs;
Ce) furnish to PBS through the PU mid-year and annual progress reports
with formats and contents acceptable to the Bank as follows:
i) mid-year reports by July 31 each year (covering progress from
January through June on subproject expenditures, physical progress,
output, revenues, and operating costs), and (ii) annual reports by
January 31 (covering progress during the preceding calendar year on
implementation, expenditures, financing, output and revenues); and
furnish to PBS through the PU a subproject completion report with
format and content acceptable to the Bank within three months after
subproject completion; and
(f) maintain its accounts and financial statements (balance sheet, income
and expense s-atements) and have them audited as requested by PBS in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied
by the SDK or another competent and experienced independent auditing
organization acceptable to the Bank, and furnish these audited
accounts to PBS and, on request, to the Bank (para 5.12).
(g) in the case of the subloan for genetics research review, engage by
November 30, 1985, forest genetics consultant in accordance with the
Bank guidelines and with qualifications and experience and under
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; and
(h) in the case of subloans for training, by December 31, 1988, complete
implementation of the program of study tours and fellowships.



- 25 -
On-Lending Terms and Conditions
5.09     Each investor will be required to contribute from internal resources
funds adequate to meet a minimum of 20S of its subproject cost. Overall,
investors are expected to contribute 26S of total project costs and obtain
loans for the balance which will be financed by local BBs, the Federal Fund
for the Development of Less Developed Regions (FFLDR), Republic funds, and the
Bank. The on-lending interest rates to be applied under the project will be
as follows:
(a) Local BB funds: On-lending rates for locally intermediated funds
will be in accordance with the agricultural on-lending rates
described by the Guarantor in its letter of Development Policy
furnished under SAL I, which are to be adjusted gradually in order to
attain positive real interest rates within three to five years
depending upon the type of investment. Thus the interest rate for
project loans, which comprise social sector investments in forestry,
a high priority activity, will be not less than 31.01 per year and
will be adjusted in accordance with the Letter of Development Policy;
(b) FFLDR and Republic funds: On-lending rates for FFLDR and Republic
funds, fixed by Yugoslav law, are currently at 4.0% per year;
(c) Bank funds: For Bank funds to be on-lent to investors, the
prevailing Bank variable rate would be charged plus a spread of at
least 1X for PBS to cover administrative costs.
Under the project subloans, application of these rates by source would be as
follows:
On-lending
Interest Rate
Source                  Contribution        in 1985
2)                (%)
World Bank                   50               30.3 /1
Local Banks                  36              31.0
Federal/Republic Funds       14               4.0
Overall                     100               26.9 /2
/1  An annual estimated foreign exchange risk factor of 20.01 per year, based
on projected local inflation rates and compensating rates of expected
Dinar devaluations, was added to the Bank on-lending interest rate and
local spread of 10.3Z.
/2 Weighted average interest rate to the project beneficiary on all borrowed
funds.
Subloan repayments will follow schedules of approximately equal payments at a
frequency of at least twice a year for each investment. The maximum period
for repayment of the principal of a subloan financed out of Bank Loan proceeds



- 26 -
will be 15 years from the date of the Loan Agreement including a three-year
grace period. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the funds for
the project will be on-lent on the above terms and conditions.
5.10     Foreign Exchange Risk:  The subborrowers under the project will bear
the foreign exchange and interest rate risks of the World Bank Loan. Thus,
for subloans financed out of Bank Loan proceeds, interest on the outstanding
amounts will be computed on the Dollar equivalent of the amounts outstanding.
For each Bank-financed subloan, the repayments of principal will be the
equivalent in the currencies of repayment (determined as of the respective
dates of repayment) of the Dollar equivalent (determined as of the respective
date of withdrawal) of the currency or currencies withdrawn from the Loan
account in respect of the subloan. Similarly, the payments of interest on the
principal amount outstanding of Bank loan proceeds will be the equivalent in
the currencies of payments (determined as of the respective dates of payment)
of the amount computed by applying the applicable interest rate to the dollar
equivalent (determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan
Account) of the currency or currencies withdrawn and outstanding from the Loan
Account in respect of the subloan. Assurances to this effect were obtained
during negotiations.
C. Accounting and Audit
5.11     PBS:  Assurances were obtained during negotiations that PBS will
have its accounts and financial statements and those of its BBs audited in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consisteutly applied by SDK or
another competent and experienced independent auditing organization acceptable
to the Bank and furnish certified copies of its audited statements and the
auditor's report to the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal
year.
5.12     Subborrowers:  Assurances were obtained during negotiations that PBS
would maintain procedures satisfactory to the Bank adequate to monitor and
report to the Bank on the financial condition of the subborrowers. Such
procedures would include requiring all 30 project subborrowers to have
periodic audits. On the basis of its supervision of the subloans included
under the project, PBS would annually submit to the Bank an assessment of the
financial viability of the participating BOALs and also identify six BOALs
which would be audited by SDK in accordance with standards acceptable to the
Bank; should the SDK audits contain qualifications on matters adversely
affecting the financial position of the BOALs, the BOALs concerned (in
addition to the six new BOALs to be audited each year) would be subject to
audit in each of the following years until the qualifications are removed.
This procedure would continue during the life of the subloans.
D. Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
5.13     PBS will be responsible for monitoring and evaluating project
implementation including physical implementation, expenditures, output,
revenues and the benefits derived from the project. PBS will also maintain
procedures acceptable to the Bank (including periodic audits of subborrowers)
to monitor and report to the Bank on the financial condition of the
subborrowers and on investors' projected expenditures and financing
requirements (para 5.08 (f) and 5.12).



- 27 -
5.14     As a basis for PBS monitoring and reporting, under the individual
subloan agreements project investors will be required to furnish through the
PU to PBS mid-year and annual subproject progress as vell as completion
reports with formats and contents acceptable to the Bank, and updated
projections of annual expenditure and financing requirements (para 5.08 (e)).
PBS will retain these reports for review by the Bank. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that SIPAD and KRIVAJA will record and monitor
project progress. PU will be responsible for compiling and forwarding to PBS
the investors' individual reports. In addition assurances were obtained
during negotiations that by March I every year SIPAD and KRIVAJA will furnish
to the Bank (and upon request to PBS) a report on the adequacy of forest
product prices and recommendations regarding the need to adjust prices
(para 6.05).
5.15     PBS will furnish to the Bank every year mid-year and annual reports
acceptable to the Bank as follows: (i) mid-year reports by August 31
(covering progress from January through June on subloan approvals and
disbursements, subproject physical progress and expenditures); and (ii) annual
reports by February 28 (covering progress during the preceding calendar year;
updated individual subproject completion timetables, cost estimates, financing
plans, and benefit estimates, as well as summary progress to date on subloan
disbursements; and subproject expenditures, output, revenues, and operating
costs). The formats have been discussed and agreed during negotiations. In
addition assurances were obtained during negotiations that PBS will furnish to
the Bank a Project Completion Report within six months after the Loan Closing
Date incorporating information to be provided by the subborrowers as well as
SIPAD and KRIVAJA on the Project.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, AND PRICES
A. Production
6.01     The project would assist in increasing annual forest production in
two ways:
(a) increase by about 101 the overall level of annual production through
modernization of forest management practices: an increment of 0.3
million m3 per year (from 3.8 million m3 at present to 4.1
million m3 in 1991); and
(b) sustaining an annual production increment which would not be feasible
without increasing access to new forest areas: an increment of 1.8
million m3 per year.
The latter increment would be foregone if the investors could not continue the
road construction programs, since they would be required under forest
management practices to cut back operations by 50X to 60X to within the
allowable cut dictated by the accessible forest areas (para. 2.06). Thus, the
total incremental production at full development from the project would be
2.1 million m3 per year. Project area production at full development is
given in Annex 1, Table 3, and suimmarized below:



- 28 -
Broadleaf      Conifers    Total
Project Area                                           (000 m3)
Logs                                      940            1,270     2,210
Other Roundwood                            -               240       240
Subtotal                            940            1,510     2,450
Pulpwood                                  470              190       660
Fuelvood                                  980               10       990
Subtotal                          1,450              200     1,650
Grand Total                       2,390            1,710     4,100
B. Market Prospects
6.02     For more than a decade, SRBH has exported about one-fifth of forest
output in the form of semi-finished and finished products. Over this period,
domestic consumption has increased but remains below per capita levels (40m3
per year) in Western Europe. Domestic consumption with anticipated economic
recovery, therefore, is expected to continue to increase, primarily in
hardwood and particle board consumption. SRBH wood industries thus are facing
a growing domestic market and substantial potential for additional exports.
Although the major portion of exports is still in the form of sawnwood
(predominantly hardwoods, to Middle East and Mediterranean countries), exports
of furniture to Western Europe and North America, and prefabricated housing
and construction elements to the Middle Eastern countries are increasing.
Recent Yugoslav and SRBH export data is given in PIF Report C13.
International prices which dipped during the 1980-82 world recession began to
move upward again in 1983 following recovery of the markets in North America,
and are projected to be at current Uigh levels in real terms in 1995.
Consequently, SRBH commercial forest output will have to expand substantially
to realize the full potential of future foreign and domestic markets.
6.03     SRBH pulpmills currently operate at only about 84% of their rated
capacity of 256,000 tons per year due to raw material shortages. Forest
output currently provides only about 36Z of their requirements. SRBH
currently imports long fiber pulpwood at a cost of over US$20 million per
year, and about US$15 million in pulp and paper products to keep pace with
growing domestic demand for paper product.  Project production of 200,000 m3
long-fiber pulpwood chips would reduce these imports and thereby contribute
substantially (about US$9 million annually) to a reduction in trade deficits.
6.04     High grade wood output from the project area, both conifer and
broadleaf will be entirely processed through the sawmills and wood
manufacturing plants for domestic consumption and export as sawnwood,
furniture, veneer, plywood, chip board and pit props. Sawlogs are sold mostly
at roadside, and are generally transported to the mills using trucks belonging
to a separate transport BOAL within SIPAD or to an outside contractor. A few



- 29 -
forestry BOALs transport logs with their own transport. Most wood production
is sold to mills within the same WO. Capacity utilization in sawmills
averages 93S on a predominantly two-shift basis. Few mills currently operate
three shifts. However, the increase in wood production will require gradual
conversion of more mill operations to a three-shift basis, and in the long
term, installation of additional milling capacity.
C. Prices
6.05     Since prices were liberalized in November 1984, BOALs within SIPAD,
KRIVAJA and other organizations are free to set prices autonomously in
relation to prevailing market conditions. The prices charged at roadside for
forest products (logs and other forest outputs) and prices charged for
intermediate wood products are negotiated between forestry, wood processing,
and manufacturing BOALs. Under the new law, intervention by Government in the
form of regulation of forest and wood product prices is precluded, except
under extraordinary circumstances which disrupt the market forces and price
movements. In such a case, the law provides for specific interventions only
for a limited period and aimed at eliminating the market disruptions.
Although from 1980 to 1983, forestry and wood industry net incomes declined in
the face of rapidly increasing domestic inflation and slow reaction to adjust
forest product prices, the 1984 prices used in the financial analysis
(Annex 7) indicate that 1984 prices were adequate to ensure satisfactory
returns for the forestr7 BOALs. In view of continuing high domestic
inflation, SIPAD and KRIVAJA plan to continue to review prices periodically in
the future, and to assist their BOALs in keeping abreast of market conditions
and the effects of inflation on costs (para 5.08 (d)). Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that by March 1 every year SIPAD and KRIVAJA will
prepare and furnish to the Bank (and to PBS on request) a report, acceptable
to the Bank, on changes during the preceding year in market conditions,
inflation and prices for forest and wood products.
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS AND COST RECOVERY
Financial Analysis
7.01     The forestry BOAL investors currently make a net financial surplus in
their operations, and have consistently done so over the period 1979-82. The
project will help the investors to maintain their current production levels
while making significant productivity gains and operational cost savings. The
project's financial benefits have been estimated for three particinating
forestry BOAL investors having a range of forest resources and infrastructure
and for the forestry organizations as a whole, including forestry subproject
investments, debarkers and forest sector investments.
7.02     Based on the financial analysis of the three subprojects, the
investors' financial rates of return (FRRs) are expected to range between 12X
and 35Z in most cases. Subproject FRRs were estimated at 33X for
Mrkonjic-Grad, 23X for Zavidovici, and 81 for Bugojno. The low FRR for
Bugojno is due to the forestry BOAL's relatively high operating costs.
Forestry BOALs such as Bugojno, whose subproject FRRs are found during
appraisal by PBS to be below 12X, would not be eligible for participation



-30-
under the project. Forestry BOALs under these circumstances are undertaking
measures (such as modifying work methods, adopting additional accounting
controls, and additional on-the-job training for forest operators, work
supervisors, and BOAL managers) aimed at improving operating efficiency.
Sensitivity analysis indicates that an operating cost reduction of less then
101 to a level similar to the unit costa of Mrkonjic-Grad and Zavidovici would
enable Bugojno to achieve a FRl over 121. Under reasonable possibility of
adverse conditions, the FRRa of subprojects which will be included in the
Project are expected to remain above 121. The FRR for debarker investments is
estimated at 22S. Overall, the project FRR covering all subproject
investments and Investments in debarkers and forest sector improvements is
estimated at 122. The financial cash flows and results of the analyses are
given in Annex 8.
Cost Recovery
7.03     The forestry operations in SRBH are carried out by BOALs whoae
financial objectives are to generate a sufficient cash flow to meet debt
servicing needs and future investment requirements. The foreign and local
loan financing, therefore, will be recovered through debt servicing. The
incremental costs for the PU will be recovered from the participating forestry
BOAL investors through additions to the established management fees levied on
participating BOALs. The cost of procurement and other services by SIPAD
Export-Import and other WOs will be recovered from forestry BOAL investors
through professional service charges levied by the respective WOs involved
(para 5.04).
VIII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION. AND RISKS
A. Benefits
8.01     The project would sustain and increase commercial forest output
primarily for further processing, manufacture, and export. It would also
reduce imports of long-fiber pulpwood. In addition, the project would benefit
the forest sector by assisting long term improvement in genetic materials,
forestry research, and institutions. Indirectly, the project would benefit
the wood and paper industries which rely on the raw material production from
the project area, and the livelihoods of a substantial portion of the
households in rural and urban parts of the area.
8.02     The project's main quantifiable benefits would derive from: (a)
sustaining forest production relative to a potential decline in manageable
output without the project; (b) increasing production over a six-year
development period by nearly 101 above current levels; and (c) avoiding
increases in machine repair costs and decline in machine productivity by
replacement of aging equipment. These are treated as a package of
interdependent benefits, since the logging road construction and logging
equipment purchases together would be essential to achieve the production
targets. The reforestation and afforestation programs and the investments in
nurseries and forest sector improvements also comprise integral elements of
the investment package needed to adequately sustain and enhance the forest
resource and future output levels; their costs are included in the net benefit
estimates. The benefits from debarker investments, which are treated in a
separate analysis, would derive from the debarker output of an additional
200,000 m3 of long-fiber chips. This would comprise about 40% of the
shortfall currently imported by SRBH pulpmills.



- 31 -
Foreign Exchange Impact
8.03     Export earnings from the project area amounted to an estimated US$130
million equivalent in 1982. By preventing a decline in manageable output and
thereby enabling the current level of earnings to continue, the project would
sustain annual foreign exchange earnings estimated at about US$61.0 million
per year. In addition, through the gradual production increase above current
levels, at full development the project would contribute additional foreign
earnings of US$25 million per year on the assumption that about one-fifth of
increased sawlog production would go towards exports. The investment in
debarkers would save about US$10 million equivalent per year in foreign import
costs. Altogether at full development the Project would result in annual
foreign exchange earnings/savings of nearly US$100 million equivalent per year.
Employment Impact
8.04     Continuation of the current level of operations under the Project
would maintain active employment for over 5,000 forest workers in remote areas
of project BOALs, where activity otherwise would be reduced under the
potential cutback of operations without the project. Indirectly, the Project
would support a large portion of the nearly 80,000 full time employees of
SIPAD and KRIVAJA in the mills and manufacturing plants which rely on project
area output. At remote logging sites, the project would assist in alleviating
difficulties in maintaining adequate labor force through provision of
increased mechanization.
B. Beneficiaries
8.05     The twenty eight forestry BOALs, one nursery BOAL and SIPAD's
IRC-SILVA BOAL would be the direct beneficiaries of the project. The milling,
manufacturing, marketing, and service BOALs which are commercially integrated
with Project BOALs in SIPAD and KRIVAJA would also benefit. The pulpmill and
paper manufacturing industry would benefit from the increased supply of
inexpensive local raw material. As a result, nearly 13,000 employees in the
project BOALs would benefit directly.
C. Economic Justification
8.06     The project benefits to the SRBH economy in terms of economic rates
of return (ERRs) and net present values (NPVs) have been evaluated for the
project as a whole, including interdependent forestry components, debarkers,
and forest sector investments, and separately for the debarker component and
three subprojects which represent a range of forest resources, terrain,
logging road densities, and mechanization levels in the project area.
Incremental forest output, other than sterewood, poles, and fuelwood, comprise
internationally traded commodities which are valued on the basis of projected
international prices (para 8.07). Sterewood, poles, fuelwood, and the cost
savings to be achieved in the extraction of project output are valued in
domestic prices. Investment and operating cost estimates are adjusted for
currency exchange rate and tariff distortions and to eliminate domestic
transfer payments such as taxes, subsidies, and debt service. The analyses
extend over a 20 year period, including 4 year period of investment and
implementation.



- 32 -
Prices
8.07     Forest products are priced at roadside and pulpwood chips are priced
at sawmill gate (in constant prices effective 1983 fourth quarter). For the
internationally traded items, equivalent border prices at roadside and
millgate are derived on the basis of projected average unit export values for
SRBH sawnwood (Annex 9, Tables 1 & 2), which is the main form of unfinished
wood export from SRBH. Pulpwood chips are valued on import parity basis using
the Austrian export price (Annex 9, Table 3). Projected trends in wood and
pulpwood prices are based on World Bank price projections through 1995.
Adjustments are made for transport, handling and milling costs between the
border and roadside and, for pulpwood, also between the Austrian and Yugoslav
borders. Export premiums, subsidies and taxes are eliminated.
Exchange Rate Adiustment
8.08     A standard conversion factor (SCF) is applied to all domestic prices
and cost components to adjust the relationship between international and
domestic prices for distortions introduced by the tariff regime. Yugoslavia's
import tariff levels in the past have been uniformly low, except with respect
to equipment and machinery, where tariffs are higher; and Yugoslavia has
encouraged exports through moderate rebates on raw material imports. The
recent stabilization measures, however, have tightened this regime and
increased the rationing of imports. The impact is estimated to have generated
a current SCF value in the range between 0.7 and 0.8. In the economic
analyses, an SCF of 0.75 is used.
Unskilled Labor Wage
8.09     Although the Project will be implemented in one of Yugoslavia's less
developed rural areas where incomes, productivity and employment levels are
still below those in urban areas and other parts of the country, in the more
remote parts of the forest, it has become increasingly difficult and costly to
transport, shelter, and support a large labor force. The opportunity cost of
unskilled forest labor at logging sites, therefore, is approaching the
unskilled wages in industrial parts of SRBH. Consequently, the full wage for
unskilled labor is used in the economic analysis. This is a worst case
assumption because, if all or a major portion of the investors were to cut
back operations under a without project situation, then the opportunity cost
may turn out to be less than the full wage rate.
Economic Rate of Return and Net Present Value
8.10     Based on the above assumptions, the overall project ERR was estimated
at over 45% and the NPV at Din 49.7 billion, with a 12S opportunity cost of
capital. NPV estimates for the debarker component and for the three
representative subprojects, and respective switch-over values for their
investment costs, operating costs, and benefits are sumnarized below:



- 33 -
Switch-over Values A
Invest-   Opera-
ment      ting   Bene-
Cost      Cost   fits        NPV /2
(S)       (X)     (X)       (Din B)
Debarker Component              347       n.a.   -78          3.9
Bugojno Subproject /2           499       n.a.   -83          1.9
Mrkonjic Grad Subproject /3    760        n.a.   -88          0.9
Zavidovici Subproject /3        822       n.a.   -89          3.3
Overall Project /4              794      1,328   -83         49.7
/1 Switch-over value shows percentage change in given estimate which reduces
the NPV to zero.
/2 NPV based on 122 opportunity cost of capital.
13 Subprojects include interdependent forestry components only.
/4 Overall project includes interdependent forestry components, debarkers, and
forest sector investments. A switching value is shown for the overall
project but not for individual components.
8.11     The high subproject ERRs correspond to the typically high ERRs for
similar comnercial forest extraction projects in other parts of Europe and
Asia, where the investments are part of ongoing production operations with
large sunk cost (access roads, existing equipment, infrastructure and
experienced staff) and project output would be realized beginning in the
initial year of investment. The project will also provide additional forest
access critical to sustaining output in a balanced and efficient manner.
Without the project, a drastic decline in forest output would result.  The
ERRs also are high in relation to the financial rates of return. While
producers' financial terms of trade are positive, producers' prices for forest
products had lagged behind domestic inflation and international price
movements, with the result that domestic prices for the major export items
recently were less than half the international price equivalent.
Sensitivicy Analyses
8.12     The most likely risks would be delays in implementation, cost
overruns, or low operating savings and benefits. Sensitivity analyses
indicate that the ERR and NPV estimates have low sensitivity to the occurrence
of such likely variations in the benefit or cost estimates, or to alternative
assumptions underlying the estimates. The switch-over values show that only
relatively large percentage changes in given benefit and cost components would
cause the ERR estimate to fall below the opportunity cost of capital'(12%). or
the NPV at 122 to fall below zero. The results are more sensitive to output
price changes than other changes, but a major long term change in the net
operating margin is unlikely. The results also indicate that the Project
would still be viable if the investors do not achieve the full savings in



- 34 -
machine repair costs, or if delays up to one year were to occur in the
procurement of logging equipment or in the completion of the logging road
program.
D. Proiect Risks
Risks
8.13     This project entails lower risk than many others in Yugoslavia
because the project would support a viable ongoing operation having already
substantial foreign exchange earnings and prospects for expanding domestic and
foreign markets. Market links and integration have been established over
several decades.
8.14     The capability of project investors to structure economically their
individual investment programs and to make efficient use of the new technology
will be the main risk to achieving project objectives. Measures are included
in the project to minimize this risk. PBS will appraise subloans following
criteria and methodology acceptable to the Bank. In addition, training
programs in work methods and techniques will be strengthened through
fellowships and study tours.
8.15     Other risks to achieving the project objectives and satisfactory ERR
are low. The revenue earning capacity of the extraction operations in general
minimize the likelihood of local currency shortages. The past records of
SIPAD and KRIVAJA organizations demonstrate their capabilities to implement
large-scale extraction and forest management programs. Forest management
practices include measures to minimize normal risks of catastrophe, disease,
or damage to environment and wildlife.
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS
Assurances at Negotiations
9.01     Assurances were obtained at the negotiations from PBS that it will:
(a)  ensure that its arrears will not exceed at any time 3S of the
aggregate principal amount of its portfolio; by November 30, 1985,
and annually thereafter by July 31 annually, review its arrears
situation and exchange views with the Bank on this matter; and, in
the event that arrears exceed the 3% limitation referred to, furnish
to the Bank within 60 days after its annual review of arrears an
action program acceptable to the Bank to rectify the situation (para
2.24);
(b)  undertake measures to ensure that by December 31, 1989, PBS shall
have in its Mutual Liability Fund available for writing off bad
debts, an amount equal to not less than 3S of its portfolio (para
2.25);
(c)  ensure that each forestry BOAL subborrower construct project roads in
accordance with standards acceptable to the Bank and maintain all
forest roads in its jurisdiction in accordance with sound technical
and engineering practices (para. 4.03);



- 35 -
(d)  ensure that SIPAD-IRC SILVA BOAL by November 30, 1985, employs the
forest genetics consultant in accordance with World Bank Guidelines
and with qualifications; experience, and terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.07);
(e)  ensure that by December 31, 1988, the subborrowers wvil  complete
implementation of thie program of fellowships and study tours approved
by the Bank (para. 4.08);
(f)  furnish to the Bank by February 28 annually, an updated schedule for
project expenditures and project financing plan, which takes into
account the effect of inflation on costs (para. 4.13);
(g)  establish a special account to be maintained in Dollars for the
purpose of a revolving fund, as described in para. 4.18;
(h)  ensure that procurement documentation for goods and equipment, and
contracts for the first ten civil works contracts and for each
additional contract of US$400,000 or above will be subject to the
Banks prior review (para 4.23);
(i)  in approving subloans under the project, ensure that subprojects and
subborrowers meet specific criteria referred to in para. 5.06;
(j)  prepare for each subproject an appraisal report using the agreed
criteria (para. 5.06);
(k)  prior to approving the subloans referred to in para. 5.07, furnish to
the Bank the respective appraisal reports for Bank approval (para.
5.07);
(1)  ensure that the subloan agreements incorporate the requirements set
in in para. 5.08);
(m)  ensure the application of on-lending terms atd conditions set out in
para. 5.09;
(n)  ensure that the subborrowers under the project bear the foreign
exchange and interest rate risks of the proceeds of the loan (para
5.10);
(o)  follow the accounting and auditing procedures outlined in para. 5.11,
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the end of each
fiscal year certified copies of PBS's financial statements and audit
reports by SDK (para 5.11);
(p)  maintain procedures satisfactory to the Bank adequate to monitor and
report to the Bank on the financial condition of subborrowers (para
5.12)
(q)  furnish to the Bank mid-year and annual reports and PCR with formats,
contents and on dates acceptable to the Bank (para 5.15);



- 36 -
9.02     Assurances were obtained at the negotiations from SIPAD and KRIVAJA
that they will:
(a)  record and monitor project progress; and compile and forward to PBS
investors individual reports (para 5.14);
(b)  facilitate the adjustment of prices for forest products as described
in para. 6.05;
(c) by March 1 every year, prepare and furnish to the Bank (and to PBS on
request) a report acceptable to the Bank on changes during the
preceding year in market conditions, inflation and prices for forest
and wood products.
Conditions of Loan Effectiveness
9.03     Conditions of Loan effectiveness are the following:
(a)  PBS furnishing a four-year implementation program acceptable to the
Bank, including an acceptable program of fellowships and study tours
(paras. 4.08 and 4.11);
(b)  establishment by SIPAD and KRIVAJA of the PU and appointment of a
Project Director and roads engineer with qualifications and
experience acceptable to the Bank (para. 5.03);
(c)  execution of an Implementation Agreement acceptable to the Bank
between the investors, SIPAD, KRIVAJA, and SIPAD Export-Import WO
(para 5.04);
Conditions of Loan Disbursement
9.04     Conditions of Loan disbursement are the following:
(a)  Bank approval of the subloan appraisal report for each of the four
subprojects referred to in para. 5.07 (a)-(d);
(b)  Bank approval of the sample bidding documents for the first ten civil
works contracts for roads (para. 4.17).
9.05     With the above conditions, the Bosnia-Herzegovina Forestry Project is
suitable for a Bank Loan of US$35.0 million equivalent to PBS with the
guarantee of Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia with a term of 15 years,
including a three-year grace period.



APPIIATSAL Of
inflMIA-HERZEP VINA FORESTRY INPWOVYtENT-PROJECT
rarest Areas hy Tysms tar 1sot and Praimat t7 U21
(Areas in Hectares)
HIGH F O R E S Ta   I I  FORF T S                                                       _        aF L_
Reach  Kixed beech  Pines   Oak    Others   Total    Seech            Oak   Beech I    Others  Total  Productive Unproductive Total           GMNO
fir & spruce                                                          Oak                                                             TOTAL
.rv'r                2,417 2F,460   1,298              -   1,703    30,871        635      637   14,031    1,721    21,074    7,1500        1,333      3,383      10,715
*oinica.            6,760       11,554        -   1,91S   6,504    26,736    51966         go0         -         -     6,674         -      1,179      1,179      24,769
iaduct               2,692      10,650      IS1      335     663    15,744    2,331        514    1,225          -     4,070       215      1,444      1,699      21,513
Pale                8,784       19,993        -   1,240   3,442    33,469    3,008   4,820             -    1,477      9,306    6,1S0       1.345      7.52S      50,289
Vores                5,809      168796        -   1,399   4,255    30,259    3,763   1,485             -    5,326    10,674    1,655          G0$      2,163      42,9"G
sugojno             10,815      18,135   7,496   2,147   3,212    42,201    8,861   4,936              -         -    13,799    1,895       2.239      4,134      60,136
Kupres                   -      18,003        -        -       -    18,003    3,904          -         -         -     3,904    9,781         786    10,567       32,474
Sipovo               6.256      18,932   1,307       93   2,641    25,231           -        -   12,262          -    12,262    6,766         373      7,129      47,622
KIjuc                9,411      15,603   1.419         -   1,612    28,054    2,309        414         -   10,920    14,643    1.576        2,211      3,787      46,484
Kladanj              7,580       9,61    1,951   2,226   2,460    22,830            -        -      636          -       636       548           -       548      25,014
Bos. Oubica         6,808        2,84:        -   4,437   2,004    16,089    1,710   1,813    8,140    2,225    13,928             316         is        944      30,961
Bos. Gradiska       16,998       2,862   2,166   6,185   6,879    35,090    2,92   2,140              -         -     5,032       611        166        823      40,945
CaJnice              9,169       7,981      425   4,099      791    22,465    2,036   2,423          740        24     6,222    1,530         609      2,039      30,756   w
Foca                6,927      15,613   1,338   1,793   7,461    33,132    1,895   4,335   13,258    1,082    21,070    4,775               1,890      6,645      60,147
Visegrad             6,629       4,183  11,712   2,465       440    24,349        772   2,764    5,375    3,971    12,8S2    2,534          1,591      1,121      42,356
gos. Petrovac        3,771      29,187      199        -     827    33,984    5,293          -         -    8,476    13,769    1,617          533      2,150      49,903
Han Pijasak            280      9,108         -        -     212      9,640         -        -         -         -          -      457         32        489      10,129
Olovo                    -      27,608   3,746   3,875   1,524    36,753            -        -        -     1,448      1,448       694        600      1,294      39,495
Rogatica            3,697        7.165     718   2.780   2,356    17,718    2,914   4,172    7,110    2,827    17,024    4,743              2,019      6,762      41,504
Sokolac                308     23,168         -     217   7,757    31.450           -        -    3,132          -     3,132    5,895         928      6,823      41,405
Glaac                1,449      28,365   1,028         -     672    31,704          -        -    8,871          -     6,871   15,553       4,304    19,15       60,423
Slhac               11,250      14,791        -   1,927      727    28,695   13,650   2.707   15,6807          94    32,258    4,777            -      4,777      61,730
KonJic              14.098       2.426   1,520   1,608   6,633    26,285    1,168          547         -    6,762      6,477    4.195       3,559      7,754      42,516
Neveslnje           8,403        5.960      192     871   3,272    18,698   11,010   4,997             -        -    16,007   19,467        7,180    26.647       61,352
Colinac              9,624       7,590      507   5,950   1,171    24,842    3,404   1,253             -    5,462    10,119        413        241        654      35,615
Teslic              9,555       19,247     919  12,570       249    42,54O    4,634   3,021            -         -     7.655    1.222          36      1,257      51,452
Zavidovict          14,042      31,783  20,404   4,346         -    70,575   10,535   3,964            -         -    14,499    1,306           -      1,306      86,330
lrkonjic Grad        6.109       6.722      208        -       -    l.622    1.70S          -    6.264          -    10.069       16.12               5-2 1._11   _1i220
FEA's Included
in Project       189,358    415,333  S8,756  62,881  70,729   797,057   95,434  49,353   99,001   55.826   299,613  113,233    35,229   148,462  1,245,132
FEA s Exelujded
from ProJect    151.434    131.099  28.272  19.261 11.106   361.297   67.2509  1.200  129.756   96.090   321.404  162.2f6    77.054   220.410    022.201
Total Social    340,792    546,432  87,028  82,267 101,835 1,158,254  162,793  87,643  226,756  151,915   631,107  275,589   112,283   387,872  2,177,333
Total Private    36.916    -19.36   4.009  26.675  20,140   107.076   90.153  78.312   95.395   322311   296.161  120.200                      -   120,20Q    522.427
GRAND TOTAL          377,708    565,768  91,037 108,942 121,975 1,265,430  212,946 165,955  324,141  184,226   927,268  395.789   112,286   505,072  2,700,770
in SOON
- ,



- 38 -
MNUEX I
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
6SXSA 0cREG4NXA FalIEST IhY!VDVIEWT PROJECT
Cravinn  Stock Valumre  by Foret Tyrn tor StR *nd Projeet Area (18521
(Volums in thousand gross so LB)
N I G R  F O R E STS                       C OP P  C E  F O R E S T S            GRAMW
Coifers   Sroadleaves   Total   m3/Ha         Conifers   Broadleaves   Total   13/Na      TOTAL
Prnlect FEA s
Drvar                7.531        S.634    13.165    426               -        2.8S4      2.354    135      16.019
Fojnca               1.681        6.S32     8.263    309               -          463        463     67       8.726
Radzici              2.221        2.764     4.985    316               2          209        211     70       5.196
Pale                 S.647        4.344     9.991    299               -          602        602     65      16.593
Vares                S.358        3.S82     8.940    29S               -          761        761     72       9.701
sugojno              S.442        7.6sg    12.S01    296               2        2.689      2.091    1S5      14.592
kupres               S.031          638      5.669    314              -           S69       S69    146       6.238
Sipevo               5.040        3.214     8.2S4    291              39        2.235      2.274    135      10.526
Xljuc                3.914        6.3S0    10.264    366               -         2.708     2.708    135      12.972
Cladmnj              2.698        3.716      6.460    271              -            20        20    31        6.480
B0s. Dubica            293         .O50    :.348    208               -        1.319      1.319    95        4.667
Bos. Gradiska          444        7.415     7.C59    224               -          391        391     78       8.2SO
Cainice              2.4S0        4.265     6.71S    299               -          268        268    43        6.983
Foca                 4.062        4.739     8.80?'   266               -        1.37G      1.370     65      10.171
Visegrad             2.786        2.589     5.37S    221               S          530        535     42       S.910
Bos. Petrovac        6.565        4.2S3    10.319,   318               -          779        779     S7      l.S97
Han Pijesak          3.D25        1.16S     4.1S0    43S               -            -                 -       4.190
!        Olovo                 5.9S1        3.048     8.999    245               1           34         35     24       9.034
R oatica             2.985        1.668     4.593    259               -          793        793     47       S.386
sakolac              6.878        1.826     8.704    277               -           74        74      24       8.778
GlaOe               9.493        2.791    12.284    287               -          309        309     3S      12.393
Bibac                2.199        6.403     8.607    300               -        3.039     3.639      94      11.646
Konjic                 864        5.S31     6.39S    243               -          269        269     32       6.664
_e-sinje               603        3.345     4.148    222               -        1.050      1.050     66       5.198
cel1nac                315        4.771     5.086    205               -          615       615      61       5.701
Teslic               1.60S        7.351     8.9S6    211               3          443       446      So       9.402
Zavidovici           5.652        9.399    15.0S1    213               -        1.299      1.299    95       16.350
Nrkonjic Grad        1S238        26320     4.377    2R0               1          403        404     40       4.7a1
FEA's 'Inluded
in Project           102.471      120.327   222.798    279              53       2S.495    25.S48      aS     248.346
FEA s Ezs]udud
from Project          2S 147       61 031    87128    241              20       2235   22 565         6B     10qw693
Total Social        127.618      182.308   309.926    268              83       48.030    48.113      76     3S8.039
Total Private         2623        11.239    12962    130                -       11512    11  12       46      27474
GRAND TOTAL in SRBN     130.241      193.647   323.888    256              83       61.542    61.625      66     38S.513
La Standi'g valLum expressed in gross cubic meters including bark and branches
(i... volume neasured during forest Inventory assessment)



'I@'6 u1  a ;id -d  -Ipejx W3ii OaU a n
5infuJai mn is em   4m p13  P   sq pine *wowm mmi sina smon sV 9?
.93,.   93|t '13   313   *63           5 9          36e'13   9.913'I 9, 19      5'61      39934  3393   331 3'3a3  *S'*l9'1    93 3'31                    I7gmsJ  1ml
rwr  st  zrr T r t rr w;,~~~~~~~~~~~~~m'msm
Iu's          I'l3    Y'ml       913      9'1        b9'          *1913   3et3    3619 b       93        I9'331   3g31   33e1     I'll    3353  'll1  3Sl3     t           0w3  t,U m
8,9n          $,I     *,*1       .4                  III          sla      olt *.e    1t      t'ln      ,jlz    I'sl                                1.       6.              SWIM@ *p 
3*U           9'9    9*9         Wt       *'-        3.1:         31"       3'l3     bit      3                  as a,                     es:      ga       313 -11 s"911
3l6           33      334                 31,16 3Os                        393612   el3I      93t       fla      33I       -      33       33e      339     9                 3l113M
aa~ ~ 9            33        31l       93 -6                  333       333t    331 e      *33t      331l    31         -      al      311      33g      93w            SpiU
,"|l          ,le     O's        9,l       _          10 l'Xtl'%1          alto    gl'l       sla        I'll     'lt      '       3 @t    l'ct      'lt     $,$I              swls
I   'ttC      '11*     lo        II3.33                           3,1       933     3511      333: 3t3 1         9'@1    *,I      9s1       ,M      *'11    *3331 3MU9
*'@|1          l O'     1  '4 -le                   *'g1i         I'l      *'@      $'*       $'§1      *,"1    *'11    31'       3'l1     39t1    I,&       63et            "1mIS
I                 3                                                                                                                                     g11  *  35  * 3*3  1  3  9  3  99  9*  30  93  33  3L*x
g6I            -        -          *       -            1         *1'        3       111      3l3       399      I'l       ,'1 *'11    93  311  93   It1     9e3         "    I 1
336           -       -          -        -;        36          333       33       39       931        63       93      33      33       333      36       933           WI  I
*u3           331     30'         ,*n 1   64         333          sli      311      33        I31       363      33      3,       3   9     3 39 'S          61             PIASIA
9361          361     931   * I           33         * 9131    *   93       333       1        '5       3lo       93     *l3      I3       93"      I's     9*n        *3
6I                    a1  3                                                else11  * n  Sli1  963        33      33      33       9        911              33t
33           933      393       33       91         9361         3931     939       33       99        *n3        3     90       33       353      93       369
3t31          339     I3         3        96    t      31         95   ! l9l1       33        331       933      3       "3       331  '     L      3 1     33,               3 631n3
9:   3         3         -        9631                    3       3          9         9        3 Olt           S6      933      331      E3l"J'
9613          933     931        39        1         3s,1 9t11             353      39        335       333      31 3' l11                 99s sl1          333 nL
965           331      33        33       3*         3361         3331     9*3      303       3013     3e3        3*5      .      *g       3:3     3:3      303              '
a,"3          35      303        a's       e         3313        I'l3      3.I3      319      3'I3      9331    Slat    g*        3916    3111    3311      9log      __________
allt        *@^9    **ea        e@        elt 91    6-6          ol@el    11,11    $W@       @2X         @@t  VI" Il     ,       slit    olfti    Slit    I,91I      w3sinw
_139    ;1dU                                                                      1Ai35           H 51NXU  
19? 33361a O's O'sn slM3lat391 Ili,  slo  'S13l)
Olt  *Is  all  tn96-  -. gsatEWJ lmJWI ,                   *,U             sllai
I,W*_ ,lO
n1



- 40 -
ANMNX 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA FORESTRY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Alphabetical List of Subborrowers
SIPAD
FEA            BOAL NAME      COAL WO        MAP NO.       BASIC BANK
BIHAC               RISOVAC       SIPAD UNA         33     PBS BIKAC
BOSANSKA DUBICA     SUMARSTVO    SIPAD KOZARA       19     PBS PRIJEDOR
BOSANSKA GRADISKA   POSAVINA      SIPAD RADNIK      20     PBS BOSANSKA GRADISKA
BOSANSKA GRAHOVO    PRZINE        SIPAD GRMEC        4     PBS TITOV DRVAR
BOSANSKA PETROVAC   SUMARSTVO    SIPAD OSTRELJ      24     PBS TITOV DRVAR
BUGOJNO             KOPRIVNICA   SIPAD JANJ         12     PBS BUGOO
CAJNICA             SUKARSTVO    SIPAD MAGLIC       21     PBS FOCA
CELINAC             SUKARSTVO    SIPAD VRGAS        37     PBS BANJA LUKA
FOCA                SUMARSTVO    SIPAD MACLIC       22     PBS FOCA
FOJNICA             SUMARSTVO    SIPAD JAHORINA      6     PBS SARAJEVO
GLAMOC              SUMARSTVO    SIPAD SATOR        32     LJUBLJANSKA SARAJEVO
RADZICI             IGMAN         SIPAD JASORINA     7    PBS SARAJEVO
HAN PIJESAK         SUMARSTVO    SIPAD ROMANIJA    25      PBS SARAJEVO
KLADANJ             SUMARSTVO    SIPAD KONJUJ       16     PBS TUZLA
KLJUC               SUMARSTVO    SIPAD KLJUC        15     PBS BANJA LUKA
KONJIC              PRENJ         SIPAD VELEZ       34     PBS MOSTAR
KUPRES              KUPRES        SIPAD JANJ        13     PBS BUGOJNO
MRKONJIC GRAD       LISINE        -    MANJACA      41     PBS BANJA LUKA
NEVESINJE           VELEZ         SIPAD VELEZ       36     PBS MOSTAR
OLOVO               SUMARSTVO    SIPAD ROMANIJA    26      PBS SARAJEVO
PALE                SUMARSTVO    SIPAD JAHORINA      9     PBS SARAJEVO
ROGATICA            SUMARSTVO    SIPAD ROMANIJA    27      PBS SARAJEVO
SARAJEVO            SILVA         SIPAD IRC         -      PBS SARAJEVO
SIPOVO              GORICA        SIPAD JANJ        14     PBS JAJCE
SOKOLAC             SUMARSTVO    SIPAD ROMANIJA    28      PBS SARAJEVO
TESLIC              SUMARSTVO    KRIVAJA BORJA      38     PBS DOBOJ
TITOV DRVAR         KLEKOVACA    SIPAD ORMEC         5     PBS TITOV DRVAR
VARES               SUMARSTVO    SIPAD JAHORINA    11      PBS SARAJEVO
VISEGRAD            SUMARSTVO    SIPAD MAGLIC       23     PBS FOCA
ZAVIDOVICI          GOSTOVIC     KRIVAJA SUMARSTVO 40      PBS ZENICA



- 41 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
APPRAISAL OF
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA FORESTRY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
List of Participating Basic Banks and their Project Subborrovers
1. LJUBJANSKA-SARAJEVO              10.  PBS PRIJEDOR
GLAMOC                               BOS. DUBICA
2.  PBS BANJA LUKA                  11.  PBS SARAJEVO
CELINAC                              FOJNICA
KLJUC                                KADZICI
MAKONJIC GRAD                        HAN PIJESAX
OLOVO
3.  PBS BIRAC                            PALE
BIHAC                                ROGATICA
SILVA
4.  PBS BOSANSKA GRADISKA                SOKOLAC
BOS. GRADISKA                        VARES
5.   PBS BUGOJNO                     12.  PBS TITOV DRVAR
BUGOJNO                              BOS. GRAHOVO
=KUPRES                              BOS. PETROVAC
TITOV DRVAR
6.  PBS DOBOJ                        13.  PBS TUZLA
TESLIC                               KLADANJ
7.  PBS FOCA                         14.  PBS ZENICA
CAJNICA                              ZAVIDOVICI
FOCA
VISEGRAD
8.  PBS JAJCE
SIPOVO
9.  PBS MOSTAR
KONJIC
NEVESINJE



- 42 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA FORESTRY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Subproiect Appraisal Guidelines
1.       In determining eligibility for a subloan under the project, PBS will
appraise the proposed subproject and the subborrower using the following
criteria:
(a) subprojects provide a minimum financial and economic rate of return
of 12% estimated in constant Dinars using methodology acceptable to
the Bank, cost and benefit estimates based on current unit costs and
prices prevailing in the market, and realistic assessments of
projected raw material availability and output market prospects;
(b)  subprojects are technically feasible and conform with design
standards and specifications acceptable to the Bank (para. 3. below);
(c) subborrowers are creditworthy based on analyses of audited balance
sheets and income and expenditure statements prepared in a manner
acceptable to the Bank, and under the proposed subloan would generate
sufficient additional cash flow to cover subproject expenditure, debt
service, legal claims, compulsory allocations to enterprise funds,
and reinvestment needs;
(d) subborrower's organizational structure management capacity, and
staffing are adequate to manage the subproject;
(e) the necessary amount of long-term credit to finance permanent working
capital requirements would be available for the subprojects; and
2.       The subjects to be covered in each subproject appraisal report are
outlined below:
(i) Summary and Conclusions (essential elements of subprojects,
purpose, size, benefits, total value, main components, period of
investment, financial and economic results, conclusions)
(ii) Subproiect (description, purpose, capacities, technical aspects,
procurement, implementation schedule)



- 43 -
Page 2
(iii) Forestry Practices (statements of sustained yield management
principles being adhered to and annual planting programs,
obligatory and additional)
(iv) Extraction Operations (where applicable) (existing road network
and densities, forest area currently accessed, current
mechanization levels)
(v) Raw Material Inputs
(vi) Operating Costs (past, current, and projected with and without
investment)
(vii) Outgut (past, current, and projected with and without proposed
investment)
(viii) Marketing (delivery points, transport costs, outlet capacity and
utilization, demand statistics),
(ix) Prices (prevailing unit cost and price statistics for inputs and
outputs, source of statistics)
(x) Organization (management, staff)
(xi) Subproiect Financial Analyses (least cost solution, financial
rate of return)
(xii) Subborrower Financial Analyses (financial statements, cash flow
actual and projected with proposed subloan)
(xiii) Financing Plan
(xiv) Technical Aspects (para 4)
3.       PBS would appraise the technical and managerial aspects in accordance
with the guidelines and criterion below. The guidelines below are designed to
uniformly appraise all subprojects and to assist subsequently to monitor and
evaluate BOAL performance in the implementation of approved subprojects.
Technical Appraisal Report
(a) The report should give a concise story of why the investment choices
were proposed and show that the best alternative has been selected.
All intangible benefits of the investment choice should also be
described. Evidence should also be given of the adequacy and
completeness of the facts and estimates used in arriving at the



- 44 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
investment choice. The reasons for the investment, such as cost
reduction or maintenance of productivity, should be given and
estimates made of the gains to be achieved.
(b)  Equipment Selection.  The extent of the documentation required may
vary with the value and complexity oE the investment. In the case of
the individual domestic equipment additions or replacements,
completion of a single page AR request, together with the financial
analysis should be sufficient. For more expensive imported
equipment, the documentation should be expanded to show economic
comparisons with lesser valued alternative equipment choices to
ensure the higher price equipment is justified. For the debarkers,
an additional detailed cost estimate and engineering construction
plan should be required.
(c)  Road Construction Plan.  A road status and evaluation, an engineering
construction plan, and a cost estimate based on recent competitive
bid comparisons should be included in the report. Each subproject
plan for each BOAL should include the following information in
su-ary form covering the proposed road works during the four years
implementation period:
(i) a brief description of each road or group of roads;
(ii) a map of each subproject area showing the main areas of planned
exploitation, existing and proposed logging road network
classified by level of improvement;
(iii) the total length of logging roads proposed for improvement by
years;
(iv) the surface forest areas to be served by each major group of
logging roads;
(v) the estimated costs of the road logging program by year; and
(vi) the estimated annual logging outputs carried over each road
section.
(d)   Road Design Standards and Specifications:  Standards currently used
for primary logging roads and standards to be used under the
project for secondary roads are as follows:
Primary        SecondarY
Design axle load                 10 ton          10 ton
Traffic speed                    30 km o.h.      20 km p.h.
Maximum gradient                 82              10Z
Road width                       4 m             3 m
Minimum radius                   24 m            17 m
Minimum radius at hairpins       10 m            10 m
Surfacing gravel depth           30 cm           0-20 cm



- 45 -
ANNEX 4
APPRAISAL OF
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA FORESTRY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Forestry Genetics Consultant
Terms of Reference
1. Qualifications
Geneticist of international repute.
2. Duration
Three months in year 1, one in year 2, one in year 3.
3. Main Obiective
To help determine how to improve the productivity of coppice,
degraded beech forest and bare-lands by using improved genetic
planting material for both introduced and indigenous species,
particularly conifers.
4. Specific Tasks
(a) To review present methods of:
e tree selection;
e seed selection and collection;
* seed processing and storage;
* seed orchard establishment; and
* advise as to how improvements might be made.
(b) To review current tree breeding provenance and species trials and
improvement research programs for both indigenous and exotic conifer
species and then to formulate a future strategy for this work
including an investment program.
(c) To review current nursery planting and establishment practices from
the quality and funding of planting stock viewpoint and suggest
improvements where appropriate.
(d) To review the proposal to establish a seed processing facility in
SRBH and recommend what steps, if any, should be taken to establish a
facility at Bugojno.



- 46 -
aXs
Table I
AP-RAl L OF
BOSNIA-NEZKGOV!NA FORESTRY !SWUOWWMET PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Protnct Cost Estimate by Years In Dollars
Share or
Total
1486        1037         1983        18Q0      IxTAL   EL.,  Snast
------------------(US$111) --------_-1--) M                         1M
Civil Wbrks
Logging Roads                   1200 kh        11.334      10.ZO       15.200       9.065     40.799      20       43
Nursery Modernization           3 sites            60          60            0           0         120     20         e
Possible Seed Center            1 site           _            177         178             U n      532     20         1
Base Cost                                   11.394      10.437       10.378       9.242     41.451      20       44
Physical ContingenciesLl                          570         522          S20         461       2.073     20         2
Price ContingenciesLZ                          1L 065       _l  7        2..LS       3L5RO       JJ473     20        to
Subtotal Civil Works                        13.029      12.866       13.819      13.283     52.997      20       56
Logging                         28 sets        6.863        8.006        s.720       2.288      22.877     60       24
Debarker                        15 sets         5.309       3.539            0           0       8.648     62        9
Nursery                         3 sets            264         188            0           0         472     35        0
Workshop                        16 sets           408         476          340          136      1.360     23         1
Possible Seed Center            1 set               0          61          204         143         408     31        0
Research                        1 set         __*                            a           a.O  _    1R4     70        0
Base Cost                                   13.040      12.270        6.264       2.567     34.149      so       36
Physical ContingenciesfL                          337         310          169          74         890     S2         I
Price ContingenciestZ                        1J.A1         2.J14         1.7z4         Z70       6-032     58        6
Subtotal Equipment                          14.579      14.774       8.157        3.611     41.121      S7       43
Iechnical Assistance. Mont. a Other
Fellowships. Study Tours and
Consultant                    9S m              147         112          111           0         370     90        0
Seed Center Working Capital                         o         _2           i            fiz       12        0        0
Base Cost                                       147         141          20S          67         560     S9        1
Price ContingenciesLz                             _3          _n           .i          235        115      36        0
Subtotal. T.A. & Hgut.                         160         166          260          92        678      55        1
T-otal Protect Cast
Base Cost                                      24.622      22.854       16.819      11.865      76.160     37       60
Physical ContingenciesLI                         907          832          689         535       2.963     29        3
Price Contingencies5L                          2.272        4.126        4.700       4.575      IS.673     35       17
TOTAL                                             27-EC1      27.112       ZL.A ZL08               94S79fi    37       100
Of Which:  Foreign Exchange                       11.328      11.226        7.448       4.998      35.000    100        37
Taxes & Duties                         1.203        1.203         673          301      3,380       0        4
La Physical contingencies calculated on base costs at 5% of civil works. 2S of logging and debarker equipment, and 10l
of other equipment.
/a Price contingencies calculated an base costs plus physical contingencies using international Inflation rates of
5.0% in 1985. 7.S in 1986. and 8.01 in 1987-89.



- 47 -
ANNEX 5
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA FORESTRY T'PROVEMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Project Cost Estimate in Dinars
Share of
Total
Local     Foreign        Total        Cost
----(million Dinar)---                (2)
Civil Works
Logging Roads                     8,160        2,040       10,200           27
Nursery Modernization                24            6           30            0
Possible Seed Center                107           26          133            0
Base Cost                      8,291       2,072       10,363           27
Physical Contingencies/i            413          104          517            1
Price ContingenciesJ2             8.474        2.119      10,593            28
Subtotal Civil Works          17,1/8       4,295       21,473           58
Equipment
Logging                           2,288       3,431        5,719           16
Debarker                            842        1,371        2,213            6
Nursery                              77           41          118            0
Workshop                            261           79          340            1
Possible Seed Center                 71           31          102            0
Research                             14           32           46           0
Base Cost                      3,553       4,985        8,538           23
Physical Contingencies/1            107          115          222           1
Price Contingencies/2             2,886       3.945        6,831           18
Subtotal Equipment             6,546       9,045       15,591           42
Technical Assistance, Mgmt. & Other
Fellowships, Study Tours and
Consultant                         10           82           92           0
Seed Center Working Capital          48            0           48           0
Base Cost                         58          82           140           1
Price Contingencies/2                78           51          129           0
Subtotal, T.A. & Mgmt.           136          133          269            1
Total Proiect Cost
Base Cost                        11,922        7,139      19,041           51
Physical Contingencies/I            520          219          739           2
Price Contingencies/2            11,438       6,115       17,553           47
TOTAL                               23,860       13.473      37,333          100
1/ Physical contingencies calculated on base costs at 51 of civil works, 21 of
logging and debarker equipment, and 10Z of other equipment.
2/ Price contingencies calculated on base costs plus physical contingencies
using domestic inflation rates of 45S in 1985, 301 in 1986, and 25S in
1987-89.



- 48 -
ANREX S
Table 3
APPRAISAL OF
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA FORESTRY IhIROVENEMT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVI
Prolect Cost Estimate by Years in Oinars
1986        1987         1988         1989       TOTAL
------------(Million Dinar)-
Civil Works
Logging Roads                                   2,834      2.550         2.550        2.266       10.200
nursery Modernization                              15          15             0            0          30
Possible Seed Center                                0         44            45           44       ___
Base Cost                                    2.849      2.609         2.595        2.310       10.363
Physical ContingenciesLl                          142        130           130          115          517
Price ContingenclesLZ                           1.480      1!917         3.104 4Z0I2              lo L
Subtotal Civil Works                        4.471       4.686         5.829        6.487       21.473
Logging                                        1.716       2.001        1.430           572        5.719
Debarker                                       1.328         885            0              0       2.213
Nursery                                           71          47            0              0         118
Workshop                                         102          119          85             34         340
Possible Seed Center                               0           1S          51            36          102
Research                                          46           0            0             a           46
Base Cost                                  3.263        3.067        1.566           642        8.538
Physical ConttngenciesLl                          84          77           42            19          222
Price ContingencieslZ                          1.657       2.235        1.R32        1]107        6.83U1
Subtotal Equipment                         5.004        5.379        3.440         1.768       15.591
Technical Assistance  Momt. a Other
Fellowships. Study Tours and
Consultant                                     36          29           27            0           92
Seed Center Working Capital                       0l _E                   ZA           15          _M
Base Cost                                     36          37           51           16          140
Price ContingenctesZ                             la                      ..i .M        ZZ          12
Subtotal. T.A. & Mgnt.                       54           63          109           43          269
Total Proiect Cost
Base Cost                                    6.148        5.713        4.212        2.968       19.041
Physical ContingenciesLl                        226         207          172          134          739
Price ContingenciesLZ                        3.155        4.208        4.994        5.196       17.553
TOTAL                                           9.5Z9       10-128        9,378        a3293
1/ Physical contingencies calculated on base costs at S% of civil works. 2X of logging and debarker
equipment. and 10% of other equipment.
Z/ Price contingencies calculated on base costs plus physical contingencies using dcoestic inflation
rates of 45 in 1985. 30X in 1986. and 2S% in 1987-89.



- 49 -
ANNEX 6
APPAUISAL OF
.BOSNIA-ERZGOVINA FORESTRY IMPROVMENT PROJIECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Estimated Schedule of Loan DLabursement
(USS Million)
Cumulative                    CumulatLve
IBRD                                             Disbursemnts                  Disbursement
Fiscal    Period               Disbursements    at the end      Cumulative        Profile
Year      Endion               During Periods   of period       Disbursement   Agriculture 1/
(1)            M1
1986      June 30. 1986           0.1                0.1              0              -
1987      Dec. 31. 1986           1.5                1.6              5              2
June 30, 1987           2.6                4.2             12              6
1988      Dec. 31, 1987           4.4                8.6             25             13
June 30. 1988           4.4              13.0              37            21
1989      Dec. 31, 1988           4.4               17.4             50             31
June 30, 1989           4.4               21.8             62            42
L990      Dec. 30, 1989           4.4               26.2             75            54
June 30. 1990           4.4              30.6              87            65
199L      Dec. 31, 1990           4.4              35.0"            100             75''
--  Represents average of all agriculture sector projects in Yugoslavia as of
February 29, 1984. Average disbursement profile in Yugoslavia spans nine
years.
2I The Loan is expected to be fully disbursed during a five year period,
faster than the profile because the project would finance a four-year time
slice of an on-going investment program.



- 50 -
ANE  7
APPRAISAL OF
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA FORESTRY IMPROVE-MENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Prices Used in the Financial and Economic Analyses
Financial /1      Economic /2
(Din m3)         (Din m3)
OUTPUTS
Sawlogs - Conifers                          2,800             10,000
Sawlogs - Broadleaved                       3,500             10,700
Poles - Conifers                           4,100               2,700
Poles - Broadleaved                         2,500              2,700
Pit Props - Conifers                        2,100              2,700
Pit Props - Broadleaved                     2,100              2,700
Pulpwood, Round - long fiber                1,900              5,500
Pulpwood, Round - short fiber               1,300              1,300
Pulpwood, Split - Conifers                 2,200               5,500
Pulpwood, Split - Broadleaved               1,700              1,300
Fuelwood                                    1,500              1,500
INPUTS
Labor /3                                        (Din/mo)          (Din/mo)
Seasonal                                  15,900              15,900
Unskilled                                 17,900              17,900
Semi-skilled forest hand                  19,700              19,700
Skilled machine operators                 27,100-28,700       28,000
Office Support Staff                      14,700              14,700
Technicians                               25,000-31,000       28,000
Professionals                              37,600+            38,000
Fuel:                                          (Din/liter)       (Din/liter)
Diesel                                        52.5                52.5
Gasoline                                       54.5               5A,$
Seedlings /4 (Bare root)                      (Din/piece)        (Din/piece)
Pinus Sylvestris                            1.2-6.2             1.2-6.2
Pinus Nigra                                 1.0-6.1             1.2-6.1
Pinus Strobus                               1.2-6.2             1.2-6.2
Pseudotsuga Douglasii                       3.2-8.1             3.2-8.1
Larix Europa                                1.9-7.3             1.9-7.3
/1 1984 prices.
/2 End 1983 constant prices.
/3 Average gross wages or salaries.
/4 Prices vary with age of seedling.



IUOO¶tAVIA
0SN16ANERMCIIO   ioeoswA EST                 ovIrno    V
.......................... .................................... ...........
FINUACIOL MALYIS
............;..
tOTAL Us$4 FLOW
stuNAs mitt.m
............................................................................................................................................ .................................................................................................. ........................
ItSo        to6        tIi         Iou  to       lS        too.       toot        1012        121        1014       ItSS        i1l1        11tO        1100           *        o tol 1000  OOt       2002        2003 200
......................................................................................... .......... ............... ... .... ... .. .... .. .........................................................................................................
INVISIMIIE        COSTS
................
LOGGING                                    1635. 1    SS0. 0         0.5    S10. S          3IU   0    310. 0    390.0         310.0    310. 0          nO .0    390.0    310.0           310.0       210.0      310.0    300.0    320.0            30. 0       310.0       310.0
OAD  C STO IJCTION  5 DESIGN                  194. 1    614. I    8H4. I    894.1    670.6              610,6      670.6       610.6       670.6       610.6    610.6    670.6            610.6    670. 6        670. 6      610.6       610.     670.0           10.             -
aimo caE     EOUIPEINT                      1116.0                  -           -                             *          -                                                          *           *                                              * -
NURSERIES                                     2. 3         4. 3        2. 6          .0        s.0        s.e         s.e         s.o0        5.0 5. 0               S. 0        i.e         i                 S.o0             s.0         S.0         i.e0       S. 0        5.0
SEED  CENTER                                   5. 1       70.            .4        4.a         4.0         4.0        4. 0        4.0         4.0         4.0        to          4,0         4.0        4.0         4.0         4.0         4.0        4. 0        4.0         4.0
C11/fELI.OWSHIPS                              30.         10. 5        1.4            .                                              .                                                                                  .          .           . 
PROJECT  lIICT                                11.23       It.         t 10.2      to.,        t@.                                    -                                                                     ..  .                               .           .          . . 
RESEARCH                                      23. I                                               -           -    .               . .     .                 .                      . .   .                - .    . .
TOTAL  INVIESTMENTI  COSTS                 4283.6    1942. 4   1H5.2   1731. 1   1070.9 1060. B   tO6l. 0                      M,010.0              1060.6   1069.6   100 l      . I   160.        to   106        0.0 106     0.6    1061.6   lOH.    lOU. 0              300.0
............ ....... ........ ........................................ .......   ....... .... ........ .......  ........ .......  ........ .......  ........ .......  ........ .......  ........ .......  ........   ...... ... ....... ....... .......
BENEFITS
COST  AVOIOANCE                               69.1        69.7        10.        105.1      132.5       154.1       10 20      2071  I    210.0 *7U45             293.5       344,7       401.5    464.2         535.0       SOt 21    677.7         70.09    04.1            44.0 
ROADS  BENIFIT                                     -     16.0       373 .7      560.5    747.3           34. 2    1121.0    1307.1    144. 7   181.15   1651.5   IUI 5   161.1    1681. 5                      IUIS IUI5    1 1.5    IUI S    1 1.5    IUI., S               6     IUI
YIELD    ENIEFIT                                   -      50.0       147.1      237.4       310.4       359. 3     359.3       359.3    359.3    3593             351.3    359.3          33593       35913    353    3    3m.3          359.3       330 J 3     350.3      350 3
DEBARIEIS                                          -    343.        342. 8      343.        343.        343.       343.8     343.5         343.8    343. 0    3432  0    343. 6    342.               343.       343.        343.8     343.0         342.5       343.5      343.0
TOTAL  BENEFITS                                  .1  0950. 3         195.      124U   9   IS43.    1791t  7   2006.0   221,0   2425.3   2031.3   2078.3   1720.3   2785.1   2048.7                               i13t 4   2161.0   3002.2   3144.5   3232.6   3330.6
.......  ....... ....... .......  ....... .......  .......  ........ ....... ....... .......  ....... ....... .......  .................................................. ...................................................................._
NET COSH FLOW
...+.........io
NEl CAIH                                  -4213.7 1      1 -122  1   -930.2   -464.1        462.33  172.2     936.5    14.U               1356.7   1561s. I   1'05           1551.7    1716. 5   17719.2    143.6   1016.3   1102.1    2014.09   2163.1   1029.
.2th        u .t...   .tt..1.. ...... ....    ....22.    ....2    212222   :g:x                        :  :2:::::  :g::::  :£2::::   1:::::  t::::t:  22:?:::  :  9222                       ss:2:Zs 1 3 2232   2::as  I    :  *ssos.
lxiArIOM at1,u of Ibura of lNt Sitrom
..... 0........0..........................
11. r0                              12.351
Pre lot  Vatlu   of  Siton               at          M200R
.s. .. ................ .130...
N. TOT                             ISO, Il
-o



u0osLAWIA
SOS0A!II10U0OVhUA 1f01110  IRPINOVtIttn PiOJCT
fINANCIAL MULVSIS
ucecoil
.......................................................................................................................................................................................................
I1        III'      11y1    ISU        I ISU    IS1      111l 1e13         113    1114    01111       1012    Inl     11018      lOll 00            1001      10         1001      144
. ....................................... .......... ............... ......... ........... ..... .... ........ ......... ... ... . ....... ........ ........... ....... ......... .................. ....................................... .. ....
INVCSTIUT COSTS
..... ..... .. .....
106413                           I16,00.0  30304.0  Sit".0  10204.  110440.0 11044.0 11040.0 17040.0 170410.0 1704.0 17040.0 1104.0 110404.0 170.00.00Il .0  1704.0  11000.   1704.0  If04.0  11 .40.
3080 COUSTUINIC1U1 A HItSO   43010.0  41010.0  43010.0  42010.0 32144.0 221208.0 31108.0 1110.0 32300.0 32100.0  M620.0 1S104.  *1300.0  21108.   32310.0  11240.0  311100.4  31*44.0  3134.4.
TOTAL INVCSTNCUT COSTS          51810.0  81370.0 140110.0  10310.0 413104.0 413100.0 40304.  40304.0 41304.0 43304.0 40100.0 40300.0 40104.0 41320.0  4330.0  43304.   40304.4  401304.0  4030.0   1044.0
*UEFI1S     ~....   ....    .....................    ...    ...    ................   ...    ....  ........   ....    ........
........
COST 881108CC                      040.0   3201.0e  4114.7   1104.7  6441. I  7084.4  0110.  1008.0  1244.3 14021.0 01100  10111.0 1214.0 30440.   34110.   34144.0 1e                      4.   43314X.0  40 .   13111.
NTOA U"801                      311135100. 0 -111141.I  210231.1  314451.0I 40113.014 0. 1 12004.0 21131.8 17140.4 34161.1 08104.12 0010.1  03441. 1 4010.1  101144.1  554134.1   Mika. 114114.1 10MI0.1  114400. 
.....................:......... ......................................................................................................................................................
IT. ....AS...
APPOIAISAL  SNITCNIN   PERCENTME ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~I
05T CAIN FLO11                  *1U30.0 *610408.  *10130J.0 *641. I -100. 4  658.1  1100 .0 11111.0  10440.4 21600.1 *00.  41110.1% f44110.1t400. 1   51104.1  1 684.1  00284.1  04014.1  6070.1 141N0.1
.....................o' '  ......................................... ,  .wO
II1   4I.Is    1:t               
UntONI .1 1     f  stwn  llot Itr
prown   telu of Stre_  at               11 .O01
SNITOeNI VtILVIS 811m
..Sf............S..u....
S..S.S.S.55...,..s...S.,.SgES.5555,15S...aS,33.8lllsleeselll
I. Ia               401,160. *4   461. 0. 14            I 101s
c.On '0.01                         nsue               *Il                                                                                                                                                                          M W



.......VI.
SmNIA*KERLINVIWA 101E115? IWUVIMUT M04111
riumiL "lyls
n-iate ctZretin menus                       notc
NZOJIC "As6
............s
SliUS TNUINSIn
........ ................................................................................................................................................................... ,...,..................................................azes@@@@e- - 
on           Its         III?    Is"            1gao    Nm              toll   III    1K)3   304    Is00 " 1161   100)1  lm                                          1110    n0              m0 1          1362    2Ms 03      241
........... ...... ........... .......... ...............  .......................... .............................................................................................................................................
INVESIMIT COSTS
................
100610                                     43100. 0   24100.0  17100.0  11300.0   SO0.0  s600.0   1404.0                          000100.    0 S        10 004.0   s 0.0   1000.0  0so0.0   100.0   1000.0   1000.0  S100.0   1010.0  s100.0  s140.0
"a   C snU        CTIIO  1  DESIGN          1670.0        1610.0   5610.0    1670.4   4250.4   410.0   425e0.0   420.0   4250.0   4250.0                              4    0    4210.0   4210.0   42150.0   4250.0   4214.0   4214.4   4250.0   425.0
101St  IUVI1IEUIT COSTS                    41110.0   30170.0  22110.0  116110.411 10.  110.0   1                      2150.0 92S0.0         0210.0      0210.0   3210.0    0210.0          0210.0 1 250.0   0       2110.0    ggg. 1 .     0200.0   0250.0   0210.0   10010.0
....    ...    ....    ...    ....    ...    ....    ...    ....    ...    ....    ...    .......................................................................................................................................................................................@s
BENEFITS
COSi  AVIDAtt                                UUU341.1   14241.   11153.5  111.4   65112.1  1602.2  11S10.1  13064.   1452.1  13186.6  14600.4  1511                                    41.4 161.4         1 1UU.5   f20.2  2004041.02411.6  24116.6  25110.6  21010.1
Ams  BsEN IT                                        -    2642.6    13225.   I06u.1  14611.4  U1614.2  111.1  2132.0  2 0102.6  32106.6  32165.5  32055.6  1205.6   2                                            21. 2   .6  32061.0  3H21        6  3201.6  32160 S   21. 1206
IEt(0  IENEIII                                      -      0O.5    2657.6   421. 1  5176.0   6412.0   6462.0   6482.0   648 2.                           0   6412  0  12.0    6462.0 e       642.0   642.0    6462.0   6462.0   6402.0   1                  .0   6462.0   6462.0
lojAL BNFT4        S                         1343.1    16111.6  27110.0  32315.0  353)3.0  40535.4  44020.6  4116 4  103310  53436.4  1418.360  1335.0  15430.0  1164L1 I 5661.6  60308.5  51841.4  63524.4  65421.4  61264.2
- .  -  - -- ---_--_--.-.--.-------..-------....I........ ................................... ......... ........ ............. .._..__.............. ................................. ..................... ...................._.
N11 CASH ItOH
.... .......... 
NET  CASH  FLOW                           *41826.1  -11355.4    4071.6    3415.0  21123.0  31161.4  24111.6  3121.4  41040.1  44111.4  406u.e0  46061o.   41189.6  46390.1  40111.1 51146.1  52601.4  54314.4  54161.4  02364.2                                                                                  (
.asgnSa    .s-u:sa    stasa ....I . s:    amal:- :  .ags,t    Rasaells  sasass  ala....                         ss          ....   a ..... ssasa  , sush    asusaes sass::es:  assea           ais sab.   ssaue,, assssin  ass:a::
.............................................. ................................................................................ ,,,, . ,,.....,...,,   ,......_. .  _...............
AprIl 4, lOIS 11:18
Interal Rates of Return  of Nat  Strese
555515aa ,,:a5a5 ,:asssaa:.ai..a:.asas.nal
N. cr                              33.241
Pramant  Value of  Strews  at                       12.001
Sat las.gt..... a aassastas.su ass asasa
tt. 1                       142  22.1 53
SM ICHlBl VICUES Al 121
.. --.............          a
APPIAISAL          SWITCHING          PERCENIAtG
STREAM                            VALUt              VALUE              CHANGE
.s,,ss .           s..g a. a sa asa. .a.as.s.ass               sss a.sss.Imas
8.70                       28,016U.354        142. 016. 01             *se. 161
C. II                      142. 018. o0       284.18.54                100. 641
............................ ............................................................................. t
NP  V     IIII *  142,022.5
In         33.21                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Cleo  2I *s                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CD



TUGOSLAVIA
SOSNIA.HERIGOVINA FOEShAY IIIPIOvERIMF PROJtIC
...............................................
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
..................
lAVIOVICI
..........
DIVANS TNOUSANDS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............. ...........____.____.__ ........__._. _
loss      19tm      toai       I9U      tes       tot2       tt91      19t2       1i93      1114      t99O      tile       12i1      1i         tIll      0000      2001      000        2000      1004
IIINESTIIENT CO5ST
........ .............
LOGGI No                         12200.0  37100.0    1 45100.0  200.0 15000.0  15000,0  11000.0  11000.0  11000. 0  1100.0  11S0 000.0 1100.   Is00.0  I1000.0   10. 1000   1100. 0  11000.0  11000.0  1S400.0
ROAD CONSTRUCTION A 0ESIG1    412110.   48280.0  48280.0  48280.0 36210.0  36210.0  3£210.0  3£210.0  £6210.0  £3210.0  3£210.0  3£210.0  3£210.0  36210.0  3£210.0  36210.0  3£210.0  16210.0  3£210.0                                      -
FOTAL INVESITICN  COSTS         100480.0  86100.0  93160.0  msc.,.0           oo1210.0         1101.0o 510    11210012.0      11210. 0  1100.01 51 110.0     11210.0 51210.0  51110.0   51210.0  51210.0  51210.0  51210.0  15110.0  1S100.0
.. .. .. . .. ..   . . .. .* .. . .. .. .. . .. .. .. . ..  ..     .. .. .* . ..  .. .. .  ..     . .. . .   .. .. . .. .. .. .  .. ..  . .. ..  .    . .. .. .. . ..      . .. . .. .. .. . .. ..  .
COST AVOIDUCE                      6250.0   0320.5   8073.0    1507.3 1111S.4  13457.3   11111. 2   17471.3   11027. 1  180.1   1827.5 1            8101.1 £5 166.1  37718.1  42060.5  49257.5  51189.4  63575.8  71110.1  60M2.3
ROADS  IENFIT                            -  13153.9  26307.8  32451.7 51615.6  65160.1  78923.4  52017.3 If231.2 1182813.1 IIUS..                       1 111211.1 118311.1 11363.1 I11125.1 I118165.1  11361 611 116369.1  111351. I 11S53.1
YIEto BENEFIT                            -     566.0  10443.4  1UI1. 3 22562.7  25411.6  25471.6  25471.6  2741.1  25471.6  21471.5  254711.   21471.5  25471.6  25411.6  21471.6  2                          C416  21471.   25471 C.1  411.6
IOIAL  ENIEFITS                    6250.0  23040.1  44824.1   51780.3 8U40. 7 104705.4  120001.2 135020.2 149729.1 113837.6 161684.2 1711158.2 176152.3 161574.7  186117.2  113114.5 191941.1 207422.4 211711.1  224843.0
NET CASH FLOW
.............
NET CASH FLOW                    -54230.0 -6313.1 -461755.1  -16099.7 £1020.7  51411.4  18711.2  63610.2  185111.  112627.6 116474.2 120148.2 121242.61 130324.7 123107.2 141104.1  1451135.1 111220.4 114551.  2111,43.0   .c.
a.at~~~....    ....   .... .aaa                         *.a...i. ..a*a    .2322  .......a a.:.as...               .:as..... ..a...... ..aaa.aa a.ta    at..  a.....  ..s....  geas
InteeIl RAtes of Return of Nel Streui
.......................................
N.CF                        23. 161
Present Value oF String  at              12.001
N. cr                 255.319.64
SNITNIINO VALUES AT 121
APPR5AISAL     SWITCHNG7        PEICEN7AGE
STRE4A                     VALUE          VAtLUE         CHANGE
I.................................... ...w......s....w.s...
1.10                 7%% 154.45   100,274.84            *a3. In
C. tRw               100. 214. U    715. 54.48           51. 041
.........................................................
N" f 121 S 21S, 3211.6 
INS   * 02.21
CEII   * 11.m1
co' 



- 55 -
ANNEX 9
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA FORESTRY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Economic Analysis
Projected Sawnwood Export Prices
(constant 1983 Prices)
1980     1982       1990        1995
~- -(US$/m3)---
World Bank Projections /1
Sawnwood, Malaysian hardwood
(CIF France)                      330        292        323         356
Logs, Sapelli hardwood
(FOB Cameroon)                    228        171        228         256
SRBH Unit Export Value
Sawnwood, hardwood /2             206        244        298         332
Sawnwood, Conifers /3             142        150        169         182
1,  Economic Analysis and Projections Department, January 1984.
/2 Based on Bank projected trend, average for Malaysian and Sapelli.
/3 Based on Bank projected trend of 1.5% per annum increase in real terms.



- 56 -
ANNEX 9
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA FORESTRY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Economic Analysis
Projected Sawnwood Price Structure for the Economic Analysis
(Constant 1983 Prices)
Conifers               Broadleaved
1983   1990   1995     1983    1990   1995
- -  -  ('000 Din/m3)
Sawnwood Export Price /1             18.8   21.1   22.8      30.5   37.3   41.5
Less: Port Fees & Handling            0.1    0.1    0.1      0.2    0.2   41.5
Internal Transport /2          0.9    0.9    0.9       0.9    0.9    0.9
Ex-Mill Price, sawnwood              17.8   20.1   21.8      29.4   36.2   40.4
Less: Mill costs/m3 sawnwood /3       3.3    3.3    3.3      5.6    5.6    5.6
Nill Recovery Coefficient /4           71X    71    71X       46S    46S    461
Value of residuals /5                 0.5    0.7    0.7      0.2    0.2    0.2
Millgate Price, sawlogs              10.4   12.1  13.3       11.1   14.2   16.1
Less: Log transport to millgate       0.4    0.4    0.4      0.4    0.4    0.4
Roadside Price/m3 log                10.0   11.7   12.9     10.7   13.8   15.7
US$1 = Dinar 125
/1 From Annex 9, Table 1.
/2 Total cost including cost incurred by mill and Federal subsidy (50X).
/3 Average of costs at Bugojno and Mrkonjic Grad Mills.
/4 Average yields at Bogojno and Mrkonjic Grad Mills.
/5 At Bugojno and Mrkonjic Grad mills, coniferous chips and slabs with bark
comprise an average of 17X of the log and are valued at Dinar 750 per m'
net of mill handling costs. About 81 is sawdust valued at 100 Din per mu
net of handling for fuel. The balance is waste. Broadleaved chips and
slabs comprise an average of 301 and are valued at about Din 350 per m 3
net of handling, mainly for fuel. Installation of debarkers is expected to
increase the conifer chip recovery price from 850 to 1200 Din per m. net
of handling.



- 57 -
ANNEX 9
Table 3
APPRAISAL OF
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA FORESTRY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Economic Analys-s
Projected Pulpwood Price Structure for the Economic Analysis
(constant 1983 prices)
1983      1990       1995
(USii3)
Pulpwood Price, f.o.b. Austria /1                 38.8      43.1       46.6
Plus: International Transport and handling         5.0       5.0        5.0
Pulpwood Import Price at Border                   43.8      48.1       51.6
('000 Din/m3)
Pulpwood Import Price at Border                    5.5       6.0        6.5
Plus: Transport & handling from border             0.4       0.4        0.4
Pulpwood Price at Pulpmill                         5.9       6.4        6.9
Less: Transport & handling from forest            -0.4      -0.4       -0.4
Roadside Price in forest                           5.5       6.0        6.5
US$1 5 Dinar 125
/1 1983 Timber Bulletin for Europe; adjusted 1982 price base. Real increase
of 1.51 per year projected by World Bank Economic Analysis and Projections
Department.



- 58 -
ANNEX 9
Table 4
APPRAISAL OF
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA FORESTRY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Economic Analysis
Conversion Factors for the Economic Analysis
Standard Conversion Factor (SCF)                                   0.75
Specific Conversion Factors:
Construction                                                 0.65
Transportation                                               0.65
Equipment                                                    0.75
Shadow Wage Coefficient:'
Seasonal                                                     1.0
Unskilled                                                    1.0
Semiskilled                                                  1.0
Others                                                       1.0
1/    Combined .%ith the SCF, the overall factors applied to labor cost
components are:
Seasonal                 0.75
Unskilled                0.75
Semi-skilled             0.75
Others                   0.75



- 59 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA FORESTRY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Selected Documents and Data in the Project File
A.  Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
Al      FAO Report to Government of Yugoslavia:  Forestry and Forest
Industries in the Republics of Bosnia-Herzegovina and Montenegro,
1966 (FAO TA 2224).
A2      Development of Forestry and Forest Industries in the Republics of
Bosnia-Herzegovina and Montenegro, FAO Rome, 1972 and 1973,
Technical Reports Nos 1-5, 11, 15, 16, and Terminal (FO:SF/YUG 10)
A3 (a) Bleached Sulphate Market Pulp Mill Project;
(b) Market Assessment and Plan for INCEL, Banja Luka, FAO Rome, 1973
B.   Documents and Studies Related to the Project
BI      FAO/CP Project Preparation, Working Papers, August 1981
B2      SIPAD Project Preparation Report, Ten Volumes, 1981
B3      SIPAD Project Preparation Data Supplement and Revisions August 29
and October 24, 1983.
Self-Management Agreements (SMA) and Statutes (ST):
B4      SIPAD Compound Organization of Associated Labor (SMA & ST)
B5      SIPAD Interndl Bank (SMA)
B6      SIPAD Work Organization Janj Donj Vakuf (SMA & ST)
B7      SIPAD Forestry BOAL Koprivnica, Bugojno (SMA & ST)
B8      KRIVAJA COAL (SMA & ST)
B9      MrKonjic Grad Work Organization Manjaca (SMA)
Forest Management Plans for Three Forest Economic Areas:
B1O     Gornje Vrbasko (SIPAD BOAL Koprivnica, Bugojno)
Bll     MrKonjic Grad



- 60 -
ANE  10
Page 2
B12     Zavidovici (KRIVAJA BOLL)
B13    V. Matic, Method and Principles of Forest Management Plan
Preparation in SRBR, 1971
Forestry Regulations
B14     Repubic Forestry Law
Five-Year and Annual Plans
B15     KRIVAJA COAL 1981-85 Plan
B16     UNICEP COAL 1981-85 Plan
B17     UNICEP COAL 1983 Business Plan
Forest Road Planning Methodology
B18     Professor V. Jelecic, "Planning and Determination of Road Density"
B19     Engineer N. Bogoljub, "Selection of Forest Roads Based on Costs,
1979"
B20     S. Vojin and N. Bogoljub, "Conditions and Needs in Construction of
Forest Comiun4cations in SRBH 1976."
121     WO "SIP"/BOAL "Sumarstvo Gostovic" - Construction Norms
Marketing
B22     Abstract, SIPAD Development in 1981-85 Plan and to Year 2000
B23     Wood Market in 1981 and Prospects for 1982.
Procurement
B24     1983 Local competitive bidding regulations in SRBH.
Documents Furnished in Connection with the Negotiations
B25     Sample advertisement and draft contract for procurement of logging
roads civil works contracts.
B26     Draft bidding documents (3 volumes) for procurement of project
equipment.



- 61 -
ANNEX 10
Page 3
B27     Sample logging road designs:
(a)     "Branch for Section 31," 1.51 km (Bugojno)
(b)     "Extension Section 18," 0.9 km (Sanski Most)
(c)     "Dobri Do - Ljubin Grob," 3.717 km (Sutjeska).
B28     Detailed list of equipment to be purchased.
B29     SIPAD letter dated March 20, 1985 justifying equipment list
modifications.
B30     Draft appraisal reports, technical reports and maps for 3
subprojects: Vares, Bugojno and Przini/Bos.Grahovo.
B31     Draft subloan agreement.
B32     Resolutions of the Credit Committee of Basic Banks and
participating BB's regarding financing coumitments for the project:
(a)     Project financing resolution by PBS;
(b)     Subproject financing resolutions by PBS;
(c)     Subproject financing resolutions by the Basic Banks.
B33     SRBH Finance Secretariate letter dated February 28, 1985 confirming
Federal and Republic Fund allocations for the project;
B34     Cash Flow projections for participating basic banks.
B35     PBS proposal for reducing arrears (letter dated February 15, 1985).
B36     Nomination for the Project Unit roads engineer.
B37     Draft Training Program.
Project Implementation File
C1      Forest Resources, Management & Production
C2      Reforestation & Nurseries
C3      Forest Roads
C4      Logging
C5      Debarking
C6      Appraisal of 3 BOALS
C7      Invvestment Plans for 30 BOALS
C8      financial Statements of Investors
C9      Project Cost Estimates
ClO     Financial Analyses
Cil     PBS Balance Sheet and Statement of Income and Expenses (1980-83)
C12     SIPAD Authority, Policies and Financial Conditions
C13     Exports of Wood and Wood Products by Yugoslavia and SRBH



YUGOSLAVIA
8OSNIAoHERZEGOWNA FOREY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Orgonbztlon Chct of SPAD COAL
r ~ ~~~                                                     ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -- - - - I 
C4wwm of,   W  rm                                      :            OC     d ovoW 4DCA1
,   >, r - --W~~~~3"T               , 
I WakOw_d  I  I          L________
TmIvupau9b  SVAD Pcs 1no  IwD Comm  Is
N0 ~E0
&
Meoaggws 9od  o       j ePstde &Ns 'he UK Vice Puetaderribe omm                                                  Dwo"mn
*~~~EGw  tn rafo                                                                           SM wiwlg          .    A S,rf . *^-
-'WA  Isiema Bes* V UnSW  Apmal ~iVongf                                                                          Wosid enk-2e270)
| ft*sg Oeganwatuns am autronmous  odme & WA COAL
Vic _Wdnt --I 0n* to01ding                                           I                      Io Iws



Ii 2_     7                                t                              19.                             20c                            2;-
ss' _ R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R~~ 450.
GELRADE
K                              Tuzim                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~YUGOSLAVIA
.Lanime                   BOSNIA - HERZEGOVINA
kL~ ~ ~ ~ ~~a                                                                            FORESTRY IMPROVEMEN'i' PROJECT
C R O A T                                                                Z-  IA                                 PROJECT AREA
4 X~~~~R A I                    I     a RtG                  S                                                              e                                         wCRVJAh
IL    LAEC                                                                                                             Pwfteip.IMg KPIVAJA Koals
3    ursA                                                                         54)~                  Paroiposing  IMAO goels
Outse Projc Amix
£ Possible Tree Sued Canter
* Nursery Modernization
5 banih                                                                                                Da~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* Oberker Insallutianm
*    S             ~~~~~SIPAD Referene Map Numbers
34 iN             t.FC2CA          @1) iF e- A                        Remwbic Sundwries
--4  l;='iR->   \   \92 -   t  xt i   5zN       FPerst A.imtratiwe Boundwies
s; zt Sev             g                      <4                                                                 _                 1l \   /                                      i1~~~~~~~ost% 1
25'
HUNGARY             1
Kor                                                                   430-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d                 t.RMANIA
YUGOSLAVIA..
NERZEGOIA                S
iI v
'40                                                                         aw VW ft anpom~~~~~~~~~~~~~t 
56'                              1i'                              lo ir                                                              20                                  i    *.
MAY 1985



I1RD 18160
16'                            17'                            la                             19'                             20'                            21'
a'    ,'         Ax       OSao .                                                                                                            ,Dub ica 
\ TESLt C L        ,  @  v FOREP803  DUBICA   Gracli a         % I
kalHAC                                                              I                                                                                                                 45
a  I   tANSKI MOS'r~~~~~~~~ YU OLA I
oenskiVAiOS u a                                           u                                             OS I-H R EG VN
CROATIA    s aos~< \@ /stetAt L                                      )-\LADA  |  c#xt/9q                                                     AOMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARIES
oador                                                                  TRVniaForest A dwitflaive Soundoties
39              4)                    4                                  IFotest Economic Areas FEAs)
44*                         4° G   OC                  Bo b1 °) XI )LAMOCSIPAD Refuefnce Map Numbers
440.                                                                                   -                                         High Forest                       44**
~~   '~i'   13  (0~~ SICuJ                     11        SKLAC                                                     CpieForest
N1                                                                          Core Land
a  Oa TI6A                                         Main Roads
Sibonik                                       P A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Republic Boundaries
5)   ~ ~ ~ VNVO ~A D\                                                                n,rnational Boundaries
IJ                                                 A ova, -f X  \I
-L~~~~~                                                                                                                         ~~~~~~ -*   -RL  "
12'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
A~~~~~~~~~fn n  
FoFa~~~~~ f s                                                                      i
N                                                                                                                                   13--                                     ROMANIA1'  S'*~--  2I 
BILEC ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARL18



IBRD 17971 Ri
YUGOSLAVIA
BO* -5usnfA -                     5  u                          BOSNIA - HERZEGOVINA
WZEGQ V  ,                        /         N             FORESTRY IMPRCVEMENT PROJECT
o                                         /                                   SAMPLE SUBPROJECT AREA
MANJACA MRKONJIC-GRAD FORESTRY BOAL
i 1    I                                 (t          o__          r 4V Jvs                              -
L GM E 1t                                                                       - S  ic-
. } . Z   L + K ~ .  i--=                                       :2 -  .
s  ._,..>'-  . - .  J
SEA  NEGRO  .d                                                 I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  ao.aOsi
O, I    2  ?          A    5                                                                                                / ,-   5
S  M  ES                                                                   Mr iji-grd 
o'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10 5J,                                              0.-  0   s
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Frs Ec3p Ar a Bo-undar_
{  ;3'  XJ   t    {      z           /                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~SUSPROJECr AREA
FOREST MANAgGEMENT UNITS
E Dubsto Gora
/& ;   <  t   SE,    2           LRsoa
( g > f                          \                                5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Vrono n,n Osoje
---o s 4 , _High Foret Ecr Ar oSwdory
%.z,                                                Co__ce  -   Frest Mageguen UnF t s oundary
A.                       ____ - _  \   ^S-45   \  Forest Comcorlment bsorldales
\   s_ts__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\   ^  (       < ~~~~~~~~~~~Eu snitn Public Rood,
\ _ - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x > ~~~~~~~~~~low Quality Putblic Roads
r 5~~~~= \~~~~ s J~~~ Enisteng Foest Roads
lnat e  ~             >          -                                             Hugh Forest
-   >_-\  'R    -- -   f                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CoppICE Forest
,   5     $t_x-                                                       Foreit Lond under Pbst.w or Culstinton
Borelonds and Degraded Coppce
's                  L __ . >  [                           - --  - - Regional Boundwres I INSET)
AP RI 198



