Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TF GRANT NUMBER TF056982 GUI 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Grant Agreement 
 
(Community-Based Land Management Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated November 7, 2006
Page  2
GEF TF GRANT NUMBER TF056982 GUI 
 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated November 7, 2006 
(“Grant Agreement”) entered into 
between: 
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA (“Recipient”); and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“World Bank”), acting as an implementing agency of the Global 
Environment Facility (“GEF”). 
The Recipient and the World Bank hereby agree as follows: 
Article I 
Standard Conditions; Definitions 
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various 
Funds, dated July 20, 2006 (“Standard Conditions”), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in this 
Agreement.  
Article II 
The Project 
2.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).  To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the Standard Conditions, and 
with the Convention on Biological Diversity, the United Nations Convention to Combat 
Desertification, and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
Page  3
-
2
-
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
Article III 
The Grant 
3.01. 
The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equal to 
seven million Dollars (USD 7,000,000
)
(“Grant”) to assist in financing the Project. 
3.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Article IV 
Remedies of the World Bank
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension referred to in Section 4.02 (i) of the 
Standard Conditions consist of the following: 
 (a) 
Payment Failure.
 The Recipient has failed to make 
payment (notwithstanding that such payment may have been made by a third party) of 
principal, interest, service charges or any other amount due to the World Bank or the 
International Development Association (the Association): (i) under any other agreement 
between the Recipient and the World Bank; or (ii) under any agreement between the 
Recipient and the Association; or (iii) in consequence of any guarantee extended or other 
financial obligation of any kind assumed by the Association or the World Bank to any 
third party with the agreement of the Recipient.  
 
(b) 
Event prior to Effectiveness.
 
The World Bank has determined after the 
Effective Date referred to in Section 5.03 of this Agreement that, prior to such date but 
after the date of this Agreement, an event has occurred which would have entitled the 
World Bank to suspend the Recipient's right to make withdrawals from the Grant 
Account if this Agreement had been effective on the date such event occurred. 
Article V 
Effectiveness 
5.01. 
This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the 
World Bank has been furnished to the World Bank that the conditions specified below 
have been satisfied. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(a) 
The execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the Recipient 
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental and corporate action. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient has adopted the Project Implementation Manual, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the World Bank. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient has established, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
World Bank, the steering committee set up under the Recipient’s Village Communities 
Support Program, comprising, 
inter alia
:
(i) a representative each from (A) the Ministry 
responsible for decentralization, acting as Chair; (B) the Ministry responsible for 
planning; (C) the Ministry of responsible for agriculture; one (1) of the latter two (2) 
acting as Vice Chair; (D) the Ministry responsible for finance; (E) the Ministry 
responsible for pre-university education; (F) Ministry responsible for public health; 
(G) the Ministry responsible for public works; and (H) the Ministry responsible for 
fisheries; (ii) 
three 
(3) civil society (non-governmental organizations and private 
institutions) representatives; and (iii) four (7) representatives of Presidents of Rural 
Development Communities, one (1) from each of the seven (7) Regions of the 
Recipient’s territory, as the Steering Committee for purposes of Project implementation. 
 
(d) 
The Recipient has selected, in accordance with the provisions of 
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
 
an auditor with qualifications, experience 
and terms of reference satisfactory to the World Bank, for purposes of Project 
implementation. 
 
(e) 
The Recipient has selected, on a competitive basis, a Natural Resource 
Management Focal Point, with qualifications, experience and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the World Bank, for purposes of Project implementation. 
 
5.02. 
As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 5.01 (a), there shall be 
furnished to the World Bank an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the World Bank of 
counsel acceptable to the World Bank or, if the World Bank so requests, a certificate 
satisfactory to the World Bank of a competent official of the Member Country, showing 
the following matter: 
 
On behalf of the Recipient, that this Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by, and executed and delivered on its behalf, and is legally binding upon it in 
accordance with its terms. 
 
5.03. 
Except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, this shall 
enter into effect on the date upon which the World Bank dispatches to the Recipient 
notice of its acceptance of the evidence required pursuant to Section 5.01 (“Effective 
Date”).  If, before the Effective Date, any event has occurred which would have entitled 
the World Bank to suspend the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant 
Account if this Agreement had been effective, the World Bank may postpone the dispatch 
Page  5
-
4
-
of the notice referred to in this sub-paragraph until such event (or events) has (or have) 
ceased to exist. 
 
5.04. 
Termination for Failure to Become Effective.
 
This Agreement and all obligations 
of the parties under it shall terminate if it has not entered into effect by the date 90 days 
after the date of this Agreement, unless the World Bank, after consideration of the 
reasons for the delay, establishes a later date for the purpose of this Section.  The World 
Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date.  
Article VI 
Representatives; Addresses 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02 of the Standard 
Conditions is the minister at the time responsible for the economy and finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
Ministry of the Economy and Finance 
P. O. Box 579 
Conakry 
 Guinea 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
 
22399 MIFIGE  
(224) 30 45 54 22 
 
(224) 30 41 17 17 
 
6.03. 
The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
Address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INTBAFRAD 
  248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
AGREED at Conakry, Guinea, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA 
 
By /s/ Madikaba Camara 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the  
 
Global Environment Facility
 
By
 /s/ Idé Gnandou 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to reduce land degradation through the integration 
of sustainable land management practices into the overall development-planning process 
of communities and local governments in selected pilot sub-watersheds. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
1. 
Local Investment Fund
Carrying out of Micro-Projects by local populations in the following areas: 
(a) 
Sustainable land management focused investments, including in relation 
to: 
 (i) 
soil 
fertility 
management; 
 
(ii) 
localized soil erosion control; 
(iii) 
localized river bank protection; 
(iv) 
degraded land restoration; 
(v) 
support to conservation agriculture or tillage; 
(vi) 
introduction of adapted agricultural technologies to farmers for 
purposes of reduction of risks relating to climate changes; 
(vii) 
development of improved pastures for purposes of reduction of 
need for brush fires and ensuring sufficient-quality animal 
fodder; and 
(viii) 
support to forestry and agro-forestry investments for purposes of 
income diversification, land protection and wood-supply 
increase (firewood, construction). 
(b) 
Operational research and development activities, upon request by local 
communities, relating to on-farm or on-site testing and validation of new technologies 
and activities for purposes of land productivity improvement. 
(c) 
Provision of support to demonstration activities for purposes of reduction 
of land degradation pressures, 
Page  8
-
7
-
all through the provision of Micro-Project Grants. 
2. 
Capacity Building for Local Development
Strengthening the capacity of local governments and rural communities in 
selected pilot sites in the spatial planning of development activities and in the planning, 
implementation and coordination of development activities that include sustainable land 
management practices, including: 
(a) 
(i) 
Provision of geographic information system-based planning- and 
investment-decision support tools such as maps (reflecting 
natural resource and land quality data), monitoring and 
evaluation tools such as geographic information system-based 
database systems and sub-watershed master plans; and 
(ii) 
establishment of multi-disciplinary technical and scientific 
taskforce for purposes of review of proposed sub-watershed 
development plans for consistency with other sub-watershed 
activities and effectiveness. 
 
(b) 
Dissemination of technical information and transfer of knowledge 
relating to land degradation control and mitigation technologies and potential profitable 
activities, through carrying out of training in and testing and demonstration of sustainable 
land use technologies and activities. 
 
(c) 
Provision of support to participatory rural appraisals for purposes of 
adaptation of existing Local Development Plans to reflect sustainable land management 
priorities. 
(d) 
(i) 
carrying out of training for purposes of improvement of land-use 
planning skills of local government officers and rural community 
leaders; and 
(ii) 
provision of related adapted database management tools. 
 
(e) 
Provision of support, including training in organizational, management 
and negotiation skills, to local groups, in relation to sustainable land management and 
land degradation prevention and control issues. 
 
(f) 
Provision of support to natural resource use conflict resolution 
mechanisms (design and implementation), 
all through the provision of goods, such as office equipment and supplies, 
technical advisory services and training and the financing of Operating Costs.  
 
Page  9
-
8
-
3. 
Project Management, Coordination and Monitoring and Evaluation
(a) 
Project Management and Coordination: Provision of support to entities 
involved in Project implementation. 
 
(b) 
Project Monitoring and Evaluation: Strengthening and adaptation of the 
monitoring and evaluation capacity and impact assessment systems of 
the Recipient’s 
Village Communities Support Program (Phase I): 
(i) 
use of remote-sensing and geographic information system for 
measurement of vegetation coverage, extent of land and water 
degradation and restoration and sediment loading into rivers; 
(ii) 
establishment of link with a specialized institution for purposes 
of measurement of evolution of vegetation indices; and 
(iii) 
aggregation and comparison of data under geographic 
information system baseline database established for each pilot 
watershed in Rural Development Communities participating in 
the Project, 
all through the provision of goods
,
such as office
 
equipment and supplies, 
technical advisory services and training, the carrying out of works and the financing of 
Operating Costs. 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
Part 1 of the Project shall be implemented by the concerned Beneficiaries, and 
Parts 2 and 3 by the Ministry at the time responsible for planning, through the National 
Coordination Unit.
 
2. Steering 
Committee
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, the 
Steering Committee established pursuant to Section 5.01 (b) (iii) of this Agreement, in 
form and substance and with resources and functions satisfactory to the World Bank. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this 
Section, the Steering Committee shall be responsible for oversight of Project 
implementation.  As such, it shall, 
inter alia
:
(i) review the annual work plans and 
budgets referred to in Section V.B of this Schedule; (ii) review Project implementation 
status and progress toward achievement of the Project objective; and (iii) decide on 
corrective action necessary relative to issues in Project implementation. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this 
Section, the Steering Committee shall meet at regular intervals to review the carrying out 
of Project implementation, and invite, as appropriate, representatives of the Donors to 
participate in at least any one (1) said meeting each year.
 
3. 
National Coordination Unit
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, the 
National Coordination Unit, in form and substance and with resources and functions 
satisfactory to the World Bank, under the Ministry at the time responsible for planning. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this 
Section, the National Coordination Unit shall comprise staff with qualifications, 
experience, and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, including: 
(i) a national project coordinator, (ii) an accountant; (iii) a procurement specialist; 
(iv) a Natural Resource Management Focal Point; (v) safeguards specialist; and  
(vi) a geographic information system specialist.
 
Page  11
-
10  - 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this 
Section, the National Coordination Unit shall be responsible for day to day Project 
implementation.  As such, it shall, 
inter alia
,
(i) coordinate, supervise and monitor Project 
implementation; (ii) liaise with and provide long-term planning and policy support to 
entities involved in Project implementation; (iii) carry out financial management and 
accounting under the Project; and (iv) oversee operation of the Local Investment Fund. 
(d) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this 
Section, the National Coordination Unit shall furnish to the Steering Committee for 
approval by the Steering Committee as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
September 30 of each year or such later date as the World Bank may agree, commencing 
September 30, 2006 or two (2) weeks after the Effective Date, whichever is sooner, or 
such later date as the World Bank may agree, throughout Project implementation, the 
annual work plans and budgets referred to in Section V.B of this Schedule for the next 
fiscal year of the Recipient, of such scope and in such detail as the World Bank shall have 
reasonably requested. 
 
4. 
Regional Coordination Units
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, 
Regional Coordination Units in form and substance and with resources and functions 
satisfactory to the World Bank. 
(b) 
The Regional Coordination Units shall be responsible for monitoring of 
Project implementation and coordination at the Regional level.  As such, they shall 
furnish periodic reports, in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank, on Project 
implementation to the national project coordinator referred to in Part I.A.3 (b) of this 
Schedule. 
5. 
Natural Resource Management Focal Point
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, a 
Natural Resource Management Focal Point, with qualifications, experience and terms of 
reference and with resources and functions satisfactory to the World Bank.
 
(b) 
The Natural Resource Management Focal Point shall, 
inter alia
:
(i) assist 
the national project coordinator referred to in Part I.A.3 (b) of this Schedule in 
supervision of the implementation of annual work plans of entities involved in Project 
implementation; (ii) ensure that terms of reference for consultant
s’ services
 
are available, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank and produced in accordance with the 
timetable set forth in the Procurement Plan; (iii) prepare periodic progress reports in 
accordance with Section II.A.1 (a) of this Schedule; (iv) cause to carry out technical 
Page  12
-
11  - 
audits of Parts 2 and 3 of the Project; and (v) organize and participate in periodic 
supervision missions. 
B. Manual
 
1. 
Except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall: (i) carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual; and (ii) except as the 
World Bank shall otherwise agree, not amend, abrogate, or waive the aforementioned, or 
any provision thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of the World Bank, may 
materially or adversely affect Project implementation or achievement of the objective 
thereof. 
 
2. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Paragraph 1 of this Section, the Project 
Implementation Manual shall include: (a) Micro-Project Grant eligibility and Micro-
Project implementation guidelines and procedures; and (b) such other technical, 
environmental, social and organizational arrangements as shall be required for Project 
implementation. 
 
C
.
Micro-Projects
 
1.  
General
(a) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section I of this Schedule,    
the Community Council, on behalf of the Recipient, shall appraise, approve, and monitor 
the Micro-Projects under Part 1 of the Project in accordance with the provisions of this 
Section and the Project Implementation Manual. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, the 
Community Council, in form and substance and with resources and functions satisfactory 
to the World Bank. 
2. 
Micro-Project Grant Eligibility and Micro-Project Implementation Guidelines 
and Procedures
(a) 
No proposed Micro-Project shall be eligible for financing under Part 1 of 
the Project unless the Community Council has determined, on the basis of an appraisal 
conducted in accordance with this Section and the Project Implementation Manual, that 
the proposed Micro-Project satisfies the eligibility criteria specified below and in further 
detail in the Project Implementation Manual, which shall include, 
inter alia
,
the 
following: 
(i) 
the proposed Micro-Project shall be initiated by a Rural 
Development Community which meets the eligibility criteria 
Page  13
-
12  - 
specified in the Project Implementation Manual, and such Rural 
Development Community shall be eligible for subsequent Micro-
Project Grants if it has completed the Micro-Project set out in its 
preceding Annual Investment Plan to the satisfaction of the 
World Bank and the Recipient; 
(ii) 
the proposed Micro-Project shall be for activities set forth in 
Part 
1 of the Project and further detailed in the Project 
Implementation Manual; 
(iii) 
the financing of the proposed Micro-Project shall be fully 
covered by the sum of the Micro-Project Grant and the 
Beneficiary’s contribution. 
 
(b) 
No proposed Micro-Project shall be eligible for financing under Part 1 of 
the Project if the Community Council has determined, on the basis of an appraisal 
conducted in accordance with this Section and the Project Implementation Manual, that 
the proposed Micro-Project satisfies any of the non-eligibility criteria specified below 
and in further detail in the Project Implementation Manual, which shall include, 
inter 
alia
,
the following: 
(i) 
the proposed Micro-Project shall be for activities relating to the 
production of tobacco or hallucinogen plants; and 
(ii) 
the proposed Micro-Project shall be for investments not proven 
to be in compliance with applicable land law. 
3. 
Terms and Conditions of Micro-Project Grant Agreements
(a) 
A Micro-Project shall be carried out pursuant to a Micro-Project Grant 
Agreement, to be concluded between the respective the Regional Coordination Unit on 
behalf of the Recipient and the respective Community Council on behalf of the 
Beneficiary, under terms and conditions, satisfactory to the World Bank, described in 
further detail in the Project Implementation Manual, which shall include, 
inter alia
,
the 
following: 
(i) 
the obligation of the Beneficiary to contribute, in cash or in kind, 
at least ten percent (10%) of the projected Micro-Project costs; 
(ii) 
the obligation of the Beneficiary to: (A) carry out the 
 
Micro-Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
Page  14
-
13  - 
accordance with sound technical, environmental, financial and 
administrative practices; and (B) maintain adequate records to 
reflect, in accordance sound accounting practices, the resources, 
operations, and expenditures relating to the Micro-Project; 
(iii) 
the requirement that the goods, works, and consultants’ services 
to be financed from the proceeds of the Micro-Project Grant 
shall be procured in accordance with procedures ensuring 
efficiency and economy and in accordance with the provisions of 
Section III of this Schedule, and shall be used exclusively in the 
carrying out of the Micro-Project; and 
(iv) 
the right of the Regional Coordination Unit, on behalf of the 
Recipient, and of the Recipient in its own right, to: (A) inspect 
by itself, or jointly with the World Bank, if the World Bank shall 
so request, the goods, works, sites, plants and construction 
included in the Micro-Project, the operations thereof, and any 
relevant records and documents; (B) obtain all information as it, 
or the World Bank, shall reasonably request regarding the 
administration, operation, and financial condition of 
 
Micro-Projects; and (C) suspend or terminate the right of any 
Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Micro-Project Grant upon 
failure by the Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations under 
the Micro-Project Grant Agreement; 
(b) 
the Regional Coordination Unit or the Recipient, as the case may be, 
shall exercise its rights under the Micro-Project Grant Agreement in such manner as to 
protect its interests and the interests of the World Bank and to achieve the Project 
objective, and, except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate, or waive any substantive provision of the aforementioned. 
D. 
Environmental and Social Safeguards
 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project, including the Micro-Projects under 
Part 1 of the Project, is implemented in accordance with the provisions of the 
Environmental and Social Management Framework and Resettlement Process 
Framework, and, except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not 
amend or waive, nor permit to be amended or waived, any provision of the 
aforementioned if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of the World Bank, 
materially or adversely affect Project implementation or achievement of the objective 
thereof. 
Page  15
-
14  - 
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that Micro-Projects are appraised, approved and 
monitored in accordance with specific procedures set out in the Project Implementation 
Manual. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports; Completion Report 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis of the indicators 
set forth below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the World Bank not later than one (1) month after the end of 
the period covered by such report.  
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following: 
(i) 
Part 1 of the Project 
By the Closing Date, at least 60% of the Micro-Projects 
funded under Part 1 of the Project have been 
satisfactorily implemented and maintained by the 
respective Beneficiary. 
 
(ii) 
Part 2 of the Project 
(A) 
As of the end of the second year of Project 
implementation, at least 50 percent of all Micro-Projects 
approved by the respective Community Council are of 
satisfactory quality. 
(B) 
By the end of the second year of Project implementation, 
at least 30 percent of the Rural Development 
Communities that have participated in the Project in the 
first year of its implementation have appropriately 
adapted existing land management plans to include 
sustainable land management priorities. 
(C) 
By the Closing Date, at least 60 percent of the identified 
stakeholders in each Rural Development Community 
Page  16
-
15  - 
that has participated in the Project have been trained in 
sustainable land management approaches. 
 
(iii) 
Part 3 of the Project 
(A) 
The proceeds of the Grant have been satisfactorily 
managed throughout Project implementation. 
(B) 
The annual work plans and budgets referred to in 
Section V.B of this Schedule have been adhered to 
throughout Project implementation. 
(C) 
Funds have been made available to Beneficiaries as 
scheduled under the annual work plans and budgets 
referred to under Section 
V.B of this Schedule 
throughout Project implementation. 
(D) 
As of the Closing Date, monitoring and evaluation under 
the Project have yielded reliable data, effective in 
guiding Project coordination and management, and said 
data have been independently evaluated and confirmed.
 
2. 
The Recipient shall prepare a Recipient’s Completion Report in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions.  The Completion Report shall 
be furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date
.
B. 
Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that a financial management system is maintained in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions. 
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that interim un-audited financial reports for the 
Project are prepared and furnished to the World Bank as part of the Project 
Report not later than one (1) month after the end of each calendar semester, 
covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank.
 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements for the Project audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions.  
Each such audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) 
fiscal year of the Recipient.  The audited Financial Statements for each such 
period shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6) months after the 
end of such period. 
Page  17
-
16  - 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1. 
Procurement and Consultant Guidelines.
 
All goods, works, and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall 
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in: 
(a) 
Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the World Bank in May 2004 (“Procurement 
Guidelines”) in the case of goods and works, and Sections I and IV of the 
“Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” published by the World Bank in May 2004 (“Consultant 
Guidelines”) in the case of consultants’ services; and 
(b) 
the provisions of this Section III, as the same shall be elaborated in the 
procurement plan prepared and updated from time to time by the 
Recipient for the Project in accordance with paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines 
(“Procurement Plan”). 
2. Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
1. 
International or National
 
Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided 
in paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International or National Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following 
methods, other than International or National Competitive Bidding, may be used 
for procurement of goods and works for those contracts specified in the 
Procurement Plan: (a) Shopping; (b) Procurement from United Nations Agencies; 
and (c) Community Participation procedures which have been found acceptable 
to the World Bank. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Page  18
-
17  - 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following 
methods, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for 
procurement of 
consultants’ services for those assignments which are specified in 
the Procurement Plan: (a) Least Cost Selection; (b) Selection based on 
Consultants’ Qualifications; and (c) Single-source Selection. 
 
D. 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Except as the World Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the World Bank:  
(a) each contract for goods or works estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 
or more procured on the basis of International Competitive Bidding, Limited 
International Bidding or National Competitive Bidding, or Direct Contracting; 
and (b) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; (c) each contract for consultants’ 
services provided by an individual consultant estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
World Bank.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of (a) Article III of the Standard Conditions, (b) this Section, and 
(c) such additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the 
Recipient (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” 
dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures consisting of goods, works, consultants’ services, training, Micro-
Project Grants, and Operating Costs. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Page  19
-
18  - 
Category 
Amount of the 
Grant 
Allocated 
(expressed in 
USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures to be 
Financed
 
(1)  Goods 
      500,000
 
100%
of Foreign Expenditures and 80% of 
Local Expenditures
 
(2) Works 
       50,000 
100% of Foreign Expenditures and 80% of 
Local Expenditures 
(3) Consultants’ 
services  
 
1,000,000 
100% of Foreign Expenditures and 80% of 
Local Expenditures 
(4) Training 
     450,000
 
100%
(5)  Micro-Project 
Grants 
 
3,000,000
 
100%
of amounts disbursed 
(6)  Operating Costs 
     500,000
 
90%
(7) Unallocated 
  1,500,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 7,000,000 
======== 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Period   
The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06 (c) of the Standard Conditions 
is June 30, 2011. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
A. Auditor
 
1. 
The Recipient shall employ the auditor appointed pursuant to Section 5.01 (b) (i) 
of this Agreement for no more than three (3) years, including any renewal of the contract 
for said employment, and shall appoint a new auditor, with qualifications, experience and 
terms of reference satisfactory to the World Bank, upon expiry of said employment. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall submit to the World Bank, no later than June 30 of each year, 
commencing June 30, 2007, or such later date as the World Bank may agree, throughout 
Project implementation, the auditor’s report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Page  20
-
19  - 
World Bank and including an opinion as to the regularity of the financial statements of 
the Project and the use of the proceeds of the Grant.
 
B. 
Annual Work Plans and Budgets 
 
The Recipient shall furnish to the World Bank for approval as soon as available, 
but in any case not later than October 31 of each year or such later date as the World 
Bank may agree, commencing October 31, 2006 or six (6) weeks after the Effective Date, 
whichever is sooner, or such later date as the World Bank may agree, throughout Project 
implementation, the annual work plan and budget for the next fiscal year of the Recipient, 
of such scope and in such detail as the World Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
 
C. Midterm 
Review 
 
1. 
Not later than December 31, 2008 or such later date as the World Bank may agree, 
the Recipient and the World Bank shall carry out a midterm review (
“Midterm Review”).  
The Recipient shall take all actions it considers necessary to ensure the participation of 
Beneficiaries, Donors and non-governmental organizations in such Review.  Such Review 
shall cover the progress achieved in Project implementation. 
 
2. 
No later than two (2) months prior to the Midterm Review, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the World Bank the following, in form and substance satisfactory to the World 
Bank: (i) technical and financial audits of Micro-Projects implemented or under 
implementation under Part 1 of the Project; and (ii) an economic and financial impact 
analysis of Micro-Projects implemented or under implementation under Part 1 of the 
Project. 
3. 
No later than one (1) month prior to the Midterm Review, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Donors, including the World Bank, for their review and comments, a report, 
in such detail as the World Bank shall have reasonably requested, on Project 
implementation. 
4. 
Following such Midterm Review, the Recipient shall act promptly and diligently in 
order to take any corrective action deemed necessary by the World Bank to remedy any 
shortcoming noted in Project implementation, or to implement such other measures as may 
have been agreed upon between the World Bank and the Recipient in furtherance of the 
Project objective. 
Page  21
-
20  - 
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Annual Investment Plan” (
Plan Annuel d’Investissements
)
means a plan 
prepared by a Rural Development Community, outlining its priority investment 
needs and derived from its Local Development Plan (as hereinafter defined). 
 
2. 
“Beneficiary” means a Rural Development Community (as hereinafter defined) 
which meets the criteria specified in the Project Implementation Manual (as 
hereinafter defined) to which or for whose benefit a Micro-Project Grant (as 
hereinafter defined) is made or proposed to be made for the carrying out of a 
Micro-Project (as hereinafter defined) under Part 1 of the Project. 
 
3. 
“Community Council” (
Conseil Communautaire
)
means the decision-making 
organ of the Rural Development Community (as hereinafter defined). 
4. 
“Convention on Biological Diversity” means the intergovernmental treaty signed 
in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil on June 12, 1992, the principal objectives of which are 
the conservation of biodiversity, the sustainable use of the components of 
biodiversity and
 
the sharing of benefits arising from the commercial and other 
utilization of genetic resources in a fair and equitable manner. . 
5. 
“Currency” means the currency of a country and the Special Drawing Right.  
“Currency of a country” means the currency which is legal tender for the 
payment of public and private debts in that country. 
6. 
“Dollar”, “$” and “USD” each means the lawful currency of the United States of 
America. 
7. 
“Donor” means any national or multilateral agency contributing resources to or 
technical advisory services for the Project. 
8. 
“Environmental and Social Management Framework” means the plan, dated 
February 17, 2006, agreed with the World Bank and outlining measures for the 
mitigation of the potential adverse environmental and social impact associated 
with the Micro-Projects to be implemented under Part 1 of the Project, as the 
same may be amended from time to time with the concurrence of the World 
Bank, and such term includes any schedules to the Environmental and Social 
Management Plan. 
9. 
“Environmental and Social Management Plan” means the plan, dated 
February 17, 2006, agreed with the World Bank and outlining measures for the 
mitigation of the potential adverse environmental and social impact associated 
Page  22
-
21  - 
with activities to be implemented under the Project, as the same may be amended 
from time to time with the concurrence of the World Bank, and such term 
includes the Environmental and Social Management Framework and any 
schedules to the Environmental and Social Management Plan.  
10. 
“Foreign Expenditure” means an expenditure in the Currency of any country 
other than the Recipient for goods, works, or services supplied from the territory 
of any country other than the Recipient. 
11. 
“Guinea Maritime Observatory” (
Observatoire Guinée Maritime
)
means the 
Recipient’s entity established pursuant to the Recipient’s Order 
No. 165/MP/SGG/2004 of January 5, 2004 or any other entity established in its 
place by the Recipient upon such establishment. 
12. 
“Local Development Plan” (
Plan de Développement Local
)
means a plan 
prepared by a Rural Development Community outlining its priority development 
needs.  
13. 
“Local Expenditure” means an expenditure: (a) in the Currency of the Recipient; 
or (b) for goods, works, or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; 
provided, however, that if the Currency of the Recipient is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods, works, or services are supplied, an 
expenditure in such Currency for such goods, works, or services shall be deemed 
to be a Foreign Expenditure. 
14. 
“Local Investment Fund” (
Fonds d’Investissement Local
)
means the funding 
mechanism which shall provide Micro-Project Grants (as hereinafter defined) to 
Beneficiaries for the carrying out of Micro-Projects (as hereinafter defined) under 
Part 1 of the Project. 
 
15. 
“Micro-Project” means a specific activity in the areas referred to in Part 1 of the 
Project, financed or proposed to be financed through a Micro-Project Grant (as 
hereinafter defined) extended under the Local Investment Fund.  
 
16. 
“Micro-Project Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made to finance a 
Micro-Project under Part 1 of the Project. 
 
17. 
“Micro-Project Grant Agreement” means an agreement between the Recipient 
represented by the Rural Development Community Council (as hereinafter 
defined) and a Beneficiary, setting forth the terms and conditions under which 
proceeds of the Grant shall be made available to the Beneficiary for the purpose 
of financing Micro-Projects.  
Page  23
-
22  - 
18.  
“National Coordination Unit” (
Cellule Nationale de Coordination
)
means the 
entity referred to in Section I.A.3 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and whose 
responsibilities are set out in Section I.A.3 (b) and (c) of said Schedule.  
19. 
“Natural Resource Management Focal Point” means the individual selected 
pursuant to Section 5.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement and whose responsibilities are 
set out in Section I.A.4 (b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
20. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by the National 
Coordination Unit on account of Project implementation, management and 
monitoring, including for office space rental and utilities, office supplies, bank 
charges, communications, advertising, vehicle operation, maintenance and 
insurance, building and equipment maintenance, travel and supervision, salaries 
of contractual and temporary staff, but excluding salaries, honoraria, fees, and 
bonuses of members of the Recipient’s civil service. 
21. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 9, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.  
22. 
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the World Bank, adopted by the Recipient, and outlining 
implementation, organizational, monitoring and evaluation, environmental and 
social, financial, disbursement, procurement and administrative management 
arrangements, as shall have been agreed with the World Bank for purposes of 
Project implementation, as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
concurrence of the World Bank, and such term includes any schedules to the 
Project Implementation Manual. 
23. “Region” 
(
Région
)
means an administrative area of the Recipient established 
pursuant to the Recipient’s Ordinance No. 079/PRG/86 of March 25, 1986, 
representing a designated area and population within the territory of the 
Recipient. 
24. 
 “Regional Coordination Unit” (
Unité Régionale de Coordination
)
means the 
Regional organ of the National Coordination Unit referred to in Section I.A.4 (a) 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, whose responsibilities are set out in 
Section I.A.4 (b) of said Schedule. 
 
25. 
“Resettlement Process Framework” means the framework, 
dated February 17, 2006, agreed with the World Bank and outlining measures for 
the participation in resource planning and management of communities who 
might be adversely impacted by potential resettlement associated with activities 
to be implemented under the Project, as the same may be amended from time to 
Page  24
-
23  - 
time with the concurrence of the World Bank, and such term includes any 
schedules to the Resettlement Process Framework. 
 
26. 
“Rural Development Community” (
Communauté Rurale de Développement
)
means an administrative area of the Recipient, established pursuant to the 
Recipient’s Ordinance 
Nos. 
079/PRG/86 of March 
25, 
1986 and 
092/PRG/SGG 
of October 22, 
1990, representing a designated area and 
population within the territory of the Recipient. 
 
27. 
“Steering Committee” means the entity established pursuant to 
Section 5.01 (b) (iii) of this Agreement and whose responsibilities are set out in 
Section I.A.2 (c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
28. 
United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification means the 
intergovernmental treaty which entered into force on December 26, 1996 and 
which has as its principal objectives to combat desertification and mitigate the 
effects of drought in countries experiencing serious drought and / or 
desertification, particularly in Africa
.
29. 
United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change means the 
intergovernmental treaty which entered into force on March 21, 1994 and which 
has as its principal objectives to reduce global warming and to cope with 
whatever temperature increases are inevitable. 
 
30. 
“Village Communities Support Program” means the Recipient’s project launched 
on November 30,
 
1999 and presently under implementation, financed in part by 
the Association (Credit No. 3174 and Grant No. H201). 
 
