                                    Document of

                                  The World Bank



                                                            Report No: ICR00003521



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

                                    (TF-56982)

                                   ON A GRANT

                                    FROM THE

                          GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 7.0 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                               REPUBLIC OF GUINEA

                                      FOR A

                COMMUNITY-BASED LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT



                                   June 28, 2015




Agriculture Global Practice
Country Department AFCF2
Africa Region


                                         i
                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
            (Exchange Rate Effective as of June 2, 2015)
              United States Dollars = Guinean Francs

                       US$ 1.00 = GNF 7,250
                       1.00 GNF = US$ 0.14

                          FISCAL YEAR
                      January 1 – December 31

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD     Agence Française de Développement (French Development Agency)
ADL     Agent de Développement Local (Local Development Agent)
AIP     Annual Investment Program
APL     Adjustable Program Loan
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CCL     Code des Collectivités Locales (Local Government Code)
CDA     Community Development Agents
CDD     Community Driven Development
CNC     Cellule Nationale de la Coordination (National Coordination Unit)
COSAE   Comités de Suivi des Actions Environnementales
        (Environmental and Social Safeguard Committees)
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy
CR      Commune Rurale (Rural Municipality)
CRD     Commune Rurale de Développement (Rural Development Community)
CSBV    Comité de Sous Bassin Versant (Sub-watershed committee)
DND     Direction Nationale de la Décentralisation
        (National Decentralization Directorate)
ERA     Equipe Régionale d’Appui (Regional Support Team)
ESMF    Environnemental and Social Management Framework
FM      Financial Management
GA      Grant Agreement
GDP     Gross domestic product
GEF     Global Environment Facility
GIS     Geographic information system
GoG     Government of Guinea
HIPIC   Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IDA     International Development Association
IFAD    International Fund for Agricultural Development
IFR     Interim Financial Report
INS     Institut Nationale de Statistique (National Statistics Institute)
IRAG    Institute des Recherches Agronomiques de Guinée
        (Guinea Agricultural Research Institute)
ISR     Implementation Status and Results Report
LDF     Local Development Fund
LDP     Local Development Plan
LIF     Local Investment Fund
M&E     Monitoring and evaluation


                                  ii
MAE          Ministère de l'Agriculture et de l'Elevage
             (Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock)
MATD         Ministère de l’Administration Territoire et de la Décentralisation
             (Ministry of Territorial Administration and Decentralization)
MEEF         Ministère de l'Environnement, des Eaux et Forêts
             (Ministry of Environment, Water and Forests)
MP           Ministère du Plan (Ministry of Planning)
MTR          Midterm review
NGO          Nongovernmental organization
NRM          Natural Resource Management
PACV         Programme d’Appui aux Communautés Villageoises
             (Village Communities Support Program)
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PDO          Project Development Objective
PFM          Public Financial Management
PGCT         Projet de Gestion Communautaire des Terres
             (Community Based Land Mangement Project)
PGCMB        Projet de Gestion Côtière et Maritime de la Biodiversité
             (Coastal Marine and Biodiversity Management Project)
PIM          Project Implementation Manual
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
PRSP         Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RPF          Resettlement Policy Framework
SPD          Service Préfectoral de Développement (Prefectural Development Service)
STD          Service Technique de Développement (Technical Development Service)
TTL          Task Team Leader
VCSP         Village Community Support Project




Senior Global Practice Director:                           Juergen Voegele
       Practice Manager:                                     Simeon Ehui
     Project Team Leader:                                  Amadou Alassane
      ICR Team Leader:                                     Amadou Alassane




                                         iii
                                                   CONTENTS

Data Sheet
           A. Basic Information
           B. Key Dates
           C. Ratings Summary
           D. Sector and Theme Codes
           E. Bank Staff
           F. Results Framework Analysis
           G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
           H. Restructuring
           I. Disbursement Graph


1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives, and Design................................................... 1 
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................................. 5 
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................................... 12 
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................................... 19 
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................................... 20 
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................................ 23 
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........................... 24 
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................................... 25 
Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................................. 27 
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................................. 32 
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............................. 36 
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................................... 38 
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................................... 42 
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .................................... 43 
Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................................... 48 
Annex 9. MAP IBRD 33414 ......................................................................................................... 49 




                                                                     iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Community-Based Land
Country:                 Guinea                  Project Name:
                                                                           Management Project
Project ID:              P081297                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-56982
ICR Date:                06/28/2015              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:      SIL                     Borrower:                 REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
Original Total
                         USD 7.00M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 7.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:          USD 7.00M
Environmental Category: B                        Global Focal Area: B
Implementing Agencies:
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

    B. Key Dates

                                                                                   Revised / Actual
      Process              Date             Process            Original Date
                                                                                       Date(s)
Concept Review:          12/09/2004   Effectiveness:             06/21/2007           07/20/2007
                                                                                      02/25/2008
Appraisal:               04/24/2006   Restructuring(s):                               06/29/2011
                                                                                      12/03/2013
Approval:                06/22/2006   Mid-term Review:           09/17/2012           10/26/2012
                                      Closing:                   06/30/2011           12/31/2014

    C. Ratings Summary

C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome               Substantial
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
           Bank                Ratings                  Borrower                    Ratings
Quality at Entry:        Moderately Satisfactory Government:                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                 Implementing
Quality of Supervision:  Moderately Satisfactory                                   Satisfactory
                                                 Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                     Overall Borrower
                         Moderately Satisfactory                              Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                     Performance:




                                                 v
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                            QAG Assessments (if
                               Indicators                                                Rating
      Performance                                      any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                             Yes                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of Supervision
                             Yes                                            None
time (Yes/No):                                       (QSA):
GEO rating before            Moderately
Closing/Inactive status      Satisfactory

    D. Sector and Theme Codes

                                                                        Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                         6                      6
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                         49                      49
General information and communications sector                             9                       9
Sub-national government administration                                   36                      36


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Biodiversity                                                              20                     20
Environmental policies and institutions                                   20                     20
Land administration and management                                        40                     40
Participation and civic engagement                                        20                     20

    E. Bank Staff

         Positions                          At ICR                                 At Approval
Vice President:              Makhtar Diop                          Gobind T. Nankani
Country Director:            Ousmane Diagana                       Mats Karlsson
Practice Manager/Manager: Simeon Kacou Ehui                        Mary A. Barton-Dock
Project Team Leader:         Amadou Alassane                       Dirk Nicolaas Prevoo
ICR Team Leader:             Amadou Alassane
ICR Primary Author:          Kofi Amponsah




                                                   vi
    F. Results Framework Analysis

Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
The development objective of the Project was to reduce land degradation through the integration
of SLM practices into the overall development planning process of communities and local
governments in selected pilot sub-watersheds.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
Indicators and reasons/justifications



(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                                  Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                      Formally
                                                    Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator             Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                      approval                        Completion or
                                                                    Target Values
                                                    documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Increase in hectares under sustainable land management
Value
(quantitative or                0                      25,000            10,000           18,682
Qualitative)
Date achieved              06/22/2006               06/30/2011        06/29/2011         12/31/2014
Comments           The target was revised downward during the June 2011 restructuring (which occurred
(incl. %           following the Bank's re-engagement in Guinea after OP7.30 was lifted). The revised
achievement)       target was 187% achieved.
Indicator 2 :      Number of direct project beneficiaries
Value
(quantitative or                0                                         1,040           4,591
Qualitative)
Date achieved              06/22/2006                                   06/29/2011     12/31/2014
Comments
                   This core WB indicator was added during the June 2011 restructuring. The target was
(incl. %
                   exceeded four fold.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :      Percentage of direct beneficiaries that are female
Value
(quantitative or               0%                                         25%              44%
Qualitative)
Date achieved              06/22/2006                                   06/29/2011     12/31/2014
Comments
                   This core WB indicator was added during the June 2011 restructuring. The target was
(incl. %
                   176% achieved.
achievement)
                   Number of beneficiary CRs that have integrated sustainable land management issues
Indicator 4 :
                   into their local development plans using sub-watershed management approach.
Value
                                                   17 (i.e. 60% of 26 (i.e. 100% of
(quantitative or                0                                                           26
                                                  beneficiary CRs) beneficiary CRs
Qualitative)
Date achieved              06/22/2006                06/30/2011         06/29/2011     12/31/2014

                                                     vii
Comments
                   This indicator was moved from IO-level to PDO level during the June 2011
(incl. %
                   restructuring and the target was revised. The target was 100% achieved.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                                       Formally        Actual Value
                                                  Original Target
                                                                        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator             Baseline Value            Values (from
                                                                        Target        Completion or
                                                approval documents)
                                                                        Values         Target Years
                   Number of micro-projects funded under the local investment fund that are correctly
Indicator 1 :
                   executed by beneficiary (OP, CRs).
Value
(quantitative or                0                 101 (60% of total)                            135
Qualitative)
Date achieved               06/22/2006               06/30/2011                          12/31/2014
Comments           Of the 169 micro-projects funded, 154 had been completed at the time of the ICR, 135
(incl. %           (80%) of which were correctly executed (within technical and procedural norms). The
achievement)       original target was 60%. This target was 134% achieved.
Indicator 2 :      Number of different SLM technologies and alternative practices adopted per watershed
Value
(quantitative or                0                           15                10                 6
Qualitative)
Date achieved              06/22/2006                 06/30/2011         06/15/2011         12/31/2014
Comments
                   This indicator was revised during the June 2011 restructuring. The target was 60%
(incl. %
                   achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :      Number of identified stakeholders trained in SLM approaches per CRD.
Value
(quantitative or               0%                           60%              300                381
Qualitative)
Date achieved               06/22/2006                06/30/2011         06/29/2011         12/31/2014
Comments           This indicator was revised during the June 2011 restructuring. It was changed from a
(incl. %           targeted '60% of stakeholders trained' to '300 stakeholders trained'. The revised target
achievement)       was 127% achieved.
                   Number of beneficiary groups who have properly executed their NRM/SLM micro-
Indicator 4 :
                   projects
Value
(quantitative or               0                                          30                52
Qualitative)
Date achieved            06/29/2011                                  06/29/2011        12/31/2014
Comments
                 This indicator was added during the June 2011 restructuring. The target was 173%
(incl. %
                 achieved.
achievement)
                 Percent of beneficiary CRDs who have jointly (consensually) identified, integrated into
Indicator 5 :
                 the LDP and financed transversal sub-watershed management activities
Value                         0%                                         40%               35%

                                                     viii
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved              06/29/2011                                  06/29/2011         12/31/2014
Comments           This indicator was added during the June 2011 restructuring. 9 of 26 beneficiary CRs
(incl. %           (35%) had identified and jointly implemented cross-cutting SLM activities in their
achievement)       watersheds. The target was 88% achieved.
Indicator 6 :      Number of watershed management committees in place and functional.
Value
(quantitative or                0                                            5                  5
Qualitative)
Date achieved              06/29/2011                                  06/29/2011         12/31/2014
Comments           This indicator was added during the June 2011 restructuring. All 5 sub-watershed
(incl. %           management committees were in place and functional by the end of the project. The
achievement)       target was 100% achieved.
Indicator 7 :      Percent of project funds properly managed
Value
(quantitative or              100%                        100%                                100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved              06/22/2007                06/30/2011                            12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %           This target was 100% achieved
achievement)
Indicator 8 :      Work program and calendar adhered to
Value
(quantitative or                0                         80%               70%               70%
Qualitative)
Date achieved                06/22/2007                  06/30/2011       06/29/2011         12/31/2014
Comments           The target for this indicator was revised downward during the June 2011 to a more
(incl. %           realistic figure given the difficult circumstances. The original target was 88% achieved
achievement)       and the revised target 100% achieved
Indicator 9 :      Percentage of funds made available to communities when scheduled.
Value
(quantitative or                0                         75%               60%               55%
Qualitative)
Date achieved              06/22/2007                  06/30/2011          06/29/2011       12/31/2014
Comments           The target for this indicator was revised downward during the June 2011 restructuring
(incl. %           to a more realistic figure given the difficult circumstances. The original target was 73%
achievement)       achieved and the revised target was 92% achieved.
Indicator 10 :     M&E has provided reliable information, effective in guiding project management
Value
(quantitative or               No                         Yes                                  Yes
Qualitative)
Date achieved              06/22/2007                06/29/2011                            12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %           This target was 100% achieved
achievement)



                                                     ix
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


      Date ISR                                                                  Actual Disbursements
No.                           GEO                              IP
      Archived                                                                     (USD millions)
 1    08/26/2006          Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                       0.00
 2    03/28/2007          Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                       0.00
 3    07/18/2007          Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory                       0.00
 4    03/06/2008     Moderately Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                 0.75
 5    11/30/2008        Unsatisfactory                  Unsatisfactory                       0.82
 6    06/03/2009    Moderately Unsatisfactory       Moderately Unsatisfactory                0.82
 7    12/06/2009     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Unsatisfactory                0.82
 8    06/03/2010     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Unsatisfactory                0.82
 9    07/06/2011     Moderately Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                 1.32
10    03/19/2012     Moderately Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                 2.66
11    02/13/2013     Moderately Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                 3.63
12    10/07/2013        Unsatisfactory              Moderately Unsatisfactory                4.92
13    03/25/2014          Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory                 5.85
14    12/01/2014     Moderately Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       6.95


  H. Restructuring (if any)


                           ISR Ratings at     Amount
                 Board
Restructuring              Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring & Key
              Approved GEO
   Date(s)                                 Restructuring            Changes Made
                 Change     GEO     IP
                                          in USD millions
 02/25/2008                  S      U            0.75     Change in financing percentages
                                                          Extension of closing date and
 06/29/2011         N        MS     MU           1.32
                                                          update of results framework
                                                          Extension of closing date and
 12/03/2013         N        U      MU           5.17
                                                          reallocation of proceeds




                                                x
I. Disbursement Profile




                          xi
1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives, and Design

    1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.     At appraisal, Guinea’s economy relied as much on its rich natural resources as it does
today. Mining and agriculture—the most important economic activities—employed about 80
percent of the population. The main livelihood for the rural poor was agriculture, which employed
65 percent of the population; 30 percent of the rural population raised livestock. Although
economic growth was driven by agriculture, increases in agricultural production were not the result
of higher productivity but of efforts to expand cultivated area and limit fallow periods. The
pressure on land was also heightened by population growth, especially along the main transport
corridors to Senegal, Mali, and Côte d’Ivoire.
2.     In addition to its immediate impact on livelihoods, the low and declining productivity of
land had even more far-reaching impacts on the environment, because Guinea is a key watershed
for major West African rivers, including the Niger, Senegal, and Gambia. The majority of Guinea’s
neighboring countries depended on those rivers for water, food, energy, tourism, and transport.
Sound, long-term strategies to manage water resources were essential to address the threats of
water scarcity and stress in the sub-region. The pressure on the environment also threatened natural
species and habitats.
3.      The land degradation problem was exacerbated by weak institutional capacity for sound
environmental management at the national and local level. The knowledge base for environmental
management was also quite limited, especially with respect to the effects on ecosystems of
activities such as artisanal mining, deforestation, and inappropriate agricultural practices. The
multiple functions of ecosystems over the long term and the important role of preventing and
controlling land degradation were not widely appreciated. Decentralized, site-specific strategies
for sustainable land management (SLM) were not available to improve land management practices.
Site-specific SLM strategies could not only generate immediate benefits (by reducing production
costs and increasing farm incomes) but contribute to medium- and long-term goals in
environmental management, such as reversing land degradation and the loss of agro-biodiversity,
decreasing greenhouse gas emissions, improving carbon sequestration, and improving the
hydrological cycle at the sub-watershed level.
4.      The Community Based Land Management Project (Projet de Gestion Communautaire des
Terres, PGCT) was developed, with incremental funding from the Global Environment Facility
(GEF), to address these issues on a pilot basis. The design and implementation of the PGCT took
advantage of an existing successful CDD project - the Programme d’Appui aux Communautés
Villageoises (PACV) - which had developed considerable experience in supporting decentralized
rural development activities. 1 PACV supported a participatory approach for defining and
implementing local development plans (LDPs) to fund local infrastructure for basic socio-
economic services. It seemed appropriate to use PACV’s successful approach to address issues
1 The Village Communities Support Program (PACV) is an Adaptable Lending Program (APL) consisting of three phases. The
second phase was approved on August 14, 2007 and closed December 31, 2014. The PDO of the PACV is to enable rural
governments (CRDs) to fulfill their mandate by planning and implementing inclusive local development activities, and improving
revenue performance to sustain recurrent costs. The PACV strengthened local development planning and financed local social
infrastructure and as such is complementary to the PGCT. The PACV project management unit was used to implement this GEF
project by adding key technical staff to it.

                                                              1
related to land degradation and erosion through the participatory preparation of watershed
development and management plans that would be linked to the LDPs and support SLM
investments in a subset of the Rural Municipalities (Communes Rurales, CRs) covered by
PACV.
       1.2 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators

5.     Project Development Objective (PDO). The PDO was to reduce land degradation
through the integration of sustainable land management (SLM) practices in the overall
development planning process of communities and local governments in selected pilot sub-
watersheds.2
6.      Global Development Objective (GDO). The global objective of the project was to
pilot sustainable land management replicable to the prevention and mitigation of causes
and negative impacts of land degradation on the structure and functional integrity of
ecosystems.
7.     The GDO was stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) but not included in
the Grant Agreement. For that reason, the ICR team assessed only the PDO. To achieve
the PDO, three key performance indicators were selected at appraisal:

                    Surface under sustainable land management compared to baseline
                     assessment (25,000 hectares at end of project).
                    Reduction in segmentation rate as a measure of riparian health (to measure
                     both water quality and erosion—10 percent reduction by end of project).
                    Stabilization of native biological status (selected from 4–5 key specific
                     species to be identified through the baseline surveys).

       1.3 Revised GEO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

8.      The PDO was not revised, but some of the original PDO indicators were difficult
to interpret and thus measure. For that reason, when the project was restructured in June
2011, the indicators were revised and reformulated to be more succinct, measurable, and
achievable. An intermediate indicator—percent of beneficiary CRDs who have
appropriately adopted and formally recognized local development plans (PDLs) using the
(sub) watershed as the planning basis and including land degradation concerns—was
reworded and moved to the PDO level, because it contributed more to achieving the PDO
than to intermediate outcomes. Another intermediate indicator—number of micro-projects
funded that are properly executed and maintained by beneficiaries—was revised to focus
only on execution; the restructuring team noted that maintenance could not be measured
during the life of the project. Two more core sector indicators—number of project
beneficiaries and number of female beneficiaries—were introduced. The revised PDO
indicators are:

               Increase in hectares under sustainable land management.
               Number of project beneficiaries.

2   Project Appraisal Document (PAD) (p. 8) and Grant Agreement (p. 6).

                                                          2
             Number of female beneficiaries.
             Number of beneficiary Rural Development Communities (Communes Rurales
              de Développement, CRDs)3 that have integrated sustainable land management
              issues into their local development plans using a sub-watershed management
              approach.

    1.4 Main Beneficiaries

9.      The project was to benefit the rural population4 living within the targeted sub-
watersheds. With respect to institutions, the project’s interventions were expected to
benefit 26 local governments (CRs), as well as the administrative and technical service
structures supporting these CRs.
    1.5 Original Components

10.    The project consisted of three components: (i) Local Investment Fund; (ii) Capacity
Building for Decentralized Rural Development; and (iii) Project Management, Monitoring,
and Evaluation.
Component 1: Local Investment Fund (appraisal estimate, US$ 3.40 million; actual,
US$ 3.99 million)
11.      This component aimed to support implementation of SLM micro-
projects/subprojects through the provision of matching grants. It would focus on three sets
of actions. First, it would implement activities to promote SLM, such as improving soil
fertility management, controlling soil erosion, protecting river banks, restoring degraded
land, supporting conservation agriculture or tillage, introducing new and innovative
agricultural technologies to farmers to reduce the risks associated with climate change,
developing improved pastures to reduce bushfires and ensure sufficient animal fodder of
acceptable quality, supporting forestry and agroforestry investments to diversify
beneficiaries’ incomes, and protecting land to increase the supply of wood. Second, this
component would implement demand-driven operational research and development
activities related to on-farm and on-site testing and validation of new technologies as well
as activities to improve land productivity. Third, it would support demonstrations of
practices that would reduce land degradation.


Component 2: Capacity Building for Decentralized Rural Development (appraisal
estimate, US$ 2.50 million; actual, US$ 1.65 million)

12.    The objective of this component was to strengthen the capacity of local
governments and local communities in selected pilot sites in the spatial planning of
development activities, and in the planning, implementation, and coordination of
development activities that include SLM practices. Seven sets of activities were envisioned

3 In a revision of the CCL, rural municipalities were placed on the same footing with urban municipalities (Communes
Urbaines, CUs) and their name was changed from CRD to CR ; the terms used interchangeably throughout this report.
4 The PAD did not mentioned a specific number of beneficiaries.



                                                         3
under Component 2. First, it would provide tools based on geographic information systems
(GIS) to support planning and investment decisions (such as maps reflecting natural
resource and land quality data) as well as monitoring and evaluation (such as a GIS-based
database and sub-watershed master plans). Second, it would establish a multi-disciplinary
technical and scientific task force to review proposed sub-watershed development plans
for consistency with other sub-watershed activities. The third set of activities was to
disseminate technical information and transfer knowledge relating to land degradation and
control, including information on potentially profitable SLM activities and technologies
that could mitigate the effects of land degradation, through training and demonstrations.
Fourth, Component 2 would support participatory rural appraisals to adapt existing LDPs
to reflect SLM priorities. Fifth, it would conduct training to improve skills in land use
planning among local government authorities and rural community leaders, and provide
adaptable database management tools. Sixth, it would support training in organizational
management and negotiation skills for SLM and prevention and control of land
degradation; lastly, it would support the implementation of mechanisms to resolve conflicts
over natural resource use.
Component 3: Project Management, Monitoring, and Evaluation (appraisal
estimate, US$ 1.10 million; actual US$ 1.36 million)
13.      The objective of this component was to support the project implementation unit to
implement GEF financing for SLM activities and to monitor and evaluate the project’s
activities. To this end, the project was to provide funding to the technical ministries
involved in implementing the project: the Ministry of Planning (Ministère du Plan, MP),
Ministry of Territorial Administration and Decentralization (Ministère de l’Administration
Territoire et de la Décentralisation, MATD), Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
(Ministère de l'Agriculture et de l'Elevage, MAE), and the Ministry of Environment
(Ministère de l'Environnement, des Eaux et Forêts, MEEF), to support the incremental
costs of project implementation and management. The project would also support the
implementation of monitoring and evaluation activities by strengthening and adapting the
capacities for monitoring, evaluation, and impact assessment under PACV. Specifically,
the project would: (i) support the use of remote sensing and GIS for managing vegetative
cover, determining the extent to which the degradation of land and water resources was
reversed, and measuring sediment loading into rivers; (ii) establish links with a specialized
institution to measure the evolution of vegetative cover based on vegetation indices; and
(iii) aggregate and compare data under the GIS baseline database established for each pilot
watershed in the participating CRDs.
      1.6 Revised Components

14.      The components were not revised.
      1.7 Other Significant Changes

15.    Extension of project effectiveness date. Upon request from the Government of
Guinea, the World Bank extended the project’s effectiveness date from March 30, 2007 to
July 20, 2007. The extension was requested because the government was unable to meet


                                             4
key effectiveness conditions (recruitment of a technical specialist) stated in sections 5.01
and 5.02 of the Grant Agreement.
16.      Project restructuring. The project was restructured three times.5 The first, in 2008,
increased the financing percentages to 100% following the adoption of the “Country
Financing Percentages” for Guinea. In December 2008, the President of the Republic died
and the military took over government affairs. In line with the World Bank’s operational
policy regarding de facto governments (OP 7.30), the Bank suspended disbursements. This
suspension was in affect over two years until a democratically elected government was in
place. The second restructuring, in June 2011, followed the restoration of a more stable
political environment in Guinea and the Bank’s re-engagement. This restructuring: (i)
extended the project’s closing date from June 30, 2010 to December 31, 2013 to
compensate for the freeze on disbursements; (ii) reformulated and revised some indicators
and targets in the results framework; and (iii) increased the number of the beneficiary CRs
from 13 to 26. The third restructuring was extended the closing date from December 31,
2013 to December 31, 2014, and reallocated grant proceeds. The objective was to allow
the government to reach the PDO targets and complete activities to strengthen local
institutions required to sustain the project’s outcomes.
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
    2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

17.     The PGCT - designed to focus on environmental issues that were not taken into
account in designing PACV - complemented the PACV by financing SLM and Natural
Resource Management (NRM) activities in the CRs of four pilot river basins in the lower
middle belt of Guinea (Senegal River, Cogon River, Fatala River, and the Gambia River).
Project preparation was very participatory, including key stakeholders from the
government, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), scientific organizations, local
authorities and communities. Government institutions that participated fully in the
preparation were MATD, MAE, MEEF, and MP; the Guinea Agricultural Research
Institute (Institute des Recherches Agronomiques de Guinée, IRAG); and the National Soil
Service (Service National des Sols, SENSOL).
18.     Project preparation took about two and a half years – key processing steps and the
time lapse between them is provided in Table 1. The GEF preparation grant was approved
in 2003 and preparation of the PGCMB began that year. The preparation of PGCT did not
begin until 2004. The lengthy preparation time was attributed to: (i) weak in-country
capacity to address environmental issues, (ii) a delayed decision on where the project
would be “housed” (MEEF, MP or MAE) and (iii) the need to change course mid-way
through preparation due to a lack of funds for watershed activities under the GEF window.6




5All were level 2 restructuring which do not require Board approval.
6Even the project’s name was changed to reflect its new objective and structure; it was originally the Integrated
Ecosystems Management Project (Projet de Gestion Intégrée des Eco Systèmes).

                                                       5
       Table 1: Key processing steps and dates.

 No.               Processing steps                    Date           Time lapse between
                                                                             steps
 1       GEF pipeline and PDF approval             June 12, 2003               --
 2       Concept Note Review meeting              December 9, 2004        18 months
 3       GEF Council Approval                       June 8, 2005           6 months
 4       Decision Meeting                           April 4, 2006         10 months
 5       Appraisal                                 April 24, 2006        0.5 months
 6       Board Approval                            June 22, 2006           2 months
 7       Signing                                  November 7, 2006         5 months
 8       Effectiveness                              July 20, 2007         8 months


19.       Key design features included:

             Sound background analysis. A number of key studies conducted during the
              identification and pre-appraisal stages provided critical information on the
              effects of soil degradation. Findings and recommendations from the studies
              were reflected in the project’s design, including results of the environmental
              and social impact assessment and studies to identify the river basins
              (watersheds) and other areas where the project would operate. Aside from those
              studies, the preparation team carried out intensive consultations with the
              communities, which ensured that the project reflected their needs and concerns.

             Lessons from other projects and approaches. The preparation team
              incorporated a number of lessons gained from implementing PACV1 and
              projects using a community-driven development approach within West Africa.
              A major lesson was that SLM issues needed to be integrated into development
              not only at the community level but also at the sub-watershed and watershed
              levels. Another lesson was that it was important to rely on existing institutional
              structures to ensure institutional sustainability and accountability. As a result,
              PGCT built on the institutional structures established under PACV1 as well as
              the government’s decentralized institutions. A third lesson was that a
              participatory, community-driven development approach appeared to be the best
              approach for empowering communities to manage their natural resources.
              Given that activities and resources are transferred to communities under a
              community-driven development approach, a parallel lesson was that it was vital
              to evaluate capacity constraints. In its design, the project also reflected the need
              to take participating communities’ socio-economic factors into account to
              ensure effective transfer of technologies.

             Government commitment. The Government of Guinea (GoG) showed its
              strong commitment to project preparation by making technical staff available
              to work closely with the project team to ensure smooth preparation. The
              government should have endeavored to fulfill all effectiveness conditions,
              however, because its inability to meet the effectiveness deadline affected the
              commencement of the project.


                                                  6
          Measures to mitigate risks. The overall risks at appraisal were rated
           substantial. The preparation team identified a number of potential risks to the
           project’s development outcome and sought to take them into account in the
           project’s design. Those risks included: (i) insufficient resource mobilization to
           maintain facilities (mitigated by ensuring continued follow-up with the
           communities on maintenance issues); (ii) the impact of demographic pressure
           in the most vulnerable zones (mitigated by directing more of the project’s
           resources to areas under stress); (iii) insufficient technological adaptation to
           drought (mitigated by emphasizing SLM strategies and technologies that would
           increase resilience). The team identified and provided measures to mitigate
           those risks but did not include an analysis of country/macro level risks (which
           would have captured an assessment of socio-political risk).
20.     The design was innovative as it integrated capacity-building interventions to enable
CRs to take charge of their own local development with respect to SLM and NRM. Similar
projects implemented previously by many donors and NGOs had bypassed the CRs to focus
directly on the beneficiaries. The PGCT approach of improving local development through
engagement with local governments in addition to communities (i.e. building their capacity
to plan, implement, and sustain local development) was viewed as new by many rural
Guineans and accepted well by the communities. A key feature of the design was that
PGCT should be implemented only in CRs where PACV structures were already in place
- an arrangement that facilitated progress in implementation because it required no new
implementing structures to be established. The PDO was clearly formulated and linked to
the project’s components, but the number of indicators (more than 75) identified at the
project level was overambitious. The number of indicators and the way in which they were
formulated made it challenging for the project to track results. Also the project was a bit
“overdesigned” in the sense that it was shooting for “perfection”, with many preliminary
studies required before initiating investments (micro-projects) at the community-level.
This led to issues during implementation. A GEF global objective was included in the
PAD but not in the Grant Agreement. As noted, this assessment uses the objective as stated
in the Grant Agreement.
   2.2 Implementation

21.     The project was approved on June 22, 2006 and declared effective on July 20, 2007.
As noted in Section 1.7, the project took longer than anticipated to become effective (about
nine months); the prevailing political unrest inhibited the government’s efforts to recruit a
technical specialist (focal point) to implement PGCT-specific activities, which was a
condition of effectiveness. After effectiveness, implementation was delayed for two years,
as socio-political instability engulfed Guinea. Following the death of the President on
December 22, 2008, the military took over the affairs of the country, and the World Bank
suspended disbursements in line with the World Bank’s operational policy regarding de
facto governments (OP 7.30) until the country returned to democratic governance.
Elections were held in December 2010, OP7.30 was lifted in January 2011 and arrears were
paid in April 2011, paving the way for the disbursements to resume.



                                             7
22.     Aside from these extreme events, several other factors contributed to lags in
implementation. Principal among them was the emphasis placed (in project design) on
completing a multitude of studies before proceeding with actual activities on the ground.
This was noted, and corrected, during an October 2008 supervision mission - paving the
way for accelerated disbursements - just two months before OP7.30 went into effect.
Building an understanding in rural communities of the importance of soil conservation
practices also proved to be a challenge, and the project team had to intensify its
sensitization campaigns. Finally, establishing the watershed committees (Comités de Sous
Bassin Versant, CSBVs) took longer than initially planned due to the fact that a bottom-up
approach was adopted to allow for CR buy-in and ownership. In addition, the government
was slow to provide the approval needed to officially recognize these committees and their
functions in implementing and monitoring the sub-watershed basin management plans
(schémas d’aménagement). The CSBVs were not officially created until close to the end
of the project. Turnover among the World Bank task team leaders (TTLs) was another
factor that influenced implementation.
23.    Several countervailing factors boosted implementation, however:

          Strong government commitment. After the resumption of activities, the
           government showed a high level of commitment to implementation by
           maintaining a good relationship and intensifying communication with the
           World Bank. The government also facilitated supervision missions, particularly
           through the CNC. This support aided smooth implementation of the project’s
           activities.

          Integration of the project into the PACV structure. The project used the project
           management structure that was in place under PACV. Supplemental staff - a
           focal point for the two GEF projects, a junior accountant, a safeguards
           specialist, a GIS specialist and regional NRM specialists – were recruited to
           reinforce the PACV team. The National Coordinator, the Chief Administrative
           and Financial Officer, the Chief Procurement Officer, and the Chief M&E
           Officer for the PACV also handled the PGCT.

          The high level of competence and commitment of the CNC staff. Having been
           involved in the implementation of PACV1, the CNC staff was highly
           conversant with World Bank operations and instruments. They were committed
           to implementing PGCT and maintained that commitment throughout the life of
           the project. Even during the difficult period when activities were suspended, the
           CNC staff maintained contact with the regional governors, prefects, sub-
           prefects, and local government authorities in the CRs.

          Use of PACV manuals and planning tools. The PGCT was able to take
           advantage of the planning tools, harmonization guidelines, project
           implementation manuals, local development plans, and annual investment
           programs prepared for PACV. The SLM activities undertaken through PGCT
           were integrated in all of these instruments.



                                             8
          Project restructuring and midterm review. As noted in Section 1.7, the project
           was restructured in June 2011. The restructuring team noted the difficulties
           encountered by the project team in measuring the original PGCT indicators,
           which were not well formulated. Some indicators were highly scientific; they
           were also overambitious in the sense that they were quite numerous (75), which
           made routine monitoring and tracking extremely difficult. The World Bank
           worked with the project team to simplify the indicators; a revised results
           framework was included in the restructuring package. The indicators and their
           measurement was reviewed again during the mid-term review in 2012, and
           minor changes and clarification of measurement were noted. These actions
           improved the monitoring and measurement of the indicators and evaluation
           toward the achievement of the PDO.
   2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation, and Utilization

24.     M&E design. The project used the same M&E system as PACV2, reinforced to
monitor and evaluate the NRM interventions for the 26 beneficiary CRs. M&E included
three evaluations (at baseline, midterm, and the end of the project) to measure the project’s
impact on beneficiaries. The design also envisaged setting up a management information
system to systematically track and document project results and outcomes. A GIS with
georeferenced maps was an integral part of the M&E design.
25.     M&E implementation. M&E implementation was constrained by the delay in
implementing PGCT, but a number of actions helped to improve data collection and overall
M&E implementation. By the time of the ICR, the project had: (i) established M&E
systems in the regions, prefectures, and all 26 CRs, which had become well versed in using
the M&E manual, and (ii) developed and made data collection tools available to all the
implementing agencies, including the installation of a database in all the regions. Personnel
at each level were provided with significant training to manage the database. M&E
implementation was also aided by the effort to revise, simplify, and scale down the
indicators to measurable level.
26.     A key M&E activity was to evaluate the project’s impacts on beneficiaries. The
midterm evaluation survey could not be conducted because of the socio-political situation
and suspension of disbursement, but an end-of-project survey measured the achievement
of the project’s outcome indicators and impacts on beneficiaries. In addition to that survey,
specific studies coordinated by the CNC were conducted by individual consultants and
firms recruited for that purpose; among others, they included a study of the dynamics of
bush fires, a study of alternative techniques for sustainable soil fertility management, an
analysis of conflicts between farmers and herders, and surveys in four CRs to establish a
baseline for measuring impacts.
27.     M&E utilization. M&E data informed decision making at all levels. Regular
supervision reports, which focused on the implementation of agreed actions and
recommendations, were the main instruments used to inform decision making. These
reports were extensively discussed at the end of each supervision mission. In addition, the
impact evaluations, including the specific studies just mentioned, were widely
disseminated through stakeholder consultations and workshops. Workshops were also

                                             9
organized to disseminate the M&E procedures manual and ensure that all were conversant
with its use.
   2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

28.     Safeguards. The project was classified as category B and triggered two safeguard
policies, Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01) and Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12).
To mitigate any issues that might arise related to the acquisition of land or loss of economic
activity on the part of individuals or groups of individuals in project intervention areas, an
Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) and a Resettlement Policy
Framework (RPF) were prepared at the project’s inception. These frameworks were
updated to take into account institutional and legislative requirements as they arose.
Various safeguard reports on the implementation of the framework revealed that no
significant negative environmental or social impacts were associated with the
implementation of the micro-projects/subprojects. An independent environmental
assessment was not conducted, however, as the nature and size of the infrastructure projects
did not dictate that one should be done.
29.     Financial management. In general, the project operated a sound financial
management (FM) system focused on a decentralized approach to financing interventions.
PGCT complied fully with the World Bank’s operational policies on financial management
(OP/BP 10.02).At the time of the ICR, all Interim Financial Reports (IFRs) had been
submitted on time, and the previous year’s audit reports were unqualified and had been
received on time. In addition, all withdrawal applications had been completed. The last FM
supervision mission found that the financial management system established by the project
was acceptable. At the time of the midterm review, however, some FM issues identified by
the Bank’s FM team had led to a moderately satisfactory rating. The issues included: (i)
the lack of an internal auditor to ensure adequate internal controls were in place; (ii) a
voluminous FM procedures manual, which made it difficult for the CRs to comprehend the
steps to be taken in undertaking financial activities; (iii) inflexible financial accounting
software that did not automatically consolidate financial data; and (iv) a lack of capacity
in fiduciary staff at the Regional Support Team (Equipe Régionale d’Appui, ERA) and
local levels. The review team discussed those issues with the project team and made
recommendations for improvement, which the project team implemented diligently. FM
performance improved significantly thereafter, and subsequent FM supervision missions
rated FM performance as satisfactory.
30.     Procurement. The project team ensured compliance with World Bank procurement
policies (OP/BP 11.00). At the beginning of implementation, an 18-month procurement
plan was prepared; it was updated regularly to reflect the increase in activities under the
project’s components. Most procurement activities occurred at the local level, as the project
established local procurement committees in all the beneficiary CRs. The disbursement
freeze following OP7.30 resulted in a few delays. For example, the acquisition of solar
panels and computer equipment for prefectures were not procured on time leading to delays
in the getting the decentralized M&E system in place.
31.     Disbursement. Disbursement was quite slow initially, but accelerated significantly
after the June 2011 restructuring - increasing from 19% in June 2011 to 47% by August

                                             10
2012. At the time of the ICR, the project had disbursed 99.9 percent of project funds. See
Annex 1 for details on project costs and financing; Annex 3 provides a cost
overrun/underrun analysis.
    2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

32.     To improve environmental management and ensure sustainability beyond the life
of the project, the schéma d’aménagement,7 a strategic tool for preventing forest and land
degradation, was developed and widely disseminated to all beneficiary CRs.
33.     The project established five sub-watershed committees (CSBVs) to ensure proper
functioning of the local institutions established by the project. Guided by a schema
d’aménagement, the committees are tasked with ensuring participatory management of
natural resources in the river watersheds. Committee members received training in their
roles and responsibilities and in how to use intercommunity initiatives (activities
undertaken collectively by communities) as a tool for managing shared natural resources.
An agreement on this concept of shared natural resource management was developed and
adopted in a meeting with all local stakeholders, including the CSBVs, local elected
officials, and de-concentrated technical units. To implement the agreement effectively, the
CSBVs have developed an action plan that includes intercommunity activities and
capacity-building interventions partly financed by the participating CRs in their respective
Annual Investment Programs (AIPs). All members of the five CSBVs were equipped with
motorbikes for monitoring and supervising implementation of the action plan.
34.     To monitor and mitigate any environmental and social issues, the project
established Environmental and Social Safeguard Committees (Comités de Suivi des
Actions Environnementales, COSAE) for all micro-projects funded through PGCT. These
committees consist of representatives of civil society, local elected officials, the technical
services/units at the deconcentrated level, and the beneficiary groups. The members of the
group have received training in environmental safeguards to enable them to assume their
role of monitoring the implementation of micro-projects as well as correctly implementing
the safeguard measures.
35.    Follow-on activities. The PGCT generated substantial support at both community
and national levels. Given this interest, and the relative success of the pilot project, a
scaling-up is planned through the integration of sub-watershed/landscape/SLM approaches
and activities into the third phase of the PACV. This will allow results to be consolidated
and sustainability outcomes improved.




7The schéma d’aménagement outlines the priority NRM interventions, institutional and community responsibilities, roles
of stakeholders, key indicators for monitoring the health of sub-watersheds, good environmental governance, and risks
associated with the implementation of the plan, among other things.

                                                         11
3. Assessment of Outcomes

    3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation

36.     Relevance of objectives. The project is relevant to the government’s development
priorities as stated in the National Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers (PRSP2, 2011–20128
and PRSP3, 2012–15). Sub-chapter II.2.2 of PRSP2 (p. 67) emphasizes that sustainable
development is one of the government’s key sectoral priorities and that principles of
sustainable development will be integrated into government policies and programs to
reverse the loss of environmental resources, reduce the rate of biodiversity loss, and
ultimately improve living conditions for present generations while protecting the
environment and not compromising the sustainability of the productive base for future
generations. Specific measures promoted in the strategy include rational and sustainable
environmental protection and management of natural resources, soil fertility management
to combat desertification and bushfires, forests and protected areas, watersheds, marine
ecosystems, coastal fisheries, and water resources. The strategy also notes that
environmental impact studies should be considered in the implementation of eligible
projects and programs. In PRSP3, sub-chapter 2.1.1 (p. 97) identifies environmental
protection and the promotion of a green economy as key strategic priority areas for the
government. At the time that PGCT was prepared, land degradation was a major problem,
exacerbated by weak institutional capacity as well as poor knowledge of sound
environmental management practices at the national and local levels. By supporting NRM
practices to sustainably manage land and promoting income-generating activities that
allowed communities to practice sound environmental management, the PGCT provided
strong underpinnings for the government’s sustainable development policy.
37.     The project is also consistent with the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS)
FY2014–17, which focuses on three strategic objectives: (i) improving governance and
service delivery; (ii) stimulating growth and economic diversification; and (iii)
strengthening human capital. By strengthening local government systems and introducing
new technologies for NRM in rural communities, the project supported the first strategic
objective. Moreover, the project is consistent with the strategic priority of the GEF on land
conservation, and it supports the objectives set in the World Bank’s operational policy on
SLM (OP 15). In sum, the relevance of the project’s objectives is rated high.
38.     Relevance of design. The project’s design was and remains relevant to the
achievement of the PDO. The menu of activities described in the PAD was logically linked
to the project’s objective of supporting local governments and rural communities to plan
and practice sound and sustainable management of land and natural resources. Component
1 focused on supporting community efforts to carry out environmentally friendly activities
to improve soil fertility management, protect river banks, restore degraded land, support
conservation agriculture or tillage, and introduce agricultural technologies adapted to
farmers’ circumstances, among other activities that contributed to achievement of the PDO.
Component 2, by strengthening rural communities’ capacity to plan, implement, and
coordinate development activities that included SLM practices, also significantly

8 République de Guinée, Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances, Document de la Stratégie de Réduction de la Pauvreté
(2011-2012).

                                                        12
supported attainment of the PDO. However, the project was perhaps “overdesigned” in
the sense that it was shooting for “perfection” which led to problems during
implementation.
39.      The results framework included clearly stated objectives that were logically linked
to the project’s outputs and outcomes. To maintain relevance during implementation, key
performance indicators were revised to make them more measurable and achievable. The
GEF instrument that provided incremental funding to implement PGCT activities was
appropriate, given the fact that PACV2 did not include environmental issues in its design.
The relevance of the design is therefore rated substantial.

    3.2 Achievement of Global Environmental Objectives

40.    PGCT fully achieved its objectives. Targets for all key performance indicators were
met and surpassed. The PDO was to reduce land degradation through the integration of
sustainable land management (SLM) practices in the overall development planning process
of communities and local governments in selected pilot sub-watersheds.
41.    The achievement of the PDO was measured by four key performance indicators:
PDO indicator 1: Increase in hectares under sustainable land management; PDO
indicator 2: Number of direct beneficiaries; PDO indicator 3: Number of direct female
beneficiaries; and PDO indicator 4: Number of beneficiary CRDs that have integrated
sustainable land management issues into their local development plans using sub-
watershed management approach.
42.     PDO indicator 1 (Increase in hectares under sustainable land management) was
fully achieved and the target substantially exceeded. At the end of the project, 18,682
hectares was under SLM, against the target of 10,000 hectares. At baseline, no land in the
project intervention zones was under SLM. An end-of-project survey9 was conducted to
measure achievement of the key performance indicators and impacts on three sets of
beneficiaries (beneficiary groups, heads of households that belonged to these groups, and
other individuals who belonged to these groups). The survey found that beneficiary group
micro-projects resulted in 8,715 hectares being place under SLM (47% of the total
hectares), and that as a result of training activities (and the demonstration effect of the
beneficiary group micro-projects), an additional 9,967 hectares were placed under SLM
(53% of the total hectares) on individual lands.
43.     In addition to the agricultural equipment and improved seed needed to carry out
activities related to the group micro-projects, beneficiary groups received training that
allowed them to use SLM technologies and practices individually (or jointly with other
groups) on their own lands, using their own resources. Altogether, 84 percent of the
beneficiary groups undertook additional activities on their own based on what they had
learned, These activities included: prevention of grazing (59 percent), extension of hedges


9Ministère de l’Administration du Territoire et de la Décentralisation, Ministère délégué en charge de l’Environnement,
Projet de Gestion Communautaire des Terres (PGCT), Résultats de l’Enquête sur les Changements des Conditions Socio-
Economiques induits par les Activités de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles (GRN) et Activités Génératrices des Revenus
(AGR) auprès des Bénéficiaires, Décembre 2014.

                                                         13
(56 percent), agroforestry (39 percent), crop rotation and fertilizing crops (33 percent), use
of Kenyan beehives (29 percent), and composting (24 percent).
44.     Project activities resulted in a significant reduction in bush fires and indiscriminate
land clearing. According to the survey results from beneficiary group interviews, the total
area burned prior to the project was about 1,227 hectares per year (for an average of 11.7
hectares per group per year); after the project, it was 394 hectares per year (an average of
3.8 hectares per group per year). The area indiscriminately cleared each year was 942
hectares prior to the project (an average of 9.0 hectares per group per year), whereas at the
time of the survey it was 417 hectares (an average of 4.0 hectares per group per year).
45.     The survey results from the household interviews (based on responses from the
household heads belonging to beneficiary groups) mirror the group interview results. The
total land area indiscriminately cleared and burned declined substantially. Before PGCT,
the area indiscriminately cleared was about 1,056 hectares per year (an average of 3
hectares per household per year), whereas after the project’s interventions, it was 713
hectares per year (an average of 2 hectares per household per year). Before the project, the
average area burned was 977 hectares per year (an average of 2 hectares per household per
year); currently they burn 300 hectares (an average of 1 hectare per household per year).
46.     The main factors enabling beneficiary groups and households in those groups to
implement new activities that improved NRM included: sensitization of the groups to NRM
practices; regular meetings; increased yields and profits the sale of their produce; the
willingness and commitment of group members to work together; improved living
conditions for group members; mastering new skills and techniques to address
environmental issues through training provided by the project, and the opportunity to
practice what was learned; the establishment of nurseries and reforestation and the spirit of
helping one another.
47.     PDO indicators 2 and 3 - Number of direct beneficiaries and number of direct
female beneficiaries - were fully achieved and their targets surpassed. At the end of project,
4,591 beneficiaries had been reached against a target of 1,040 (44 percent of these
beneficiaries were women, against a target of 25%). The direct beneficiaries included
members of micro-project groups and other local stakeholders who benefited from the
training and capacity-building activities supported by the project. The major drivers for
these achievements include the following activities supported by the project: income-
generating activities such as developing coffee plantations, beekeeping, rearing small
ruminants, developing market gardens, extracting palm and palm kernel oil, and the
purchasing and supply of rice hullers.10 These activities not only helped to protect the
environment but enabled the beneficiary groups and households to earn significantly more
income and improve their living standards. According to the survey, annual household
income increased by 93 percent per annum owing to income-generating interventions
financed by the project. Annual income rose from GNF 500,000 to GNF 1,000,000 for 31
percent of households, and 37 percent increased their annual incomes from GNF 1,000,000
to GNF 2,000,000. During their interaction with beneficiaries, the ICR team noted that

10 The project supported the development of 69 AIPs through which 169 micro-projects were financed. Of the 169 micro

projects financed, 135 (80 percent) were correctly executed.

                                                        14
many members of beneficiary groups said that they could now send their children to school,
pay for healthcare, and fulfill social obligations (funerals, weddings) in their communities.
48.     PDO indicator 4 (Number of beneficiary CRDs that have integrated sustainable
land management issues into their local development plans using sub-watershed
management approach) was fully achieved. The project’s support for strengthening the
capacity of the CRs and the beneficiary groups helped establish a solid foundation for
responsible land management in the five sub-watersheds covered by the project. The survey
found that all 26 CRs (100 percent) had integrated SLM issues into their respective LDPs
and had intensified activities geared toward SLM practices. For example, 71.3 percent of
CRs now hold meetings to discuss SLM practices with elected officials in neighboring
CRs; 67.3 percent of CRs organize sensitization meetings to deepen the communities’
understanding of SLM practices, and the same proportion have set up committees for sub-
watershed management. Exchange visits were made by 62.5 percent of CRs to enhance
their knowledge by learning from others.
49.     Based on these findings, the efficacy of the PGCT in achieving its objectives is
rated substantial. The achievement of the PDO indicators is summarized in Table 1.
Table 1: Achievement of key performance indicators 
 Indicator                                                   Baseline     Target       Actual      % achieved
 Increase in hectares under sustainable land management         0        10,000 ha    18,682 ha      186.8 
 Number of direct beneficiaries                                 0          1,040        4,591        441.4 
 Number of direct female beneficiaries                          0          458          2,020        441.0 
 Number of beneficiary CRDs that have integrated                0           26           26          100.0 
 sustainable land management issues into their local 
 development plans using sub‐water shed management 
 approach. 



    3.3 Efficiency

50.     At appraisal, a cost-benefit analysis (CBA) to estimate the project’s economic rate
of return (ERR) and net present value (NPV) was not conducted due to the lack of
information on investment preferences of rural communities, as well as the demand-driven
nature of the project. The appraisal team, however, performed incremental cost analysis to
compare the estimated cost of GEF alternative project scenario with a baseline project
(PACV) scenario. For that reason, the ICR team performed an ex-post incremental cost
analysis to ascertain the efficiency of GEF financing along with an analysis of other aspects
of implementation that contributed to efficiency (see Annex 3 for details).
51.     Incremental cost analysis. The results of the analysis show that the incremental
costs of US$ 8.8 million on a total estimated amount of US$ 38.1 million under the GEF
alternative scenario represents 23.1 percent compared to the appraisal estimate of 28
percent on a total cost of US$ 26.2 million (see annex 3 for a summary of the results of the
analysis).



                                                        15
52.      Operational and administrative efficiency. Despite the suspension of disbursement
during the political transition between the military and the elected government, when
PGCT activities resumed, the project’s operational efficiency with respect to spending
turned out to be much stronger than it had been prior to the crisis. In general, project funds
were disbursed efficiently. Of the total grant amount of US$ 7,000,000, 99.9 percent (US$
6,997,426) had been disbursed by the end of the project. A closer look at the project’s
expenditure categories shows that, overall, costs were reasonably incurred and that the
funds were used for their intended purpose. With the exception of training and micro-
project grants, all expenditure items were fully disbursed at the end of the project. As
shown in Annex 3, Table A3.1, all project funds were accounted for. Only two expenditure
categories had undisbursed amounts (US$ 50 in training and US$ 2,523.69 in micro-project
grants). At the time of the ICR, the project had refunded these amounts to the Bank. Several
major factors contributed to the efficient use of funds. An effective internal control
mechanism was established at all levels of project implementation. At the subnational
level, financial management teams (équipes fiduciaires) rigorously followed and
monitored procurement and use of funds at the local level. At the CR level, PACV2/PGCT
had supported the establishment of procurement and transparency committees, which
facilitated the implementation of NRM activities integrated in the AIPs and hence
improved disbursement of project funds. Procurement capacity was significantly
strengthened in the CRs, which translated into transparent procurement processes,
including contract management. Cost estimates and quotations were generally realistic and
lower than planned expenditures in the AIPs (see Table A3.3 in Annex 3).
53.     In addition, efficiency was enhanced by introducing the initiatives for collective
community management of shared natural resources. These intercommunity activities
significantly improved NRM and SLM practices among the beneficiary CRs and across
communities. Findings from a survey of heads of households who were group members
showed that indiscriminate clearing of land has significantly reduced. Before PGCT
intervention, the beneficiary heads of households indiscriminately cleared 1,056 ha of land
area, an average of 3 ha per household per year. After project intervention, heads of
households cleared 713 ha of land per year, an average of 2 ha per household per year. The
total land area burned by beneficiary heads of household before project amounted to 977
ha per year, an average of 2 ha per household per year. Currently, the area burned by
beneficiary heads of households amounted to 300 ha, an average of one ha per head of
household per year. The improved SLM practices coupled with increased agricultural
production resulted in significant income gains to the beneficiaries. As elaborated in
section 3.2 above, beneficiaries’ incomes increased significantly as a result of practicing
SLM activities. On average, household’s annual income increased from GNF 500, 000 to
GNF 1,000,000 and from GNF 1,000,000 to GNF 2,000,000 for 31 percent and 37 percent
of households respectively. The incremental cost analysis, operational efficiency analysis
and improvement in beneficiary income all suggest efficiency in the use of resources,
however in the absence of a solid cost-benefit analysis efficiency is rated modest.




                                             16
   3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately satisfactory
54.     Based on the project’s high relevance, substantial achievement of the PDO, and its
modest efficiency, the overall project outcome is rated moderately satisfactory. The
intervention was appropriate and was in line with the government's poverty reduction and
environmental policy objectives. It was consistent with the CPS for Guinea and GEF
operational policies. It supported activities to address environmental issues that culminated
in the improved management of the targeted sub-watersheds.
   3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes, and Impacts

   (a) Poverty impacts, gender aspects, and social development
55.     Impact on household and individual incomes. As noted, the end-of-project survey
found that the project’s interventions had increased annual household incomes
substantially. About 31 percent of households said that their incomes had increased from
GNF 500,000 to GNF 1,000,000, and almost 37 percent said it had increased from GNF
1,000,000 to GNF 2,000,000; 11 percent reported an increase in income from GNF
3,000,000 to GNF 4,000,000. The survey found that 73 percent of households attributed
the increase in incomes to income-generating activities financed by the project for
beneficiary groups. Individuals belonging to beneficiary groups also reported higher
incomes owing to the project’s interventions. Over 39 percent increased their incomes from
GNF 500,000 to GNF 1,000,000; 32 percent reported an increase in income from GNF
1,000,000 to GNF 2,000,000; and 12 percent reported an increase from GNF 2,000,000
and GNF 3,000,000. According to the survey results, the main factor that contributed to
higher annual incomes for individuals was the income-generating activities implemented
by their respective groups. Over 71 percent of the individual beneficiaries surveyed
reported an increase in their annual incomes as result of project interventions. With the
increased incomes the beneficiaries’ acquisition of assets, including property, increased
significantly compared to the situation before the project. Examples of assets acquired by
the beneficiaries include 2,322 units of small equipment, 121 undeveloped arable fields,
59 motorbikes or bicycles, 30 houses, 11 pumps, 11 TVs, and 3 generators.
56.     Impact on gender. Through the capacity-building interventions implemented under
Component 2, the project trained 3,225 people, of whom 514 (15.9 percent) were women.
Data available through the CNC show that in 2012–13, 707 individuals participated in
training related to thematic areas such as participatory mapping, NRM for members of
CSBVs, local governance (for beneficiary groups), local planning, procurement (for
procurement committee members), and environmental and social safeguard policies. Of
those 707 individuals, 146 (20.7 percent) were women. In 2014, 1,259 individuals were
trained, and 184 (14.6 percent) were women. The thematic areas covered in 2014 were
environmental and social safeguards, NRM, and conflict management. In addition, women
constituted a substantial share of the beneficiary groups, which implemented income-
generating activities supported through Component 1 (LIF). The project created 105
beneficiary groups with a total membership of 2,625; of these, 1,706 (65 percent) were



                                             17
women. Figure 1 shows the total number of beneficiary groups and their membership,
disaggregated by gender.

            Figure 1: Composition of beneficiary groups by gender. 



                              Total No. of Men                           919



                                 Total Women                                          1706



                         Total Group Members                                                         2625



                Total No. of Beneficiary Groups       105


                                                  0         500        1000    1500    2000   2500     3000

                                             Source: Author, based on CNC data. 

       (b) Institutional change/strengthening
57.    The following key institutions were created and/or strengthened by the project at
the CR level:

                  Sub-watershed committees. As noted in Section 2.5, the project created five
                   CSBVs in the beneficiary CRs, with responsibility for improving participatory
                   management of natural resources in the sub-watersheds. All of the committees
                   received training in NRM, conflict resolution, local planning and governance,
                   environmental and social safeguards, and other topics. The CSBVs are involved
                   directly in intercommunity activities related to shared management of natural
                   resources.

                  Environmental and social safeguard committees (COSAEs). The project
                   supported the establishment of the COSAEs, which are responsible for
                   addressing environmental and social safeguard issues as well as monitoring
                   environmental activities under the micro-projects. Each committee includes
                   local stakeholders who have been trained in environmental and social safeguard
                   techniques; they are expected to work closely with the local authorities (CRs)
                   to ensure that environmental and social safeguard measures are effectively
                   implemented.
                  Technical and Scientific Committee. The project also supported the
                   establishment of a Technical and Scientific Committee, comprising
                   representatives from ministries involved in managing watersheds, research
                   institutions,11 a representative of the local authorities, and the executive of the

11   IRAG and the Centre d’Etude et de Recherche en Environnement.

                                                                  18
           CNC. In addition to its core mission of validating results produced within the
           framework of the LDPs and identifying the institutional anchor of sub-
           watershed activities, this institution has become the center for consultation by
           the various institutions directly involved in managing natural resources.

          Communes Rurales. The project strengthened the CRs’ capacity to learn new
           ways of managing natural resources. For example, the intercommunity
           initiatives introduced by the project allowed neighboring communities to work
           together to manage their natural resources to improve the health of their
           environment. This approach enabled the CRs to implement NRM activities
           collectively and has also led them to implement activities such as reforestation
           of river banks and water sources, land development, grazing prevention,
           agriculture, market gardening, wire fencing, and improvement of grazing areas.
   (c) Other unintended outcomes and impacts (positive or negative, if any)


   3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

58.     The methodology and findings of the end-of-project beneficiary survey—the key
study conducted to measure the project’s outcomes and development impacts—are
presented in Annex 5. The sample for the survey included 15 of the 26 CRs involved in the
project, 44 of 105 beneficiary groups established, 175 household heads in the sampled
beneficiary groups, and 176 individuals belonging to the sampled beneficiary groups. The
respondents generally viewed the project’s impacts favorably.
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

59.     The likelihood that development outcomes may not be maintained is substantial.
As noted in Section 2.2, the project was suspended for two years after military rule was
imposed. Although the PAD outlined several risks to development outcomes,
country/macro level risk (which would have captured an assessment of socio-political risk)
was not included in the risk assessment/mitigation matrix. The socio-political risk did in
fact materialize, delaying implementation by more than two years. At the time of this ICR,
this risk is still significant; the political atmosphere remains somewhat volatile. General
elections are expected to take place soon, and the opposition and government have not
agreed on when to conduct local elections. The opposition favors conducting local elections
before the general elections (as tacitly agreed in 2013 by the ruling party and opposition),
whereas the government has a different view. Discussions between the government and
opposition continue to seek a better resolution of the issue.
60.    Uncertainty also surrounds the level of resources available to CRs and COSAEs to
continue the surveillance and implementation of the sub-watershed management plans
(schemas d’aménagement) and poses a threat to the sustainability of the project’s
development outcomes. Another consideration is that the CSBVs are not yet fully
operational. They were established only toward the end of the project, and ownership of
the schema d’aménagement—the primary reference document that they have adopted for
implementing intercommunity activities—may be doubtful. Some CBSV members with
                                            19
whom the ICR team interacted did not show mastery of the content of the schema
d’aménagement or strong knowledge of their roles and responsibilities very well.
61.    Another risk that could potentially affect development outcomes is the lack of
storage facilities. Many groups that effectively implemented income-generating activities
increased their production, but they face storage problems and wastage whenever they have
a surplus (the project had no provisions for establishing storage facilities at a reasonable
distance from farms). The lack of a ready market for their production also poses a risk to
development outcomes, particularly for those beneficiaries in more remote areas. Linking
beneficiary groups to storage facilities and markets should be taken into account in future
operations of this nature.
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

   5.1 Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

   (a) Quality at entry
       Rating: Moderately satisfactory
62.     The World Bank’s performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated moderately
satisfactory. The Bank team worked closely with the project team to design the project.
The design benefited from a sound sector analysis, based on targeted studies funded from
the Project Preparation Facility (PPF). The design was aligned with the government’s
National Environment Policy (NEP) document, the PRSP, the Bank’s CAS/CPS, and the
GEF strategic priority on soil conservation. The team incorporated important lessons from
the predecessor project, PACV1, and community-driven development projects in West
Africa into the design, and it maintained the implementation arrangements established
under PACV1, which provided impetus for the project to get underway. The team also
established a clear link between PACV2 and PGCT by ensuring that PGCT activities would
be implemented only in CRs where PACV had already intervened. The novelty of the
project’s design was apparent in its substantial range of activities. With a view to using
local government systems to fund project interventions, the design incorporated strong
fiduciary control mechanisms at the CR level. An especially prominent control mechanism
was the local procurement committees responsible for managing procurement and
contracts. The design also featured a training of trainer’s approach, whereby staff of CNC
and the National Decentralization Directorate (Direction Nationale de la Décentralisation,
DND) were trained to conduct training for the équipe fiduciaire established at the regional
level. The équipe fiduciaire in turn provided training for the CRs as well as oversight of
their FM activities. This arrangement led to immense transparency and accountability at
all levels at which the project was implemented.
63.     The Bank was slow to prepare the project (it took 2.5 years). During preparation,
the Bank worked with the project team and identified potential risks that could threaten
smooth implementation of activities. Risk measures were appropriately integrated into the
project design, with the exception of measures to mitigate country-level risk (socio-
political risk), which was not considered but heavily affected the project’s implementation.
Another shortcoming of the design was the sheer number of project-level indicators (75)


                                            20
and the ambiguities in their formulation, which made it difficult for the project team to
monitor and evaluate beneficiaries’ activities.
   (b) Quality of Supervision
       Rating: Moderately satisfactory
64.     The World Bank’s performance during project supervision is rated moderately
satisfactory. During supervision missions, the Bank mobilized competent multidisciplinary
teams consisting of staff and consultants. The Bank maintained good working relationship
with government officials throughout project implementation. The team kept management
informed of implementation progress through systematic reporting in aide-mémoires,
back-to-office reports, and Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs). The Bank
maintained key fiduciary staff at the country office to respond to demands from the project
team on daily basis.
65.      In addition, the Bank was proactive even during the years when OP7.30 was in
effect. It worked with the project to maintain a skeletal staff tasked with safeguarding the
project’s assets and maintaining contact with key stakeholders and to continue some basic
activities. When the suspension was lifted in April 2011, the Bank responded rapidly to the
government’s request for a retroactive extension of the closing date to enable the project
to accelerate implementation. In addition, the Bank worked closely with the project team
during this period to update the results framework and refocus activities with an eye to
achieving the PDO. This effort provided greater clarity for the project team on how to
measure indicators against their targets. The high turnover of TTLs during project
implementation (four) may have also contributed to delays. In addition, GEF supervision
resources only allowed for one full PGCT supervision mission per year. The Bank team
supplemented this through their supervision of the PACV which allowed a review of PGCT
issues at the same time. The Bank team was also proactive in maintaining contact with the
project team to discuss issues through and audio and video conferences.
   (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
       Rating: Moderately satisfactory
66.    In light of the preceding discussion on the quality of preparation and supervision,
the Bank’s overall performance is rated moderately satisfactory. The Bank effectively led
and coordinated the preparatory tasks that led to a comprehensive project design, but it
could have shortened the preparation period. After project activities resumed, the Bank
team paid particular attention to quality of supervision by resolving issues and making
recommendations for improvement. It failed, however, to minimize delays resulting from
the slow replacement of departing TTLs and to increase the frequency of dedicated
supervision missions in line with operational norms.




                                            21
   5.2 Borrower Performance

   (a) Government performance
       Rating: Moderately satisfactory
67.      The government’s performance is rated moderately satisfactory. The government
facilitated the project’s preparation and design and was committed to achieving the
project’s objectives. Yet its inability to meet a key effectiveness condition (recruitment of
a focal point) delayed startup for nine months. Nor did the government act quickly in
providing the approvals needed for CNC to establish and operationalize the CSBVs, which
were critical to NRM at the community level. These important committees were created
only in the last year of the project. In addition, the death of the President, the military
takeover, and lack of socio-political stability significantly affected implementation, as
disbursement was suspended for two years. After activities resumed, the government
showed a renewed commitment to the project’s success. The DND (a department of
MATD) was heavily involved in the project and worked collaboratively with the CNC to
implement activities. Regional governors, prefects, sub-prefects and mayors of CRs
showed a real sense of ownership for the project.
   (b) Implementing agency or agencies performance
       Rating: Satisfactory
68.     The implementing agency’s performance is rated satisfactory. During project
preparation and appraisal, the CNC worked collaboratively with the Bank to coordinate all
stakeholder-related activities. With the experience and lessons gained from PACV1, the
CNC maintained good relations with the Bank by working together to address
implementation challenges. The CNC maintained high reporting standards and promptly
responded to all queries from the Bank. The ICR team’s discussion with Bank staff
revealed that much of the project’s success could be attributed to the diligence of the CNC.
Perhaps the most commendable effort was that they continued to work with stakeholders
during the difficult period when the project was suspended. The skeleton staff that
remained safeguarded the project’s assets and constantly kept in touch with the TTL,
mainly through video and audio conferences. However, since the implementation of some
activities under the capacity building component lagged, performance is rated satisfactory.
   (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
   Rating: Moderately satisfactory
69.     The borrower’s overall performance is rated moderately satisfactory. The
government was committed to the project’s success, but the socio-political crisis
precipitated by the government caused implementation to be delayed for two years.




                                             22
6. Lessons Learned

70.   A number of key lessons emerged from implementing this project:

         An institutional framework for decentralization promotes sustainable
          management of natural resources at the local level. Participatory and
          decentralized community development strategies at the local level are important
          assets for success in implementing activities to manage shared natural resources
          such as watersheds. The project introduced the natural resource management
          concepts that led to the establishment of the CSBVs. The CSBV developed an
          action plan which spelled out intercommunity activities and capacity building
          interventions.

         The Local Development Plan is the good framework for community planning
          and land management. A comprehensive approach to grassroots development
          that supports the incorporation of environmental issues in the formulation of
          LDPs made it possible to integrate environmental issues in community
          development efforts. The financing of NRM and income-generating micro-
          projects through LDPs in sub-watershed areas encourages the collective
          analysis and decision making necessary for more sustainable land management.

         Strengthening the capacity of local technical support institutions allows them
          to be more effective in their role of helping communities to implement SLM
          and NRM activities. Intercommunity initiative is an effective tool for
          environmental management in general and for sub-watersheds in particular. The
          project’s support for bringing neighboring CRs together to share in the
          management of natural resources was an important effort for ensuring SLM and
          hence protection of the environment.

         Sensitizing and empowering local populations and technical institutions
          regarding the relocation of agricultural areas through the process of
          developing and implementing a Relocation Action Plan facilitates sustainable
          management of ecologically sensitive areas. To enhance SLM practices and
          protect the watersheds, the project encouraged farmers to move their farming
          activities from eroded hillsides (where rock bunds were established to stabilize
          the soil) to more productive bottom lands where they could farm collectively.
          This approach not only helped improved famers incomes but it also protected
          the watersheds along the river basins.

         The establishment and operation of sub-watershed management committees
          can make grassroots stakeholders responsible for ensuring intercommunity
          management of shared resources. The project created the CSBVs as local
          institutions in charge of planning and managing SLM activities among
          neighboring CRs, but these committees were not fully operationalized because
          they were created only toward the end of project. Future projects should
          endeavor to establish and operationalize such key institutions at the outset of
          implementation to ensure that they can play their role of ensuring sustainable
          NRM at the community level.

                                           23
         Integrating market access and storage facilities would improve the
          sustainability of project outcomes. Through the introduction of SLM practices,
          agricultural production increased, however the project did not factor into the
          design, linkages to markets and provision of storage facilities to preserve their
          produce. This limited the groups’ ability to store and sell their produce. Future
          project should integrate such facilities into the design to address these issues.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

71.   No specific comments.




                                           24
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

     (a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                      Components                             Appraisal         Actual/Latest      Percentage 
                                                             Estimate            Estimate             of 
                                                           (US$ millions)      (US$ millions)      Appraisal 
 1. Local Investment Fund                                        3.40               3.99             117.3 
 2. Capacity Building for Decentralized Rural 
                                                                 2.50               1.65             66.0 
 Development 
 3. Project Management, Monitoring, and Evaluation               1.10               1.36             123.6 
 Baseline Costs                                                  0.00               0.00             0.00 
 Price Contingencies                                             0.00               0.00             0.00 
 Physical Contingencies                                          0.00               0.00             0.00 
                   Total Project Costs                           7.00               7.00            100.00 


     (b) Co-financing
        Source of Funding               Type of        Original Amount        Actual/Latest       Percentage 
                                       Financing        (US$ millions)          Estimate          of Appraisal 
                                                                              (US$ millions)  
 GEF                                      Grant          7,000,000.00          7,000,000.00          100.00 
 Community                           Cash/in‐kind               ‐              150,360.00*              ‐ 
    Total Financing Required                        7,000,000.00               7,150,360.00          100.00 
Note: GNF 1,088,891,319 equivalent; US$1 = GNF 7,400.  

Explanation for over/underspending of components

1.     Component 1. After OP7.30 was lifted, the work program was reformulated with
an emphasis placed on increasing the number of micro-projects in order to accelerate
progress toward the PDO target of 10,000 hectares under sustainable land management.
Grant proceeds were thus reallocated in favor of this component.
2.     Component 2. Two activities initially envisioned under this component 12 - the
dissemination of GIS-based planning tools and the dissemination of technical
information/tools related to the monitoring of land degradation – were dropped when the
work program was reformulated. Given the need to make up for lost time and to maximize
impact at the local level, priority was placed on increasing the number of micro-projects,
on basic community-level SLM and NRM training, and on operationalizing the CSBV.
3.     Component 3. This component exceeded the appraisal amount in large part due to
the two year hiatus and the need to reconstitute the project team and repeat the
dissemination of basic project information and SLM training campaigns after re-
engagement in Guinea. Also, due to local demand and to have a more robust impact on


12 These activities were to be contracted out to a technical institute – the National Observatory of the Republic of

Guinea (ONRG) – at substantial cost.


                                                           25
the sub-watersheds, the number of beneficiary CRs within the targeted sub-watersheds
were increased from 13 to 26. This also increased costs under component 3.




                                        26
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Local Investment Fund (planned, US$ 3.40 million; actual US$ 3.99
million)
1.      Through the provision of matching grants, Component 1 financed the
implementation of SLM micro-projects/subprojects for: (i) intensive and sustainable
development of lowlands (market gardening); (i) deferred grazing of community forest; (ii)
promoting new technologies (improved stoves and modern beekeeping); (iii) establishment
of community nurseries; (iv) establishment of stone bunds and the displacement of some
farms for slope protection; (v) reforestation; and (vi) improvement of lowlands.
Achievements under this component were measured by: Number of micro-projects funded
under the local investment fund that are correctly executed by beneficiary. At the end of
the project, 135 micro-projects (78.9% of the target of 169) were correctly implemented.
Achievements under this component were also measured by: Number of different SLM and
alternative practices adopted per watershed. At the end of the project, 6 different SLM
practices had been adopted per watershed compared with the target of 10. At baseline none
had been adopted. In 2012, a technical reference manual, standardizing the technical
specifications/guidelines for each micro-project, was developed. The component’s
achievement was also measured by: Number of beneficiary groups who have properly
executed their NRM/SLM micro-projects. At the end of the project, 52 beneficiary groups,
representing 173.3% of the target (30 groups) properly executed their NRM/SLM micro-
projects.
Component 2: Capacity Building for Decentralized Rural Development (planned,
US$ 2.50 million; actual, US$ 1.65 million)
2.      This component financed activities aimed at strengthening the capacity of local
governments and local communities in selected pilot sites in the planning, implementation,
and coordination of development activities that include SLM practices. Achievement of
this component was measured by: Number of identified stakeholders trained in SLM
approaches per CRD. At the end of the project, 381 local stakeholders (127% of the target
of 300) benefitted from at least one NRM training (at baseline, no stakeholder had been
trained in SLM practices). Through the capacity-building interventions, the CRs learned to
identify cross-cutting activities at the sub-watershed level and integrate them into their
LDPs. This was measured by: Percent of beneficiary CRDs who have jointly (consensually)
identified, integrated into the LDP and financed transversal sub-watershed management
activities. At the end of the project, 35% of CRs identified and integrated cross-cutting sub-
watershed activities into their LDPs, against a target of 40%. At baseline, no CRs did so.




                                             27
Component 3: Project Management, Monitoring, and Evaluation (planned, US$ 1.10
million; actual, US$ 1.36 million)
3.     This component financed the project implementation unit to implement GEF
financing for SLM activities and to monitor and evaluate the project’s activities. For the
purposes of managing and monitoring project activities, the project established and
operationalized a technical national coordination team and four Regional Support Teams
(ERAs) supported by an expert in NRM. The ERA is responsible for training local
stakeholders and nearby technical support units. Table A2.1 summarizes the project’s key
outputs. Table A2.2 and Table A2.3 provide the details on micro-projects financed and
beneficiaries trained.
Table A2.1: Key outputs of the project 
 No.                Intervention                                                         Output
 Component 1: Local Investment Fund (LIF) 
 1.    Annual Investment Programs (AIPs)        ‐69 AIPs developed and integrated into 169 micro‐projects. 
 2.    Micro‐projects                           ‐135 of 169 SLM and income‐generating micro‐projects implemented. 
 3.    Beneficiary groups                       ‐105 beneficiary groups created. Total number of group members was 2,625, of which 1,076 
                                                were women. 
 4.     Categories of micro projects            ‐6 categories of micro‐projects implanted through income‐generating interventions: 
                                                intensive and sustainable development of lowlands (market gardening); deferred grazing of 
                                                community forest; promoting new technologies (improved stoves and modern beekeeping); 
                                                establishment of community nurseries; establishment of stone bunds and the displacement 
                                                of some farms for slope protection; and reforestation and enrichment of grazing land. 
 5.    Total ha under sustainable               ‐18,682 ha are under SLM.
       management 
 6.    Total land area for shared natural      ‐1067,33 ha of shared natural resources through implementation of intercommunity 
       resources                               activities by neighboring CRs. 
 7.    Promotion of technology and             ‐6 of 10 targeted innovative activities adopted per sub‐watershed. 
       innovative activities 
 Component 2:Capacity Building for Decentralized Rural Development
 10.   Local planning for SLM                  26 LDPs updated to include new planning guidelines. 
 11.   Sub‐watershed committees (CSBVs)        ‐5 sub‐watershed committees formed.
 12.   Schéma d’aménagement                    ‐5 schéma d’aménagement developed for the 5 sub‐watershed committees.
 13.   Capacity of local stakeholders          ‐Capacity of 7,898 local stakeholders strengthened; 2,685(34%) were women. Thematic 
                                               areas included (i) participatory mapping; (ii) identification and validation of SLM and 
                                               watershed management issues; (iii) monitoring of NRM / income‐generating micro‐projects; 
                                               (iv) internalization of micro‐project benchmarks sheets; (v) community procurement; (vi ) 
                                               environmental and social safeguards policy; (vii) inter‐community approach concepts  for 
                                               NRM; (viii) technical negotiations related to SLM; (x) management of conflicts between 
                                               farmers and breeders; and (xi) CSBVs’ roles and responsibility in the management of shared 
                                               natural resources. 
 14.   Capacity building of stakeholders in    ‐4 agricultural advisor in the CRs trained by IRAG;‐8 leaders of peasant farmers trained 
       the agricultural sector                 during a demonstration field work. 
 15.   Institutional capacity                  ‐Technical and Scientific Committee established; membership consists of representatives of 
                                               institutions involved in sub‐watershed management; 5 CSBVs established. 
 16.   Environmental education                 ‐Agreement signed between CNC and 3 radio stations for a broadcast on NRM and sub‐
                                               watershed management. 
 Component 3. Project Management, Monitoring, and Evaluation
 22.   Fiduciary  management                   ‐Efficient, regular production and submission of financial report; 99.9% disburse rate 
                                               achieved. 
                                               ‐10 (100%) of goods planned have been executed. 
 23.   Monitoring and evaluation               ‐A system for M&E established in all 26 CRs.




                                                              28
Table A2.2: List of micro‐projects/subprojects implemented 
                                                                                      Community 
                                                    No. of        PGCT Funds (in    Contribution (in 
 Region           Type of Micro‐project         Micro‐projects        GNF)               GNF) 
                  Modern beekeeping                   1             138,854,543        15,428,358 
                  Stone fences                        1             116,377,500          5,818,875 
                  Creation of community 
                                                      3             187,589,112          4,041,492 
                  forests 
                  Fencing                             8             806,847,240        11,546,800 
      Boké        Protection of water source          4             274,643,887          7,644,742 
                  Reforestation                       2              68,727,840                   ‐ 
                  Intensive promotion of 
                                                      8             920,720,363        49,307,127 
                  sustainable low lands 
                  Promotion of improved 
                                                      2             129,433,250                   ‐ 
                  stoves 
    Subtotal                                          29            2643193735           93787394 
                  Modern beekeeping                   11          1,704,335,110        34,215,764 
                  Complex enrichment of 
                                                      1             216,194,595          3,500,000 
                  pasture and pastoral ponds 
                  Creation of community 
                                                      6             716,772,412        20,386,710 
                  forests 
                  Warehouse                           1              68,153,360                   ‐ 
     Kindia       Fencing                             5             704,043,364        16,180,011 
                  Protection of water source          1             135,659,000                   ‐ 
                  Reforestation                       5             982,593,420        29,576,265 
                  Intensive promotion of 
                                                      2             263,169,200          2,700,000 
                  sustainable low lands 
                  Promotion of improved 
                                                      9           1,336,522,835                   ‐ 
                  stoves 
    Subtotal                                          41            6127443296         106558750 
                  Modern Beekeeping                   6             701,899,192        45,265,550 
                  Chain link fence                    1             310,234,375        27,900,000 
                  Creation of community 
                                                      9           1,028,570,833                   ‐ 
                  forests 
                  Fencing                             5             416,439,700          6,050,000 
                  Protection of water source          2             166,639,165          8,026,898 
      Labé 
                  Reforestation                       1             105,970,000                   ‐ 
                  Saponification                      1                7,709,970                  ‐ 
                  Intensive promotion of 
                                                      28          3,989,882,053       378,828,572 
                  sustainable low lands 
                  Promotion of improved 
                                                      5             557,526,050          6,582,800 
                  stoves 
    Subtotal                                          58           728,487,1338       472,653,820 
                  Modern Beekeeping                   4             182,819,146        27,422,871 
                  Improved sheepfold                  3             339,409,142        50,911,371 
     Mamou 
                  Complex enrichment of 
                                                      2             137,194,612        20,579,192 
                  pasture and pastoral ponds 


                                                 29
                                                                                                          Community 
                                                             No. of             PGCT Funds (in          Contribution (in 
 Region              Type of Micro‐project               Micro‐projects             GNF)                     GNF) 
                     Stone fences                                2                 270,829,424             24,873,167 
                     Creation of community 
                                                                 8                 586,189,019             51,713,771 
                     forests 
                     Fencing                                     2                  53,455,250               8,018,288 
                     Protection of water source                  2                 130,144,065             10,591,848 
                     Chain link fence                            1                  71,250,000               3,750,000 
                     Drainage canal                              1                  28,500,000               1,500,000 
                     Reforestation                               5               1,326,799,855             24,488,521 
                     Intensive promotion of 
                                                                11               2,171,055,637            192,042,326 
                     sustainable low lands 
 Total                                                          41               5,297,646,150            415,891,355 
 Grand Total                                                    169             21,353,154,519          1,088,891,319 

Table A2.3: Number of people trained by region 
                                                                                             No. of 
 No.  Region                                        Activity                                people             Cost 
                                                                                            trained          (in GNF) 
                     Training in the internalization of PGCT micro‐project reference 
 1                   sheets                                                                       19                        
                     Training beneficiaries in participatory mapping, in identification 
 2                   and validation of SLM and watershed issues.                                  20         73,252,540 
 3                   Training of sub‐watershed management committee.                              28         70,001,540 
                     Training of LIF beneficiary groups in governance and monitoring of 
 4                   NRM and income‐generating activities.                                        37         55,313,500 
           Boké      Training of local actors/stakeholders on the concept and approach 
                     of intercommunity natural resources; identification of shared 
                     resources; and planning of their intercommunity management, 
 5                   notably the waters of sub‐watersheds.                                        57          36,938 200 
                     Training of local actors/stakeholders in negotiation techniques in 
                     relation to SLM and prevention of land degradation and 
 6                   management of conflicts between famers and livestock producers.           35             44,247 000 
 7                   Training in environmental and social safeguard policy.                   180                         
                     Training in the internalization of PGCT micro‐project reference 
 8                   sheets.                                                                      50          44,979,800 
                     Training beneficiaries in participatory mapping, in identification 
 9                   and validation of SLM and watershed issues.                                  45         73,252,540 
 10                  Training of sub‐watershed management committee.                              60         80,776,810 
                     Training of LIF beneficiary groups in governance and monitoring of 
 11                  NRM and income‐generating activities.                                        42        895,205,580 
           Kindia    Training of local actors/stakeholders on the concept and approach 
                     of intercommunity natural resources; identification of shared 
                     resources; and planning of their intercommunity management, 
 12                  notably the waters of sub‐watersheds.                                        29          39,958,800 
                     Training of local actors/stakeholders in negotiation techniques in 
                     relation to SLM and prevention of land degradation and 
 13                  management of conflicts between famers and livestock producers.           38            46,231,650 
 14                  Training in environmental and social safeguard policy.                   220                        
                     Training beneficiaries in participatory mapping, in identification 
 15        Labé      and validation of SLM and watershed issues.                                  74          6,313,460 
 16                  Training of sub‐watershed management committee.                              80        160,679,810 

                                                          30
                                                                                          No. of 
No.  Region                                     Activity                                 people         Cost 
                                                                                         trained      (in GNF) 
                   Training of LIF beneficiary groups in governance and monitoring of 
17                 NRM and income‐generating activities.                                  100                       
                   Training in the internalization of PGCT micro‐project reference 
19                 sheets.                                                                 75        110,580,300 
20                 Training in environmental and social safeguard policy.                 300                     
                   Training of local actors/stakeholders on the concept and approach 
                   of intercommunity natural resources; identification of shared 
                   resources; and planning of their intercommunity management, 
21                 notably the waters of sub‐watersheds.                                    80        87,867,800 
                   Internalization of monitoring and evaluation manual and 
                   environmental and social safeguard policy.                               96       213,538,020 
                   Training of local actors/stakeholders in negotiation techniques in 
                   relation to SLM and prevention of land degradation and 
22                 management of conflicts between famers and livestock producers.          59        77,301,800 
                   Training beneficiaries in participatory mapping, in identification 
23                 and validation of SLM and watershed issues                               16        35,922,340 
24                 Training of sub‐watershed management committee.                          28        49,526,590 
                   Training of LIF beneficiary groups in governance and monitoring of 
25                 NRM and income‐generating activities.                                    36        70,696,100 
                   Training in the internalization of PGCT micro‐project reference 
26                 sheets                                                                  15                       
27        Mamou    Training in environmental and social safeguard policy.                 170                       
                   Training of local actors/stakeholders on the concept and approach 
                   of intercommunity natural resources; identification of shared 
                   resources; and planning of their intercommunity management, 
28                 notably the waters of sub‐watersheds.                                    23        32,629,200 
                   Training of local actors/stakeholders in negotiation techniques in 
                   relation to SLM and prevention of land degradation and 
29                 management of conflicts between famers and livestock producers.          50         33,185,400 
TOTAL                                                                                    2,062      2,027,906,730 




                                                      31
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis


1.      At appraisal No cost-benefit analysis was done to estimate the project’s economic
rate of return (ERR) and net present value (NPV) because of the lack of information on
investment preferences of rural communities, as well as the project’s demand-driven
nature; instead, an incremental cost analysis was conducted to estimate the project’s
efficiency. For that reason, the ICR team performed an ex-post incremental cost analysis
to ascertain the efficiency of GEF financing, along with an analysis of other aspects of
implementation that contributed to efficiency.
Incremental Cost Analysis
2.      Baseline situation. PACV2 was assumed to be the baseline project. The GEF co-
financed project (PGCT) was assumed to be an alternate project, linked with PACV2. The
two projects were deemed complementary. The role of PACV2 was to strengthen the
overall environment, while the GEF grant (PGCT) was to improve the long-term benefits
of environmentally sound agricultural practices, land use, and NRM practices.
3.      Alternative scenario. The GEF alternative supported micro-project grants through
a participatory approach. The GEF matching grants financed incremental SLM activities
that were clearly identified in the LDPs and AIPs of the CRs. The beneficiaries’
contribution was assumed to be 10% of micro-project costs, either in cash or kind. The
analysis included all the three components of the PGCT. The analysis also assumed a
coverage of a much wider geographic area with one-third of the total cost of the IDA- and
AFD-supported baseline project (PACV2), but it excluded IFAD funding, which had not
come on-stream when the project closed. The alternative scenario is equal to the baseline
scenario plus the incremental cost.
4.      Global benefits. Global benefits from implementing the PGCT include increased
knowledge of river systems, particularly the sub-watershed areas, and improved
coordination of river basin management and planning. These benefits are reflected in the
project activities, by component as follows:.
5.      Component 1: Local Investment Fund. This component mainly financed: (i)
implementation of SLM-focused activities; (ii) implementation of demand-driven
operational research and development activities related to on-farm and on-site testing and
validation of new technologies, as well as activities to improve land productivity; and (iii)
support for implementing demonstrations of practices and technologies to reduce land
degradation.
6.      Component 2: Capacity Building for Decentralized Rural Development. This
component mainly financed: (i) provision of GIS-based planning and investment decision
support tools, such as a GIS-based database and sub-watershed master plans; (ii)
establishment of a multi-disciplinary technical and scientific task force to review proposed
sub-watershed development plans; (iii) dissemination of technical information and transfer
of knowledge relating to land degradation and control; (iv) support for participatory rural
appraisals to adapt existing LDPs to reflect SLM; (v) training to improve land use planning
                                             32
skills, and the provision of adaptable database management tools; (vi) training in
organizational management and negotiation skills in SLM and prevention and control of
land degradation; (vii) implementation of a mechanism for resolving conflicts over natural
resource use.
7.      Component 3: Project Management, Monitoring, and Evaluation. This
component mainly financed: (i) support to sector ministries involved in project
implementation, to support the incremental costs of project implementation and
management; (ii) support to use remote sensing and GIS to measure vegetative coverage,
the extent to which degraded land and water resources were restored, and sediment loading
into rivers; (iii) the establishment of links with a specialized institution to measure
evolution of vegetation indices; and (iv) efforts to aggregate and compare data under the
GIS baseline database established for each pilot watershed in the participating CRDs.
Results
8.      The incremental cost of US$ 8.8 million on a total estimated amount of US$ 38.1
million under the GEF alternative scenario represents 23.1% of the total costs, compared
to the appraisal estimate of 28% of US$ 26.2 million. Table A3.1 summarizes results of
the incremental cost analysis.
Table A3.1: Summary of results of incremental GEF alternative incremental cost analysis 
 Component              Cost category      Appraisal cost     ICR estimate         Domestic benefits                Global benefit
                                           estimate           (US$ millions) 
                                           (US$ millions) 
 1. Local Investment Fund (LIF) 
                        Baseline                 9.0               14.7                                       The neighboring 
                                                                                                              communities derived 
                                                                                                              significant benefits from 
                                                                                                              shared SLM practices by 
                                                                                                              coming together to 
                                                                                                              implement common 
                                                                                                              activities 
                        GEF Alternative         12.7               18.7         A sound SLM practices          
                                                                                lead to  better protection 
                                                                                of river banks and water 
                                                                                sources, decrease in 
                                                                                bushfires, increased in 
                                                                                rainfall pattern , 
                                                                                improved ecosystem and 
                                                                                decrease in logging. 
                        Incremental              3.7                4.0                                        
 2. Capacity Building for SLM 
                        Baseline                 6.8                8.4         The community’s capacity       
                                                                                to that charge of their 
                                                                                own SLM practices 
                                                                                significantly improved. 
                                                                                improved  
                        GEF Alternative          9.4               10.4                                        
                        Incremental              2.6                2.7                                        
 3. Project Management Coordination and M&E
                        Baseline                 2.5                6.9                                        




                                                             33
 Component               Cost category            Appraisal cost     ICR estimate              Domestic benefits                Global benefit
                                                  estimate           (US$ millions) 
                                                  (US$ millions) 
                         GEF Alternative                3.6                   9.0           The project management         Global benefits was 
                                                                                            was competent. They            monitored by the M&E 
                                                                                            effectively managed and        systems. 
                                                                                            evaluated project 
                                                                                            impacts. 
                         Incremental                    1.1                   2.1                                           
 Total Components        Baseline                      18.3                  30.0                                           
                         GEF Alternative               26.2                  38.1                                           
 Total Incremental       Incremental                    7.4                   8.8                                           
                         Of with GEF                    7.0                   8.0                                           
                         Gov’t/Beneficiaries            0.4                   0.8                                           



Operational and Administrative Efficiency
9.      Despite the suspension of disbursement during the political transition between
elected governments, when PGCT activities resumed, the project’s operational efficiency
turned out to be much stronger than it had been prior to the crisis. In general, project funds
were disbursed efficiently. Of the total grant amount of US$ 7,000,000, 99.9% (US$
6,997,426) had been disbursed by the end of the project. A closer look at the project’s
expenditure categories shows that costs were generally reasonably incurred and that the
funds were used for their intended purpose. With the exception of training and micro-
project grants, all expenditure items were fully disbursed at the end of the project. As
shown in Table A3.2, all project funds were accounted for. Only two expenditure
categories had undisbursed amounts (US$ 50 in training and US$ 2,523.69 in micro-project
grants). At the time of the ICR, the project had refunded these amounts to the Bank.
10.     Several major factors contributed to the efficient use of funds. An effective internal
control mechanism was established at all levels of project implementation. At the
subnational level, financial management teams (équipes fiduciaires) rigorously followed
and monitored procurement and use of funds at the local level. At the CR level, PACV2
had established procurement and transparency committees, which facilitated the
implementation of NRM activities integrated in the AIPs and hence improved disbursement
of project funds. Procurement capacity was significantly strengthened in the CRs, which
translated into transparent procurement processes, including contract management. Cost
estimates and quotations were generally realistic and lower than planned expenditures in
the AIPs.
Table A3.2: Summary of expenditure categories analysis 
Expenditure       Appraisal  Reallocated  Amount                Amount       Amount        Amount        Amount        Amount 
Category          estimate     amount     disbursed           undisbursed  disbursed as  disbursed as  undisbursed  undisbursed 
                   (US$)        (US$)       (US$)                (US$)       share of      share of     as share of  as share of 
                                                                             appraisal   reallocated     appraisal   reallocated 
                                                                             estimate    amount (%)      estimate      amount 
                                                                                (%)                         (%)          (%) 
Goods                 500,000        430,000     430,000                 0           86.0         100.0             0.0            0.0
Works                  50,000         40,000      40,000                 0           80.0         100.0             0.0            0.0
Consultants      1,000,000      1,030,000       1,030,000                0          103.0         100.0             0.0            0.0
Training              450,000        820,000     819,950             (50)           182.2          99.9             0.0            0.0

                                                                    34
Expenditure        Appraisal  Reallocated  Amount         Amount       Amount        Amount        Amount        Amount 
Category           estimate     amount     disbursed    undisbursed  disbursed as  disbursed as  undisbursed  undisbursed 
                    (US$)        (US$)       (US$)         (US$)       share of      share of     as share of  as share of 
                                                                       appraisal   reallocated     appraisal   reallocated 
                                                                       estimate    amount (%)      estimate      amount 
                                                                          (%)                         (%)          (%) 
Micro‐ projects    3,000,000   3,900,000    3,897,476   (2,523.69)      129.9          99.9          (0.1)        (0.1)
Grant 
Operating Costs     500,000     780,000      780,000             0      156.0         100.0           0.0          0.0
Unallocated        1,500,000           0           0             0        0             0.0           0.0 
Designated                0            0           0             0        0             0             0            0
Account 
Total              7,000,000   7,000,000    6,997,426   (2,573.69)       99.9          99.9           0.03         0.03
Source: Author’s own calculation with data from CNC.


11.     In addition, efficiency was enhanced by introducing the initiatives for collective
community management of shared natural resources. These intercommunity activities
significantly improved NRM and SLM practices among the beneficiary CRs and across
communities. In line with the CCL, national environment policy, and regional conventions
to which Guinea is a signatory, the improved SLM practices resulted in significant income
gains to the beneficiaries. The intercommunity initiatives enabled more than 90% of
communities to identify SLM intercommunity activities and integrate them into their LDPs
and AIPs. Intercommunity activities enabled CRs to jointly implement SLM on more than
1,067 hectares of shared natural resources. The main activities that were collectively
undertaken were: reforestation of riverbanks and water sources (79.4%); land development
(37.4 %); grazing prevention (32.7% ); agriculture (9.3%); market gardening (9.3%); wire
fencing (8.4%); enrichment of the grazing area (8.4%); delimitation of a semi-pastoralism
corridor to facilitate livestock movement and protect the surrounding natural resources
(8.4%), mapping (8.4%), zoning (8.4%), stone bunds (5.6%), and improvement of two
livestock wells (5.6%). The implementation of these activities enhanced efficiency through
sound environmental management resulting from increased awareness of environmental
issues and changes in behavior, which led to the protection of riverbanks and water sources,
a decrease in bush fires, improved ecosystem functioning, and a significant reduction in
logging. The improved SLM practices resulted in significant income gains to the
beneficiaries. As elaborated in Section 3.2, beneficiaries’ incomes increased significantly
as result of practicing SLM activities by engaging in income-generating activities. Average
annual income increased from GNF 500, 000 to GNF 1,000,000 for 31.1% of households,
and from GNF 1,000,000 to GNF 2,000,000 for 36.9%.




                                                            35
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

     (a) Task Team members

                                                                                           Responsibility/ 
              Names                                Title                     Unit 
                                                                                             Specialty 
Lending 
Dirk N. Prevoo                  Senior Operations Officer                    AFTS4        Task Team Leader 
Abdoulaye Touré                 Senior Rural Development Specialist          AFTS4     
Bella L. Diallo                 Senior Financial Management Specialist      AFTFM      
Enos Esikuri                    Technical Specialist                          ENV      
Gabriele Rechbauer              Consultant                                   AFTS4     
Jaime Webbe                     Jr. Professional Associate                   AFTS4     
Jane C. Hopkins                 Senior Agricultural Economist                AFTS4     
Joseph A. Ellong                Language Program Assistant                   AFTS4     
Kadidiatou Bah                  Team Assistant                              AFMGN      
Mathieu G. Meguhe               Procurement Analyst                          AFTPC     
Mohamed Arbi Ben‐Achour         Senior Social Scientist                      AFTS1     
Racky Dia Camara                Team Assistant                              AFMGN      
Renée Desclaux                  Finance Officer                             LOAG2      
Sameena Dost                    Senior Legal Counsel                         LEGAF     
Susanne Leloup                  Consultant                                   AFTS4     
Suzanne Piriou‐Sall             Senior Rural Development Specialist          AFTS3     
Yves Prévost                    Senior Environmental Specialist              AFTS4     
Yves‐Coffi Prudencio            Senior Agriculturalist                       AFTS2     
Zié Ibrahima Coulibaly 
  
                                Infrastructure Specialist                   AFTU2      
Supervision/ICR 
Dirk N. Prevoo                  Senior Operations Officer                                 Task Team Leader 
Taoufiq Bennouna                Senior Natural Resource Mgt.  Specialist    GENDR         Task Team Leader 
Jane C. Hopkins                 Senior Agricultural Economist               GFADR         Task Team Leader 
Amadou Alassane                 Senior Agricultural Specialist              GFADR         Task Team Leader 
Abdoulaye Touré                 Lead Agriculture Economist                  GFADR   
Maman‐Sani Issa                 Senior Environmental Specialist             GENDR   
Thierno Hamidou Diallo          Disbursement Assistant                      AFMGN      
Enagnon Ernest Eric Adda        Financial Management Specialist             GGODR      
Kolie Ousmane Maurice Megnan    Senior Financial Management Specialist      GGODR      
Celestin Adjalou Niamien        Senior Financial Management Specialist      GGODR      
Marie‐Claudine Fundi            Team Assistant                              GFADR      
Salimatou Drame‐Bah             Team Assistant                              AFMGN      
Henri Aka                       Senior Procurement Specialist                          
Alpha Mamoudou Bah              Senior Procurement Specialist               GGODR      
Anthony Molle                   Senior Counsel                              LEGSO                  
Siobhan McInerney‐Lankford      Senior Counsel                              LEGAM                  
Kofi Amponsah                   Consultant, ICR                             GFADR                  




                                                    36
(b) Staff time and cost

                                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only) 
Stage of Project Cycle                                  USD Thousands (including 
                              No. of staff weeks 
                                                       travel and consultant costs) 
                                                      
Lending 

   FY04                                  12.43                        76.89 
   FY05                                  12.75                        71.58 
   FY06                                  14.87                        80.87 
Total:                                   40.05                       229.34 
Supervision/ICR                                                          
   FY07                                    8.08                       63.00 
   FY08                                  10.93                        46.10 
   FY09                                    4.40                       26.82 
   FY10                                    0.84                        3.41 
   FY11                                    1.52                        6.82 
   FY12                                    3.0                        15.78 
   FY13                                  13.43                        68.49 
   FY14                                    9.34                       50.91 
Total:                                   51.49                       281.34 




                                                     37
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

1.      A key aspect of the project’s M&E system was a beneficiary survey that would
measure the project’s achievements and impact on beneficiaries. Following a review of key
project documents and the M&E system and an analysis of the data routinely collected by
the project, the end-of-project impact assessment was designed. The survey was designed
to effectively involve all stakeholders (project team members, the project’s M&E unit,
representatives of the technical units, elected officials, and beneficiary group members)
participating in the project’s implementation. This annex describes the survey
methodology, sampling methods, and key results.
Methodology and sampling
2.    Methodology. A before project and after project methodology was used to identify
changes that could be attributed exclusively to the project’s interventions.
3.      Two main approaches were used for data collection: (i) a quantitative approach
based on individual questionnaires and (ii) a qualitative approach based on focus group
discussion questionnaires. The data collection tools included: (i) a beneficiary group
questionnaire; (ii) a questionnaire administered to 128 household heads who belonged to a
beneficiary group; (iii) a questionnaire administered to 128 individual beneficiaries who
belonged to a beneficiary group but were not household heads; and (iv) questionnaires for
community leaders and local administrations. All questionnaires were developed and
validated in collaboration with the officials of PACV2 before being administered in the
field. Examples of the questions asked include:

          Which of the following renewable natural resources are available in your CR?
          From the renewable natural resources you have just cited, indicate which ones
           are shared by your CR with the neighboring CRs.
          Since the intervention of PGCT in your CR, has there been a displacement of
           the population?
          Since the intervention of PGCT in your CR, what activities or micro-projects
           have you led with others?
4.      The Local Development Agents (Agents de Développement Local, ADLs) were
recruited for data collection. They were trained for six days, including three days of pilot
testing. Quality control was carried out through field supervision. The data were analyzed
based on random data analysis procedures for calculating impact indicators, using Cspros,
STATA, SPSS, and Access software.
5.    Sampling. A sample of 15 of 25 CRs covered by the project was used for the survey.
These CRs were randomly selected from the prefectures where the project was
implemented and were representative of all participating CRs.
6.      The sampling frame for the beneficiary groups included information on their
location (by sub-watershed), types of activities funded, years of experience, and status of
the groups (male, female, and mixed). Of the 105 beneficiary groups, 44 participated in the
survey for a sampling rate of 42%. The sample of household heads included 175

                                            38
individuals; 99 were men (56.6%) and 76 women (43.4%). The sample of individual
beneficiaries included 176 persons (88 men and 88 women) belonging to beneficiary
groups.
Summary of result of the survey
7.     Increased area under sustainable land management. At the end of the project,
18,682 hectares were under SLM. Of that total, 8,715 hectares were brought under SLM
through micro-projects funded by PGCT; 9,967 hectares were brought under SLM through
the adoption of innovative technologies or activities promoted with the support of the
project (consisting of 331 hectares managed by CRs, 2,643 hectares managed by
beneficiary groups, 4,215 hectares managed by household heads, and 2,778 hectares
managed by individual beneficiaries).
8.      Increased household incomes. Before the project, the main sources of income for
nearly all households surveyed (95.2%) were agricultural activities and livestock (74.2%),
followed by trading (31.5%). Other sources included beekeeping (17.5%), craft activities
(3.8%), and fishing (0.7%). Households also reported that their annual income had
increased significantly (93.1%) after the project interventions. Some 31.1% of households
in beneficiary groups increased their incomes from GNF 500,000 to GNF 1,000,000,
against 8.3% who reported annual incomes of less than GNF 500, 000. About 36.9% raised
their incomes from GNF 1,000,000 to GNF 2,000,000. A significant proportion (11.3%)
even reported an increase in income from GNF 3,000,000 to GNF 4,000,000. Five in seven
households (72.6%) attributed increased revenues to income-generating activities financed
by the project and undertaken by the beneficiary groups. This finding is true in all regions
where the project operated except for Boké, where 68.2% of group members said that their
income had increased because of private activities outside of the group activities.
9.     Households’ other sources of incomes. Based on the results of the survey, it
appears that the project helped households to identify new sources of income, including
(among others) market gardening (67.8%), cultivation of tubers (64.7%), livestock
production (57.8%), and rice cultivation (57.3%). Other activities included trading
(32.5%), beekeeping, (15.7%), and crafts and artisanal products (2.5%)
10.     Increased market access. Beneficiary groups’ access to markets significantly
increased. Group members reported accessing 339 markets compared with 188 before the
project. On average, a beneficiary group can access 3 markets, compared with 2 before the
project. The range of markets where beneficiary groups sell their products has also grown.
Sales at local markets increased from 85% to 90%, and sales in markets outside the groups’
local area increased from 36% to 88%. Beneficiaries also had larger volumes to sell; 66%
of beneficiaries reported that the volume of products they marketed had more than doubled,
compared to 20% who said that it had doubled. Increased market access as a result of
project interventions led to an increase in profits from marketed products. Overall 93% of
beneficiary groups confirmed that their profits rose. Of these, nearly half saw an increase
from GNF 1,000,000 to GNF 3,000,000. Nearly 40 percent reported an increase from GNF
3,000,000 million to GNF 6,000,000 million.



                                            39
11.     Increased acquisition of assets. Beneficiary groups acquired significantly more
assets than they had before the project. These assets included small equipment (2,937 units
before the project and 4,585 afterward), fishing nets (none to 18), undeveloped arable land
(797 to 656), developed land (17 to 444), motorized pumps (3 to 29), drying areas (6 to
23), and motorbikes (6 to 32).
12.    Improved capacity of groups to operate in a more organized and effective way.
All groups reported holding regular meetings. The great majority (93%) reported following
technical procedures, 87% performed regular maintenance of facilities, 86% obtained
support or advice from other local informal groups, 76% attended practical training
organized by agricultural extension officers, 64% improved the level of mutual assistance
among members of the group, 64% engaged in business planning at meetings; 59% took
decisions by consensus; 58% regularly informed members of the group’s financial status;
20% regularly monitored implementation of decisions taken at meetings or assemblies.
13.     Improved intercommunity engagement. More than 1,067 hectares of shared
natural resources were collectively improved. The main activities that neighboring
communities pursued collectively were the reforestation of riverbanks and water sources
(79%), land development (37%), grazing prevention (33%), agriculture (9%), market
gardening (9%), wire fencing (8%), improved grazing area (8%), delimitation of a corridor
for pastoral animal movement (8%), mapping (8%), zoning (8%), stone bunds (6%), and
improvement of two water sources (wells) for livestock (6%).
14.    Improved intercommunity natural resource management initiatives. According
to the survey, the NRM initiatives that have been collectively undertaken by CRs are
meetings with elected officials from a neighboring CR (71.3%), sensitization meetings
(67.3%); establishment of management committees (67.3%), exchange visits (62.5%), and
the mobilization of financial resources (22.7%). When communities implement collective
NRM activities, more than half (51.4%) of the CRs reported holding three or more
meetings with authorities of the CRs.
15.     Improved technology and innovative activities. The main technologies and
innovative activities implemented by the groups on their own initiative or using their own
funds include prevention of grazing (59%), extension of hedges (56%), agroforestry (39%),
crop rotations and rotations with fertility-enhancing crops (33%); use of Kenyan bee hives
(29%); stone bunds (25%), composting (24%), improved stoves (16%), and improved
fallow (6%). The area on which technologies and innovative activities were implemented
by the groups on their own initiative is estimated at 2,643 hectares.
16.     Improved environmental practices (reduction in exploitation of land, reduction
in bush burning, reduction in clearing land). Before the project, household heads reported
exploiting 1,056 hectares every year, an average of 3 hectares per household. After the
project, household heads reported that they currently exploited 713 hectares, an average of
2 hectares per household per year. Household heads said that before the project they burned
977 hectares per year, an average of 2 hectares per household, and reported that currently
they burned much less: an estimated 300 hectares, for an average of 1 hectare per household
per year. They also clear less land than in the past. Before the project, household heads
cleared 816 hectares per year, for an average of 2 hectares per household per year;

                                            40
currently, household heads said that they cleared an estimated 368 hectares, an average of
1 hectare per household per year. Overall, 78% percent of heads of household implemented
new SLM activities or activities similar to those financed under PGCT by the groups to
which they belong.




                                           41
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable




                                     42
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Summary of achievements
1.      Since the resumption of disbursements in March 2011, the project has shown
progress in achieving its objectives. All 26 CRs (100%) benefited from project
interventions and have integrated SLM into their local development plans. Infrastructure
built from the implementation of alternative activities from the LDPs also had an impact
on the well-being of the population. The project intensified agricultural production and
stabilized the beneficiary groups in the CRs mainly through development of 69 Annual
Investment Programs (AIPs) which were integrated into 169 SLM/NRM and income-
generating micro-projects; 135 out of the 169 were properly executed. A total of 105 groups
comprising 2,625 people, including 1,706 women, benefited from project interventions.
2.      According to the results of the end-of-project survey: (i) 78.6% of beneficiary
groups implemented activities similar to those financed by the project or new SLM
activities on other land surfaces using certain SLM techniques; (ii) 77.9% of household
heads belonging of beneficiary groups implemented new SLM activities or activities
similar to those financed by groups to which they belong; and (iii) 70.7% of persons
implemented SLM activities or activities similar to those financed by groups to which they
belong. Furthermore, the indirect effects on relevant environmental management in cities
and communities in sub-watersheds were primarily due to: environmental awareness or
behavior change (45%); protection of banks and non-depleted sources (26%), reduction of
bushfires or heat mitigation (25.3%), improved rainfall (22%), improving the ecosystem
(19.3%) and logging, and carbonization (10%).
3.      The survey results further show that the strengthening of capacities of the CRs and
the groups has helped establish a solid foundation for responsible management of land in
the five sub-watersheds. Regarding NRM initiatives undertaken by the CRs (income-
generating activities, SLM), the results of the survey highlighted the following: meeting
elected officials of neighboring CRs (71.3%); public sensitization meetings (67.3%);
setting up management committees (67.3%); exchange of visits (62.5%), and mobilization
of financial resources. Each of the five sub-watersheds has been provided with a
development plan (schéma d’aménagement) and local management structures to equip the
CRs with tools and mechanism for integrated strategic planning and management of their
natural resources.
4.     In summary, implementation in the field of the activities mentioned previously,
coupled with the sensitization and awareness campaigns, allowed the project to achieve
PDO indicator 1. More than 18,000 hectares was under sustainable management; all 26
beneficiary CRs integrated SLM activities in their LDPs using the sub-watershed
management approach, and a total of 4,591 people received direct support from the project;
44% were women.




                                            43
Achievement by Component
Component 1. Local Investment Fund (LIF)
5.      This component transferred a maximum of US$ 50,000 per year to finance activities
to mitigate causes and negative impacts of land degradation in targeted sub-watersheds.
Altogether, 69 AIPs were financed and 169 micro-projects were implemented at a total
cost of GNF 21,353,154,519 (US$ 3,040,000). The community contribution was estimated
at GNF 1,088,891,319 (US$ 150,920).
6.     The micro-projects implemented were divided into six (6) categories: (i) intensive
and sustainable development of lowlands (market gardening); (ii) deferred grazing of
community forest; (iii) promoting new technologies (improved stoves and modern
beekeeping); (iii ) establishment of community nurseries; (iv) establishment of stone bunds
and the displacement of some farms for slope protection; (v) reforestation; and (vi)
improvement of lowlands. The activities are shown in Figure A8.1.
                    Figure A8.1: Micro‐project activities supported through PGCT 
   Clôture grillagée          Saponification      Bergerie améliorée 
           1%                      1%                     2%          Canal de drainage
                Magasin de 
                                                                            1%
    Complexe « stockage
 enrichissement de 0%                                                             Apiculture moderne
  pâturage‐puits                                                                          13%
    pastoraux »
         2%                                                                                    Cordon pierreux
                                                                         Création de forêts         2%
Vulgarisation foyers                                                     communautaires
     améliorés                                                                  15%
        9%                        Reboisement
                Valorisation                       Protection 
                                      8%                                  Mise en défens
            intensive et durable                   de tête de                  12%
              des terres basses                      source
                    29%                                5%
                                               Source: CNC. 


7.    According to the survey, 18,682 hectares were placed under sustainable land
management.
8.     Financing of intercommunity activities. The management of shared resources
within in an intercommunity framework allows communities to be acquainted with the
major orientations of the Government Code, the national environmental policy, and the
provisions adopted at the subregional level through watershed management organizations.
By leveraging this tool, the project enabled communities to adopt shared natural resource
management techniques. Through this approach, 90% of communities have identified
intercommunity and SLM activities and integrated them into their LDPs and AIPs.
According to the same results, the estimated total area of shared natural resources due to
intercommunity activities among neighboring CRs is 1,067.33 hectares, including 45
hectares in Boké, 46.67 hectares in Kindia, 778.66 hectares in Labé, and 197 hectares in
Mamou.
                                                   44
9.     Promotion of technology and innovative activities. The development and
extension of technical advice in 2012 promoted innovative technologies and activities in
SLM in the AIP communities. A total of six (6) technologies and innovative activities have
been adopted on average per sub-watershed against a total of 10 targeted technologies.
Component 2: Local Capacity Building Development
10.    This component equipped 26 CRs with knowledge, skills, and tools for planning
and implementing activities in (i) mitigation of land degradation processes and (ii)
sustainable NRM.
11.     Local planning for sustainable land management. To quickly restart activities,
LDPs of CR 26 were updated to ensure they were better integrated into cross-cutting
aspects of SLM and NRM in the new planning guide. For this reason, the project supported
the system for operationalizing capacity building of the Service Technique de
Développement (STD). Supported by the Agents de Développement Local (ADLs), the
team of SPD/STD was trained in the new Planning Guide tool to update the LDPs, integrate
land management in 26 CRs, and assist local communities in preparing AIPs with SLM
and NRM elements. The project supported the preparation of schéma d’aménagement for
five sub-watersheds for medium- and long-term control of the use of natural resources at
the community level, and also addressed shortcomings of existing institutions that manage
natural resources. The schéma d’aménagement became the planning document for the CRs,
and are used to analyze environmental issues. All the different schémas d’aménagement
emphasize implementation of a permanent system for managing natural resources.
12.     Strengthening competencies of local stakeholders in SLM/NRM. The project
organized a series of training events for local elected officials, technical managers, the
devolved and decentralized administrations, civil society, NGOs and prefectural technical
services. In total 7,898 beneficiaries, of which 34% (2,685) were women, directly
benefitted from the training. Topics treated were (i) participatory mapping; (ii)
identification and validation of SLM and watershed management issues; (iii) monitoring
of NRM and income-generating micro-projects; (iv) internalization of micro-project
benchmark sheets; (v) community procurement; (vi) environmental and social safeguards
policy; (vii) the intercommunity approach to NRM; (viii) SLM-related technical training;
(ix) management of conflicts between farmers and herders; and (x) roles and
responsibilities of CSBVs in the management of shared natural resources. IRAG also
trained four agricultural officers and 8 peasant farmers for the demonstration plots.
13.      Establishment of Technical and Scientific Committee. The project supported the
establishment of this committee, which consists of representatives of ministries involved
in the management of watersheds, research institutions (IRAG and Centre d’Etude et de
Recherche en Environnement), a representative of the local authorities, and the executive
of the CNC. In addition to its mission of validating the stages and the results produced
within the framework of the preparation of development plans as well as identifying the
institutional anchor of the sub-watershed, this committee became the center for
consultation for different departments directly involved in the management of natural
resources.


                                           45
14.     Establishment and operationalization of five (05) Sub-watershed Committees
(CSBVs). The project supported the establishment of 5 CSBVs to ensure participatory
management of natural resources in the sub-watersheds. CSBV members received training
in their roles and responsibilities, and in intercommunity activities as a toll for shared
management of natural resources. An agreement for management of these natural resources
was prepared and adopted in meetings involving all stakeholders (CSBV, local elected
representatives, and the devolved technical services/units). For the implementation of this
agreement, the CSBVs have developed operational action plans, which contain capacity-
building activities for the beneficiary CRs through their respective AIPs.
15.     Environmental education. As part of Information, Education, and Communication
campaigns, CNC reached and signed an agreements with three community radio stations
to disseminate key messages on SLM and the sub-watershed approach in local languages.
In addition, the project supported the organization of a study tour to Benin for the members
of the CSBVs and environmental education and project specialist in the Ministry in charge
of decentralization and local development. It aimed to share experiences in management
of degraded lands and watersheds and the implementation ecologically profitable micro–
projects.
Component 3: Project management, coordination, and monitoring and evaluation
16.     For the purposes of managing and monitoring project activities, the project
established and operationalized a technical national coordination team and four Regional
Support Teams (ERAs) supported by an expert in NRM. The team is responsible for
training local stakeholders and nearby technical support units.
17.     Fiduciary management. The project regularly maintained project accounts and
prepared statements from the SUCESS software. The project developed and regularly
produced the financial monitoring reports. As at 31 December 2014, the overall
disbursement rate was 99.3%. The project’s financial statements have been audited and
found to be unqualified and financial reports were submitted to IDA before June 30 of each
year as stipulated in the Grant Agreement. With regard to procurement, the project prepared
a new procurement plan after resumption of activities in 2011. The procurement plan was
regularly updated on the basis of the needs from the various project components. The plan
was revised two (2) times. The results of the updates are as follows:
18.    Supplies. The project completed 10 planned procurements for an estimated amount
of US$ 225,300 and actual amount of US$ 181,502.

          Consultants: For 17 procurements planned for an estimated amount of US$
           646,000, 9 were achieved at an actual cost of US$ 141,177, 3 are underway in
           an amount of US$ 237,298, and 5 are programmed. In this period, the
           procurement plan (PPM) has been updated during each of the six supervision
           missions;
          Monitoring and evaluation: The project established an M&E system in all 26
           beneficiary CRs using data collection and processing tools and trained key
           stakeholders in the use of the system. The project also developed a GIS with
           funds for geo-referenced and digital maps. The project also updated the results

                                            46
           framework and developed and updated a tracking tool for annual work plan and
           budget (PTBA) and PPM.
19.     Moreover, CNC coordinated specific studies conducted by individual consultants
and firms to support capacity-building activities at the local level. These studies, among
others, are: (i) the dynamics of forest fires; (ii) the alternative techniques of sustainable
management of soil fertility; (iii) the analysis of conflict between farmers and herders; and
(iv) establishment of baselines in four CRs.
Conclusion
20.     The PGCT is now one of the best projects implemented in Guinea as part of
community land management and sustainable local development. The sub-watershed
approach underpinned the provisions of the Community Code, namely intercommunity
sustainable management of natural resources. It also strengthened the solidarity between
the CRs and empowered communities, groups, local institutions, and core technical
services/units. It brought changes to the mode of operations of natural resources and land
conservation. Despite these results, the sustainability of outcomes is still not guaranteed.
Also, the financial mechanism set up by the state to maintain the technical and logistical
capacity and support the nearby technical services/units (SPD/STD) is still insufficient to
support the CRs. Accordingly, it would be desirable to continue the project into a second
phase to consolidate the achievements and extend the experience and the tools to other
communities in Guinea.




                                             47
Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents

1. Aide-mémoire of supervisions mission from 2007 to 2014.
2. Global Environment Facility Grant Agreement, December 7, 2006.
3. Ministère du Plan, Institut National de la Statistique, Deuxième enquête pour l’évaluation des
   indicateurs de résultats (PDO et intermédiaires) et des indicateurs SYGRI du PACV2.
4. Ministère de l’Administration du Territoire et de la Décentralisation, Ministère délégué en charge de
   l’Environnement, Projet de Gestion Communautaire des Terres (PGCT), Résultats de l’Enquête sur
   les Changements des Conditions Socio-Economiques induits par les Activités de Gestion des
   Ressources Naturelles (GRN) et Activités Génératrices des Revenus (AGR) auprès des Bénéficiaires,
   Décembre 2014.
5. Project Appraisal Document, June 2, 2007.
6.   Project Restructuring Paper, December 2, 2013.
7. Programme d’appui aux Communautés Villageoises – phase 2, Projet de Gestion Côtière et
   Marine de la Biodiversité, Projet de Gestion Communautaire des Terres, Manuel d’Exécution
   Consolidée.
8.   République de Guinee, Projet de Gestion Communautaire des Terres (PGCT) Rapport
     d’achèvement du Gouvernement Guinee, Version Finale, Décembre 2014.




                                               48
Annex 9. MAP IBRD 33414




                          49
