Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
RqeNtp N 8890
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2202-PHL)
JUNE 29, 1990
Industry and Energy Opzrations Division
Country Department 1I
Asia Regional Office
Tlis document bas a mbestied disiuo and may be well by redlpienX only in the perfn   of
helr offkl dutes. Its conUtes may not odwe be discosed wf_tw Wodld Ban a_frissthn



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       -  Asian Development Bank
BED       -   Bureau of Energy Development
NPC       -  National Power Corporation
OEA       -   Office of Energy Affalrs in the Office of
the President of the Republic
PNOC      -   Philippine National Oil Company
PNOC-EC   -   PNOC Exploration Corporation
PNOC-ZDI  -   PNOC Energy Drilling Inc.
RP        -   Republic of the Philippines
UNDP      -  United National Development Program



THE WORLU SANKFOR OFFMCAL USE ONLY
TIff WOETU BANK
Wasntton. 0.r. 2033
USA.
Ok. oi OMbv.Cmwai
June 29, 1990
HENORhUMnK TO TSE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs Project Completion Report on Philippines
Petroleum Exploration Promotion Pro1ect (Loan 2202-PEL)
Attached, for infoiuation, is a copy of a report entitled
'Project Completion Report on Phillippines Petroleum Exploration Promotion
Project (Loan 2202-PHL) prepared by the Asia RegiROal Office with Part TI
of the report contributed by the  Borrower.    No audit of this project has
been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a mt ed diakdbudona od may be wed by =ci*ios onl in lth  
ofb thdt ofl dut. Its conteots may not oUWWiss be discled wtbout Wodd Seek wsd _,uo.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
PETROLEUS EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
(Ln. 2202-PH1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Paae No.
Preface .....................................*....*....... . i
Evaluation Summary .............................................. ii
PART I              PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project  Identity ....................................  1
Background .........                                              ................................... 1
Project Objectives  and Description ..................  2
Project  Design and Organization .....................  3
Project  Implementation ..... .     ... . . . . . . . . . . . ... .....- -   3
Major Results  of the Project .........................  S
Project Sustainability .............................. . 5
Bank Perfornance ....................................  5
Borzower's Performance ............................ .                      6
Project Relationships .............................. . 7
Performance of Contractors and Consultants ..........  7
Project Documentation and Data ...................    ........    7
PART  II            PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Borrower's Perspective of the design and Implement-
ation and its Development  Impact on the Project*....  8
PART   Ii           STATISTICAL  INFORMATION
Related Bank Loans ........................ ........ 37
Project Timetable .................................. 38
Loan Disbursements .................................. 39
Project  Implementation ................... .... . ....   40
Project Costs and Financing ......................... 41
Project Results .................. ...........                         ..  43
Status of Loan Covenants ............................ 45
Use of Bank Resources ...............................  46
MAP IBRD 16360
Note:  *This part has been prepared by the Borrcwer and its
contents and opinions are not attributable to the Bank.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents nay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PHILIPPINES
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
(Ln. 2202-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the
Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project in Philippines, for which
Loan 2202-PH in the amount of US$ 24 million was approved on
September 30, 1982.  The loan was closed on December 31, 1988,
two years behind schedule. The loan amount was reduced to US$
7.3 million at Government's request, and was fully disbursed,
with the last disbursement in June, 1989.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the industry and Energy
Operations Division, Country Department II, Asia Regional Office
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower
(Part rI).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the project in December, 1988, and is
based, inter alia, on the President's Report (there was no
separate Staff Appraisal Report); the Loan, Guarantee, and
Project Agreementa; supervision reports; correspondence between
the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.



ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
(Ln. 2202-PH)
EVALUATION SUMIRY
Objectives: The Petroleum Exploration Promotion Projects (Loans
2201 and 2202-PH) were designed with the objective of rekindling
private oil company interest in oil and gas exploration. The
objective was to acquire and update geological, aeromagnetic and
geophysical data, integrate all information into analytical
studies of the prospective basins and prepare promotion packages.
The program in the three areas of Mindoro, Cebu and Cotabato
provided for acquisition and processing of 4000 line Kms of
seismic profiles and the drilling of five exploratory wells. The
project included additionally 400 line Kms of seismic data from
North Luzon for reprocessing as well as drilling of a sixth well
as could be needed. A parallel objective was to strengthen the
exploration capacity and technical capabilities of PNOC-EC and to
train the staff, including, inter-alia, specialized courses in
geophysics, production geology, reservoir engineering and logging
services.
Implementation Experience:   The PNOC/PNOC-EC project under
review had an overall cost of $ 54.0 million of which the Bank
loan was to cover $24.0 million. Due to the economic
difficulties that the Philippines encountered in 1984 and later,
RP decided to severely restrict the exploration activities of
PNOC.  In consequence, PNOC/PNOC-EC decided, first, to limit
activities to a lesser number of areas and second, stop short of
drilling any wells in the selected areas, particularly as it
appeared that the absence of well data did not affect the
promotion prospects. The project as ultimately executed, cost
$19.9 million with the borrowing from the Bank amounting to $7.3
million.   PNOC-EC carried out with its own staff geological
surface mapping, collection of rock samples and similar field
work in respect of geology. For seismic field survey, it engaged
two US companies, Geophysical Services Inc., (GSI) and Seiscom
Delta United (SD). Ten short courses run by an international
consulting company in Philippines and on job training provided by
the several contracting companies assisted in building up the
technical skills of all of the PNOC-EC personnel as well as of
the BED personnel.



- iii -
Results: The objective of the project was to take exploration in
three onshore areas to a stage where meaningful data could be
packaged into a synthesized presentation for the benefit of the
oil companies. Of two basins promoted by PNOC-NC for further
exploration by oil companies, in one area, a consortium has
contracted to drill three wells. If there is a commercial
discovery, a production contract providing for sharing of
hydrocarbons will be signed. Oil company interest in the second
area, while not absent, has not been enthusiastic. The Project
had envisaged promotion of a third basin also, but PNOC-EC had
not carried out the survey program designed for this area,
affected by the economic crisis of 1984-86, and hence it was not
promoted.
Sustainabilitv: The economic benefits of the project will depend
upon the success of the exploration effort undertaken by the
various oil companies
Findings and Lessons Learned: The Bank fulfilled its obligations
to advise on, monitor and review the progress by well timed
supervision missions and comments on the periodic reports
received in the Bank. Of particular importance was the
overseeinq of the work of the contractors and the advice given,
from time to time. Bank staff also prepared an assessment of the
geological prospects of each area using RASP computer package and
estimated possible oil recovery and the economics. In the final
phase of Promotion, Bank staff reviewed the packages and gave
extensive comments on the legal, technical and commercial
aspects, all of which contributed to the success of the
promotion. PNOC-EC and PNOC were deeply appreciative of the
Bank's involvement and guidance.
The Borrower's performance was affected by the political and
economic changes of the period. RP had evolved a firm policy for
promoting exploration in 1981/1982, but the economic crisis from
1984 led to major institutional changes in the energy sector and
to the scaling down of the exploration program. Although
institutional stability has since been achieved, not all long
term policies appear to have been reviewed or carefully assessed.
In particular, the future role of PNOC-NC in exploration and the
policy to be pursued to promote exploration by oil companies in
areas where such work remains to be completed have to be
considered.



THE PHILIPPINES
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
(LN 2202-PH)
PROJECT C0MPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.  Project Identity
Name           Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project
Loan No. :    2202-PH
RVP Unit :    Asia Region
Country  s    Philippines
Sector   s    Energy
2. Backaround
2.01  The Philippines are heavily dependent on imported oil (58%
of total and 70% of conventional energy in 1987). Proven oil
resources amount only to 35 million barrels. Potential coal
reserves are about 1500 million tons, but most of it is low grade
and expensive to mine. Hydro resources are vast, with a
potential of over 10,000 MW, but the sites except for the few
already developed are far from the grid and too costly to
develop. Geothermal resources are abundant with an estimated
potential of 8000 Ml about 894 KW of which have been harnessed
and efforts are under way to accelerate development in this
subsector. With a view to strengthening the indigenous
availability of energy resources, the Bank extended four loons in
FY82 and FY83, one for coal exploration, one for geothermal
exploration and two for petroleum exploration promotion. A
second Bank loan for a geothermal power project, approved in FY
88, included appraisal and delineation of new geothermal fields
among the project components.
2.02  The Petroleum Exploration Promotion Projects (Loans 2201
and 2202-PH) were designed with the objective of rekindling
private oil company interest in oil and gas exploration. Between
10 and 30 years earlier oil companies had explored and
relinquished areas in the Philippines when technology was less
advanced, the oil prices were low and the offshore element was
unfamiliar. The need, therefore, was to acquire and update
geological, aeromagnetic and geophysical data, integrate all
information into analytical studies of the prospective basins and
prepare promotion packages. The Republic of Philippines (RP),
through the then Bureau of Energy Development (BED), was
concerned with all offshore areas and a few unlicensed onshore
areas while the Philippine National Oil Company (PNOC), together
with its subsidiary the Exploration Corporation (PNOC-EC), was



2
concerned with most other onshore areas.  Loan 2201-PH was
availed of by RP and Loan 2202-PH by PNOC so as to facilitate the
promotion of exploration in their respective areas.  This report
deals with the completion of the project undertaken by
PNOC/PNOC-EC.
2.03   The PNOC/PNOC-EC project under review had an overall cost
of $ 54.0 million of which the Bank loan was to cover $24.0
million. Due to the economic difficulties that the Philippines
encountered in 1984 and later, RP decided to severely restrict
the exploration activities of PNOC. In consequence, PNOC/PNOC-EC
decided first to limit activities to a lesser number of areas and
second, stop short of drilling any wells in the selected areas,
particularly if it appeared that the absence of well data did not
affect the promotion prospects. The project, as ultimately
executed, cost $19.9 million with the borrowing from the Bank
amounting to $7.3 million. Of two basins promoted by PNOC-EC for
further exploration by oil companies, one has attracted attention
so far. In this area, a consortium has contracted to drill three
wells. If there is a commercial discovery, a production contract
providing for sharing of hydrocarbons will be signed. Oil
company interest in the second area, while not absent, has not
been enthusiastic. The Project had also envisaged promotion of a
third basin, but PNOC-EC had not carried out the survey program
designed for this area, affected by the economic crisis of
1984-86, and it wan, therefore, not promoted prior to loan
completion.
3.  Project Obiectives and Description
3.01   The PNOC/PNOC-EC component of the project was devised so
as to support over 80% of the company's exploration program
during 1982-85. The three onshore areas of immediate interest
were Xindoro, Cebu anid Cotabato (Mindanao). The sub components
of the program were as follows.
Mindoro: (West) Continue geological field work, collect
source rocks, follow up on the reconnaissance survey which
covered 354 line Kms until July 1982 with detailed profile of
about 400 line Kms, and culminate in drilling a well in 1984, if
warranted. An oil company had drilled a well with gas show in
Southern Nlindoro in 1982 before relinquishing the area.
Nindoros (East) Continue geological field work, collect
reservoir and source rock samples, acquire 800 line Km. of
reconnaissance and detailed seismic profile, and culminate in
drilling one well in mid 1984, if indicated.
Cebu: In this area where oil companies had in the past
established production of 2500 barrels of light oil per
day, carry out extensive geological surveys, map surface
geological structures: conduct gravity surveys, progress to



3
the lay out of a seismic grid, do 600 line Kms of reconnaissance
and detailed seismic work, and culminate in one well in mid 1985.
Cotabatos Oil companies had drilled 6 wells in the late
50o and early 60s, encountering gas shows and leaving poor
records behind. Carry out fresh geological surveys, collect
source rocks, conduct gravity operations, acquire 2200 Kms of
seismic lines and aim to drill two wells in 1985.
3.02   The program in the three areas of Mindoro, Cebu and
Cotabato provided for acquisition and processing of 4000 line Kms
of seismic profiles and the drilling of five exploratory wells.
The project included additionally 400 line Kms of seismic data
from North Luzon for reprocessing as well as drilling of a sixth
well as could be needed.
3.03   A parallel objective was to strengthen the exploration
capacity and technical capabilities of PNOC-EC and to train the
staff, including, inter-alia, specialized courses in geophysics,
production geology, reservoir engineering and logging services.
3.04   The project was to be completed ti June 30, 1986.
4.  Proiect Desian and oraanization
4.01   The ?roject largely depended on foreign contractors and
consultants for its technical execution.  The job descriptions
for the surve-ys and processing of data had to be drawn precisely
and PNOC-4C had competent staff to do so and to manage
implementation. Bank staff fully extended their cooperation in
scrutiny of specifications and overseeing of execution. This was
a relatively simple project to design and carry out, although
there were logistic difficulties due to remoteness and ruggedness
of terrain in some sectors which were surveyed.
5.  Pro1ect Implementation
5.01   Taking into account the in-house capabilities of PNOC- EC,
the Project required the engagement of a structural geology
consulting company, two seismic companies for field survey
(seismic instruments and 6 to 10 specialists) and a data
processing company for processing. A tentative exploration
program for 1982-85 was agreed between the Bank and PNOC-EC
during appraisal and it was required to be updated annually in
consultation with the Bank.
5.02   FN3C-EC carried out with its own staff geological surface
mapping, collection of rock samples and similar field work in
respect of geology.  For seismic field survey, it engaged two US
companies, Geophysical Services Inc., (GSI) and Seiscom Delta
United (SD). The GSI crew worked from August 15, 1982 to August
15, 1984 in East and West Mindoro, profiled 1278 line Rms,



4
averaging 65.2 Kms/month in East Mindoro and 44.8 Rms in West
Mindoro. The appraisal estimate was 60 Kms/month for Mindoro; the
lower achievement in West Mindoro was due to difficilty of acceas
in the mountainous terrain.  The SD crew worked from February
1983 to March 1985 first in Mindoro (Calintaan), an area in the
south-west which became available after an immediately preceding
relinquishment by an oil company; then, in Cebu and then back to
Mindoro. It acquired 1062 line Kms, of which 604 were in Cebu,
averaging 45 Kmi/month in all, compared to the appraisal estimate
of 60 Kms/month for Mindoro and 40 ims/month for Cebu. In the
third area, Cotabato in Mindanac, no seismic work was undertaken,
primarily due to the economic crisis the Philippines faced from
late 1984 and cunsequent budget constraints in 1985. It will be
seen that in Mindoro and Cebut, the seismic coverage was more
extensive than planned at appraisal, 2340 Kms against 1800 line
Rms, involving, therefore, a longer time for acquisition.  A
major modification to the exploration program for Mindoro became
necessary as aeromagnetic and new gq.ogical and preliminary
seismic data came in.
5.03   For processing of seismic data, two measures we--e taken.
First, PNOC-EC hired Digicon of Singapore to process the data to
be acquired by the two foreign seismic field crews. Second,
subsequent to the appraisal, it decided on establishing an
in-house processing center. Computer hardware and software as
needed were purchased using proceeds of three Bank loans, this
Loan 2202-PH, the complementary loan to BED (2201-PH) and the
loan for Geothermal Exploration to PNOC (2203-PH). The
processing center would serve the needs for processing under the
three loans. Bank gave its approval to the proposal and
utilization of part of the allocation for seismic and other
surveys in the loans to the installation of the processing
center. The system proposed by Seismograph Service Corporation
of USA (SSC) was evaluated as the most suitable. The company
undertook to deliver, install and operate initially a VAX 11/780
computer. The center began operations in May 1984. With the
establishment of the processing center, the processing by Digicon
at Singapore was limited to 1255 Ims. The processing center
processed the land data under the project not assigned to
Digicon.
5.04   As early as May 1984, the geological prospects on Mindoro
appeared very encouraging. Several plays had been identified and
locations for three wells were possible of being released. In
Cebu, seismic penetration presented problems, but on several
lines deep events could be recognized. It was hence anticipated
that PNOC-EC could attract partners to drill the exploratory
wells. In conjunction with BED, PNOC-EC also engaged Robertson
Research of Australia in developing a promotion package which
would include the impressive prospect inventory on onland Mindoro
and Cebu. The promotion, it seemed could be targeted for mid
1985 and if the response to PNOC-SC areas was poor, there still



5
would be time for PNOC-EC to drill the wells before loan closing.
In the event, the promotion did not take place until September
1987 and negotiations with oil companies had been in progress
when the Bank loan closed on December 31, 1988 after two one year
extensions. Ns exploratory wells were drilled under the project.
5.05   The training part of the project was successfully carried
out. Ton short courses run by an international consulting
company in Philippines and on job training provided by the
several contracting companies assisted in building up the
technical skills of all of the PNOC-EC personnel as well as of
the BED.personnel.
5.06 Environmental Impact and Safety: The land seismic parties
used dynamite, but the charges were too small to cause concern.
Safety ru'es as p&zscribed were enforced. No wells were drilled
and the question of disposal of fluids and borehole cuttings did
not arise.
6.  Major Results of the Proiect
6.01   The objective of the project was to take exploration in
three onshore areaa to a stage where meaningful data could be
packaged into a synthesized presentation for the benefit of the
oil companies. This was actually done in two areas and oil
company interest was evinced in abundant measure, although for
the present concrete results involving commitment to drill wells
have followed in one area only. The promotion in respect of the
offshore areas under the complementary Loan 2201-PH had led to
greater response from the oil companies as explained in the
Project Completion Report pertaining to that loan. The two loans
however for all intents and purposes had one objective and were
processed together and so must be assessed together in the
results. Several oil companies have now contracted to carry out
detailed geophysical surveys-offshore and onshore-and in some
instances also drill obligatory wells.
7. Prolect Sustainability
7.01   The economic benefits of the project will depend upon the
success of the exploration effort undertaken by the various oil
companies.
8.  Bank's Performance
8.01   The initial involvement of the Bank was in reviewing the
program of PNOC-EC for exploration during 1982-85. The program
was reformulated to concentrate on three promising areas and to
further prepare the areas for possible revival of oil company
interest and making of further investments in exploration,
development and production. The Project Agreement with PNOC-EC
not only provided for an annual update of the exploration program



6
in consultation with the Bank, but also required such
consultation prtor to PNOC-EC proceeding with detailed seismic or
exploratory drilling in any given area covered by the project.
At those stages there was to be an assessment as to the
following:
- whether the geological, geophysical, and topographical
::tta warranted the pursuit of further exploration in
ae particular area;
- whether the exploration should then be carried out by a
joint venture; and
- whether PNOC-EC's share of expenditure in a joint
venture, if any, should be financed under the loan.
8.02   The Bank fulfilled its obligations to advise on, monitor
and review the progress by well timed supervision missions and
comments on the periodic reports received in the Bank. Of
particular importance was the overseeing of the work of the
contractors and the advice given, for example, use of heavier
charges and patterns to obtain deeper seismic reflections in one
area and replacing of a land analyst in seismic processing. From
time to time Bank staff prepared an assessment of the geological
prospects of each area using RASP computer package and estimated
possible oil recovery and the economics. In the final phase of
Promotion, Bank staff reviewed the packages and gave extensive
comments on the legal, technical and commercial aspects. At all
times, a senior geologist and a senior geophysicist remained
dedicated to the exploration work in progress under PNOC-EC's
control, apart from other assistance extended. The satisfying
feature was that PNOC-EC and PNOC were deeply appreciative of the
Bank's involvement and guidance.
9.  Borrower's Performance
9.01   The Borrower's performance was affected by the political
and economic changes of the period. RP had evolved a firm policy
for promoting exploration in 1981/1982, but the economic crisis
from 1984 led to the scaling down of the exploration program.
The new Government which came into power in February 1986
abolished the Ministry of Energy. The PNOC Board was
reconstituted. The institutional upheavals initially led to a
hiatus in long term policy and resulted in a suspension of the
exploration program in so far as commitments had not been made.
As mentioned earlier the Bank project suffered a truncation.
Although institutional stability has since been achieved, not all
long term policies appear to have been reviewed or carefully
assessed. In particular, the future role of PNOC-EC in
exploration and the policy to be pursued to promote exploration
by oil companies in areas where such work remains to be completed
have to be considered. Specifically, Cotabato (Mindanao) which



7
was a project area, but was not taken up for seismic survey
continues to remain an attractive prospect. Bank geoscientists
evaluated, on the basis of recent geological work, the
Agusan-Davao area in Mindanao as offering good oil prospects and
by analogy, the Cotabato area as showing increased
prospectiveness. Among other areas North Cebu and Leyte, where
rich Lower MLocene rocks have been identified in the recent past,
are also clearly upgraded. In the Completion report on Loan
2201-PU, it was suggested that PNOC-EC should seek to farm-in
with oil companies which were entering into offshore geophysical
survey contracts and shortly could convert these to service
contracts for production, both with a view to expanding its
technological know-how and deploying its technical manpower and
services to earn income. It appears that PNOC-EC has in fact been
on the look out for possible farm-in but not much encouragement
has been forthcoming from the oil companies.
10. Project Relationship
10.01 All inter relationships, as between the Bank and the
Borrower, the Borrower and the contractors and consultants, the
Bank and the contractors and consultants were satisfactory and
conducive to the efficient conduct of work.
11. Performance of Contractors and Consultants
11.01  The major contractors were the two seismic survey
ompanies, the seismic data processing company and the contractor
who set up the seismic processinq center. All performed
efficiently and committed competent personnel to the work. There
were minor problems such as unsuitable equipment or one or other
of the personnel not being sufficiently qualified, but on PROC-EC
asking for changes, with Bank's support, the changes were made.
The most satisfactory feature was that all contractors associated
PNOC-EC staff in their work and helped to transfer know-how. The
individual consultants and providers of third party services were
carefully chosen and gave a good account.
12. Prolect Documentation and Data
12.01 A staff appraisal report was not prepared for the project,
but the President's report was comprehensive including technical
details.  The legal documents were clear.  The supervision
reports and the progress reports from the Borrower were
exhaustive.



-8-
THE PHILIPPINES
GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
(LN 2202-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART Ils PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Office of Energy Affairs in the Office of the President,
Republic of the Philippines p?epared Part II of the Project
Completion Report of this project in June 1988.



*   9-
PART 11
This report was prepared by the Phillipps National Oil Corporation -
Energy Developent Corporation, the Borrower.
I. SUMMARY
The Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project was envisioned
primarily   to   stimulate   petroleum   exploration   in   the
Philippines. The PNOC EC component of the project focused on
three onshore areas: Mindoro, Cebu and Cotabato. Geological
and geophysical surveys were to be conducted; drilling of
wells, if warranted. PNOC EC would eventually invite fc-eign
or domestic oil companies to form joint ventures that would
pursue a more intensive exploration. Total cost of the PNOC EC
component of the project was estimated at  USS53  million.   Of
the US$26 million foreign component of the total cost, US$24
million was to be financed by  the  World  Bank.   A  secondary
objective of the project was to strengthen the exploration
capacity and technical capability of PNOC EC.
By late 1984 it became evident that the original scope of
the Project would be truncated. Due to economic reasons, it
was  decided  to  cancel  US$8.3   million   in   1985;   later
cancellations  trimmed  the  original  loan of US$24 million to
US$8.4 million. The exploration program in Cotabato was not
fully implemented and no wells were drilled under the project.
Instead, the other two areas, Mindoro and Southern Cebu, were
actively promoted. A synthesis of the technical data on these
two basins were collated into data packages which were provided
to  interested  parties.   In 1988 PMOC EC entered into a joint
venture agreement with a consortium of local and foreign
companies to drill at least two wells in Southern Cebu in 1989.
For  f4indoro  promotion  of  the  area  is  ongoing.    Several
companies  seem  interested  in  Mindoro but PNOC EC has yet to
receive a firm offer.
II. PROJECT BACKGROUND
the Philippine government, keenly aware of the increasing
energy   requirements   of   the   country   and  the  economic
repercussions of having to import oil - the prime energy
resource - had adopted a national policy of self-reliance in
energy during the mid-1970's. To achieve this goal, one of the
prescribed courses of action was to boost petroleum exploration
-.     in the country.



- 10 -
2202-PH Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project Completion Report
PNOC Exploration Corporation
One of the latest moves towards this end was the launching
of the Philippine Petroleum Exploration Project in 1982,
through the then Bureau of Energy Development (BEO) under the
Ministry of Energy and the Philippine National Oil Company
(PNOC)  through   its   exploration   arm,   PN4OC   Exploration
Corporation (PNOC EC).
Financial assistance was obtained from the World Bank
under a Loan Agreement formally signed on October 28, 1982.
The Loan Agreement had two components: the BED component, Loan
2201 PH and the PNOC EC component, Loan 2202 PH.
This report deals mainly with the PNOC CC component of the
Project.    A  separate  completion  report  covering  the  BED
component was prepared by the Office of Energy Affairs COEA).
{II.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND OBJECTIVES
The PNOC EC component of the World Bank Loan Agreement was
devised to finance the foreign exchange cost of 80% of the
company's exploration activities from 1982 to 1985. The other
activities were either funded solely by PHOC EC or conducted in
cooperation with Chinese Petroleum Corporation. The World Bank
- assisted exploration program concentrated on three onshore
greas of iinmediate interest: Mindoro, South Cebu and Cotabato
in   Mindanao   (Annex   A).    These  areas  lacked  extensive
exploration  although   existing   geological   knowledge   was
favorable and chances of small accumulations of oil and gas
appeared good. Assistance to PNOC under the Project Agreement
was desiVned to support exploration up to the stage that oil
companies interest would be rekindled and would eventually
lead  to  joint  ventures.   A  step-by-step  work  program was
prepared accordingly. The components of the program were as
follows:
A.1 Mindoro (West)
1.  Continue geological field work;  collect  reservoir
and source rock samples
2. Follow up on the available reconnaissance seismic
survey (which covered 354 line kilometers until
July 1982) with detailed profiles of about 400 line
kilometers
3.  Subsequently drill a well in 1984, if warranted.
An oil company drilled a well with gas show in
Southern Ilindoro in 1982, before relinquishing the
lease on the area.



2202-PH Petroleum Exploration Promoti on Project Completion Report
PNOC Exploration Corporation
A.2 Mindoro (East)
1.  Continue geological field work;  collect  reservoir
and source rock samples
2.  Acquire 800 line kilometers of  reconnaissance  and
detailed seismic profile
3.  Drill one well in mid 1984, if warranted.
S. South Cebu
1. Carry out extensive geological surveys; map surface
geological structures
2.  Conduct gravity surveys, and proceed to the lay out
of a seismic grid
3.  Acquire 600 line kilometers of  reconnaissance  and
detailed seismic work
4.  Drill one well in mid 1985, if warranted.
Other oil companies that previously worked in the
area  had  established production of 250 barrels of
light oil per day.
C. Cotabato
1.  Carry out fresh geological surveys; collect  source
and reservoir rock samples
2.  Conduct gravity operations
3.  Acquire 2,200 kilometers of seismic data
4.  Aim to drill two wells in 1985.
Other oil companies have drilled 6 wells with las
shows   in   the  late  1950's  and  early  1960 s.
However, previous exploration data are either poor,
incomplete or missing.
In summary, the above work program called for the following
activities:
A. Geological surveys in Mindoro, Cebu and Cotabato
B. Gravity surveys in Cebu and Cotabato
C. Acquisition and processing of 4,000 kilometers of seismic
data from the three areas
0.  Orilling a total of five exploratory wells in three areas



- 12 -
2202-PH Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project Completion Report
PNOC Exploration Corporation
The Project also allowed for the reprocessing of 400 line
kilometers of seismic data from North Luzon, as well as drilling
of a sixth well, if needed.
A parallel objective was to strengthen the exploration
capacity and technical capabilities of PNOC EC by training its
technical staff, to p.rovide specialized courses in geophysics,
production geology, reservoir engineering and logging services.
The Project was to be completed by June 30, 1986.
IV. IMPLEMENTATION AND RESUUTS
A tentative exploration program for the period 1982-1985 was
drawn by the Bank and PNOC-EC during the initial Proj-ect
appraisal. It was agreed that the program would be update;
annually  in  consultation  with  the  Bank.   As  early as 1984,
however, it became evident that the scope of the Project would be
truncated.   Primarily  due  to  the economic crisis faced by the
Philippine government and a consequent budgetary constraint, the
seismic  program in Cotabato was cancelled.  Furthermore, instead
of drilling exploratory wells on its own, PNOC decided to
actively promote Mindoro and Cebu and attract partners to
participate in the drilling operations.  The  Project  completion
date was also moved from June 1986 to December 1988.
The geological and gravity surveys were carried out by the
PUOC  EC  staff.   The  implementation of the rest of the Project
required the following major activities:
A.  Contracting two seismic crews for data acquisition
B.  Cont"acting a seismic data processing company
C.  Purchasing a seismic data processing system (software and
hardware)
D.  Hiring of structural geology consultants
E.  Hiring  of  third-party  services  for   geochemical   and
reservoir analysis and for promotional campaign assistance.
A discussion of the Project Implementation follows:



- 13 -
Geological Surveys
The PNOC-EC stepped-up exploration work in Mindoro following
the   loan   approval.    A  semi  detailed  work  that  includes
stratigraphic,  sedimentologic  and   structural   studies,   was
conducted  in  the  area.   This  was  supplemented by laboratory
studies done by Robertson Research in Singapore to confirm the
reservoir and source potential of tne sediments in the basin.
In 1982, PNOC EC conducted the reevaluation of the oil
potential  of  Southern  Cebu.   The  studies which include field
stratigraphic, sedimentologic, structural geology and laboratcry
analysis of potential source and reservoir works, were geared
towards identifying new plays which may prove to be the key to a
commercial discovery in the area.
Structural   geology    consultants    from    International
Exploration  Corp.  (INTEX) helped unravel the complex geology of
Mindoro and Cebu.
A  reconnaissance  and  semi-detailed  geologic  study   was,
conducted  in  Cotabato  starting  1982.   Potential  areas  were
identified/prioritized and recommended for a more detailed study.
All  field  operations  were  suspended  in  1985  because of the
economic crisis faced by the government at the time.
Gravity Surveys
Gravity surveys were conducted by PNOC EC personnel in Cebu
and  Cotabato.   From July 1982 to February 1983 the gravity crew
covered 1,129 square kilometers in Cebu.   The  Cotabato  gravity
survey was undertaken early in 1982 (Southern Cotabato) and in
1983 (Northern Cotabato), with both surveys covering a total of
3,375 square kilometers. Along with other geological input, the
gravity survey results in both areas were used during the
preparation of the seismic programs.
Seismic Surveys
Two  U.S.-based  companies,  Geophysical  Services,  Inc.
(3SI)  and Seiscom Delta United (SOu), were contracted to provide
the seismic instruments  and  the  basic  party  personnel.   The
logistical  support  was provided by PNOC EC.  The rugged terrain
of Mindoro and Cebu, and the remoteness of  some  line  locations
posed a logistical challenge. At times, as many as 750 to 900
men, from a minimum crew of 400 men were required to perform the
conventional  survey,  chaining, drilling and recording jobs, and
to do such tasks as cutting trails, supplying water to the
drilling crew from a river 1-2 kilometers away, and moving camps.
The GSI crew worked from August 1982 to August 1984 in



- 14 -
2202-PH Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project Completion Report
PNOC Exploration Corporation
East and Southwest Miffdoro. A total of 1,278 line kilometers was
profiled by GSI, averaging about 68 kilometers per month in East
Mindoro and 39 kilometers per month in Southwest Mindoro. The
appraisal estimate was 80 kilometers per month  in  East  Mindoro
and 40 kilometers per month in West Mindoro or an average
production of 60 kilometers per  month  in  Mindoro.   The  lower
actual   production   rates   were  attributed  to  drilling  and
accessibility problems.  It was noted  that  utilization  of  the
Canadian Canterra CT-155 rigs improved the drilling production
rate in Minooro.
The SDU crew worked from February 1983 to March 1985.
Initially, SOU shot reconnaissance lines in Cebu. It was during
this time that economic problems were being felt and a cutback in
exploration  became  inevitable.   Consequently, the GSI contract
extension was disapproved and SOU had to take on the Mtindoro
program  as  well.   To take advantage of the weather window, SDU
moved to West Mindoro in February 1984. By June of that year,
the rainy season prompted a move to Cebu. Upon completion of the
Cebu program, SOU returned to Mindoro in November 1984 and
completed the Mindoro survey in March 1985. SOU acquired a total-
of 1,062  line  kilometers:   604  kilometers  in  Cebu  and  458
kilometers   in   Mindoro.   Production  in  Cebu  was  about  46
kilometers per month, against the appraisal estimate of 40
kilometers per month. The use of modified Canterra rigs and foam
pumps iccelerated shothole drilling in Cebu.   In  West  Mindoro,
SOU's monthly production rate surpassed the appraisal estimate of
4J kilometers per month.
In M4indoro, the seismic coverage was more extensive than
planned:   1,736  kilometers  acquired  against  1,200 kilometers
planned  during   appraisal.    Modification   in   the   Mindoro
exploration program was indicated by new geological, aeromagnetic
and preliminary seismic data. Annexes B and C show the seismic
coverage in Mindoro and Cebu.
In  the  third  area,  Cotabato,  no  seismic  work   was
undertaken due to the economic crisis faced by the Philippine
government since 1984.
Seismic Data Processing and the Computer Center
For the processing of seismic data from Mindoro and Cebu,
two measures were taken. First, PNOC-EC contracted the services
of Digicon, Singapore to process the data to be acquired by the
two seismic field.crews.  Second, subsequent to the appraisal, it
was then decided to establish an in-house processing center.
Computer hardware and software, as needed, were to be purchased
using proceeds of three Bank Loans:   PNOC  EC's  (2202-PH);  the
complementary loan to BED (2201-PH) and the loan for Geothermal
Exploration to PROC (2203-PH). The processing center would serve



- 15 -
2202-PH Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project Completion Report
PN4OC Exploration Corporation
the  processing  needs  under the three loans.  The Bank gave its
approval to the proposal and the utilization of part of the
allocation for seismic and other surveys contained in the loans
for the  installation  of  the  processing  center.   The  system
proposed by Seismograph Services Corporation of USA (SSC) was
evaluated as  the  most  suitable.   SSC  undertook  to  deliver,
install and maintain initially a VAX 11/780 computer. The center
began operations in May 1984.   With  the  establishment  of  the
processing center, the processing by Digicon at Singapore was
limited to 1,255 kilometers. The processing center started with
the task to process 8,306 line kilometers of marine data for the
BED, and other land data under the project not yet assigned to
Digicon.
Since 1985, the center has been operated and maintained by
an all-Filipino staff. It has processed the bulk of seismic data
acquired by PNOC-EC and BED for the Petroleum Exploration
Promotion  Project, aside from reservoir simulation of PNOC-EDC's
geothermal data. The processed seismic sections turned out to be
of consistently good quality, except in areas where the acquired
raw data were of poor quality to start with.  Plotted outputs  oa
electrostatic paper are of high quality. Since the center is not
equipped with a photographic plotter, plots on electrostatic film
are prone to uzipperu effects, scratching and yellowing.
SSC provided software updates with Bank funding until 1987.
SSC also replenished the initial spare parts inventory delivered
in 1984 at no additional cost to PNOC up  to  1987.   Thereafter,
the   center  purchased  parts  through  bidding  from  suppliers
including SSC. The main economic benefits of setting up the
center were availability of the equipment and technical knowhow
to PNOC after the seismic  processing  program  was  over.   This
transfer  of  technology would not have been possible if PNOC had
spent the equivalent funds on hiring the services of processing
centers  abroad.   At  the  same  time, the cost of operating the
center has been low due to the relatively low compensation levels
of local personnel.
PtIOC-EC did not reprocess Northern Luzon data under the
Project.
Survey Results
The results of the geological  and  geophysical  surveys  in
lindoro  and  Cebu opened new-areas where several play types have
been identified, thus enhancing the chance of finding commercial
oil pools in these areas. In the course of the exploration work,
seismic  leads  and  several  prospects  have  been  mapped   and
developed for drilling tests. Basic information on the basins
are synthesized and collated into a data package for Mindoro and
for Southern Cebu Basin.



- 16 -
2202-PH Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project Completion Report
PNOC Exploration Corporation
Drilling and Promotion
Instead of drilling exploratory wells under the Project,
PNOC  EC  decided  to  invite  partners  to  join in the drilling
operations. PNOC EC maintained dialogues with several companies.
A promotion package was also prepared for both Mindoro and
Southern  Cebu.   The  preparation  of  promotion  materials  was
extended beyond 1985 to accommodate additional data acquired
during the year, such as laboratory analysis of rock samples and
seismic  data.   The timing of a promotion was also influenced by
the local economic and political situation in 1984 through 1986.
PNOC EC  joined  the  Office  of  Energy  Affairs  (OEA),
formerly   the  BED,  in  a  worldwide  promotional  campaign  in
September  1987.   After  the  joint  presentations  in   Manila,
Houston, Calgary and London, the PNOC EC team proceeded to
Australia. The members of the promotional team, the presentation
agenda and the participants of the joint presentation are
attached as Annexes 0, E, F-1 to F-4. The Australian companies
lined up with the assistance of Robertson Research, Australia,
are shown in Annex F-5.
The promotion packages include geological data that
highlight the hydrocarbon potential of Mindoro and Cebu, drilling
prospects and leads, and logistical data pertinent to the areas.
Areas adjacent to the concessions of PNOC EC in Mindoro
and Southern Cebu, have attracted other exploration companies.
Offshore southern Mindoro is under application by an Australian
company.   An American consortium drilled a well in Northern Cebu
in 1988.
As of the time of this report, PHOC EC has concluded a
joint venture agreement with a consortium of local, Australian
and New Zealand companies.  The consortium will  drill  at  least
two  wells  in  1989  to earn an interest of 46% in Southern Cebu
Area.
Although several companies seem to be interested in
Mindoro, none so far has given a firm offer. Annex G is a
listing of companies that had shown some interest in Mindoro and
were provided with data packages
Training
The training part of the project was carried out through a
program  that  ranged  from  formal  short  courses to on-the-job
training. Ten short courses (Annex H) were conducted in the
Philippines  by  the  Boston-based  International Human Resources
Oevelopment Corporation (IHRDC). All of the PNOC EC and BED



*                              - 17 -
2202-PH Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project Completion Report
PNOC Exploration Corporation
technical personnel attended at least one course each. The
seismic  contractor  provided   on-the-job   training   in   data
aquisition and processing at the job site and in their processing
center in Singapore and the U.S.A. A most successful training
was in computer system operations and seismic data processing
which was conducted by SSC, tne computer hardware/software
supplier.      Four   seismic   data   processing   analysts   and
geophysicists of PNOC EC and four computer personnel of PNOC EDC
were  trained  for  2  mont.hs  at  SSC's  main  offices in Tulsa,
Oklahoma; these trainees, together with experienced SSC personnel
who were assigned to the newly-opened center of PNOC in the
Philippines for one year, processed the bulk of the seismic data
for the Bank-assisted BED and PNOC EC surveys. Since 1985 an
all-Filipino staff has been processing seismic data for other oil
exploration companies and for a governmental agency in the
Philippines. Among the clients are the Mines and Geosciences
Bureau, Ran Ricks of the Philippines, Trans-Asia Oil and Minerals
Corporation and Philippine-Overseas Orilling & Oil Development
Corporation.
At project  inception,  PNOC  EC  had  a  complement  of  36'
professional staff, including 15 geologists and geohysicists and
4 engineers. As of 1988, the profesionnal staff still stands at
36, including 19 geologists, geophysicists and seismic data
processing analysts as well as 3 engineers. Of the original PNOC
EC and EOC personnel who benefited from the training program, at
least five geologists and geophysicists, two engineers and three
computer center personnel have left the company.
V.   PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
Together with a front-end fee of USS0.4 million payable to
tne Bank, financing the original scope of the project requ- ed
USS53.6 million, including a foreign exchange portion of USSk .
million. The Bank loaned USS24.0 million to PNOC for the bulk o.
the direct foreign exchange expenditures. PNOC agreed to finance
an indirecl; foreign expenditure of about US$2.0 million and local
costs equivalent to US$28.0  million  out  of  the  equity  funds
(e.g., from the Oil Industry Special Fund and PNOC).
The budget constraints of 1985 which almost suspended
PNOC-EC's exploration program resulted in the Bank agreeing to
cancel effective June 14, 1985 USS3.26 million of the proceeds of
the loan. With PNOC's decision to defer the drilling program and
instead seek joint venture through the promotion of the upgraded
drilling prospects, two additional cancellations to the loan were
requested. A US$4.4 million cancellation in August 1986 and
another USS2.9 million cancellation on February 19, 1988 were
approved by the  Bank.   Out  of  the  remaining  available  fund



- 18 -
2202-PH Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project Completion Report
PNOC Exploration Corporation
balance  of  US$11.84' million,  PNOC drew only a total of US$7.3
million as of loan closing date on Oecember 31, 1988.   Tti  loan
closing date had been extended twice on a yearly period, from
1986 to 1988.
With the cutback in the exploration program, actual project
cost   was   reduced  to  US$19.9  million,  including  the  Bank
disbursement of US$7.3 million. Annexes I, J, and K show the
comparison between appraisal estimate and actual costs, a summary
of PNOC and Bank expenditures and a summary of cancellation and
annual disbursement of the Bank.
During appraisal, the seismic processing cost was included
in  the  seismic  survey  estimates.   PNOC,  however, decided to
purchase a computer system which was used to process most of  the
acquired seismic data under the Petroleum Exploration Promotion
Project.   For  comparison  purposes  in  Annex  I,  expenditures
related  to  the  computer  system acquisition and operations are
included in "Seismic Survey" costs while the training cost
related  to  computer  operations  is  included in the *Technical-
Assistance  cost.
The additional seismic program in Mindoro caused an overrun
in  the  actual foreign expenditures.  Around 1,700 kilometers of
seismic, profiles  were  acquired,  as  compared  to  the   1,200
kilometers originally planned.  Considertng the work accomplished
under the ProJect, the actual  costs  conform  to  the  appraisal
expectations.
VI.  PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
Consistent  with  World  Bank's  International   Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procedures, GSI, Seiscom Delta, Digicon, and SSC
were selected as contractors.   The   first   conventional   land
seismic data acquisition contract was awarded to 6SI effective
August 1982 for a term of two years. Seiscom Delta won the two
year contract for the second seismic crew, operating from August
19d3 to August 1985; the contract was extended for one month up
to March 1985 to complete the Mindoro program. Digicon was
awarded the processing contract after the evaluation of bids in
October  1982.   The  contract  with  SSC  on  the  supply of the
hardware and software for the computer center was negotiated in
February 1983.
Consultants and companies that provided specialized services
were chosen from a short list approved by the Bank. Intex
provided  the  structural  geology  consultants  while  Robertson
Research performed the geochemical and reservoir analysis and
assisted in the promotional campaign.



-19-
2202-PH Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project Completion Report
PtNOC Exploration Corporation
The major contracts and the consultants for the Project are
shown in Annex L. Major contractual disbursements are summarized
in Annex M.
VII. EflVIRONMENTAL IMPACT AND SAFETY
In  line  with  the  Philippine  government's   policy   "to
safeguard the environment In the pursuit of energy activities,"
safety rules and regulations were strictly enforced in all the
project's  undertakings.   Since  no wells were drilled under the
project, the concern on  the  disposal  of  fluids  and  borehole
cuttings is not applicable. Although dynamite was used in land
seismic acquisition, the relatively small charge sizes did not
rdise prohlems with the local residents or with government
officials.
VIII.  GENERAL COMMENTS
The performance of contractors and individual consultants
met the expectations of PNOC EC. Their work under the Project
was generally conducted with a high degree of professionalism.
PNOC EC is appreciative of the support given by the Bank
personnel, for advice given on technical and operational matters
and insights shared with PNOC EC staff and management.
IX. CONCLUSION
The PNOe EC component of the Petroleum Exploration Promotion
Project may be considered a success to some extent. Although the
exploration program was scaled down from three to two areas, the
resultigig  technical   packages   rekindled   interest   in  the
Philippines. Promotion efforts were partially successfull with
PUOC EC's joint venture agreement with a consortium of local and
foreign companies to drill exploratory wells in Southern Cebu in
1989.   A  parallel objective was met as the Project upgraded the
technical capability and competence of the Filipino staff through
exposure to standard industry practices in petroleum exploration.
PNOC EC can now offer to the industry its facilities for seismic
data processing. The ultimate measure of success - a commercial
oil or gas discovery - is hoped for in the future.



- 20-
ANNEX A
PNOC-EC
o         AREAS OFINTEREST
,~~ ~    ~~~  s o m ln Zu
U   Jz 0          0 Is
0SAMAR
ef t
^ 5~LU 2 0 N 
4         NV,^
..~~~~~~~~~* *.'.; 
A. ., ' 
. A 'B*
f 'I                          v 
- p



-21-        a
ANNEX B
AV't 3 PASS4Ce    'SL4ND PASSA#I
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
ISLA$*~~~~~
$90ce    *  U  0  0 
I   gaI     ' tooo
*SEISMIC COVOERDEmsw
MINDORO ISLAND



-22-
ANNEX C
UWNSEISMIC COF NO -I  64
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
~~~a *s _           NM: IM _ *M f.14
k~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ r4-
tttS0:- "-" LINU~~~~~~~~~~~



-23-
Annex D
PROIMOTIONAL TEAM
OFFICE OF ENERGY AFFAIRS
S-
W. R. dela Paz              Director
A. P. Madrid            -   Chief, Oil and Gas Division
V. C. Laroza            -   Chief, Legal Division
G. N. Tuazon            -   Chief, Compliance Division
ROBERTSON RESEARCH AUSTRALIA
_.. G. Flower           -   Senior Geophysicist
R. A. Reyes, Jr.        -   Geochemist/Geologist
PNOC-EC
R. E. del Pilar         -   Exploration Manager
N. L. Caagusan          -   Chief Geologist
L. K. Dizon             -   Senior Geophysicist



- 24 -
Annex E
PHILIPPINE PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
PROMOTIONAL PRESENTATION
AGENDA
FIRST DAY PROGRAM.
8:30 -  9:00          Opening Ceremonies
9:00 -  9:10           Introduction                 A. P. Madrid
9:10 -  9:30          Coffee Break
9:30 - 10:20          Regional Geology
Geochemistry, Reservoirs      R. A. Reyes, Jr.
10:20 - 11:00          NW Palawan                     A. P. Madrid/
L. G. Flower
11:00 - 11:30          SW Palawan/Reed Bank           L. G. Flower
11:30 - 12:00          Cuyo-Mindoro                   L. G. Flower
12:00 -  1:30          Lunch
1:30 -  2:00          SE Luzon                       R. A. Reyes, Jr./
L. G. Flower
2:00 -  2:40           Visayas                       R. A. Reyes, Jr./
L. G. Flower
2:40 -  3:00           Sandakan/Sulu Sea             R. A. Reyes, Jr./
L. G. Flower
3:00 -  3:20           Agusan Davao/Cotabato         R. A. Reyes, Jr./
L. 6. Flower
3:20 -  3:40           Other Basins                  L. G. Flower
3:40 -  4:00          Wrap-up                        A. P. Madrid
4:00 -  4:30           Coffee Break
4:30 -  6:00           PNOC:  Cebu/Mindoro           N. L. Caagusan
6:00 -  8:00           Cocktail Reception
SECOND DAY PROGRAM
8:30 -  9:30           Legal/Contractual Framework  V. C. Laroza
a. 1987 Philippine Constitution
b. Oil Exploration & Oevelopment
c. Model Agreement
9:30 - 10:30           Coffee Break
10:30 - 11:00           Financial/Accounting          G. N. Tuazon
a. Contract Requirements
b. Audit Accounting
c. Accounting for Production
Proceeds
d. Repatriation of Investment
11:00 - 11:45           Operating Procedures           V. C. Laroza
a. Doing Business in the
Philippines
b. Government Rules & Regulations
11:45 - 12:00           Wrap-up                        W. R. dela Paz
12:00 -  2:00           Lunch
2:00                   Consultation with OEA Officians
and PNOC EC Promotion Team



-25-
Annex F-I
PHILIPPINE PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
HOTEL INTERCONTINENTAL MANILA
MANILA, PHILIPPINES
SEPTEMBER 14-15, 1987
PARTICIPANTS
AJMAN (CONSULTANT)                    JAPAN NATIONAL OIL CO.
ALCORN PHILS. INC.                    LUXOIL N. L.
ANGLO-PHILS. INC.                     WRATHON OIL
BASIC PETROLEUM                       NORPAC INTERNATIONAL INC.
BGR, FEDERAL REP. OF GERMANY          PETROFINA
SHP PETROLEUM                         PHILOORILL
CHINESE PETROLEUM                     ORIENTAL PETROLEUM
CRA EXPLORATION                       RAN RICKS PHILS.
CONSULTANT                            SEAFRONT PETROLEUM
HARTOGEN ENERGY PHILS. LTD.           SOS FOR PETROCONSULTANTS S.A.
INDONESIA PEROLEUM LTD.               UNIOtL EXPLORATION & MIN. OEV  CO.
INTERNATIONAL PETROLEUM CORP.



- 26 -
Annex F-2
PHILIPPINE PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
HOTEL INTERCONTINENTAL GALLERIA
HOUSTON, TEXAS, U.S.A.
SEPTEMBER 21-22, 1987
PARTICIPANTS
ALCORN INTERNATIONAL                    OCCIDENTAL
AMOCO                                   PECTEN INTERNATIONAL CO.
THE ANSCHUTZ CORP.                      PENZOIL INTERNATIONAL CO.
ASAMERA                                 PETREL PETROLEUM CO.
CHEVRON OVERSEAS PET. INC.              PETROLEUM EXPLORATION & DEV. CO.
CONOCO INC.                             PETROCONSULTANTS INC.
EXXON CO. INTERNATIONAL                 PRIMARY FUELS INC.
GULF EXPLORATION                        RAN RICKS OF THE PHILIPPINES
JAPAN NATIONAL OIL CORP.                SUN OIL
MAXUS ENERGY                            TENNECO OIL EXPLORATION
MOBIL EXPLORATION                       TEXACO OVERSEAS HOLDINGS INC.
NORTHERN MICHIGAN EXPLORATION CO.       SANTOS



:'                                  -27-
Annex F-3
PHILIPPINE PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
OELIA BOW VALLEY HOTEL, CALGARY
ALBERTA, CANADA
SEPTEMBER 24-25s 1987
PARTICIPANTS
ASANERA INC.                           PETRO-CANADA
ARCO INTERNATIONAL                     SCEPTRE
ARCO OIL AND GAS                       TEXACO CANADA
GT. PLAINS RESOURCES                   TCPL RESOURCES LTD.
HOME OIL                               UNOCAL INTERNATIONAL



- 28 -
Annex F-4
PHILIPPINE PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
HYDE PARK HOTEL, LONDON
SEPTEMBER 29-30, 1987
PARTICIPANTS
AGIP S.p.A.                            FAR EAST RESOURCES
APOLLO OIL                             PETROLEUM ECONOMIST
BLANCHE OIL AND GAS                    SHELL
BRITISH PETROLEUM                      STATOIL
BRITOIL                                TOTAL
CRESCENT PETROLEUM                     TRAFALGAR HOUSE
QANSK OLIE OG GAS                       IRICENTROL
EGLINTON EXPLORATION                   WHITEHALL PETROLEUM
ELF AQUITAINE                          OSO
ENTERPRISE OIL                          PETROFINA



-29-
Annex F-4
PHILIPPINE PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
AUSTRALIAN COMPANIES VISITED BY
PNOC EC TEAM
Sydney:   October 6 - 7, 1987
Sydney OiI Co. Ltd.
Brisbane Petroleum N.L.
Australian Oil and Gas Corp. Ltd.
Slumer & Associates Pty Ltd.
oaoeco-Command N.L.
Melbourne: October 8, 1987
CSX Oil & Gas (Australia) Corp.
CRA Pacific Oil and Gas Pty Ltd
Perth:    October 9, 1987
Western Mining Corp. Ltd.
Minora Resources N.L.



- 30 -
ANNEX 6
PIOC EXPLORATION CORPORATION
COMPANIES PROVIDED WITH MINOORO DATA PACKAGE
BHP, Australia
KENMARE Resources, Ireland
Great Plains Resources, Denver
Gulf Exploration, Houston
Indonesia Petroleum. Indonesia
Japan National Oil Corp., Japan
Marathon Pet. Exploration Ltd., Singapore
PETROCORP, New Zealand
Sydney Oil Company, Australia
Tenneco Oil E&P, Houston
TEXACO Overseas Holding Inc., Houston
Western Mining Corp., Australia
Basic Petroleum, Philippines
Kuwait Foreign Pet. Co., K.S.A.
3inham Petroline, K.S.A.
Ran Ricks of the Philippines
Total Exploration, France
tdemitsu Oil Bev. Co., Singapore
OMS, Singapore



'--'S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  
Annex f
1986 TRAINING PROGRAM (IHROC)
Course Title                          Instructor/s                             Date
1.  Seismic Stratigraphy                 Dr. R. E. Sheriff/A. R. Brown                  July 22-26
2.  Advanced Seismic Stratigraphy         Dr. R. E. Sheriff/A. R. Brown                 July 22-26
3.  Petroleum Generation and              Dr. 0. i. Maples                              July 29
Occurrence (Geochemistry It)                                                        August 2
4.  Geochemistry II                       Dr. O. W. Maples                              August 5 -
S.  Structural Geology                    Dr. T. L. Thompson                            August 12-16
6.  Open-Hole Log Analysis and            R. M. Bateman                                 August 26-30
Formation Evaluation
7.  Practical Prospect                    D. C. Morrill                                 August 26-30
Generation A Analysis
8.  Practical Sub-turface                 0. C. Morrill                                 September 2-6
Geological Analysis Using
Well LoOs
9.  Economic Evaluation of               N. W. Miller                                   September 9-13
Petroleum Exploration and
Development Projects                                              -
10.  Carbonate and Sandstone              R. Sneider                                     November 18-22
Reservoir Geology



- 32^
Annex I
PHIL4IPPIn PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY - PNOC EC
PER ACTIVITY
(USS Thousand)
Apprdisal Estimates         Actual Expenditures
Local Foreign Total      Local  Foreign    Total
w----  -------    ____-   .... .............. a ace  __  _ _._ _.a-.
A: Cost for the part of the project as executed.
Geological studies    370    190    560       167.52   108.90    276.42
Gravity survey        240     20    260       328.25      -      328.25
Seismic survey       7250    5130  12380      7142.80  6330.52  13473.32
Tech. assistance       30    860    890          -      502.84    502.80
Contingencies:
Price & Physical
Contingencies     2872    2330   5202         -        -         _
Allocated General & -       -      -       3104.50     -      3104.50
Administrative Expenses
Non-Operating Charges-       -      -       1905.20     -      1905  )
Front-end Fee        -              a                 354.68   354...
ac_a    afla   ____      _______  c------   -------
Total Contingencies  2872    2330   5202      5009.70   354.68   5364.38
aacaceca cc a-----     ---------     ------_   - - --c
Total           10762    8530  19292     12648.27  7296.94  19945.21
__a_ -----a---------------a-----ac-----------------e
B:  Cost for the part of the project not implemented.
Seismic survey       7220    4510  11730
(In Cotabato)
Explor. Drilling     5410    7950  13360
Contingencies        4598    4620   9218
cOcaa    a a----------a-----           -----------------------
Total           17228   17080  34308
---------- ._ a --------f -------- _a-------a
Total Project Cost  27990   25610  53600     12648.27  7296.94  19945.1
*U8USUESU:SaswSSSUUUSUR8UUUUUSUSSUUS3UUUUEUUSas
Mote:
The technical assistance of USS502,84 represents payments to
Intex for consultancy services on structural geology for
US$176,142,  USS257,300  representing  payment  to  SSC   for
services of computer systems personnel and seismic data
processing analysts, and USS55,229 for IHRO training expense
and   14,168  for  Robertson  Research's  assistance  to  the
promotional campaign.



-33-
Annex J
Philippine Petroleum Promotion Project
PNOC Exploration Corporation
Project Cost Summary (Per Books)
1982 to 1985
Per Location Per Activity
World Bank               PNOC
Total          Funded                 Funded
(In US Thousand) (In USS Thousand) (In USS Thousanc
MINDORO
Geological studies/
Basin Evaluation               123.24             85.60                  37.6t
Seismic Surveys             9,552.60           4,091.50               S,461.11
Total                   q,,i,ia4 17T.-1U
CEBU
Geological studies/
Basin Evaluation               95.70              20.10                  75.6t
Gravity Surveys                108.30               0.00                108.3(
Seismic Surveys             3,239.60           1,557.90               1,69U.7
Totalt                   3.I443s.6          1,578b.00              L,db5).bt
COTABATO
Geological studies/
Basin Evaluation                57.48               3.20                  54.2
Gravity Surveys                219.96               0.00                219.9
Total                      27 .43               3.zU                 214.Z
ALLOCATED GENERAL &
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES   3.104 'O                  0.00              3,104.5
NON-OPERATING CHARGES        1,905.0     ,          0.00               1,905.2
FRONT-ENO FEE                  354.68             354.68                   0.0
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Consultants                    418.80             418.84                   0.0
Training                        84.00              84.00                   3.0
Total                      b0z.8u             50Z.84                    0.0
COMPUTER CENTER
Computer System                510.20             510.20                   0.0
Supplies                       170.92             170.92                   0.0
Total                         l  .ZL.i l.U
Grand Total         19,945.21           7,296.94              12,648.2
.auausuuaa.wuunau.uuauaS"-slauuuJsuauuunaauSasw



- 34 -
Annex K
Philippine Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project
PNOC Exploration Corporation - toan * 2202 PH
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Summary of Principal Accounts Outstanding as of Dec. 31, 1989
In US Dollars
Year    Disbursement   Cancellation       Principal Outstanding
----  ---- --------   -----    -----.   -----     CC-C
1982               0.00            0.00           24,000,000.00
1983      2,633,363.36              0.00          21,366,636.64
1984      2,882,816.07              0.00          18,483,821.57
1985      1S443,120.86    8,260,000.00              8,780,700.11
1986        280,489.29    4,400,000.00              4,100,211.42
1987               0.00             0.00            4,100,211.42
1988         67,168.00    2,900,000.00              1,143,043.42
C - c -----    ------ ---- Ct Ce----            ecc
Total     7,269,956.58   15,660,000.00              1,143,043.42
333833383*33   UUUUUUUSSWSs              UrSSUUUSUSa-



Annex L
PHILIPPINE PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
PNOC EXPLORATION CORPORATION
LOAN 2202-PH
LIST OF MAJOR CONTRACTS
Contractor                            Category                          Date of Contract Stgning
Geophysical Service Inc. (6SI)         Crew 0l, onshore seismic data                    August 3, 1982
of Dallas, Texas, USA                acquisition
Seiscom Delta United (Int'l) Corp.    Crew 12, onshore seismic data                    May 18, 1983
of Houston, Texas, USA               acquisition
Digicon. Inc. of Texas, USA            Seismic data processing                         March 22, 1983
Seismograph Services Corporation       Computer Center software and                    July 21, 1983
of Tulsa, Oklahoma, USA              hardware
International Exploration Corp.        Consultants in Structural Geology               June 19, 1985
of Philadelphia. USA
Robertson Research, Singapore          Geochemical and reservoir analysis              July 17, 1985
international Human Resources          Training (Jointly conducted with BED)           October 4, 1985
Development Corp. (IHRDC)
of- oston. Mass., USA
Robertson Research. Australia          Assistance in promotional campaign              September 15, 1987



- 36 -
Annex M
PHOC EXPLORATION CORPORATION
Summary of World Bank Expenditures
By Contractor
As of December 1988
Contractor                         Dollar Value
Oigicon, Inc.                                    611,373.84
Geophysical Services Inc.                      2,437,088.69
International Human Resources Dev. Corp.          55,230.05
Int'l Exploration Corp. of Philadelphia          176,142.24
Robertson Research, Australia                     14,168.00
Robertson Research, Singapore                    108,927.34
Seiscom Delta United                           2,600,950.18
Seismograph Services Corp.                        938,395.24
Grand Total as of Dec. 31, 1988              6,942,275.58



-37-
FMT III
STATISTICAL MUINKTION
1.  hlated lnk Lan for  mlomt of Enurp huce
La                                    Tar of
Title A N.                              ApoV#l             Statu            Commots
Coul EsplW   t.     Eplwriqg for          FT 193       copleted    1 Iner   proe,
1211 1N             cal                                                 but difficlat to
6otlasre1 Esplo-    Explor. in lq        FT 1m        Cupleted         Stm  fo_d fr
ratio=  PN          ad Lam  fwr stam                   lec_r 13    d _lpt
etrmlm  Explo-      Attract oil           FT 1         completed          il cmpies
ratiZo Proutimi    co"man                               amp,    18      attrated
Sac  lSito  Ow      Pour suply to         FT 19        Lo   fft1ve   Pro           reetly
tlul Puir           Luu  a apasl f                     frm  Dcdr    commcnd
ProJKUt29H PN       gum    fields                      193



-38-
2.  ProJet tiset
it"            tate Plaiud        ate bilied      Dte ktul
-idetificatios I
(Ez. Project
eny              Late 191                           Lat 193
rewaratim           Late 1                             Late19
-Waisal             Fday 12                            F     Ury 192
-Loomu n tatim    Jy 1962m                              lly 1962
-alr  Aprval        Supter 192                            pbr3, 192
-Lo  Sipatore       October 192                        Otder 28, 192
-Low Clouig           cedr   , 1Us    lac_er 31, BB   oCR O       , 1Us6
-Cupletiom rport  J. 30, 1967         &me  30 193      ae 30* , 1
htes MC-EC bad prard a eplorati  pqrr   for 1982-1  that cove
els  blis. Thre me identfied by tte Ink as  itable for
furtle o,ploratin cith a view to timate prm.



- 39 -
3.  Lo  Diborsomts
CMItiv  Estiuted ad ActUl leoursets
1M3 f?                  16    1964       5   196   1967   196   1939
Ameia) EstiUte                    2.6   9.6  17.   22.i  24.0
(1)
beied  ctr is tuate                      4.5  10.6  20.0  24.0
(21
evisd Nao i5 btete                              6.5   9.2  13.4  15.0  15.0
Actual                            1.2   4.3   6.4   7.1   7.2   7.2   7.3
tu  a I of (1)                     46    45       7    31    30
k tl  Xf (3t d 1                                         7    5s    46    4
Dte of ftul) Dishuset                   ham
t:s O's dcio  in 1984 to cut uploratio  outlays doe to ocumdc acis
auted la cacullatlm of 3.26  illi. of tO. loa  a          t in JUu 196
"A.4 dlll io Aust 193  and 42.9 aill1  to Fdrury 193. h  loa
clog date am  _bt of 41.14 dilli. r           ine  udrm.



- 40 -
4.  ProJlct lIple_tatioa
Inditators        Appraisal Estiute          kctual         2 foltilmt
Seisoic survey
-limie rm
Kindoro                           1200               173                 1452
coos                               &00      64                           1012
Cotabto                           2200                  0 
400                2340                 5
Exploratory  blls                        &                  0
Mate: The malls aere to be drilled it seisoic data acquired nd interpreted
togpther with surface gological dati mould still provide inforeatioo
short Of the uniinus thAt mould eoke oil coepany interut.  tn fact
wmll drilling was not considered meeessary as good leads became
available with the other data.



- 41 -
S.   Prject Costs ad Fimciu
A: Project Cats
Nay 19
Awaisl Estisat         Revisd Estimate            ktul
-ilS 000- -S 00-   ---lS 000-
Lcal Foein   Total  Loal Foreign Total Loc  Foreip  Total
6kNogical Surys          370   190    560    220      115    35    20    109   36t
ra& kurveys              2"     20    240    240       20    240    43            438
seismic Survey
4150  3100   7M     4"9      4"0    300       3    434 13414
cow                  3100  200   5130   2200    2100   430    232   1746  4538
cotahuto              1220  4510  11730     20    4510  11130
Exploratory Orilling
-do                   1930  3070   5000
cbo                    770   940   1710
catgbuts             2710  3940   6650
Temical asistace
Sesmic rsroemsiq             390    390             90     9Q0
Co.ltats                30   280    310      30    230     310    169    419   130
trLaim                       19019                 190     190119     84203
gamn cost             20520 164M0  39180  14810  13015   27325  12643   6942  9590
Cutlnait    s         7470  6950  14420   1340   1635    345        -            -
Total hrojct Cost   27990 2316    5600  16670  14650   31320  12648    942 19590
Fnt ed  fte                 355    355            355     355            355
TOTAL                 27990 25965  53955  16670  15005   31675  12648   7297 194
tms                        Appraisal        Revisd Estiate          Actal
Eucmup ratte              P N.31 *1   1"3    P11.51 *1   A  preaild
1934135 P14.01 $1



- 42 -
It Project Financing
Planned toan  2     Revised    2          Final   I
Source            Agregent          (Way l9S5)           (kctual)             Commn ts
(t Thousand)         Thwousand)      (S T housnd)
6Bological Surveys         190                115             109
Gravity Survey             20                  20
Seisaic Survey           940                11510            33
h pl. Drilling           4450
Teduical aksist           840                1370            503
Fee                       355                 355            355
Unallouated              4490                1435
24005    44        15005      47    72       37
lilteral  ssist
Expl. Drilling           1500      3            0      0        0      0
suiuic Survey               0      0            0      0       0       0
Reblic of
Philippines             230SO    53         16670     53   12646      43
TOTAl                      55   100          31475    100   1"45   1t0



- 43 -
*. ^WS) bWEK
6.   Project Is A . st   luf t
L. inct _afib
Estintui it      Estiuted at
niuctors          ppraWIal Estimte   clloq date    full delput
fints ar Qualitative.  h awrciatlu  of ti. bdruarb prucs is
_ am, bettr traid pumu and as oil ampulu  fellw
* uith exploratlo cutrat, good pdility of ollIp  *fiedt.
es  Ecbutc lac
Rumi  ate
of Rohn                           Appaial Estit.        Actul
usarlying       Cuatupt o oil/In final, no  utitativ
assuaptiin      estiat" aft.



- 44 -
Cs  FiocMl lepact
Finicial late                          Futu  with
of retur         litbmt Project         Project         Atul
other Finasial
indicatorn         For a proet of this type, not aWlicblle
Fiscal lept
Is    Studie
Purpo  a def lie
at Apaisal            Sttus    lowct of Stud
Studin          _o-f Studie in tkis Project-



- 45 -
7.  Stats of Cob
hadline for
-   Covent           Sub JiKt        culao              Status
SeKti  3.01lb)      Fnd a wity,          Fro   tso  Cbpiu  with
low    k setc.,  tin
_o  to be wads
avillabl by MOC
to Fox-E-.
Project Igr_bt
Suction 2.01(al     Cmmforu  to the                    Cin        with
mecties pO    et
out for the project
ad ammal uI tlq
of thu prWoge with
Sectin 4.03(a)      Eqipty capital to                  Comple with
bi  ffieszt to                   enCIPt for 1t,
coe all uplora-                    but rectifd It
tie csts at all                    1%.
tim
Section 2.0214a     Sfficiet f          to                 pl  with
FMC for the project
9



- 46 -
I.  On of Oak DMuen
As  Staff lappts
staos if            Flamm           helpd            Fina
Project Cycle       U       Field    U        Field   I       Field     C...tS
-.'----'--staff Uukk-
Ty.5    r aisd                                                 0.7
Apsalu tbro
owd APOM&I                                            26.7SILILE
tumd Approal
.3vii                                                         34.3
lOTS.                                                         IS:3



- 47 -
Stag of      NW   kier of   kays I  Spedalistim    eforc               Types of
ProJcKt Cyclc    yer   PrU          fi ld  n      Wren tud 11 Rtn  statn2/ p dle  31
Through appraisal
Dead Oproal                    -
bard Approa l
hpurulsfum 1         0P62   2           1.5      a,d                   I
Seui uis 2           a2m     3          4         ,b,e                 I
hpmvlslu 3            016    3          4        a.b.c                 I
*                 suwntsiu4            @m1    3                    a.b.c                  I
suWsIuius           1U11    3           5        a.btc                 2       F
9mervi1lmo           @5/m    3          &        a.b.c                 2       F
*                   . w,islu           @ 0/O    2         5          ,tc                  2      F
NOpTurvulu           @3/    1           1        b                     2       F
1J a  tamtis, bt- _b*ysct, c- Geologist, 4- FIlMc  Abalyst
e Puum   t Iclaist
2V  1- "ai freew o u,  2- _nbrate prtblm
V  F- Lag is disbusmt  folluing  _cln  dm  of poJect actvitie.



- 48 -
Cs  Cats (if available fro NI)
Arawe A Cst of Averag  a Cast of
Stop of       Total A Cust of   HD ktivities   r Field  ctivity W
Project cycle      Staff Inputs       Nission Nlb       Nission lgr
Thrug Appraisal
AWrail thrb
hard Approal
-T AMAILABLE-
hard -w
tiruI elelp   iee
Sup.rvis iaiL



-IBRD 1636
Ci - H   N A  '                             P   H   I   L   I   P   P   I  N   E   SA P R IL   1 9 8 2
CHINA                                                                                   PHILIPPINES
BASIN EVALUATION AND
VIET                                                          EXPLORATION  PROJECT
91ET NAM Mandoe PH4LIPPINES     20'
0 Oil and Gas Shows in Wells
_ s   hto       _>                                          *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A   Oil Sehep
A    Gas Seep
^i -~    Proposed Area for Seismic Survey (BED)
ALAYSiA!                                              I
__                j .,:.  l   ' .            F. :. .-.l Proposed Area for Aeromag Survey (BED)
tNDONESIA                        t         .      /                                     PNOC- EC  (Bank Funded
Exploration Operotion)
I14t                                                                                         Internationol Boundories
(C3  SEDIMENTARY BASINS:                      A:tS    I
1. Northwn Luton                                                               (        0         2         3   I
2. C*Attal *u.o                                                                0           o                300 KtIOMETERZS
3. Southatrn Luon                                                                       T / 
4. icol Shell f
to- SW                    .Bol            +4/ZQ                                         0      50        O     1150    200 MILES
7. Panovi                           h(     e
.an                          I F                 I y
9. Agusan / Davao                         . t
to. tabot                     II
11. u t s                                 /W           .     4
12. Pelean Soutly
13 Palawan                            I                                             HI   I I PP I         :
14. Mindo.
15. Reed flonk
*  OUi H  C HINA  
1 -                                                 11 12-
SCiA                             .                           .          %: . . 
12'-       S,.'                  /'                                                                                                    12
I               M~~~~Afido,
/ 5                     Ii71 
4- 
J-4 ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~      I
PAI.fWAN
1162 124l                                                                                                   12r



