Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8891
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2201-PHL)
JUNE 29, 1990
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
document ha a rstictd diibution and may be used by       only I the pefan ireefl
their officra dutie  Its contents may so oherwe be Bdio     Wold bnk authokation.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       -  Asian Development Bank
BED       -   Bureau of Energy Development
NPC       -   National Power Corporation
OKA       -   Office of Energy Affairs in the Office of the President
of the Republic
PNOC      -   Philippine National Oil Company
PNOC-EC   -   PNOC Exploration Corporation
PNOC-EDI  -   PNOC Energy Drilling Inc.
RP        -   Republic of the Philippines
UNDP      -   United National Development Program



THE W0U29ANK                                I    NY
Waston. D.4. 20433
U.SA.
0Mw. n   tWet.G.wtu
Opst.w' tlwift
June 29, 1990
1EXORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVZ DIRECTORS AND TBE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Philippines
Petroleum Ezploration Promotion Pro ect (Loan 2201-PHL)
Attached, for information. is a copy of a report entitled
Project Completion Report on Philippines Petroleum kxploration Promotion
Project (Loan 2201-PHLP) prepared by the Asia Regional Office with Part II
of the report contributed by the  Borrower.    No audit of this project has
.been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
Thisbdocument =haa      dibutiundnmybeu d byc*olmatsonlyn do ps(WWW-
of their officil du'eL Its contents may nototherwisebe d_in  wklun Wo"EBank !cbrid



FOR OFFICIA   S  ONLY
PHILIPPINES
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
(LN. 2201-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pate No.
Preface ...................................................... 1
Evaluation Summary            ..........................    ii
PART I               PROJECT REVIEW PROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity .................................................. I
Project Background .........................................           1
Project Objectives and Description........................             2
Project Design and Organization............................            2
Project Implem.entation..........                                      3
Major Results of the Project .................4
Project Sustainability.....................................            5.
Bank Performance...........................................            5
Borrower's Performance.....................................            5
Project's Relaiosip ......................                             5
Performance of Contractors and Consultants.........                    6
Project Documentation and Data....        ata.....                     6
PART II              PROJECT REVIEW FROK BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Borrower's Perspective of the Design and Implementation
and its Development Impact on the Project*3...                       7
PART III             STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Bank Loans............... ..........................    43
Project Timale........................                                44
Loan Disbursements.........................................    45
Project Implem2entation.....................................    46
Project Costs and Financing. ...........          .......             47
Pruject Results............... .............................    49
Status of Loan Covenants ..................... 0...... 0. . ..    51
Use of Bank Resourceso......................................    52
MAP IBRD 16361
* This part has been prepared by the Borrower and its contents and
opinions are not attributable to the Bank.
Thisdocument,haaresz"kteokdaiubudon and may be usedbyreipients nly in d  pofonn"s
of thir officia uties. tscontents maynot otherwiebedisclosedwithoit World Bank autohndaon.



PHILIPPINES
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
(Ln. 2201-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Petroleum Exploration
Promotion Project - BED component - in the Philippines, for which Loan 2201-PH
in the amount of US$13.5 million was approved on September 30, 1982. The loan
was closed on December 31, 1987, one year behind schedule. The loan amount,
revised at government's request to $8.0 million, was fully disbursed and the last
disbursement was in June, 1988.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy Operations Division
of the Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and
the Borrower (Part II).
*            Preparation of this PCR was started during Bank's final supervision mission
of the project in December, 1987, and is based, inter alia, on the President's
Report (no separate Staff Appraisal Report was prepared); the Loan, Guarantee,
*      and Project Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and
the Borrowers; and internal Bank memoranda.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
(Ln. 2201-PH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectivess The Petroleum Exploration Promotion Projects (Loans 2201 and 2202-
PH) were designed with a view to rekindling the interest of oil companies in
exploration for oil and gas in the Philippines, and the extension of exploration
activities to relatively unexplored offshore areas. Two borrowers were involved.
the Republic of the Philippines for offshore areas and some unlicensed onshore
areas and the Philippine National Oil Company (PNOC), which had control of most
onshore areas. This report deals with the successiul exploration promotional
effort carried out by the Bureau of Energy Development (BED) in the Ministry of
Energy and the successor to BED, the Office of Energy Affairs (OEA) in the Office
of the President.
The strategy adopted for the project was to enhance the country's
geological data base and to develop new exploration policy concepts through a
nationwide basin evaluation exploration program.   The results of the basin
studies were to be contained in a promotional report which the Government would
use in an active promotional campaign to revive international interest in
petroleum exploration interest in the country.
Implementation Experience:      The project implemented consisted of the
aeromagnetic survey of the offshore and onshore sedimentary basins over most of
the Philippine archipelago except in the Sulu Sea and Palawan with 215,844 line
km of data acquired, processed and interpreted; seismic survey over offshore
areas not surveyed in the past with 9,104 line km profiled, processed and
interpreted; regional basin evaluation studies carried out in 15 offshore and
onshore basins, incorporating old and new data and a promotional package
developed; and training to upgrade the technical capability of the Filipino staff
involved in the project, to be completed through foreign training or short-term
local courses in the Philippines.
The project largely depended on foreign contractors and consultants for
its technical execution. The need was to define precisely the job content of
the contracts to be let and the terms of reference for consultants.   Bank
professional staff provided useful assistance in this work.



- iii -
Results:   Being an exploration promotion project, no economic or financial
analysis of the project was made at appraisal.  The project objective was,
however, achieved in that five exploration contracts have been concluded and more
will follow.  Nine out of the 15 basins promoted apparently have been found
attractive.  The contracts typically provide for oil companies to carry out
geophysical work, basically reprocessing of seismic data and interpretation,
expending certain stated minimum amounts.   Drilling options are thereafter
available and after one or two wells are drilled, the next stage would lead to
signing of service contracts for production and production sharing. Incentives
for participation by Filipino partners with foreign oil companies are built into
the service contracts.
Sustainabilitys This type of project has a ripple effect and how far the ripple
will spread is a function of the success of the promotion (which has been
achieved) and ultimately of the companies" finding commercial hydrocarbons.
The information gathered, however, establishes that there is a high probability
of moderate hydrocarbon finds of a commercial nature.
Findings and Lessons Learned:  Fluctuations in oil prices during this period
had created considerable uncertainty in the international oil industry and so
the international promotional campaign was planned with care and deliberately
delayed to the middle of 1987. The formulation of the terms for exploration
were done taking into account the considered views of the Bank professionals to
ensure a wide response.  The fact that 43 promotional reports were sold, 14
companies applied for various areas and 5 exploration contracts signed as of
1989, is indicative of a successful, well planned campaign. The association of
BED staff in the basin evaluation program carried out by the contractor's and
consultants provided a great opportunity for local staff to hone their skills
and turn into synergistic explorationists. OEA would, therefore, be well advised
to address itself to the important question of the country benefitting
technologically by associating both its own trained staff and that of PNOC, with
the oil companies through the various stages of exploration, development and
production activities. In particular, this is a unique opportunity for PNOC-EC,
with its corps of trained geoscientists and drillers, to seek to participate with
the oil companies when service contracts are signed and vigorous exploration by
the foreign oil companies of offshore resources is pursued. Any risk investment
which PNOC-EC has to make until the exploration wells establish commerciality
of hydrocarbon finds is not likely to be large and in participating with several
oil companies such risks are spread out.



THE PHILIPPINES
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
(LN 2201-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Name              Petroleum Exploration Project
Loan No.   s      2201-PH
RVP Unit   t      Asia Region
Country    :      Philippines
Sector            Energy
2.    Project Background
2.01  The Philippine energy situation is characterized by a heavy dependence on
imported oil (58Z of total and 701 of conventional energy in 1987) and limited
activity in exploration and development of indigenous resources.  Proven oil
reserves amount to only 4 million tons. Potential coal reserves amount to 1,500
million tons, but most of it is low grade and is expensive to mine.  Hydro
resources are substantial, with a potential of over 10,000 MW, but the sites
(except for the few developed) are far from the grids and too costly to develop.
Geothermal resources are abundant, a possible 8,000 MW, about 894 MW of which
have been tapped and much more to be developed in the near term. With a view
to assisting the Philippines to exploit its indigenous potential, the Bank
extended four loans in FY82 and FY83, one for coal exploration, one for
geothermal exploration and two for petroleum exploration promotion. A second
Bank loan for a geothermal power project approved in FY88 includes provisions
for appraisal and delineation of several geothermal fields.
2.02 The Petroleum Exploration Promotion Projects (Loans 2201 and 2202-PH) were
designed with a view to rekindling the interest of oil companies in exploration
for oil and gas in the Philippines, and the extension of exploration activities
to relatively unexplored offshore areas.   Two borrowers were involved, the
Republic of the Philippines for offshore areas and some unlicensed onshore areas
and the Philippine National Oil Company (PNOC), which had control of most onshore
areas.  This report deals with the successful exploration promotional effort
carried out by the Bureau of Energy Development (BED) in the Ministry of Energy
and the successor to BED, the Office of Energy Affairs (OEA) in the Office of
the President.



2
2.03 The project under review had an overall cost of $9.5 million, about 412
less than the appraisal estimate of $16.0 million due to the lower than expected
cost of the aeromagnetic and offshore seismic surveys, owing to the recession
in the petroleum industry during the period. Disbursement of the Bank loan was
consequently lower than envisioned, at $7.79 million against a loan amount of
$13.5 million. This was foreseen early in the project, and the Government and
Bank agreed to cancel $4.5 million of the loan amount in May 1984 and $1.0
million in June 1985.
3.    Prolect Description and Objectives
3.01 The strategy adopted for the project was to enhance the country's
geological data base and to develop new exploration policy concepts through a
nationwide basin evaluation exploration program.   The results of the basin
studies were to be contained in a promocional report which the Government would
use in an active promotional campaign to revive international interest in
petroleum exploration interest in the country. The project was identified in
the course of discussion with the Government in late 1981 and firmly defined by
February 1982. The project as appraised consisted of the followings
- Aeromagnetic survey of the offshore and onshore sedimentary basins over
most of the Philippine archipelago except in the Sulu Sea and Palawan with
168,000 line km of data to be acquired, processed and interpreted;
- Seismic survey over offshore areas not surveyed in the past with 8,400
line km to be profiled, processed and interpreted;
- Regional basin evaluation studies to be carried out in 15 offshore and
onshore basins, incorporating old and new data and a promotional package
to be developed; and
- Training to upgrade the technical capability of the Filipino staff involved
in the project, to be completed through foreign training or short-term
local courses.
4.    Project Design and Organization
4.01 The project largely depended on foreign contractors a-id consultants for
its technical execution. The need was to define precisely the job content of
the contracts to be let and the terms of reference for consultants. BED's own
geoscientists, assisted by Bank staff, performed this task effectively.
Consultants also assisted in supervising the work of contractors, assistance
which proved to be particularly useful. The project was well timed as advantage
could be taken of the buyer's market prevailing at the time.   The project
*quantities, had to be increased slightly in the light of actual conditions
during implementation. This was anticipated and not unusual in this kind of
work.



3
5.    Prolect Implementation
5.01 Aerm anetic surveys: Questor Surveys, Inc. of Canada was asked on December
3, 1982 to mobilize and the first survey line was flown on January 18, 1983. The
acquisition was completed in April 1984, and the final contour and color maps
were delivered to BED by end of September 1984. This was six months later than
expected due to % 252 increase in coverage (to 215,844 kms) poor weather
conditions caused by typhoons and storms, mechanical problems with the survey
equipment and aircraft, and the crash of one of the two aircraft in April 1983
(which was replaced by another in June 1983). International Exploration Inc.
of the United States (Intex) assisted BED in the planning of the aeromagnetic
survey, supervision of data acquisition as well as data analysis. interpretation,
and the preparation of reports. Intex prepared the last of the depth-to-magnetic
basement maps during January 1985, at which time the project was about seven
months behind schedule.
5.02 Offshore seismic survey: Seiscom Delta United International Corp. (SD)
of United States commenced acquisition of seismic data on April 25, 1983. By
September 14, 1983, 9104.35 line km of seismic profiles had been gathered over
15 offshore areas. Processing of 1,084 kms (a representative sampling of lines
in each survey area) was done at Seiscom Delta's center in Australia in October
1983. The bulk of the remaining marine data was processed at PNOC's seismic data
processing center, which began operating in May 1984, according to a priority
schedule by area and by lines within each area. The offshore seismic coverage
was  augmented by  4,770  line km of  infill  seismic  data gathered  by  the
Petro-Canada International Assistance Corporation on a grant basis to the BED
over selected offshore areas.  Although processing was delayed by about six
months to await establishment of the PNOC pt -ess center, this did not delay the
exploration promotion which took place in S.- ;ember 1987.
5.03 Regional basin evaluation: Robertson Research - Flower Doery Buchan of
Australia (RR) was selected as the consultant for the basin evaluation studies
as well as for the supervision of the offshore seismic program. RR was in
position by late-1982 in anticipation of the signing of the contract on May 19
1983 to provide 56 man-months of consultancy services until 1984. However, 21
additional man-months had to be added in 1985, 4 in 1986 and 3.5 in 1987 due to
delayed implementation of some components, e.g., aeromagnetic data acquisition
and setting up of PNOC seismic processing center.   Also, in the course of
implementation of the basin evaluation studies, the NW Palawan and Reed bank
areas were subsequently included, on relinquishment by service contractors. RR
committed three experts on a continuing basis and a number of specialists on
short-term assignments; 18 geologists /geophysicists from BED worked closely with
the RR personnel in a pool which catered to a synthesis of geology, geophysics,
geochemistry, sedimentology, paleontology, micropaleontology, cartography,
petrography,  biostratigraphy,  and  seismostratigraphy.    The  result was  a
comprehensive geological analysis of 15 onshore and offshore sedimentary basins
and sub-basins. The final product is contained in a comprehensive promotional
report in 12 volumes of text and atlases.
5.04 Project promotion: This was the most critical phase of the project as
the fluctuations in oil prices during this period created considerable
uncertainty in the international oil industry. The promotional campaign was



4
planned with care and was deliberately delayed to the middle of 1987, when the
international  oil  industry  recommenced  expressing  interest  in  foreign
exploration. The formulation of terms for exploration were done, taking into
account the views of the Bank to ensure a wide response. First, an introduction
to and a preview of the promotional presentation to take place in September 1987
was given in different foruims. The promotional presentation was then made at
Manila, Houston, Calgary and London. Seventy companies attended the different
presentations. As of November 1988, 43 report sets had been subscribed to and
14 companies had applied for/expressed interest in 14 exploration areas.
Contracts had been signed or were about to be signed with five of these
companies. Five others were under negotiation.
5.05  Training:   BED engaged the International Human Resources Development
Corporation (IHRDC) to run 10 courses of one-week duration each in Manila for
the benefit of BED and PNOC technical staff.   There was also a course on
"Economic Evaluation of Petroleum Exploration and Development Projects" for
senior staff members.   The valuable association of BED staff in the basin
evaluation program carried out by Robertson Research also provided a great
opportunity for the former to hone their skills and turn into synergistic
explorationist.:. Although several of the staff have since left BED, it appears
that most of them are within the country working for PNOC or private oil
companies.
5.06     The loan closing date was extended by one year to December 31, 1987
primarily to carry the project through .t>s logical cycle up to the presentation
to the oil companies.
6.   Maior Results of the Proiect
6.01 Being an exploration promotion project, no economic or financial analysi?
of the project was made at appraisal. The project objective, however, has been
fully achieved in that five exploration contracts are being concluded and more
will follow.  Nine out of the 15 basins promoted apparently have been found
attractive.   The contracts typically provide for oil companies to carry out
geophysical work, basically reprocessing of seismic data and interpretation,
expending certain stated minimum amounts.   Drilling options are thereafter
available and after one or two wells are drilled, the next stage would lead to
signing of service contracts for production and production sharing. Incentives
for participation by Filipino partners with foreign oil companies are built into
the service contracts. These incentives allow 7.5Z of gross revenue to the oil
companies so long as the Filipino participation is at least 302, with downward
adjustments for lower participation. This is a laudable provision and it is to
be hoped that the Filipino participation would result in technology transfer from
the oil companies.
6.02 This is also a unique opportunity for PNOC-EC, with its corps of trained
geoscientists and drillers, to seek to participate with the oil companies when
service contracts are signed and vigorous exploration by the foreign oil
companies of offshore resources is pursued. Any risk investment which PNOC-EC
has to make until the exploration wells establish commerciality of hydrocarbon
finds is not likely to be large and in participating with several oil companies
such risks are spread out. Further, PNOC-EC should be in a position to offer



5
services to the oil companies, for example of its seismic processing center, and
earn some income.  OEA would be well advised to address itself, seeking the
guidance of the Energy Coordination Council, to the important opportunity for
the country to benefit technologically by associating with the oil companies
through the various stages of their exploration, development and production
activities.
7.    Project Sustainability
7.01 This type of project has a ripple effect and how far the ripple will spread
is a function of the success of the promotion (which has been achieved) and
ultimately of the companies' finding commercial hydrocarbons. Probabilities can
be worked out and intelligent guesses made of likely quantities and financial
returns but this would be time consuming and still only a 'probability". The
information gathered has established that there is a high probability of moderate
hydrocarbon finds of a commercial nature.
8.    Bank Performance
8.01 At project origin, the Bank advised BED to consider undertaking an
aeromagnetic survey, followed by seismic surveys of the offshore on a selective
basis.  The project was des.gned, with BED and the Bank working together towards
the objective of 4eveloping promotional packages to interest oil companies in
exploration.   This interaction was maintained throughout the project as the
*      promotional campaign was developed and implemented.  Through eight supervision
missions, the Bank assisted BED in overseeing the work of contractors and
consultants and ensuring that problems were prevented or solved.  Bank staff
reviewed the draft promotion package and offered useful comments.  The Bank also
contributed to the formulation of the terms of the contracts to ensure wider
industry participation. Apart from the financial assistance of the loan, the
Bank made a substantial direct technical assistance. This project demonstrates
that, more than through financial assistance, the Bank could play a significant
role in opening up a country for exploration (of hydrocarbons in this case), if
there is a judicious mix of technical input by Bank staff and inputs from
consultants.
9.    Borrower's Performance
9.01 BED/OEA displayed a strong commitment to the Project. At all stages f- a
conception  to  completion,  the  uzge  to  succeed  was  noticeable.
contractors/consultants and the Borrower's staff maintained cordial relationships
and the cooperation was of mutual benefit. BEDIOEA has had competent managers
who could use to good effect external financial and technical resources when
necessary and available.
10.   Project Relationship
10.01 Relationships among the various project participants - the Bank, BED and
contractors/consultants, were extremely amicable, which helped to achieve smooth
project implementation.



6
11.   Contractors and Consultants' Performance
11.01 In general, all contractors and consultants performed well.   In the
aeromagnetic survAy, Questor's recordings were within the tolerance levels and
diurnal variances. Line positions and flight elevations were well controlled.
Intex, in controlling the quality of the survey, in interpreting the data and
preparing the depth-to-magnetic-basement maps warranted a good rating. Seiscom
Delta United retorded offshore seismic data with resolution which was optimal,
indicating employment of an airgun source which was well tuned and stable. The
data processed by them indicated the use of advanced software with flexibility.
Seismograph Service Corporation, which assisted PNOC-EC to set up the seismic
processing center and helped in processing an initial 3,000 line km of marine
data, go' the center going efficiently after a few teething problems and provided
quality. rhe inputs from Robertson Research, assisted by Flower Dorey Buchan,
were coI -.cive to good results as evidenced by a thorough basin evaluation and
presenta.ion to the industry. The satisfying common denominator in all of the
consultants' work was that Filipino staff could participate fully in the
activities and benefit by the association.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.01 A staff appraisal report had not been prepared for the project, but the
President's report was detailed enough on the technical descriptions. The legal
documents were clear. The supervision reports and the progress reports from the
Borrower have been exhaustive.



-7-
THE PHILIPPINES
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
(LN 2201-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Office of Energy Affairs in the Office of the President, Republic of
the Philippines prepared Part II of the Project Completion Report of this project
in June 1988.



L  8 -
I.  SUMMARY                                                1
II.  HISTORICAL RETROSPECTIVE                               2
A.  Introduction                                       2
S.  Project Background                                 3
C.  Project Objectives and Description                 4
!II.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                 5
A.  Achievement of Project Objectives                  5
S.  Project Management                                11
C.  Project Cost and Financing Plan                   12
D.  Procurement                                       12
i) List of Major Contracts                        12
ii) Performance of Contractors                     13
iii) Performance of Consultants                     15
E.  Disbursements                                    1l
IV.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE                            1l
A.  Performance in Complying with Covenants           16
S.  Meeting Institutional Goals                       17
V.  FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE                                 17
VI.  CONCLUSIONS                                           17



-9-
A. AEROMAGNETIC SURVEY COVERAGE
B.  OFFSHORE SEISMIC SURVEY COVERAGE
C. SEDIMENTARY BASINS OF THE PHILIPPINES
D. LIST OF TRAINING COURSES
E. PROMOTIONAL TEAM
F. PRESENTATION AGENDA
G. PARTICIPANTS TO THE PRESENTATIONS
H.  SUBSCRIBERS TO THE PROMOTIONAL REPORT
I. LOAN PROCEEDS
J. LIST OF MAJOR CONTRACTS
K.  OBLIGATIONS FROM LOAN PROCEEDS
L. OBLIGATIONS FROM GOP COUNTERPART



-10-
r . SlJlW:UHMARY'
The  Petroleum  Exploration Promotion Project was 'oricei.vei
a-. a  rin;nc i a. an d tehni c a 1 ;it.in c   to  s!uppor tt h *
elfort-z of the Government of the Philippines in its  ir,4ie
to  d'eveiop  indiqeno)u!-s energy resources andi att.ain  zeir-
zuffficiency in energy.  The sttrategy adopted was to enhance
the   country'.:  gaeological  data  base  ant  tievelop   new
exploration  piay  concepts  through  a  nationwide   bas-in
evaluation program.  The results of the basin studies ohall
be containedi in a promotional report which the Government
will use in an active promotional campaiqn to revive
petroleum   exploration  interest  in  the  country.    The
objectives  of the Project were: (a) to rekindle  petroleum
exploration  interest in the country and (b) to  strengthen
the technical capabiiities of the implementing agencies.
The Project consisted of four components: (a) nationwide
aeromagnetic  survey,  (b)  offshore  seismic  survey   (c;
regional  basin  evaluation  studies,  and  (d)   training.
Complementing the Project was a grant from Petro-Caanda
international Assistance Corporation (PCIAC) which acquired
and processed additional seismic lines in selected offshore
areas. During the implementation of the Project it was
agreed that the aeromagnetic survey be expanded to include
other  onshore areas.   The basin evaluation  studies  also
included areas which were recently relinquished by service
contractors.   Despite the additional coverage to  some  of
the Pr3ject components, it became apparent that not all the
loan funds of US$13.5 million would be required. In 1984
and 1985 the Government requested the cancellation of  $4.5
million and $1.0 million, respectively.  Thus, only  US$8.0
million was uiltimately committed to finance the whole
Project.
The resuits of the Project are contained in 70 sets of a
12-volume  report which consists of a project summary,  .ix
volumes of text and appendices, four atlas volumes and one
suppiement.    The  report  presents  the  conclusions  and
significant  results of the basin evaluation program.   New
petroleum play concepts have been developed and old ones
expaefed  upon  to provide the explorationist with  a  wide
variety of untested or inadequately tested objectives.
A promotional campaign was carried out in September 1987 in
Manila,   Houston,   Calgary  and  London   where - tw.o-tiay
presentations were conducted before representatives of the
oil  industry.   A  complete set of  the  report  was  also
displayed in these places for perusal of the presentation
participants.   As of Juine J1s8, 36 report sets  have  been
sub-cribed   to  ana  7  companies  have  applied   for   9
exploratinn area,--.



- 11 -
rhe Project as a whoLe succeeded in making a natironwide
evaluation  of  the petroleum potential  of  the  country . s
sedimentary basin, both onshore anid offshore.  it also  was
an  effective mechanism of training the Filipino  technical
staff involved in the Project.  Applications for  petroleum
contracts have started to come in and it is anticipated
that  dirilling  activities will increase i n the  very  near
future.
II.   HISTiORICAL RETROSPECTIVE
A_X JQtCodQ£tjQQ
The  Philippines, just like many developing  countries,  is
highly  dependent on imported energy.  In 1973 the  country
was importing 92% of its primary energy requirements mainly
in   the  form  of  oil  while  the  rest   wpere   supplied
domesticall Y   by   hydropower,   nonconventional    energy
resources  such  as  bagasse and  some  coal.   The  abrupt
spiralling of oil prices starting in late-1973 proved to be
specially critical to oil-importing countries which exposed
them  to geopolitical turbulences that occur in  the  major
oil producing region the middle East.
The Philippine government in reaction to the implications
on the security and economic development of the country of
such escalation of oil.prices embarked on a national policy
of self-reliance on energy. An integrated energy policy
was formulated to (a) ensure adequate, stable and secure
supply of energy, tb) to promote effective management of
energy demand and (c) to safeguard environment in the
pursuit of these energy activities.
rhe    national   energy   program   remqired    (a)    the
diversification of the commercial and geographical sources
of   imported  energy  for  the  country  (bi   accelerated
development of indigenous source of energy resulting in the
reduction of dependence on oil as primary energy source.
(c)  promotion  of  energy  demand-management  and   energy
conservation,  (d)  development of Filipino  technical  and
financial   capability   in  energy  technology   and   (e)
preservation and protection of the environment.
By  the  mid-1970's  appropriate  legislations  have   been
enacted to encourage the exploration and development of
indigenous energy resources such as petroleum, coal and
.geothermal   through   the   production   sharing   scheme.
Presidential Decree No. 87 enacted in 1972 served as the
institutional fvamework which covers all activities reLated
to   the   exploration,  dievelopment  and   production   of



- -) 
petroleum.   This aiiowz the participation  oF  technically
and financially qualified foreign companies to participate
in  upstream  petroljeAu  activities  while  upholding   the
.iovereignty  of  the state over the energy resources.   The
resuit  was an upsurge in petroleum drilling acti.vities  in
the country specifically in the offshore where several
major   multi-national   companies   undertook    extensive
qeophysical surveys and geological studies.
In early 1976, the first significant offshore oil discovery
was made at the Nido-1 well in. NW Palawan from Lower
Miocene reefal and in the same type of petroleum play
resulted  in a few more oil and gas discoveries wells.   In
1979, the first commercial oil production in the country
went onstream from the Nido Complex under a service
contract with Philippines - Cities Service Inc. (PCSI).
This was followed in 1981 by the Cadlao Field of Amoco and
in  1982 by the Hatinloc Complex also of PCSI.   The  three
oilfields are of modest sizes and as of end 1987 have
produced a cumulative total of 33.8 million barrels of oil.
The oilfields are typical of Tertiary limestone reservoirs
in Southeast Asia, very high initial- productivity but with
corresponding high rate of depletion.
Several other oil and gas discoveries have subsequently
been found, mostly in offshore NW Palawan but most prove to
be  non-commercial  or  located in very  deep  water.   The
relatively active exploration activities in the late 1970's
and  the  very, early  1980's  which  thereafter   steadily
declined starting in 1983 was influenced primarily by no
new significant discoveries that followed after Nido,
Cadiao and Matinioc.
Similar activities in the exploration and development of
other   forms   of  indigenous   energy   reseources   were
implemented  from the mid-1970's to the early 1980's.    By
1987 domestic'energy resources were contributing 37% of the
country's energy requirements. These came primarily from
nonconventional energy resources, hydropower, geothermal,
oil and coal.
In May 1981, the Philippine Government through the Bureau
of Energy Development (BED) of the Ministry of Energy (McE)
developed a proposal to the World Bank for possible
financial  assistance  for  a                   -f zbQ2sZnzbQrP
sESijryt_..sMrY-gg r2i   The program will  concentrate  in
areas not covered by Petroleum Service Contracts and will
include deep water areas as well. It was hoped that with
the generation of seismic data in areas considered to be



- 13 -
"high risKs", enough exploration interest will be generated
amongst  foreign  oil expioration  companies.   In  ict.oter
1*X81, tJorld Bank officials (Messrs. McCarthy and Fallen--
Sailey) who were in Manila during the 2nd ASean Council  on
Pe?troleum (ASCS)PE) Conference and Exhibition met with BED
officiais  and  recommended  that  a             _qr!2LnA tig
:uryey be conducted first before the seismic survey program
is initiated.
During a two-week visit starting in November 5, 1981 a
World Bank Mission accompanied by two (2) aeromagnetic
consuitans discussed BED's project proposal as well as the
petroieum  and geothermal programs of PNOC.  It was  agreed
that  the BED project shall include an  aa              u
over  selected land areas and a                          over
areas with data gaps. For three (3) weeks in February
1982, another World Bank Mission visited the BED and
finalized the work program as follows:
1.  Aeromagnetic survey totalling 168,000 line-km.
2.  tffshore seismic survey comprising 8400 line-km.
3.  Nationwide  petroleum  evaluation  of  sixteen  (16)
Philippine sedimentary basins for a 2-year' period
involving foreign consultants.
Negotiations for the BED and PNOC petroleum projects were
held in Washington D. C. from 6-13 July 1982. The BED loan
component (Loan 2201-PH) amounted to $13.5 million while
that  of PNOC (Loan 2202-PH) was $24.0 million.   The  loan
agreement was formally signed on 28 October 1982.
c-:  p
The Philippine Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project was
iesigned to rekindle petroleum exploration interest in the
country  as  well  as  extend  exploration  activities   to
relatively unexplored onshore areas. It also aimed to
strengthen   the   technical  capabilities   of   the   two
implementing agencies, BED and PN.C.
The BED component of the Project consists of (a) a
nationeide aeromagnetic survey of 168,000 line-kms, (b)
offshoA  seismic  survey of 8,400  line-kms, (c)  regional
basin   evaluation  of  about  15  onshore   and   offshore
sedimentary areas and (d) a training program for the
Philippine   staff  involved  in  the  Project.   A   brief
description of these components follows:
(i)  the _ tj_QiMWI.agfrgggr;gy_ry  component  was
to be carried out in the onshore and offshore
sedimentary basins, excluding the more obvious



-14 
economic   basement  areas,  over  most  of   the
Philippine archipelago excePt in the SuILu Sea and
Palawan.   The  initial phase  entailed  a  brief
review of available information on Philippine
sedimentary basins and the outlining of the areas
to  be covered by the aeromagnetic  survey.   The
second phase required the determination of the
various parameters to be applied in the conduct
of the survey while and the third phase included
the supervision of the survey as well as the
processing and interpretation of the acquired
data.
(ii)  The  Qfttf. Qr%_%Pj$.jQ5i_1iy     component  of   the
Project was designed to gather information over
offshore areas with data gaps, i.e., areas with
no industry coverage. A similar work methodoiogy
as that in the aeromagnetic survey was adopted
for this component of the Project.
(iii)  The r 9gj1_b2qz_*y1          _Z were to the
carried out in fifteen (15) onshore and offshore
basins or sub-basins by incorporating the newly-
acquired  aeromagnetic  and  seismic  data   with
previous exploration information. The results of
the evaluation will be contained in a promotional
package   which  will  made  available   to   oil
exploration companies.
(iv)  The  ttria             t was meant to upgrade  the
technical   capability  of  the  Filipino   staff
involved   in  the  Project.   This  was  to   be
completed through foreign training or short term
courses.
1tI.  PROiJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.              o
The loan agreement was formally signed on tictober 28,  1982
but Preparations for the start of the aeromagnetic and
zeismic  surveys  and  consulting services  had  been  made
earlier to take advantage of the good weather window.
Signing of contracts with the various contractors and
consultants was slightly delayed pending the approval by
various Philippine government agencies but work on the
various components of the Project proceeded nevertheless to
adhere as much as possible to the timetable initially
agreed upon between the BED and the World Bank.



- 15 -
Modifications to the work program with concurrence trom the
Worltd Bank, had to be made in the course of  implementation
of the various project components when it was teit that
Aui:h  changes  would  improve the overal.. result*+  of  the
Projec t.
1 .   N  jt.XQQ idQ6{rQm%gtg$;c Ore-    The   or iginal
program was to carry out 18, 522 line-km out in
the course of the survey it was agreed to add
another 25% coverage. Notice for the contractor,
Questor Surveys, Inc. of Canada, to mobilize  was
issued on 3 December 1982 and after test  flights
the first survey line was-flown on 1 January,
1983. Data acquisition was comPleted, including
reflys,  on  9 April  1984.   Final  aeromagnetic
survey coverage after measurements from flight
paths amounted to 215,844 line-km. rhe duration
of aeromagnetic data acquisition went beyond the
timetabie due primarily to inclement weather
conditions   (typhoons  and   storms),   frequent
diurnal disturbances, mechanical problems with
the survey equipment and aircraft. and the  crash
of  one of the two aircrafts in April 1983.   The
latter necessitated a replacement aircraft which
arrived in Manila from Canada in June 19, 1983
which was immediately refitted and flew its first
mission in June 28.
International   Exploration,  Inc.   (INTEX)   of
Phi1adelphia, U.S.A. assisted the BED in the
planning of the aeromagnetic survey, supervision
of data acquisition as well as data analysis,
interpretation and the final reports.
The coverage of the aeromagnetic survey is  shown
in Annex "A".
2.   The  Q-ttiQrt-2attilic-auu       This    project
component was advertised in three (3) foreign
publications and one local newspaper on August
18,  1982;   The winning  bidder,  Seiscom  Delta
United   (Int'l.) Corp.  was  chosen  with   the
concurrence of the World Bank based on  technical
and financial criteria. The contract was signed
on 07 July 1983 but Seiscom Delta was given the
formal notice to mobilize on April 22 and data
acquisition started on April 25 to take advantage
of  the  good  weather months.   The  survey  was
completed on 14 September or over a period of
4.77  months  and  9104.35  line-km  of   seismic
profiles were gathered over 15 offshore areas.



some programmed iines were cut short or not  shot
when initial shipboard monitors indicated very
shallow  basement or thin  sedimentary  eq4uences
over   some  areas.   Additional  profiles   were
acquired in areas with thick sedimentary till.
Tho tdata gathering phase of the survey was
supervised by consultants from Robertson Research
(Australia).
Processing of some .000 line-km of seismic field
data was done by Seiscoin Delta in Melbourne,
Australia. The bulk of the data was processed by
PNOC  using their newly-installed VAX/780.    The
processed data which was done on an area by area
basis    was    immediately    interpreted    and
incorporated in the basin evaluation studies.
The offshore seismic data coverage was augmented
bY 4770 line-kms of infill seismic data gathered
by    Petro-Canada    International    Assistance
Corporation (PCIAC) on a grant basis to the BED
over selected offshore areas.
Annex  e"  shows  the  final  coverage  of   the
offshore seismic survey.
3.   The                                     o jg ij  giL jtX    entailed  a
multi-disciplinary synthesis of all available
exploration data, including the newly acquired
information under the Project. The result is a
comprehensive geological analysis of 15 onshore
and offshore sedimentary basins and sub-basins.
The  petroleum  potential for  each   sedimentary
basin was evaluated and the basins were ranked in
order of prospectivity. The final product iz
contained in a comprehensive promotional package
or  report  which  will  be  made  available   to
interested oil exploration companies.
Annx 'C' indicates the sedimentary basins and
_b-basinm  covered b the evaluation studies.
The   basin  evaluation  studies   required   the
services of experienced consultants and for these
bid   invitations  were  sent  out   to   several
consulting firms. The letters of bid invitations
were sent out mid-August 1982 and by 1 October
six (6) responses were received. Evaluation of
the bid tenders was completed an 22 October and
Robertson Research (Australia) - Flower Doery



- 17 -
euctan (Australia) wax selected and recommendedj
as  the  consultant  for  the  basin   evaluation
studies as well as in the supervision of the
oftshore seismic survey program.
The contract for consultancy was signed on 19 may
1I.9E  but even Previous to this some  consuitants
have already started working on the Project in
preparation for the offshore seismic survey. The
contract was initially for a period of 5w-man-
months of consultants for the programmed 2-year
duration of the Project (1983-1984) including
consultancy time rendered in late 1982. However,
delays in .the implementation of some of the
components of the project, e.g. aeromagnetic data
acquisition and setting up of the PN.jC Seismic
Processing Center, affected the pace of the
interpretation of the aeromagnetic and offshore
seismic  data.   In  the  course  of  the   basin
evaluation studies, the NW Palawan and Reed Bank
areas were subsequently included in the coverage
since   these   areas   were   gradually    being
relinqjished as service contracts during the
duration of the Project.
The extension of the completion date of the
Project was also influenced by the level of
world-wide petroleum exploration which in 1985
and 198% experienced a downturn in drilling
activities.   A collapse in crude oil  prices  in
early 1986 also greatly affected the timing of
the  promotion  of the project report.    In  the
domestic   front,  the  economic  and   political
situations prevailing in the Philippines in  1984
and 1985 were marked by uncertainties. Prospects
for   improved   stability   became   discernible
thereafter with the change of government after
February 1986, coupled with the ratification of a
new Philippine Constitution in early February
1987, and the holding of congressional elections
in Hay 1907. There was a marked improvement and
stabilization of oil prices towards the end of
1986.   The promotion of the Project was  finally
programmed for the 3rd quarter of 1987.
The several extensions given to the completion oi
the basin studies offered more time to undertake
detailed and exhaustive evaluation of the various
basins.    The   result   is   a    comprehensive
promotional report consisting of 12 volumes of
text and atlases. The sedimentary basins were



- 18 -
rated  in order of pstroieum pro-.pectjvity.   F.n
each basin, petroleum Play concepts both old  and
new,  have  been developed anti amplified  and  in
some cases drilling leads have been identified.
'Z6nsultantS from Robertson Research (Ausvtrali4i -
Flower  Doery Buchan (Australia)  supervised  the
overall    basin   evaluation    stuidies    while
speciaiists   or   experts,   e.g.   geochemists,
paleontologists, were provided by the consultants
in areas which required additional expertise.
The basin evaluvation studies were supplemented by
additional   geochemical,  sedimentological   and
biostratigraphic  analyses which  required  these
kind  of  information.   Support  tervices   were
provided by BED paleontologists, geoschemists,
cartographers and petrographers in implementation
of the Project.
4.  The   1CiQif_QgaeQO     t  of  the   Project   was
implemented through the development of a joint
training module for both BED and PNOC staff.   It
was agreed that short-term courses be held in-
house  in  Kanila, not only to save  expenses  in
plane fares and travel allowances but to maximize
attendance to the individual training courses as
well.
International    Human   Resources    Development
Corporation  (IHRDC),  a  Boston-based   training
company, was awarded the contract as a result of
competitive bidding. The training program was
implemented during the period July-November 1985.
Ten (10) courses of one-week duration each were
agreed upon with IHRDC and were designed for both
the junior and more senior staff, taking into
consideration  factors  such  as  experience   of
participants as well as relevance of subjects to
the  objectives of the Project.   IHRDC  provided
tke instructors as well as the training manuals
af   other  materials.   In  some  courses   like
"Seismic    Stratigraphy"   and    "Geochemistry"
examples from the Philippine setting were used as
case histories. A list of the courses conducted
is shown in Annex "D".
All members of the technical staff of BED and
PNOC attended at least one course. Most in fact
attended 2 or 3 courses. The more senior members
including non-technical participants attended the



- 19 -
course  on  "Economic  Evaluation  of   Petroleum
Exploration  and Development Projects" andi  Found
it most applicable to their pro.fessiorn.
5   Qitje t QroPLP   The promotion oF the  results
of  the  basin evaluation  constituted  the  most
critical phase of the  Projict.    A  promotional
campaign program was developed together with  thhe
Worid  Bank  and  preparations were  made  for  a
September 1987 presentation to the oil industry.
Prior to this, preliminary presentations have
been  made  before  'he  American   International
Petroleum  Negotiators  (AIPN)  in  Houston  last
March 12, 1987 and the Circum-Pacific Energy anti
minerai Resources Conference held in Singapore in
August 1986. A short trip to Brisbane, Australia
was also made to attend the Australian Petroleum
Exploration Association (APEA) in March 1987 to
initiate contacts with oil exploration companies
based in that country.
In May-June 1927, a three-man team took special
trips to Tokyo, Calgary, Denver, Dallas, Houston
and  Los  Angeles  where  visits  were  made   to
individual   oil  companies  to   introduce   the
Project.   Brief  presentations  were  also  made
before a special gathering of oil explorationists
in these cities.
The  September  1987  promotional  campaign   was
designed to introduce the results of the Project
and   make   known  to  the  oil   industry   the
availability of the report which details the
petroieum potential of the Philippines.
A promotional team consisting of BED officials
and  convuitants  gave  2-day  presentations   in
Manila, Houston, cargary and London. The First
day of the presentation highlighted the results
of the petroleum basin evaluation studies while
the morning of the second day covered the legal
and  contractual  framework  of  the   Philippine
petroleum service contract system. The afternoon
of the second day was reserved for consultations
between BED officials and representatives of oil
companies on a personal or private basis.
The   members  of  the  promotional   team,.  the
presentation agenda, the participants to the
presentations and the subscribers to the report



- 20 .
are attached as Annexes "E"., "F", "G-1 to G-4
and "H".
There  wa- quite an encouraqirng responrse  to  the
promotional campai¢gn as gaugeti from the number of
oil  companies that sent representativese to  the
presentations.   Several orders for the  purchdse
of  the report also have been placed  after  each
presentation.    The   one-on-one   consultations
afforded  some of the participants to  personally
meet  the  eED  officials  and  clarify   certain
matters  which were relevant to their  case.   It
can be concluded that the promotion as a whole
has been very successful in re-kindling petroleum
exploration interest in the Philippines based on
the number of contract applications which have
started to come in starting the first quarter of
B.1
The Project was implemented by the Bureau of Energy
Development (BED), with the assistance of the consulting
firm, Robertson Research (Australia) Pty. Ltd. and Flower
Doery  Buchan  (Australia).    The  consultants   provided
guidance to the BED team of geologists and geophysicists
with respect to the evaluation of the petroleum geology
and   hydrocarbon  prospects  of  Philippine   sedimentary
basins.   These included the method of study and  approach
to  basin  evaluation,  format  of  presentation  of   the
results. production of an information or promotional
package and participation in the presentation of the
results during the promotional phase of the Project.
In   addition  to  the  basin  evaluation   studies,   the
consultants assisted in the development of the offshore
seismic   survey   program   and   supervised   the   data
acquisition, processing and interpretation of the seismic
data. It also provided specialists or experts in several
asp ts  of  the  study which  required  the  services  of
expeo,nced         micropaleontologists,        geochemists,
sedidintologists, geophysicists, etc.
The BED technical staff, consisting mostly of young
geologists and geophysicists with very little exploration
experience,  were  involved  in all the  aspects   of  the
Project  and  this  served  as  an  effective   on-the-job
training for them. Their direct involvement under the
supervision of the consultants served one of the major
objectives  of  the  Project  which  is  to  upgrade   the
technical capability of the BED staff.



- 21 -
Charf-es  alnd  modificationzs in the scope  of  the  Pro.iet;t
during its; execution ha,d to be made and for these the  BED
together   with  the  consultants  and  the   Wor ld   eank
c;ommunicated  freely/ with each other to come  up  with  -a
c+omnmon   pian   of  action.   Such   changes   took   into
r,onsideration the ultimate objectives of the Project.,  the
costs - it  would entaii antd the e1fect  on  the  promotion
schedule.  As it turned out, the Project was  successfuliy
completed  well  within the loan funds.   In  fact  US$5.5
million of the original loan amount of U$*13.5 miiion was
cancelled.   Thus,  the total loan fund  availed  for  the
Project amounted to US$8-.UO million.
C.
The  BED  Loan 2201-PH dated 28 Oictober 1982  amounted  to
$13.5  million against which disbursements were  made  for
IOEf%  UTo7i4n expenditures of contracts awarded for  he
aeromagnetic survey, offshore seismic survey, specialized
services,  consultants'  services and  training.   As  the
Project progressed, $4.5 million of the loan was cancelied
in May 1984 and by another $1.0 million in June 1985, thus
reducing the total loan to a final amount of $8.0 million.
The loan closing date was firmed up as December 31, 1987.
The amendment to the loan was brought about by reductions
in the actual costs of the aeromagnetic and seismic
surveys which in 1983 saw very favorable or low prices for
these types of services. rhe reductions in cost, however,
did not mean a reduction in work coverage. On the
contrary, a much wider coverage was achieved even at the
reduced costs. Allocation for consultants' services and
goods and specialized service for the basin evaluation
program and geological reports were increased due to
extensions  to the Project completion date which  re-uired
additional man-months of consultancy services.
Annex  "I"   shows the original 1982  loan  proceeds,  the
various categories to be financed therefrom and the final
1985 amended loan allocation.
I       ~~D-  PrMoQ4r_t2t
i)  LLtQf L±QQOc2Lrect
The services of the -various contractors and
consultants for the Project were obtained through
International    Competitive    Bidding        (Ice)
procedures.   *ne  exception, however,  was   the
processing of the bulk of the offshore seismic
data  which  was  done  directly  through   PNOC-



-. 22 - 
Exploration  Corporation which put up  a  seismic
processing center funded by their own loan from
the  World  Bank.   rhe center  was  inter.ded  to
process not only PNWil's onshore seismic diata  but
BED's  as well.   Subsequently, the  same  center
will  process  industry  data  as  a   commercial
ventture.
In the case of the category "specialized services
for   basin   evaluation"  which   actually   was
geochemical analyses, it was agreed that these
will    be   provided   by  Robertson    Research
(Singapore), an affiliate of Robertson Research
(international) and which was the most accessible
laboratory for the Project.
The major contracts procured for the Project are
shown in Annex "J".
ii)  Pefrno   gtvSr
a,-  ^e_Qr mrYPY
The contractors, Questor and Intex, have
performed in a most professional manner and
have efficiently carried out their respective
tasks   to   implement   and   complete   the
aeromagnetic    survey   program.       Questor
especially exerted all efforts to replace the
survey plane that crashed after the start of
the survey and proceeded with the acquisition
program.   Both  companies  have  been   very
accomodating   in  training  Filipino   staff
assigned to this component of the Project,
both in the field data acquisition and in the
processing/interpretation phase conducted in
Canada and the U.S.A.
b.  Df fsfbgme_...i§uzyox
Seiscom   Delta  carried  out  the   offshore
seismic    survey,    including    additional
coverage, in less than 5 months which was
still   within   the  original   5.5   months
programmed for this Phase of the project.
The contractor proceeded to carry out the
work program based on a notice to mobilize
even before the contract was formally signed
which required some other government agency



- 23 -
approva1l.. Several eED staff aSsiqned aboardi
the  survey  vessel  were  givers  on-the-joc
training on the technology of marine  sei-.mic
survey procedures.
2. X-    _rQsfl.9
Seismic  data processing was done by  Seiscom
DeLta on 1Q00 line-km of data in Metblourne,
Australia.   Two (2) BED  geophysicists  were
on a 2-week in-house orientation on seismic
data  processing  in Melbourne.  These  same
geophysicists were also involved in the data
acquisition   phase   and  their   stint   in
Melbourne gave them a complete exposure as
seismology.
The bulk of the data was processed by the
newly  established  PN:C  Seismic  Processing
Center. The accessibility of the Center made
it possible to have close interaction between
the   client   (BED)   and   the   processing
contractor.    As  such,   modifications   or
variations in the processing program could be
immediately effected to be assured of the
highest  quality  processing  product.    The
nearness of the Center also enable most of
the BED geophysicists to be directly involved
in the data processing as part of their
training program.
c. It InIg
The training component of the Project was
implemented by IHRDC through the conduct of
ten  (10) short-term courses in Manila.   The
training module was developed jointly by BED
and PNOC-EC with IHRDC and special emphasis
was given to the relevance of the courses
vis-a-vis   Philippine   setting   and    the
qualifications of the instructors which in
some  courses  required  experience  in   the
geology of Southeast Asia. IHRDC was most
receptive in accomodating the requirements of
the training program and in redesigning the
curriculum to fit the working backgrounds of
the  participants.   The  training  materials
including manuals, video tapes, slides, etc.
were provided by tHRDC. The holding of the
training courses in Manila enabled maximum
participating of sjEA and PNOC-EC employees



- 24 .
and in the process minimized expense.s had
these  courses been held outside the  country
and which would have entaileti foreign  travel
expenses.
i. Lii'  er f r rnti'QD'
a.                       _ yg!;A 8,0i
Full-time  consiltants and part-time  experts
from   Robertson  Research  (Australia)   and
Flower Doery Buchan (Australia) supervised
the  individual basin studies as well as  the
production  of  the  final  reports  and  the
promotional    packages.      o)ne    important
requirement  of  this Project  was  that  the
consultants for basin studies should be very
experienced and knowledgeable in the geology
of Southeast Asia. Another requirement was
their ability to coordinate and work with
relatively inexperienced BED geoscientists.
The   close  working   relationship   between
consultants/experts and BED staff was an
Pffective means of transferring technology.
The   actual   and  direct   involvement   of
Filipinos in all the aspects of the Project
under the guidance of the consultants/experts
have enabled the former to gain the necessary
experience and confidence to continue further
basin  evaluation  studies.  As a  whole  the
assistance       provided        by         the
consultants/experts was most satisfactory and
was carried out under a wholesome atmosphere
conducive    to    a    harmonious    working
relationship.
b.  e_rJg4St.QLVJg n
The promotion of the results of the basin
evaluation   studies  constituted  the   most
important and critical phase of the Project.
The     timing    of      presentations      to
representatives of the oil industry had to
take into serious consideration the worldwide
oil exploration climate 4nd the prevailing
political and economic conditions of the
Philippines   prevailing   at   that    time.
September 19t37 was agreed upon with the Wlorld
Bank as the presentation month with Manila,
Houston, Calgary and London as the venues.
It was also agreed that Robertson Research



- 25 -
(Australia)   .ajntJ  Flower   Doery    Buchar,
(Australia)  b e  retained to  coordinate  the
promotjonal   pre.E.entations.    The   various
foreign  'rub ridiiaries of  Robertson  Research
rnternational were tapped to give  azsistance
in the promnotionai campaign.  The  retainment
of Robertson Research (Austraiia) andi Flower
Doery Buchan as coordinators of the promotion
was in part influenced by their previous
experience in a similar project in Papua-New
Guinea. Their familiarity with the mechanics
of proJect promotion have made it easier to
plan and implement the Philippine petroieum
exploration project.
E -
Disbursements   were   made  against   100X   of   foreign
expenditures   of   contracts  awarded   for   geophysical
services,   specialized  services  for  basin   evaluation
(geochemical analyses), training and consultants services
for project supervision and promotion. Out of an adjusted
loan amount of US$8.0 miliion (with a closing date of June
30, 1988) an amount of $7.679 million has been disbursed
as of March 2, 1988 as per advise of the World 8:-^nk    The
balance of $321,000 is expected to be more than sufficient
to cover additional requests for disbursements, mainly for
the promotional expenses which were being processed as of
-June 198e.
iV.   INSTITUTIONAL PERFuRMANCE
A.   PerfQ     r     npi n gmbi    gv3QnZz
The implementing agency, Office of Energy Affairs (')EA) and
its predecessor Bureau of Energy Development (BED), has
complied fully with all the requirements of the loan
agreement.   The Project was completed at costs  below  the
original  loan.   The time of project promotion had  to  be
adjusted and extended to take into consideration factors
such  as  world-wide  petroleuAm  exploration  climate   antd
inteflw conditions then obtaining in the Philippines. The
promotion  of the results of the Project in September  198-
was most timely since it coincided with stable oil prices
and with the institution of political and economic reforms
in the country as a result of the change of government
after the February 198, people power revolution.



-25-
One  of the mandates of the OEA is to encourage  and  qiuide
business   activities   relative   to   the    exploration,
development and utilization of fossil fuels and other form:
of energy resources. This Project specificalily aims to
assist   the  private  industry  by  making   available   a
comprehensive report which wili serve as a basis upon which
the  oil companies could identify areas with potential  for
commercial  hydrocarbon discoveries.  The report itself  is
the  latest  compilation  and synthesis  of  all  available
exploration data and the first attempt of a quaiitative
assessment of the petroleum potential of the whole country.
A study of the report will give the oil companies a quick
understanding of the petroleum geology of the Philippine as
well as identify the more attractive areas in terms of
petroleum  potential.   This  saves  time  and  effort  and
enables  an  interested  party  to  already  apply  for   a
petroleum contract over an area.
V.    FINANCIAL PERFO RMANCE
The 1982 Loan Agreement for the Project 2201-PH amounted to
$13.5 million but subsequent cancellations in 19e4 and 1985
reduced the loan proceeds to a final amount of $8.0
million. The reduction in the loan did not mean a decrease
in the activities nor the elimination of some of the
project components. Rather, the Project was completed even
at the reduced cost due to the low price of offshore
seismic data acquisition and processing at the time of the
survey  which  resulted  in  savings  under  this   project
category.   This  also eliminated the need to  use  up  the
allocation for the project category "Unallocated".
The unaudited financial status for the Project including
loan proceeds and GOP counterpart as of end 1987 is
attached as Annexes "K" and "L".
VI.   CONCLUSIONS
The  *oject can be considered a succLxs if it has met  the
origi ft objectives which were (a) to rekindle petroleum
exploration interest and (b) to strengthen the technical
capabilities of the staff of the implementing agency.   The
first can be measured by the number of oil companies that
attended the presentations, the number of subscribers to
the promotional report and most important the number of
companies that have applied for petroleum contracts in the
Philippines.



- 27 -
More  than  seventy (70)  coDmpanies, mostly  I oreign-based,
attended the presentations in Manila, Houston, Calgary  and
London; 34 companies have zo far subscribedl to the report
and 10 companies have inrJicated interest and/or applied for
petroleum  contracts as of Juine 198e.  It i- expected  that
additional report subscriptions and contract  applicatjons
will be received by the QEA for the rest of 15.48.
The  Project has enabled the technical staff of the uEA  to
be directly involved in all the components and various
aspects   of  the  study  under  the  supervision  of   the
consultants and this served as an effective on-the-job
training for them. A 10-course training prosram of one-
week duration each was held locally but contducted by a
professional USA-based training firm augmented the training
needs of the Filipino staff.
-The ultimate test to the success of the Project can only be
realized by a  significant  increase  in  the   number   of
exploration wells drilled which hopefully will result in
major hydrocarbon discoveries in the very near future.
Oniy then can there be an important contribution of the
Project  into  the  national goal  of  self-sufficiency  in
energy.
.  ~~~~~



.28-
AN=EX  A
AEROMAGNETIC DATA                                           I BED- WS (1983-1984)
COVERAGE             X t                       l [ g AMOCO s1981)
SCALE CLUZO-N                                    PROJECT MAGNET(1909)
A NO



ANNUZ 'B
-8  BED - WB LINES
t --  BED -PEOCANADA LINES
SEISMIC COVERAGEt                                4
SCAL a                 L U ZON 
~\ 0
PC  .            I N  A



30-
8~~~~ ~ ~ ~ A                                   C- 
LAS C=                                 SEBIMEAR   BASINS
2. mm                     |                      OF THE
U UTUU U =                i                   PHILIPPINES
.  VW U=t |Ut  
I mmI.UU SW-A=s                                   0 tAL L
&SOUTWEAS UJLU-
? US-WIl MUSMl          4
I AGU-0             .1
se NamSwo POOM- 
LULUSIA0*, A d i                           t.S  
.   .   t                               A .t_ _J  
.1x
AM, ~CL~f                     t
(9eae                                a



1985 TRAINING PRuGRAM
S9QXIL] L1 U3IBUQIuBL                                             DA1£
1.  Seismic Stratigraphy             Dr. R. E. Sheriiff/A.R. Brown  July 22-26
2. Advanced Seismic Stratigraphy  Dr. R. E. Stheriff/A.R. Brown  July 22-26
3.  Petroleum Generation and         Dr. D. W. i*aples               July 29 -
Ciccurrence (Geochemistry II)                                   August 2
4.  Geochemistry II                  Dr. D.  . tWapies               August 5-9
5.  Structural Geology               Dr. T. L. Thompson              August 12-16
6.  .)pera-Hole Lou Analysis and     R. M. Bateman                   August 26-30
Formation Evaluation
7.  Practical Prospect               D. C. Morrill                   Augsut 26-30
Generation & Analysis
8.  Practical Sub--surface           D. C. Morrill                   September 2-6
Geological Analysis Using
tSell Logs
9.  Economic Evaluation of           N. W. Miller                    September 9-13
Petroleum Exploration and
Development Projects
10.  Carbonate and Sandstone         fR. Sneider                      November i8-22
Reservoir Geology



-32-
PROMOTIONAL TEAM
W. R. dela Paz        -    Director
A. P. Madrid          -    Chief, Oil and Gas Division
V. C. Laroza          -    Chief, Legal Division
G. N. Tuazon          -    Chief, Compliance Division
L. G. Flower          -    Senior Geophysicist
R. A. Reyes, Jr.      -    Geochemist/Geologist
R. E. del Pilar       -    Exploration Manager
N. L. Caagusan        -    Chief Geologist
L. K. Dizon           -    Senior Geophysicist



33                        ANNBX  1
PHILIPPINE PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
PROMOTIONAL PRESENTATION
AGENDA
e:30 -  9:00        Opening Ceremonies
9:00 -  9:10        Introductiorn                 A. P. Madrid
9:10 -  9:30        coffee Break
9:30 - 10:20        Regional Geology
Geochemistry,  Reservoirs    R. A. Reyes, Jr.
10:20 - 11:00       NW Palawan                     A. P. Madrid/
L. G. Flower
11:00 - 11:30        SW Palawan/Reed Bank          L. G. Flower
11:30 - 12:00        Cuyo-Mindoro                  L. G. Flower
12:00 -  1:30        Lunch
1:30 -  2:00        SE Luzon                      R. A. Reyes, Jr./
L. G. Flower
2:00 -  2:40        Visayas                       R. A. Reyes, Jr./
L. G. Flower
2:40 -  3:00        Sandakan/Suiu Sea             R. A. Reyes, Jr./
L. S. Flower
3:00 -  3:20        Agusan Davao/Cotabato         A. P. Madrid/
L. G. Flower
3:20 -  3:40        other Basins                  L. G. Flower
3:40 -  4:00        lJrap-up                      A. P. Madrid
4:00 -  4:30        Coffee Break
4:30 -  6:00        PNOC: Cebu/Mindoro            N. L. Caagusan
6:00 -  8:00        Cocktail Reception
£#;EQQN"QA XEaQ1 Il
8:30 -  9:30        Legal/Contractual Framework  V. C. Laroza
a. 1987 Philippine Constitution
b. uil Exploration & Development
c. Model Agreement
9:30 - 10:30        Coffee Break
10:30 - 11:00        Finanrial/Accounting          G. N. Tuazon
a. Co-'..ract Requirements
b. Au<..t Accounting
c. Accounting for Production
Proceeds
d. Repatriation of Investment
11:00 - 11:45        Operating Procedures          V. C. Laroza
a. Dioing Business in the
Philippines
b. Goverrnment Rules & Regulations
11:45 - 12:00        Wrap-up                         W. R. dela Paz
12:00 -  2:00        Lunch
2:00                Consultation with OEA Officials



- 34 -
AIM *G-1
PHILIPPINE PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
HOTEL INTERCONTINENTAL MANILA
MANILA, PHILIPPINES
SEPTEMBER 14-15, 1987
EAB CIP#TE S
AJMAN (CONSULTANT)                  JAPAN NATIONAL OIL CO.
ALCORN PHILS. INC                   LUXbIL N. L.
ANGLO-PHILS. INC.                   MARATHON OIL
BASIC PETROLEUM                     NORPAC INTERNATIONAL INC.
BGR, FEDERAL REP. OF GERMANY        PETROFINA
BHP PETROLEUM                       PHILODRILL
CHINESE PETROLEUM                   ORIENTAL PETROLEUM
CRA EXPLORATION                     RAN RICKS PHILS.
CONSULTANT                          SEAFRONT PETROLEUM
HARTbGEN ENERGY PHILS. LTD.         SOS FOR PETROCONSULTANTS S.A.
INDONESIA PETROLEUM LTD.            UNIvIL EXPLORATION & MIN. DEV. CO.
INTERNATIONAL PETROLEUM CORP.



- 35 -                       ANNEX  G2
PHILIPPINE PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
HOTEL INTERCONTINENTAL GALLERIA
HOUSTON, rEXAS, U.S.A.
SEPTEMBER 21-22, 1987
PAR 1,19PAN15
ALCORN INTERNATIONAL                OCCIDENTAL
AMOCO                               PECTEN INTERNATIONAL CO.
THE ANSCHUTZ CORP.                  PENNZOIL INTERNATIONAL CO.
ASAMERA                             PETREL PETROLEUM CO.
CHEVRON OVERSEAS PET. INC.          PETROLEUM EXPLORATION  & DEV. CO.
CONOCO INC.                         PETROCONSULTANTS INC.
EXXON CO. INTERNATIONAL             PRIMARY FUELS INC.
GULF EXPLORATION                    RAN RICKS OF THE PHILS.
JAPAN NATIONAL OIL CORP.            SUN OIL
MAXUS ENERGY                        TENNECO OIL EXPLORATION
MOBIL EXPLORATION                   TEXACO OVERSEAS HOLDINGS INC.
NORTHERN MICHIGAN EXPLORATION CO.  SANTOS



*                          - 36  i
ANNEX *G-3-
PHILIPPINE PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
DELTA BOW VALLEY HOTEL, CALGARY
ALBERTA, CANADA
SEPTEMBER 24-25, 1987
ASAMERA INC.                  PETRO-CANADA
ARCO INTERNATIONAL            SCEPTRE
ARCO OIL AND GAS              TEXACO CANADA
ST. PLAINS RESOURCES          TCPL RESOURCES LTD.
HOME OIL                      UNOCAL INTERNATIONAL



_ 37 _                   ANNE  *-4
PHILIPPINE PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION  PROJECT
HYDE PARK HOTEL, LONDON
SEPTEMBER 29-30, 1987
AGIP S.p.A.                   FAR EAST RESOURCES
APOLLO OIL                    PETROLEUM ECONOMIST
BLANCHE OIL AND GAS           SHELL
BRITISH PETROLEUM             STATOIL
BRITOIL                       TOTAL
CRESCENT PETROLEUM            TRAFALGAR HOUSE
DANSK OLIE OG GAS             TRICENTROL
* EGLINTON EXPLORATION          WHITEHALL PETROLEUM
ELF AQiUITAINE                oSto
ENTERPRISE OIL                 PETROFINA



-38-
PHILIPPINE PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
AGIP S.p.A.
ALCORN PHILS.
AMOCO PRODUCTION
ANGLO-PHILS.
ARCO INT'L.
SHP PET. INT'L.
BP PET. DEV.
BRITOIL PLC.
CHEVRON INT'L.
CHINESE PETROLEUM CORP.
CONOCO INC.
ENTERPRISE OIL
EXXON
GULF EXPLORATION
HARTOGEN MGT. PTY. LTD.        (2 copies)
INDONESIA PETROLEUM (INPEX)
INTERNATIONAL PET.CORP.
JAPAN NATIONAL OIL COMPANY
MARATHON EXP'L.
MOBIL E & P SERV.
OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM
ORIENTAL PETROLEUM
PE£rEN INT'L.
PENNZOIL
PETRO-CANADA INT.
PETROFINA FAR-EAST
PNOC-EC
RAN RICKS OF THE PHILIPPINES (2 copies)
SCEPTRE RES.
TOTAL CFP
TEXACO
ULTRAMAR
UNION OIL OF CALIFORNIA (UNOCAL)
VULCAN IND'L.



AN   '
lt.AN 2201-PH: PHILIPPINE PETROILEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
LOAN PROCWEEDS (IN U.S. DOLLARS)
ORIGINAL        AMENDED         AMENDED
LOAN            LOAN            LOAN
CATEGORY                            (10-28-82)       (5-22-84)      (12-J7--95)
1.  Aeromagnetic Survey                $ 3,800,000     $ 3,187,359
a.  Acquisition                                                      2,554,309
b.  Supervision/Interpretation                                         633,050
2.  offshore seismic Survey              6,100,000        2,499,598
a.  Acquisition/Processing                                           1,859,598
b.  Processing                                                         640,000
3.  Specialized Services                   200,000          200,000        200,00
a. Geochemical Analyses
4.  Consultancy Services                 1,000,000        1,354,594
a.  Basin Evaluation                                                 1,204,594
b.  Promo Package                                                      150,000
5.  1raining                               100,000          100,000        100,000
6. Front-End Fee                           199,507          199,507        199,507
7.  Ulnallocated/Contingency             2,100,49i,       1,458,942        208, 942
Promojtional Expenses                                                  250,000
$1 ,St5O,030    $ 9 ,0,0100.    $ 8, 000 ,010



LOAN 2201--PH
MlL "-lQ-RM 11_H AIP-MuJEC T
DATE
1.  Aeromagnetic Survey                 uuestor Surveys, Ltd.                14 January 198.3
a.  Data Acquisition                Seiscom Delta United (Int'l)         07 July 1983
Corp., Singapore
b.  Data Processing                 Seiscom Delta United                 07 July 1983
PN(J-EC, Philippines                12 December
1984
3.  Specialized Services Basin          Robertson Research (Australia)       03 October 1984
Evaluation
4.  Consultants Services:  Basin        Robertson Research (Australia)       19 May 1983
EvaluatIon and Promotion            & Flower Doery Buchan
(Australia)
S.  Training                            International Human Resources        04 October 1985
Development Corp. (IHRDC)
Boston, Mass., U. S. A.



PHILIPPINE PETROLEUH EXPLORATION PRti 4it ION PROJECT
LOAN PROCEEDS
(IN U. S. DOLLARS)
CATEGORY                               1983       1984      1985      19136   19837        TOTAL
1. Aeromagnetic Survey
a. Acquisition (uUESTOR)            1,547,100    998,209       -        -       -        2,545,309
b. Supervision/Interpretation         325,094    241,891    75,065      -       -          642,050
(INTEX)
2. Otffshore Seismic Survey
a. Acquisition & Processing
(SEISCtM )                      1,761.521      98,077       -         -       -      1,859,598
b. Additional Processing (PNOC)       63w, *2 2,931             -        -       -        640,000
S. Goods arid Specialized Services         -        100,000   100,000       -       -         200,000
4. Consultants Services
a. Basin Evaluation (ROBERTSON)       429,318    344,540   430,736   146,800   56,980  1,408,374
b. Proatotional Package (ROBERTSON)     -           -      150,000       -        -        150,000
C. Promotional Expenses (ROBERTSON)    -            -         -        30,000  121,525    151,525
5. Training (IHRDC)                        -                   75,000       -        -         75,000
;. Front-end Fee                         199,507                  -                           199,507
SUB-TO1'AL    4,899,609  1,785,608    830,801  176,800  17,.505  7,871,363
.. Unallocated                                                                                128,637
*4*.            TOTAL                                                              8,000,000



-42-
ANFEX *L-
WB - Assisted Philippine Pecroletn
Exploration Promotion Project
GOP Counterpart
CY 1983 - 987
1983       1984                  1986       1987       TOTAL
A. Nersonal Services
100-10 C:;traccual Serv.   P   4,230     26,503    131,122       _          -        161,855
Honoraria             105.300    151.700    161.650       -       113,000     531.650
Total Personal Serv.   P 109.530    178.203    292.772       -       113.000     693.505
B. Maintenance and Other
OeeraSi; Esfin8es
200-02 Travelling Esp.    1 672,539    299,521    247,500      45,435     83,470   1,348,465
03 CountmatiLn
Services               433      6,181     14,217      3,541      2,683      27,055
)5 Trasportacio
*         Services            10,949     14,098      1,515       -       900,000     926,562
'J6 Other Services        14,103     35,196     92,116     18,466    11,339      171,220
07 Supplie gut
Materials          286,050    275,589  1.155,255    142,940      1,654   1,861,488
O Renc                     -           -           147       -         -             147
17-100 M & R of Mocar
Vehicles             2,129      4,300         28        313        112       6,882
17-200 Aucoparts               -          -        16,828      13,522     9,649       39,999
17-300 Gasoline and Oil       8.350     20,799      30,616      6,932     4,987       71,684
21 Taxes and Licenses  3,962.100  2,535,952  1.802.956    134.130   .101.310   8.536,448
Total HOOL           P456.653  3.191.636  3.361.178    365.279  1.115,204  12.989,950
OO-33 Equipment Ouclay   P1.427.431      -      1,354.730      -          -       2.782.161
TOMAL (CASH)       P6.493.614  3.369.839  5.008.680    365.279  1.228.204  16.465.616
Salarias(in-klnd)  P  348.629    949.699  1.146.604    693.292  1.128.904   4,267.128
..A£i TOTAL       06,842,243  4,319,538  6,155,284  1,058,571  2,357,108  20,732,744
'C,



S 4311
M AT III
STATIISICA. WUSTIaTOa
1.  iUlatud ha  Low  for  hllmlt of Enr  hswrce
*  LoaM                                    Year of
Title a a.               PrM                 aprwval                Stats                Coets
Coal Ekplorstial       Esplorlng for           FY  Q2           Coploed              Ruew     prod,
2131-F                 cot                                                           bt dfticult to
deelop
6eotli                 Explo  io   N           F  192           Compled              Stm  fod for
Exploration12203P-     and Luo  for steam                         cemr 1             delomt
Pmrol                  attract oil             FY 19            Completed             il Coa is
Exploratim/2202-       ampies                                   Deceer 199           attruted
ic flanito            PFor supply to           FT 19            Lm effectie          Prngr    just
Beotherl Pm             uo a apprail of                         fm  Doecmr 19    comced
Project2M"             getheml fields



-44-
2. Project Timetable
Item                Dte Pl_d            Date RVised          "te Actul
-idetifiation $
(Executive
Project gamay)    Late 161                                   Late 19
-Pr atin             Late 19U                                 Late  M1
-A_risal-.            Febr,  1962                             Ferury, 1912
-Lu negotiation      July, 192                                July, 1932
-oad Appovll         $"t wr, 19                               Septem      , 16t2
-Loan    U re          ctor, 1962                             ctobr 28, 192
-Loa Closing         Dm     3, 196   Dcmb  31,6    Demab  31, 1967
-Completion  wot   Jun 30, 197            Dcmbr 31, 191  bDcmr 31, 19
Notes s  o pecise date can be fixed for  Identification  I 'Preration'.
0  ad prepre  pln  for a nationside eismic suey i Nay 1981.
After reieing the lE  plan, a Ink mision  recuoud    that ae-
mgtic suv   be uW tda   follow    by slected sitsic enwra.
and interprettio.  The presi   of the EI  rew t for a Ioam
apas to hav  be  done  speditisly tbro   vario  stge  with
the lon bmg    ffectiv" on a u 26, 1963. The qmpltio
eport as delaed with a vie  to asetaining the repon  of the
oil Cowanies to the eploration promotion.
SS To he revised is to Wm  it is actully snt.



o   i   p .  p.  * 0   I!£ w .
_.~~~~~~            



- 46 -
4.  Project Ioplumtation
ledicatws          Appraisl Estiate          Actal           I Futil.t
Aw_edqtic
-K ilmtes                 1,000                215,04                  1n
Offshore seismic
=Kilometers                 8,40                 9,104                 108
asin Evolution
A-m        et bsins            15                    15                100



pr
- 47 -
S.  Proect Costs ad Fiacicu
As Projet Costs
Apraisl Estlote    Reisd Estiats              ktul
----   000-    _5s= 400-                 _s 000
Locl Foign Totl Loaul Forei   Total Lal Foeign Total
Aermapetic Suve          420   33   420      241  27    30    473        0
a/
Off ore Seimic SurvW    40   M        7      214  245  2701       7   2416  291
survey Supevlsiu
Aerusag                20    10   200      54   233   339      41   29   360
Gfflmresiseic          10     40    70     14   99   114        8   104   112
TraIing                10     30    40      2    24    23      14    49    95
sai  ealuatio
c    ltats             50     00   O      115  1163  12       200  1349  154
Local cota ts          o           1i0    83           03    201          201
Suppot pirsmne
Sevic              5L0    140   490    390   140   520    34    135  531
Promutl   activity                                            10025   385
ga  cost                1910  11040 1295    1109   95   8063   1680   57  927
--yiCal contIngnc   270   120  1470    321   447  7i
Pric  cotingnq        300    00I  1350    179   114   295
Total Project CoSt      2400  13290 15770   10   7517  9124   1430  75M   9247
frt EndFee                   200   200          200   200           200   200
TOTAL.                  2430  13490 1I97    1     7717  932    1. 10  17  9447
bt s
fSdcmp rate usd         Aprailas            Rvised Estsutes  ktual:  As prviled
P9.3/SI             199s  P11.5/1S
1994183s Pt4/91
Al inclde  cost of interpetatios
bl actul inelud   40,000, E0s contribution to wisic pro.
csI     amputr  acter in scdap  for pocesn   ED- g020
km. of oftfst  simic data.
Com tss Nest comitaUts haing  em  .ui by  ctod   193, prject
mats we rvisd at that tin.



.                                    I                    I~I
~0 
PU3b{  SW            -



51.f   1   15'11  
I~~ *1111l2 



I                                          a
I
j          t
:1                                          6O
U'
4.                                                              i
I
.1                                        .1
'a.                                       I       - k
-.                 4'
-                       S
3
qd
.1
I



- 51 -
7.  Sats ot Cmats
Dsadlla for
Covsat                Subject           c1umliue              Status
SKUtiM 3.02(b)        Auiotmt of            Jowl 1,1"3    DM  is Nay 1
multash for
bas  evaluation
sectis 3.06(a)        Onlop plan fa          Compliud  ith
*                                 ~~~~~~~prutlon cmpaign
by humw   11
and periudically
uate it



- 52 -
B.  he of   t Reoce fw Ln 2201
As Staff lputs
Stag of               Plasnd            Rvisd              Final
Project Cycle         m       Field      He      Field      He       Field        Commts
-Staf~~taf VMeSs
(CuObbd)
Through AWpril                                                      0.7
Arwaisal throug
hard Apprvl                       2..2
NIT  AVAILAILE
bard Aprval
togbh Effectivems                                                 3.6
Supervisio                                                         5.5
TUTII.                                                           95.0



-53-
Stap of        Nuthi Nuu at    Days in  Sjiul  istiu   Pcrforuaco               type of
Project Cyde       Yar   pea             field   nWe m  sted 11  atlq status2/ prbem  31
T6VoUII Appraisal
Appraisal urough                                        Ot VAILAUE
howd AWpval
hard Approal
rtbab Eftectimes
Srvistom
Sovsis I               H/52    2             1.5      A,d                    I
s0pvislm 2             Q2u      3            4         a,b,e                 2             f
Spuvisiom   3          10H33    3            4         a,b,c                 1
Supervisimn 4            5/"M   3            5         a,b,c                 I
S- rvisiem 5           11/84    3            5         a,b,c                 1
Supevlsl  6            0515   3              6         a,b,c                 I
Spqvisio I             05136    2            5         a,c                   1
Supeilsion             @ 031/   1            1         b                     1
11 a- Eeonomist, b- Ueopyihcist, c- Iuologist, d- Fiancial Analyst
e- Proruut Specialist
21  1- Pole  fre  or uwr, 2- ldeate problm
31 F- Financials  ID3 ha  a temporay probeim of Govt. budget rela .



'a.~~~~~~~
,~~ 1t11
-t~ ~                 t 
tt    t  ]  }t 



I
MAP SECTION
i
II
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



IBRD 16361
-  i       -                                                                       APRIL 1982
CHINA                                       12o                                          PHIL IPPINES
OIL EXPLORATION AREAS
AND SEDIMENTARY BASINS
VIET NAM         PHILIPPINES    -20
VW)=n                                                  CMSERVICE CONTRACTS               3  G0YSCAL CONTRACTS
(Idtiina and Seisnic Studies):
_   gdonve                _                                 1. PHIlLIPS (494,537 h@,)       A. PHtLLIPS/PECTEN/PODCO
ESRL*EI                                  /      \        fg;S     F2. SIGNAL S         CHAMPLIN (317.S35ha.)       /PHILODRILL
LAYSIA/                              K                                  3. AMOCO/ MUSKYI863,827hkm)      B. POGEI /LEPANTO
"LAYStA/                                                                       I C w  4. PNOC/P1ONEER SMY1204h533o.)   C. CDCP- Ilo1
Q      F , JSKA7    1   ¢  *     CITIES SERVICE/HUSKY I  D. PNOC-EC - Minduro
t         7         > / / 1362.0913? ha.l  E. SEAFRONT-Cuyp Shelf
INDONESIA                        I                                      6   1  SALENIAMOCO1.1124,000has.)  E AMOCO-Sulu Sea
___.__________________                                                       7. PNOC-EC1276,200 hs.)          G ORIENTAL PETROLEUM
8- BASIC LANOL(OI3436 ha.J      i HUSKY OIL
116                                  ,      s/ a   l       W9. INTERPORT RESOURCES                           I. HUSKY OIL
(220D000 ha)          J. CPC/PNOC-ECfPODCO
S SEDIMENTARY BASINSi              I                                      1a P'LIIUPS/SHELL (500000 has)   K. AMOCO-A Agun - Davos
1. Ntthvun Lutan                                                       II. PHILLIPS/SHELLE AO1,400000has.)    L. ARCOICDCP-Mindoto
12. BASIC/ORiENTAL(94,583 ha.)   MARCOICDCP-8awcra
2. Central Luzons                          I                                                            NPNOC-EC -Catabato
1. tsthmm  Lvzon              {     -_  
4.Sical Shell                                                                            GEOCPHIMCAL PERMITS
16 5.iEcol                                       I                                                                              1  6l
& Samar                           R                                                   AA. PNOC-EC- Calu
7. Peana                                                                              SBI Z/Ma    ilE. PLACER
R. Vin                                                                                CC. PLACER
9. Au   / Davgo
lia Cato                                                                               - 7ntsw-- iena  B anesi
11. Suhu South                      4        Vnwi
12. Palaiwa South
14. Misnd or                                           '3o                                              2             LOMETERS
14. Mindeo                                                                                                           * o  MILES
\ s s~~~
I  '--. .           .N 4-'
o                                    ,                              X             \^^o           o   0/41S
{////w   tt    S    {~~~~~~/$YNS I~ / 
,,,~~~~~~~~~1 I                                          ' jL 
o          ~~PAIAWAIVt 
I' \'    \ N"   
,   12  )                                               -             -           ;  v         \17r
,_~~~~~~~~~ /~~ w                                                         .*-1  W   
If ~  ~      ~       
MAL AYSIA
(So boh)                                                                    *~wrh_Wrsoata
6'                   1t                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12C             112I
.                       .                                          ,}                                           I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



