Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY   FtE    COPY
Report No. P-3297-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
PROPOSED LOANS
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO $37.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES AND THE
PHILIPPINE NATIONAL OIL COMPANY
TO BE GUARANTEED BY THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
September 8, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanee of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Peso (P) (100 centavos)
P 1.00          = US$0.120
US$1.00        = P 8.3
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
BD       -  Barrels per Day
BED      -  Bureau of Energy Development
BOE      -  Barrels of Oil Equivalent
km       -  Kilometer
MMbbls   -  Million barrels
MMBOE    -  Million Barrels of Oil Equivalent
NPC      -  National Power Corporation
ODA      -  Official Development Assistance
PNOC     -  Philippine National Oil Company
PNOC-EC  -  PNOC Exploration Corporation
PNOC-EDI - PNOC Energy Drilling Incorporated
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January 1 to December 31
PNOC         January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrowers:         Republic of the Philippines and
Philippine National Oil Company (PNOC)
Guarantor:         Republic of the Philippines
Beneficiaries:    Bureau of Energy Development (BED) and
PNOC Exploration Corporation (PNOC-EC)
Amount:            $37.5 million equivalent (including capitalized
front-end fee) of which $13.5 million to Republic of
the Philippines and $24.0 million to PNOC.
Terms:             20 years, including 5 years of grace, at 11.6% per annum.
Project
Description:    The primary objectives of the project are the rekindling of
interest of oil companies in exploration for oil and gas in
the Philippines, and the extension of exploration activities
to relatively unexplored onshore areas; strengthening the
exploration capacity and technical capabilities of the two
implementing entities is a further important objective.
BED's proposed program consists of: (a) an aeromagnetic
survey of about 168,000 line km; (b) offshore seismic
surveys of about 8,400 line km; and (c) regional basin
evaluations over 15 onshore and offshore areas integrating
the newly acquired data. The results of this countrywide
assessment of the petroleum prospects in the Philippines,
which would highlight areas where immediate further explora-
tion was warranted, would be assembled in the form of a
promotional package available to any interested oil company.
PNOC's proposed program comprises a step-wise exploration
program in each of three or more onshore areas held by
PNOC-EC and includes: (a) gravity surveys and geological
studies; (b) 4,400 line km of land seismic surveys; (c)
drilling of 6 wells if warranted; and (d) technical assis-
tance, training and seismic data reprocessing. PNOC-EC
would seek private sector participation at appropriate
points in the course of implementing its exploration
program, by inviting oil companies to form joint ventures
to continue/expand activities in an area.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
'Chances are good that, as a result of the proposed
project, exploration interest in the Philippines would
pick up significantly. BED's basin evaluation program, to
be completed by 1985, would enable the oil companies to
focus on well-defined prospective areas without a prior
major evaluation effort on their part. Once PNOC-EC's
1982-85 exploration program is fully under way, its
operations are likely to attract joint venture partners,
and there is a fair chance that a cluster of oil/gas
fields similar to northwest Palawan will be discovered.
Close monitoring of project activities by the Bank and
implementing entities with regard to the timeliness and
quality of the results is planned to minimize the risks of
falling behind schedule and of drilling structures which
are not fully evaluated. Moreover, the step-wise nature
of the project helps to ensure minimum investment of time
and money in areas which subsequently prove to be
uninteresting. The risks of finding that no case can be
made for further exploration in the Philippines or of
finding no oil/gas, while certainly present, are
considered small.



- iii -
Cost Estimate:                              Local/a    Foreign        Total
--$ Million-----
BED Component
Aeromagnetic survey                      0.4          3.8          4.2
Offshore seismic survey                  0.6          6.1          6.7
Regional basin evaluation                0.9          1.1          2.0
Base cost                              1.9         11.0         12.9
Physical contingencies                   0.3          1.2          1.5
Price contingencies                      0.3          1.1          1.4
Total Component Cost                2.5         13.3         1L5.8
Front-end Fee                            -            0.2          0.2
Total Financing Required
for BED Component                 2.5        13.5         [L6.0
PNDC Component
Geological studies                       0.4          0.2          0.6
Gravity surveys                          0.2          -            0.2
Land seismic surveys                    14.5          9.6         24.1
Exploration drilling                     5.4          8.0         13.4
Technical assistance                     -            0.9          0.9
Base cost                            20.5         18.7         39.2
Physical contingencies                   3.3          3.4          6.7
Price contingencies                      4.2          3.5          7.7
Total Component Cost               28.0         25.6        53.6
Front-End Fee                            -            0.4          0.4
Total Financing Required
for PNOC Component               28.0        26.0         54.0
Total Project Cost                 30.5         38.9        69.4
Total Financing Required           30.5         39.5        70.0
/a Includes taxes of about $2.7 million.



- iv -
Financing Plan:                                Local       Foreign       Total
----------$ Million----------
World Bank Loan
to Government                                           13.5         13.5
to PNOC                                    -            24.0         24.0
Government                                    2.5          -            2.5
PNOC                                        28.0           2.0         30.0
Total                                  30.5         39.5          70.0
Estimated Disbursements:           Bank FY   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
------------$ Million…----------
Annual
Government loan                            2.8    7.9    2.8    -         -
PNOC loan                                  2.6    7.0    7.5    5.5    1.4
Cumulative                                   5.4   20.3   30.6   36.1   37.5
Rate of Return:    Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:  No separate report.
Maps:  IBRD 16361, April 1982
IBRD 16360, April 1982



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON PROPOSED LOANS
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
AND THE PHILIPPINE NATIONAL OIL COMPANY
TO BE GUARANTEED BY THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on proposed loans
to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $13.5 million and
to the Philippine National Oil Company (PNOC), to be guaranteed by the
Republic of the Philippines, for the equivalent of $24.0 million, to help
finance a petroleum exploration promotion project. The loans would have
terms of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 11.6% per
annum. $23.6 million of the PNOC loan proceeds would be passed on by PNOC
to PNOC Exploration Corporation as an equity contribution.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic report, entitled "The Philippines:  Selected Issues
for the 1983-87 Plan" (No. 3861-PH), was distributed to the Executive
Directors under SecM82-542, dated June 16, 1982. A special report, "Aspects
of Poverty in the Philippines: A Review and Assessment" (No. 2984-PH), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on December 1, 1980 under SecM80-919.
Country data are given in Annex 1.
Performance in the 1970s
3.        During the 1970s, economic performance improved considerably,
raising the trend GNP growth rate to 6% at the end of the decade. The ratio
of fixed iLnvestment to GNP rose from 16% to 25% during this period. Half of
this increase was in the public sector; the ratio of public fixed investment
to GNP rose from 1.5% to 6.5% during the decade, reflecting substantially
expanded revenues and improved implementation capacity. Export growth was
accelerated, particularly in nontraditional manufactures, while growth in
imports of: oil and consumer goods was restrained. Overall, expansion in
/1 This section is substantially the same as that contained in the
President's Report for the Vocational Training Project which was
distributed to the Executive Directors on September 1, 1982.



-2-
agricultural production was quite rapid, and rice deficits were eliminated
in the second half of the decade. Population growth slowed in the 1970s.
However, the economy still has a number of structural problems. Most
importantly, the efficiency of investment has been low, particularly in
manufacturing industry producing for the domestic market; industrial
employment has not expanded rapidly enough; and poverty is still widespread.
4.         The economy's structural problems are reflected in its balance of
payments. Improvements achieved in the early 1970s were more than offset
by a sharp deterioration of the Philippines' terms of trade since 1975,
stemming from the oil price increases, accelerated international inflation,
and depressed prices for major export commodities. Consequently, the
Philippines has had to rely heavily on foreign borrowings to finance the
imports needed to maintain growth and investment levels. To hold the
external deficit at a sustainable level in the coming years, additional
structural adjustments in the balance of payments will have to be achieved,
primarily through reduced dependence on imported oil, increased efficiency
of investment, and improved performance of the industrial sector.
Development Strategy
5.         The Government's Development Plan for 1978-82 has as objectives
the rapid expansion of productive employment; improvements in economic,
social and regional equity; and provision for the basic needs of the popu-
lation. The agricultural strategy emphasizes food production, crop diver-
sification, and stronger linkages with processing industries. The indus-
trial strategy calls for promotion of export industries, development of
small- and medium-scale industries, regional dispersion of industrial
growth, increased efficiency of investment, and selected large-scale pro-
jects. The Plan includes social development targets in education, housing,
health, and family planning. In addition, the Plan outlines development
strategies for each of the country's 13 regions. A recently completed Food
and Nutrition Plan, which complements the Development Plan, aims at elimin-
ating malnutrition by 1990 through increased food production and nutrition
programs.
6.         The Development Plan elaborates the policy directions pursued by
the Government in recent years and is broadly in line with the Bank's
assessment of the country's development priorities. In view of changes in
the international economy, the Government has, in 1980, adjusted the Plan
and revised the growth targets downwards. A Development Plan for 1983-87
is now under preparation.
Macro Issues for the 1980s
7.         As noted above, the Philippines faces several fundamental long-
standing development problems which will need increased attention during the
1980s. The four most important of these are reduction of population growth,
poverty alleviation, employment generation, and increased efficiency of
investment.



- 3 -
8.         Population Growth.  The Philippines has achieved an impressive
reduction in population growth from 3% in 1970 to about 2.5% in 1980./i
Nevertheless, rapid population growth is still straining available land
resources, aggravating already serious employment and poverty problems, and
burdening the public budget with a high growth in demand for basic public
services. Further reduction of population growth is, therefore, vital for
the country's development. The Philippines has an active family planning
program which has expanded rapidly during the 1970s. However, participation
in the family planning program is still low by East Asian standards, and the
number of new acceptors has reached a plateau as the program has faced the
increasingly difficult problem of extending into rural areas.
9.         Poverty Alleviation.  Despite satisfactory economic growth during
the 1970s, the incidence of poverty remains around 40%. Income distribution
continues to be very skewed, and a small elite is conspicuously wealthy.
Regional disparities remain pronounced, with the incidence of poverty
reaching 60-70% in the least developed regions. Large numbers of people,
especially in the rural areas, still suffer from malnutrition and lack safe
water, basic education and health facilities. An increasingly unfavorable
man/land ratio, the resulting expansion of cultivation into marginal lands,
limited employment opportunities in the industrial sector, and the sharp
deterioration in the external terms of trade have put downward pressure on
real incomes. Although the Government instituted several programs during
the 1970s that should directly improve the lives of the poor, most of these
were implemented on a large scale only toward the end of the decade, and
will require several years to achieve a marked impact. Key steps needed to
alleviate poverty will be the development of rainfed agriculture, more
balanced regional development, rapid expansion of manufacturing employment,
continued improvement in basic public services, and further-reduction of
population growth.
10.        Employment Generation.  Growth of productive employment, partic-
ularly in the industrial sector, has lagged behind the rapid expansion of
the labor force, and considerable underemployment exists. During the 1970s,
the agriculture and service sectors had to absorb an excessively high
proportion of new entrants to the labor force.  Manufacturing employment
4        stagnated in the first half of the decade, and picked up only slightly
thereafter as labor-intensive export production grew. Overseas employment,
especially in the Middle East, increased rapidly, providing a temporary
income opportunity. As the absorptive capacity of the agricultural sector
is limite!d, employment generation in manufacturing will have to increase
considerably in the 1980s.
11.        Efficiency of Investment.  While private and public investment
rose sharply during the last decade and have reached reasonable levels, the
/1 This figure is based on a more recent survey than the data in Aknex I.



- 4 -
accompanying expansion of the economy's real output has been relatively low.
In addition, the low rate of industrial job creation indicates that, on
average, investment has not been labor-intensive enough. The low efficiency
and low labor-intensity of investment have been caused by the distortive
effects of past trade, industrial, and financial policies on the allocation
of capital. In view of tight resource constraints to be faced in the 1980s,
the efficiency and labor-intensity of investment will be critical determin-
ants of future growth in output and employment.
Sectoral Issues
12.       The Philippines' macro-economic performance reflects achievements
and problems at the sectoral level. The more important of these are
summarized below for the agricultural, industrial, and energy sectors.
13.       Agriculture and Rural Development.  Although there has been con-
siderable variation among subsectors, the trend growth rate of the agricul-
ture, fishery, and forestry sector was about 5% during the 1970s, which is
quite high by international standards. The Philippines, once a chronic
importer of rice, began to export modest quantities in 1977, and rice self-
sufficiency appears assured for the 1980s. Production of fish and non-
traditional export crops, such as bananas and coffee, has also expanded
rapidly. However, the development of rainfed agriculture, which is of
critical importance for raising the incomes of the rural poor, has lagged
behind.  Technologies to increase yields of corn have been developed only
recently, while multiple cropping systems are still at an early stage of
development. Productivity in the important coconut export sector remains
low because the recently introduced program to replace overage trees has not
yet attained rapid progress. Furthermore, population pressure on the arable
land is steadily increasing, and soil erosion in hilly areas that have been
logged over or settled is a serious problem.
14.       The Government has provided substantial support for rural develop-
ment. Agricultural production has benefitted from the introduction of high-
yielding varieties, improved credit, extension, and irrigation programs.
Rural infrastructure programs in water supply, electrification and health
services have also been expanded significantly. An agrarian reform of rice
and corn land, instituted in 1972, is well advanced.
15.       While these programs have achieved considerable improvements  the
gains have been uneven among regions, crops, and farming systems. Difficult
issues remain to be addressed if the living conditions of the rural poor are
to be improved. Solutions to the interrelated problems of low incomes and
poor soils in marginal settlements will require the development of tree
cropping and mixed farming technologies, resolution of land tenure ques-
tions, and substantial upgrading of the administrative capability of the
agencies concerned. Steps are also needed to reduce poverty among subsis-
tence fishermen, coconut farmers, and sugar cane workers.



16.        Industry.  Although industrial and trade policies were improved in
the early 1970s, manufacturing industry grew only at about the same rate as
GDP, and its growth pattern remained unsatisfactory during the decade.
Excessive protection and artificially low cost of capital have led to low
efficiency of investment and stagnation of manufacturing employment in
industries producing for the domestic market.  The introduction of export
promotion measures in the early 1970s led to extremely rapid growth in
exports of nontraditional manufactures, which rose from about $50 million in
1970 to $2.6 billion in 1981. Nontraditional manufactures now account for
over one-third of the country's total exports. However, the export expan-
sion has been concentrated on a few items, and backward linkages with the
rest of the economy have been limited due to the high cost and low quality
of domestic inputs. Consequently, nontraditional manufacturing export
industries have developed as an outward-looking enclave in an otherwise
heavily protected economy.
17.        The objectives of the Government's industrial policy are to accel-
erate growth of output and employment, sustain the high growth of manufac-
tured exports, reduce import dependence of domestic industry, improve the
efficiency of investment, and promote industrial development outside the
M4anila area. Since industries producing for the domestic market still
account for more than 80% of manufacturing investment, output, and employ-
ment, restructuring of home industries as well as continued export expansion
are needed to achieve these objectives. In 1979, the Government initiated a
series of fundamental policy reforms designed to improve the performance of
the indLustrial sector.   The first phase of the reform program, which is
currently being implemented, focuses on reducing protection through tariff
reform and liberalization of import licensing as well as strengthening
export promotion. The Government is preparing a second phase of reforms
that will address shortcomings in the industrial incentives and promotion
system.
18.       Energy.  Another sector critical for the success of the
Philippines' structural adjustment effort is the energy sector. Since the
1973-74 oil price increase, the Philippines has made a considerable effort
to reduce its dependence on imported oil. The Government has not only
passed on oil price increases to consumers, but has also increased taxes
and levies on oil products with the result that domestic oil prices are
considerably above import parity. These price increases, combined with
direct conservation measures, resulted in a reduction of commercial energy
consumption in 1980 and 1981.  Steps to increase and diversify domestic
energy supply have also continued and include the development of hydro-
electric, geothermal, coal, and nuclear energy. Limited domestic petroleum
production also began in 1979. However, due to the long gestation period of
energy projects, domestic energy production still constituted only 16% of
total commercial energy consumption in 1980. In response to the "second oil
crisis", the Government is accelerating its program for domestic energy
production, but further taxing and pricing initiatives will also be needed
to restrain demand.



- 6 -
Domestic Resource Mobilization and Allocation
19.       Domestic Savings and the Financial Sector.  During the 1970s,
gross national savings expanded considerably, reaching 22.5% of GNP and
financing about 80% of total investment. However, the savings ratio needs
to rise by another 2-3% of GNP in order to maintain investment levels while
simultaneously limiting the current account deficit and the country's
reliance on foreign savings. In addition, interest rates and other finan-
cial incentives affecting the labor-intensity and efficiency of investment,
the flexibility and competitiveness of the financial system, and the
maturity of lending all needed to be increased. Hence, in 1980-81 the
Government introduced a comprehensive set of financial reforms. Interest
rates are being substantially decontrolled and revised monetary, fiscal,
and rediscount policies are being introduced. Legislation to encourage
multipurpose banking has also been adopted to reduce the present excessive
specialization and fragmentation of the financial system and to increase
competition.
20.       Public Finance.  During the 1970s, the Government raised the over-
all level of public expenditures by 5% of GNP and increased the shares going
to economic services and investment. At the end of the decade, total
government expenditures had reached 18% of GNP, with public investment
equalling 6.5% of GNP. The expansion of public expenditures has made
possible improvements in basic infrastructure, particularly in transporta-
tion, power and irrigation, as well as expanded programs in urban develop-
ment, health and family planning. At present, the size of the public
investment program is appropriate, and its composition is, with a few
exceptions, broadly consistent with the country's development priorities.
21.       In the last few years, however, public investment has been cons-
trained by the availability of resources, outdated contracting regulations
and rigid budget execution procedures which were introduced in anticipation
of a tight revenue situation. Problems were particularly acute during the
period of high inflation in 1979 and 1980, and they caused the Government
actually to underspend its capital budget. As resource constraints are
likely to remain tight during the 1980s, further strengthening of investment
programming and budgeting procedures will be needed to concentrate resources
on the highest priority projects.
22.       The rapid expansion of public expenditures has been made possible              f
by a program of systematic tax reform. The proportion of revenue coming
from domestic taxes has been raised through increases in indirect taxes and
improved collection, thus reducing dependence on cyclically volatile taxes
on international trade. The tax ratio was raised by three percentage points
to 13.3% of GNP during the decade, but has remained about constant in the
last few years. Continuation of a strong revenue effort, both by the
Government and government corporations, will be necessary to finance further
expansion in infrastructure and social services. Further tax reforms are



needed to raise the elasticity of the revenue system, to improve its equity
by increasing the proportion of revenue coming from direct taxes, and to
eliminate remaining distortions in economic incentives.
Balance of Payments Adjustment and External Capital Requirements
23.        The 1979-80 oil price increase has considerably tightened the
long-term balance of payments constraints for the Philippines. The share of
oil in total merchandise imports increased from 12% in the early 1970s to
30% in 1981. The current account deficit widened to $2.3 billion in 1981,
equivalent to 6% of GNP.  If growth and investment rates are to be main-
tained, accelerated structural adjustments in the economy and the balance of
payments have become essential to hold the external deficit at a sustainable
level. Considerable reforms have already been introduced with respect to
trade, industrial, and financial policies (see paras. 17 and 19), and
improvements are under consideration in energy policy. Additional policy
measures will be needed in these areas as well as resource mobilization and
investment programming. Implementation of necessary adjustment measures
should make it possible to sustain economic growth at 6.0-6.5%, mainly
through improved performance of the industrial sector. However, policy
measures will require a number of years to effect the needed structural
improvement in the balance of payments. The current account deficit,
therefore, is expected to remain in the range of $2.0-2.5 billion annually
during the first half of the 1980s, while declining in relative terms to
about 4% of GNP by the mid-1980s.
24.       The Philippines raised its external borrowing sharply to finance
the balance of payments deficits incurred after the 1973-74 oil price
increase. During the second half of the 1970s, net disbursements from
medium- and long-term loans doubled to $1.2 billion in 1980 and the debt
service ratio stood at 20% in 1981. Substantial additional foreign capital
will be needed during the period of adjustment to the 1979-80 oil price
increase, and net disbursements from medium- and long-term loans will have
to double again in the next five years. If the Philippines can sustain the
strong export performance of the recent past, the debt service ratio would
remain at about 20%.
25.       Official sources are expected to provide about 43% of the
Philippines' gross external capital in the early 1980s. The last Consulta-
tive Group Meeting, held in June 1982, agreed that it would be reasonable
for the Philippines to seek official development assistance (ODA) of about
$1.2 billion during 1983, similar to ODA commitments sought for 1982.
26.       As noted above, progress has been made in domestic resource
mobilization. However, because the deterioration in the terms of trade has
increased the Philippines' external financing requirements, and many
projects planned for ODA have low foreign exchange costs, the necessary
resource transfer can be achieved only through some financing of local costs
of projects and non-project lending.



- 8-
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS /1
27.       As of March 31, 1982 the Philippines had received 78 Bank loans (of
which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $2,967.55 million and six
IDA credits amounting to $122.2 million. IFC investments totalled $143.8 mil-
lion. The share of the Bank Group in total debt disbursed and outstanding is
currently about 11%, and its share in total debt service is about 8%. These
ratios are expected to be about 18% and 12%, respectively, by 1985.  Annex II
contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans, and IFC investments as of
March 31, 1982 as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
28.        The volume of World Bank lending to the Philippines has increased
substantially from an average of about $90 million per year in FY71-75 to an
average of $450 million per year in FY78-82. Although the Bank has financed
projects in virtually all sectors of the economy, particular emphasis has been
given to agriculture, which has accounted for more than one-third of total
Bank/ IDA lending. Another fifth of Bank lending has been for the transpor-
tation sector. Lending for power, industry, and social sectors followed in
declining order of size. The sectoral allocation of Bank lending remained
fairly stable throughout the 1970s. Pronounced changes took place only within
infrastructure as lending for transportation and power declined in the second
half of the 1970s, while lending for water supply and urban development was
initiated during this period.
29.        Within sectors, however, considerable changes have taken place in
Bank lending. In agriculture, lending initially focused on expanding the
irrigation system, credit programs, and other services to support rice produc-
tion. More recently, efforts have been made to diversify agricultural produc-
tion through loans for treecrops, livestock, and fisheries, and to assist low-
income areas through integrated rural development projects. In the industrial
and financial sectors, the Bank initially concentrated on strengthening indi-
vidual development finance institutions and on providing for the credit needs
of small and medium industries. In the last two years, however, industrial
and financial lending has been broadened to support the implementation of
needed policy reforms. A structural adjustment loan was made in September
1980 in support of trade and industrial reforms. Improvements in financial
sector policies were the basis for the May 1981 Industrial Finance Loan, which
also introduced a new institutional concept to broaden the reach of Bank
lending by channelling loans through an "apex" unit in the Central Bank.
30.       While overall implementation of Bank-financed projects in the
Philippines has been satisfactory, disbursements have been slower than anti-
cipated. The disbursement ratio (amount disbursed during the fiscal year as
compared to the total undisbursed at the beginning of the fiscal year)
declined marginally from about 18% in FY78 to about 16.7% in FY82./2 The
/1 This section is substantially the same as that contained in the Presi-
dent's Report for the Vocational Training Project which was distributed to
the Executive Directors on September 1, 1982.
/2 Excludes disbursements under the first Structural Adjustment Loan. If
included, the ratio increases to 21.8%.



- 9 -
Bank-wide average was 21.5% in FY82; the comparable ratios for Thailand
and Morocco were 24.4% and 13.7% respectively in the same year./l  Implemen-
tation problems increased in the late 1970s, reflecting. in part, adminis-
trative problems caused by high inflation and tight budget constraints
(para. 21). They also result from the changes in the scope of the Bank's
lending operations: a substantial increase in the number of projects, new
areas of lending, an emphasis on institution-building, and efforts to reach
specific target groups and deprived regions have all made implementation a
more demanding task than in the past. The first project implementation review
was held in May 1980, at which time, among other issues, the relatively poor
disbursement performance was discussed. Steps were subsequently taken to
correct some of the administrative problems which were delaying implementa-
tion. A second review, held in February 1982, provided a useful follow-up and
exchange of views on problems still being experienced in project implementa-
tion. During the February review, the Government and the Bank agreed that
similar reviews would be held in future on a regular basis.
31.       The Bank's future lending program has been designed to assist in
achieving the major objectives of the Government's Development Plan (para. 5).
Particular emphasis is being given to supporting poverty alleviation efforts
and to bringing about needed structural adjustments in the economy. Economic
and sector work is being closely integrated with lending operations. Future
project, sector, and structural adjustment loans will address the wide variety
of technical, institutional, and policy issues facing the Philippines.
Additional structural adjustment loans are planned to support further policy
reforms in trade, industry, energy and other key sectors. In sectoral terms,
agriculture and rural development will continue to account for the largest
share of lending, with emphasis on food production and programs to increase
the incomes of the rural poor. Substantial assistance will be given to
industry through further subsector loans aimed at restructuring or developing
specific subsectors; through increased financial and technical assistance to
small and medium industries, particularly outside the Metro-Manila area; and
through continued industrial finance projects utilizing the recently intro-
duced "apex" concept. Increased support is also planned to develop domestic
energy retsources and to strengthen the institutions responsible for developing
and managing energy supplies. The Bank's support for projects in edlucation,
water supply, urban development and, possibly, health and family planning,
will aim at improving basic services and creating employment, particularly in
less advanced areas of the country.
32.       This is the second loan to the Philippines to be presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year. Loans for rubber development, rural
water supply, regional cities development and agricultural credit and a second
structural adjustment loan have been appraised and are scheduled for Board
presentation in the coming months.
/1 Thailand and Morocco are useful as comparators as they have similar
per capita income levels and Bank Group lending programs.



- 10 -
PART III - ENERGY SECTOR /1
Introduction
33.       For many years the Philippine energy situation was characterized
by a heavy dependence on imported oil and limited activity in exploration
and development of indigenous energy resources. At the same time, its
relatively low energy consumption per capita grew at a rapid pace in line
with urbanization and industrialization. In the wake of the 1973 oil crisis,
the Government moved promptly to reduce the country's dependence on imports
by increasing the efficiency of energy use through domestic pricing policies
among other means, by initiating measures such as investment incentives to
stimulate the discovery and development of the country's energy endowment in
hydro, geothermal and coal and by strengthening and improving coordination
among national energy agencies. This strategy has already been successful
in reducing oil consumption per unit of output, improving the knowledge of
the country's potential and developing alternatives to imported oil.
34.       Oil imports in 1981, nevertheless, were about 30% of total
imported goods, having grown from 12% in 1973. The value of oil imports was
about US$2.4 billion, amounting to about 30% of foreign exchange earnings.
Within commercial energy use (about 88 million barrels of oil equivalent
(MMBOE) in 1980), oil accounted for 88% of consumption, and 95% of this came
from imports; hydropower supplied 7% of commercial energy needs, geothermal
power, not in use a few years ago, 4%, and coal only 1%. Within the
Government's framework of existing policies, therefore, it is clear that
much remains to be done to promote exploration and develop further a
rational strategy for a countrywide search for energy resources, to rank
priorities in capital-intensive developments given the scarcity and high
cost of capital and to rationalize the structure of domestic prices.
Energy Context
35.       Energy Consumption.  Despite the rapid growth of commercial energy
consumption over the past two decades, per capita commercial energy use in the
Philippines at about 1.8 BOE in 1980 was still only about 30% of that for
countries at similar income levels and only about 5% of the average for
industrialized countries. Before 1973, the growth rate of commercial energy
consumption averaged about twice that of the economy (GDP), which was growing
at over 5% per year. Since 1973, the situation has changed substantially.
During 1975-79, commercial energy consumption and GDP increased at 5.6% and
6.6% per annum, respectively; energy consumption estimates for 1980 and 1981
show a decline in total energy use. Industry and transportation are the
/1 Additional information on the energy sector is given in the report
entitled "Philippines: Energy Sector Survey" (February 12, 1982,
Report No. 3199a-PH), based on the findings of a joint World Bank/
Asian Development Bank mission in April-May 1980.



- 11 -
major energy consumers, accounting for about 80% of commercial energy con-
sumption in recent years. Since 1975, there have been important changes in
the sectoral pattern of energy use, with the share of industry rising and that
of transport declining. High gasoline prices have generally restrained con-
sumption growth in the transport sector; however, in the industrial and power
generation sectors, despite a moderation of past trends, energy consumption
has continued to grow at a fairly rapid rate. Electricity consumption has
been growing at about twice the rate of overall commercial energy consumption,
with industrial users accounting for about half of the electricity sales.
36.       Domestic Energy Resources.  The Philippines has substantial and
largely undeveloped energy resources, but on the basis of the present
knowledge of its resource potential, it is unlikely that it will ever become
self-sufficient in energy. Nearly a third of primary energy consumption comes
from noncommercial sources, mostly firewood and bagasse. Accelerated efforts
to develop its indigenous resources and reduce the country's depenidence on
imported oil started after 1973, and their impact is beginning to be felt.
The share of imported petroleum in commercial energy supply has decreased from
an average of 94% in the mid-1970s to 84% in 1980-81. This decline is attri-
butable to the initiation of production in the first commercial domestic oil
fields, growth of hydroelectric capacity, and recent commissioning of geo-
thermal power plants. The Government's present plan is to bring the propor-
tion of indigenous resources to about 45% of commercial energy supply by 1986
(coal 11%, geothermal 13.5%, hydro 13%, oil 0.5%, nuclear 4.5%, anid nonconven-
tional 2.5%); imported oil (45%) and coal (10%) would comprise the remaining
supply. Although some of these targets are overly ambitious and are unlikely
to be met, the policies are on the right lines and the actual exploration and
developiment work is proceeding well, leading toward a continuing rteduction in
the share of imported oil in the country's energy supply.
37.       Institutional Framework.  In October 1977, Presidential Decree
No. 1206 (amended in June 1978) established the current organization of the
energy sector in the Philippines and created the Ministry of Energy as the
central policy, planning and regulatory agency in the sector. Line responsi-
bility in the Ministry is vested in two major bureaus: (a) Bureau of Energy
Development (BED), responsible for development of indigenous energy resources
and regulation of local and foreign firms involved in such activities; and (b)
Bureau of Energy Utilization, responsible for regulation of the import,
refining, marketing and distribution of crude oil and petroleum products, and
for the preparation and implementation of energy utilization standards, con-
servation programs and demand and supply forecasts. The Philippines National
Oil Company (PNOC) and National Power Corporation (NPC) are the two major
public c-orporations in the energy sector. They are attached to the Ministry
of Energy for program and policy coordination, and the Minister serves as the
Chairman of their respective Boards. BED and PNOC Exploration Corporation
(PNOC-EC), a subsidiary of PNOC, are the agencies which will implement the
proposed project, the first in the domain of countrywide petroleum exploration
promotion and the second exploration in areas covered by geophysical/service
contracts taken out by PNOC-EC.



- 12 -
38.       Energy Policy.  Energy policy in the Philippines is a mixed
strategy to reduce the country's dependence on imported oil by: (a) diver-
sifying energy sources and developing indigenous resources; and (b) limiting
the growth of consumption of oil-based forms of energy and increasing
efficiency in energy-using activities. The supply strategy includes the
intensification of exploration for indigenous resources, use of hydro-
electric and geothermal energy for power generation, and utilization of coal
in power and industry as a fuel oil substitute. The Government's 1981-86
program also includes experimentation with nonconventional energy sources
and development of pilot projects for resources that have economic
potential; biogas and coco-diesel are the most promising new energies for
commercial use within the next few years. Despite probable delays in
implementation of some of these projects, the share of indigenous energy
supply is expected to increase, although less than the program's targets.
39.       On the demand side, the focus of Government policy has been
energy pricing. Retail prices of all petroleum products are well above
import parity. This policy has contributed to a reduction in consumption
of petroleum products, mostly in the transport sector, to about 72 MMBOE in
1981, the lowest since 1976. Taxes and duties on petroleum products have
generated a substantial amount of revenue which, among other uses, finances
investments in the energy sector. The structure of product prices, how-
ever, does not reflect their relative scarcity (gasoline prices are nearly
double diesel and liquefied petroleum gas prices), and has led to imbalances
between supply and demand of specific products and some uneconomic fuel
substitution which could become serious if the distortions are not correc-
ted. The situation in the power sector is somewhat different. The Govern-
ment has recently embarked on a scheme to increase electricity tariffs each
quarter during the next 18 months; however, the level and structure of both
wholesale and retail tariffs are likely to need still further revision to
meet both cash generation and economic pricing objectives. The Bank expects
to address the Government's energy pricing policies in the context of
future Bank lending. A second component of the demand management strategy
has been the conversion and conservation program. The Government has given
appropriate incentives to accelerate the substitution of coal for fuel oil
in industry, especially cement, and is extending the use of geothermal and
coal in power generation to lessen the use of oil-fired plants. Regarding
conservation, there has been a campaign of information dissemination,
including seminars and courses for industrial managers, and it appears that
many housekeeping improvements to conserve energy have been implemented.
Structure of Petroleum Products Consumption
40.       The Philippines produced about 1.5 million barrels (MMbbls) of crude
oil in 1981 and imported another 61 MNbbls for processing in its domestic
refineries; it supplemented this with about 12 MMBOE of imported petroleum
products and exported about 1.5 MMBOE of products. Final consumption of
petroleum products had increased between 1973 and 1979 from 67 to 82 MNBOE,
but by 1981 it had decreased to about 72 MMBOE, and is targetted to continue
falling to about 55 MMBOE by 1986.  The reductions to date can be attributed



- 13 -
to governmental energy policies and the stagnation in economic activity.  The
shares of fuel oil and diesel have been increasing during this period, and
now account for over 70% of consumption (47% and 25%, respectively, in 1981).
After a period of rapid growth in the 1970s, fuel oil consumption fell by
about 10% in the last two years. The high gasoline prices relative to diesel
and liquefied petroleum gas prices have encouraged their substitution
(especially diesel) for gasoline in the transport sector, resulting in diesel
being the only petroleum product for which 1981 consumption increase,d relative
to 1979 (about 5%). At the same time, the structure of demand has increas-
ingly diverged from the maix which the domestic refineries are capable of
producing, resulting in the underutilization of refineries and doubling of net
imports of petroleum products since 1975. The Government has adopted, or is
considering, several remedies to reduce these growing imbalances.  The most
significant to date has been the fuel oil replacement program in power and
industry (para. 39).  Within the refineries, some progress has been made in
operating practices and can be continued through changes in refinery config-
uration to increase diesel yield although there is a limit to such changes
without incurring major investments.  As fuel substitutions increase, refinery
constraints could become an important issue.
Petroleum Geology
41.        The geology of the Philippine archipelago belongs to the most
complicated among the Pacific basins.  Intense structural deformations have
occurred at several intervals in its geological history.  The events which
have given shape to the present diversity took place in late Tertiary times.
Despite this geological variety, it is possible to identify fifteen large
sedimentary basins covering an area in excess of 200,000 square kilcmeters,
about 45% being onshore.  Studies by oil companies and private institutions
have demonstrated that in each basin all geological components needed for the
formation of oil and gas accumulations are present, although wide ranges are
observed both in their quality and quantity.
42.        Surface occurrences of oil and gas as well as tar deposits at many
locations attest to a wide distribution of source rocks which have generated
petroleum.  Some areas, such as Northern Luzon, appear to be gas prone,
whereas iin parts of the Visayas oil rather than gas may have been fonned; in
other areas no such predictions can yet be made. Reservoir rocks are known
from each basin but their composition and quality vary.  Reef limestones in
the northwest Palawan area form good reservoirs, and individual wells
produce at high rates.  In Northern Luzon and the Visayas, reefs also form
an important objective but their reservoir quality varies.  Good sandstone
reservoirs occur in the Palawan area and Mindoro. Sandstone reservoirs in
the remaining basins, while having a wide occurrence, generally contain an
abundance of volcanic material which often reduces their reservoir poten-
tial.  Structures capable of retaining petroleum are plentiful and have been
recognized in each basin. In areas where good seismic data can be obtained,
mapping of these structures poses no particular problem. However, in many
areas, such as the Visayas and Southeastern Luzon, seismic data are often



- 14 -
poor due to technically difficult acquisition, and the geological configura-
tion of petroleum traps is therefore difficult to define. The petroleum
geology of the Philippines is discussed in more detail in Annex IV.
Exploration History
43.       Although the premises for finding oil and gas in the Philippines
remain good, past exploration efforts have met with only limited success. The
archipelago has a long history of sporadic oil exploration dating from the
turn of the century, based principally on the occurrence of numerous oil and
gas seepages throughout the islands. Up to 1950, exploration work remained
limited to relatively small areas which were easily accessible (e.g., Visayas
and Luzon). The early geophysical surveying methods and instruments were also
too crude to give reliable results in this geologically complex area. In the
fifties and sixties, other deterrents, particularly the requirement of 55%
Filipino participation in any exploration concession, kept the large oil
companies from committing exploration funds and entering the country.
44.       An upsurge of exploration took place in the early seventies,
prompted by three factors:  the availability of sophisticated geophysical
tools making possible exploration for small prospects as are common in the
Philippines; the introduction of a modern service contract system (para. 48);
and the first oil crisis. Most of the offshore areas quickly became covered
by service contracts or geophysical contracts taken out by foreign and domes-
tic oil companies. Interest in onshore exploration remained lower due mainly
to difficult access which made operations very costly and time-consuming. A
total of 89 operating contracts have been awarded in the Philippines during
1973-81, 125,000 line kilometers (km) of seismic shot, and 112 wells drilled.
The offshore areas have now been mostly covered by seismic surveys, albeit
with greatly varying grids; seismic coverage is dense around Palawan and in
the Visayas, but is loose in the remaining areas. Exploration drilling has
also been concentrated on offshore Palawan and in the Visayan Sea, where
three-quarters of the exploration wells were drilled in the seventies.
Petroleum Resources and Production
45.       In January 1976, Cities Service Oil Company drilled the Nido-1 well
off the northwest coast of Palawan, which tested around 1,200 barrels per day
(BD) of oil from a limestone reef reservoir of Miocene age. Seven reefal
discoveries offshore northwest Palawan have since been declared commercial,
and existing recoverable reserves are estimated to be on the order of 100
MMbbls. There are indications of perhaps another 50 undrilled prospects in
the area, half of which are expected to be in waters deeper than 200 meters.
Assuming a commercial success ratio of one in three based on experience to
date in the area and recoverable reserves of 10-15 MMbbls per discovery, one
could expect 15 future discoveries, or some 150-225 MMbbls of additional
recoverable reserves. In addition, one conventional anticlinal structure has
been discovered off northwest Palawan which is under test, but it is too early
to speculate about reserves from this discovery and other potential
discoveries in areas other than northwest Palawan.



- 15 -
46.       The Nido complex was placed on production in January 1979.  By
September, oil production had reached 40,000 BD from five wells, but by
October the field started to produce salt water along with the oil; output is
projected to average about 1,400 BD in 1982. Other reefal oil fields discov-
ered since Nido include the Amoco group's Cadlao field which started produc-
tion in August 1981, and the Matinloc cluster (Cities Service group) which is
scheduled to go on production in mid-1982. Assuming these fields to be the
only developments over the next five years, domestic supply would provide on
average only 4% of the country's petroleum needs through the mid-1980s. In
line with the discussion of petroleum resources above, however, it is reason-
able to assume a continuing series of developments of additional discoveries
of the same geological type through the 1980s. Future discoveries, however,
will likely be in deeper waters and geologically more complex structures, and
will thus require considerably more preproduction work before deciding on
their commercial potential. A probable scenario might therefore be two
developments in three years, or an average production rate of about 15,000 BD
(5.5 MMbbls per year), providing on average some 8% of the country's needs
through the mid-1980s.
Future Exploration Prospects
47.       The discoveries to date, while small, do demonstrate that the
geological conditions necessary for the formation of oil and gas accumulations
exist in the Philippines. On the other hand, the many unsuccessful wells in
potentially oil bearing areas also indicate that the distribution cf some
geological parameters, such as source rocks and cap rocks, is not yet fully
understood. After heavy financial outlays, in excess of $650 million for
exploration and development since the early seventies, the oil companies have
become apprehensive about the success of their exploration efforts in the
Philippines. While exploration operations by some international companies
continue, mostly around Palawan, many companies have left the scene, and many
of the areas previously under contract have become free. It could be that
activities in the coming years will decline further, as additional oil
companies decide the geological risks are too high and the chances of finding
profitable oil and gas fields too low when compared with opportunities they
have elsewhere.
Petroleum Legislation and Policy
48.       For over ten years now, the Philippine Government has pursued with
success an imaginative and flexible "open door" policy in attracting private
sector investment to explore for petroleum.  The Oil Exploration and
Development Act (Presidential Decree No. 87), promulgated in 1972, estab-
lishes the main rights and obligations of an oil company to carry out explora-
tion and production operations in the Philippines.  The terms of the Act apply
equally to any contractor, i.e., to foreign and local contractors as well as
the State oil company (PNOC) and joint ventures. Contracts are negotiated,
signed and administered by the Ministry of Energy through its Bureau of Energy
Developrnent.



- 16 -
49.       The basic features of the service contracts entered into by BED for
exploration drilling and production of petroleum are similar to those of the
production-sharing agreements prevailing in Indonesia and Malaysia, as opposed
to the concession agreements in Thailand.  Although details may be negotiated
and variations occur, the contractor in all cases takes all exploration and
development risks, paying all costs and being reimbursed out of a share of
future production (the contractor's take is a maximum of 40% of net income).
This contract is supplemented by two prior contracts for seismic studies: a
geophysical survey contract, an exclusive right to a contract area; and a
geophysical permit, a nonexclusive right to an area.  The oil companies, both
foreign and local, generally consider the contractual arrangements in the
Philippines to be very satisfactory and their relations with the Government,
BED and PNOC to be good. The flexibility of the Government in its relations
with the oil companies is exemplified by its handling of two concerns raised
by the companies regarding contract terms, particularly under present
expectations in the Philippines:  (a) the short duration of the geophysical
survey contract (usually 1-1.5 years), particularly for exploration on land
where seismic is difficult and slow; and (b) more importantly, the implicit
3-well minimum commitment under the service contract which discourages
drilling in areas where three prospects cannot be mapped at the outset.  The
Government has been dealing with both concerns on a case by case basis to
date, the first through one or two 6-month extensions of the geophysical
contract, and the second through allowing one well to be drilled under the
geophysical contract before converting it to a service contract.  In addition,
an incentive package incorporating improved fiscal and contractual terms under
the service contract is now under consideration by the Government.
Bank's Lending Strategy and Role in the Sector
50.       The Bank's previous lending in the energy sector has focussed
exclusively on the power subsector, through seven loans for power generation
and transmission and one loan for rural electrification.  As part of the
Government's strategy of reducing the Philippines' heavy dependence on
imported oil, it has sought the Bank's support for a broader range of initia-
tives in the sector, which include the exploration for and development of
indigenous resources (oil and gas, geothermal, coal, hydro, non-conventional),
provision of supporting infrastructure, strengthening of new and existing
institutions, and formulation of policies to redirect and restrain energy
demand.  The Bank currently expects to provide a combination of project and
subsector loans, as well as possible elements in structural adjustment
lending, to address the policy and institutional issues in the sector.  As
part of this strategy, in addition to the proposed petroleum exploration
promotion project, and the geothermal exploration project, the Bank has
recently approved a coal exploration loan; broader energy sector issues,
including the energy investment program, its financing, and energy pricing
policies, will be a focus of future lending operations.
51.       The Bank's involvement in the petroleum sector would provide
financial assistance to support the efforts of the Government aimed at
rekindling interest by private oil companies, both foreign and domestic, in



- 17 -
exploration for oil and gas. The most promising strategy lies in enhancing
the available geological information and developing new exploration leads,
through a countrywide basin evaluation program bringing together all available
exploration data complemented by new geological data where needed, and the
extension of PNOC's exploration program to several prospective but relatively
unexplored onshore areas. While the view of several international oil com-
panies active in the Philippines is that the prospectiveness of the Philippine
area is generally low, with the exception of northwest Palawan, the companies
nevertheless supported the proposed project, particularly the basin evalua-
tions, as an effective means toward reviving oil industry interest in the
country's petroleum potential. At the same time, the companies confirmed that
the onshore project areas proposed for further exploration were interesting
prospects, although they were not presently interested in expanding their
operations to such areas due to a combination of more promising opportunities
elsewhere, manpower constraints and reduced exploration budgets. The Bank's
involvement may further be perceived as a catalyst to attract private sector
participation through joint ventures with the national oil company to continue
exploration begun under the project; if appropriate, PNOC's portion of the
joint venture exploration program could be financed out of the proceseds of the
Bank loan. A further contribution of the Bank to the project has been tech-
nical assistance through its staff and consultants in designing and preparing
the project which is expected to continue through implementation. The
project, as conceived, should give the Government the opportunity to enter
into an active promotional campaign and potentially mobilize foreign resources
for onshore as well as offshore exploration.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Origin
52.        In May 1981, BED prepared detailed plans for a nationwide seismic
survey of about two years' duration, with the objective of obtaining
sufficient data in both offshore and onshore areas with which to attract
private capital to explore areas not covered by current service contracts;
costs were estimated to be on the order of $12 million. After revieswing BED's
proposal, a Bank mission recommended that consideration be given to
undertaking an aeromagnetic survey covering the archipelago, followed by
seismic surveys on a selective basis. PNOC-EC also prepared an amb:Ltious
exploration program for the period 1982-86 involving nine onshore areas, for
an estimated cost of nearly $100 million; three of these areas were
subsequently identified as having initial priority for Bank financing.
Through discussions with various Bank missions in late 1981, the original
proposals of BED and PNOC-EC were reformulated in an effort to reduce the cost
and manpower requirements but still achieve the same basic objectives. The
modified project, comprising components for BED and PNOC, was appraiLsed in
February 1982. Negotiations were held in Washington from July 6 to July 13,
1982. The Philippine delegation was led by the Honorable A. Locsin, Deputy
Director-General for Programs and Projects, National Economic and Development
Authority, and Mr. E.M. del Fonso, Senior'Vice President, Philippine National



- 18 -
Oil Company. The main features of the project are given in the Loan and
Project Summary and in Annex III. No separate Staff Appraisal Report has been
prepared.
Project Objectives
53.       The primary objectives of the project are two-fold:  (a) to
stimulate petroleum exploration in the Philippines at a time when interest on
the part of international oil companies is beginning to wane in spite of
several potentially promising areas which remain to be explored; and (b) to
strengthen the exploration capacity and technical capabilities of BED and
PNOC-EC.
54.       The component for BED is designed to encourage oil companies to step
up oil exploration activities in the Philippines. It would entail a critical
evaluation of all available exploration data, complemented by the acquisition
of new data where required. These data would form the basis of a comprehen-
sive compilation, to be completed by 1985, providing the first countrywide
qualitative and quantitative assessment of the petroleum prospects in the
Philippines. The results of this compilation would highlight areas where
immediate further exploration was warranted, and would be assembled in the
form of a promotional package available to any interested oil company.
55.       The component for PNOC would provide financial support for more than
80% of PNOC-EC's exploration operations planned during 1982-85. The three
onshore areas of immediate interest, Mindoro, Cotabato (Mindanao), and Cebu,
all lack extensive exploration to date, although the geology is favorable and
chances of small accumulations of oil and gas appear good. Oil companies,
while confirming the prospectiveness of these areas, have been reluctant to
explore on their own due to the high exploration costs, manpower commitments,
and relatively small returns in comparison with opportunities available
elsewhere in the world. Assistance to PNOC-EC would cover a preliminary
exploration phase comprising seismic coverage and, where warranted, drilling
of exploration wells. PNOC-EC would seek private sector participation at
appropriate points in the course of implementing this exploration program, by
inviting oil companies, foreign and domestic, to form joint ventures to
continue more intensive exploration in one or more of these areas (para. 68)
(draft Project Agreement, Section 2.09).
Project Description
56.       BED Component.  The proposed program consists of:  (a) a detailed
aeromagnetic survey of about 168,000 line km over 8 areas, mainly over land,
which will provide a more complete definition of the extent of the geological
basins as well as an indication of the thickness of their sedimentary rock
sections; (b) offshore seismic surveys, totalling about 8,400 line km over 13
areas, which will close existing information gaps in the potentially prospec-
tive offshore areas; and (c) a regional basin evaluation program covering 15
sedimentary onshore and offshore areas in the Philippines, aimed at assessing
the petroleum potential of these areas. This evaluation program will comprise



- 19 -
three major elements: first, an examination of stratigraphical data in order
to better understand the geological development of each basin; second, a
parallel geochemical investigation to obtain more comprehensive inf'ormation on
source rock potential; and third, use of the available geological atnd seismic
data to construct regional structural cross sections, with the objetctive of
detectirLg the presence of structural traps in areas where there are good
reservoirs and mature source rocks. The final product will be a promotional
package made available to the industry, including a set of maps identifying
the areas in each basin where these key geological parameters are best
developed, accompanied by sufficient basic background data such that an
interested party could carry out its own qualitative and quantitative
assessment. In the course of the implementation of this component, the staff
of BED would receive on-the-job training in activities related to aeromagnetic
and seismic surveys and basin evaluation.
57.       PNOC Component.  The proposed program comprises a step-wise explora-
tion program in each of three or more onshore areas held by PNOC-EC (initially
Mindoro, Cotabato and Cebu) and includes: (a) 90 team-months of geological
studies; (b) 12 team-months of gravity surveys; (c) 4,400 line km of land
seismic surveys, comprising both reconnaissance surveys and detailed seismic
surveys; (d) drilling of 6 exploration wells to a depth of 5,000 to 9,000 feet
provided seismic interpretation leads to prospective exploration locations;
and (e) complementary technical assistance activities in addition to the basic
exploration program, including reprocessing of about 440 line km of existing
seismic data and related gravity data, consultant services as required for
example in seismic interpretation, well location and drilling, and training of
staff in short courses such as geophysics, production geology, reservoir
engineering and logging services and interpretation. It is important that
sufficient flexibility be maintained in the program scope to permit inclusion
of alternative areas for financing under the Bank loan, in the event that (a)
PNOC-EC's promotional effort is successful in one area; (b) it is descided to
cease exploration in an area because of discouraging results; or (c) the
exploration results of BED or PNOC-EC indicate a particularly prospective new
area (draft Project Agreement, Schedule, para. 5). Further details of the
exploration program and its execution are given in Annex V.
Project Costs
58.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $69.4 million, of
which $38.9 million is the estimated foreign exchange cost. The estimated
costs of the major components are provided in the Loan and Project Summary.
Although the project is exempt from duties and taxes on direct imports, the
total cost includes about $2.7 million in taxes on the rig rental, profes-
sional services, and locally procured imported materials (e.g., fuel).
59.       The total cost of the BED component is $15.8 million or 23% of the
total project cost, of which $13.3 million or 84% is the estimated f'oreign
exchange cost. The major cost elements are the aeromagnetic and offshore
seismic survey programs estimated on the basis of present market conditions in



- 20 -
the Far East. The estimate for the basin evaluation program includes 68
man-months of highly qualified and experienced petroleum consultants at an
average cost of $16,300 per man-month including the man-month rate, inter-
national travel and subsistence. The total cost of the PNOC component is
$53.6 million or 77% of the total project cost, of which $25.6 million or 48%
is the estimated foreign exchange cost. The major cost elements are the
4,400 line km of seismic surveys over land and six exploration wells
estimated on the basis of PNOC-EC's recent experience and existing contracts
in Northern Luzon and Mindoro, and adjusted for conditions expected in the
areas covered by the project. The PNOC component includes 18 man-months of
consultant services at the same average cost as for the BED component. The
base cost estimate is adjusted to mid-1982 prices. Physical contingencies
for the overall project are 16% of base costs, and price contingencies are
15% of base costs increased by physical contingencies./l
Financing Plan
60.       The Bank loans of $37.5 million would cover the direct foreign
exchange cost of the project, estimated at $36.9 million or 55% of the total
cost of the project net of duties and taxes, as well as the capitalized front-
end fee of $0.6 million. $13.5 million would be provided as a loan to the
Government with BED as the beneficiary, and $24.0 million would be provided as
a loan to PNOC with the Government as guarantor and PNOC-EC as the benefi-
ciary. The loans would be for 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with
interest at 11.6% per annum. The Government and PNOC would bear the foreign
exchange risk for their respective loans; no guarantee fee would apply. PNOC
would pass on the proceeds of its loan to PNOC-EC as an equity contribution
(draft PNOC Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(b)). BED's local costs, equivalent
to about $2.5 million, and any cost overruns it incurred in project execution,
would be financed by budgetary allocation supplemented by the BED Special Fund
created under Presidential Decree No. 910/2 (draft BED Loan Agreement, Section
3.01(b)). Any proceeds from the sale of data resulting from the BED program
would accrue to the same Fund (draft BED Loan Agreement, Section 3.07).
PNOC-EC's indirect foreign exchange costs, equivalent to about $2.0 million in
rig rentals from PNOC's drilling subsidiary, local costs, equivalent to about
$28.0 million, and any cost overruns it incurred in project execution, would
be financed out of equity funds (e.g., from the Oil Industry Special Fund and
PNOC, para. 72) (draft Guarantee Agreement, Section 2.02; draft PNOC Loan
Agreement, Section 3.01(b)).
/1 Physical contingencies are somewhat higher than average, reflecting the
possible need for additional manpower to complete the basin evaluation
program on schedule, and the uncertainty surrounding conditions to be met
in the exploration program. Price contingencies are based on assumed
annual inflation rates of 10% in 1982 and 8% per year in 1983-85 for
local costs, and 8% per year in 1982 and 1983, 7.5% for 1984, and 7% for
1985 for foreign exchange costs.
/2 The Fund's total collection as of Novpember 30, 1981, amounted to $32 mil-
lion, out of which $0.4 million had been utilized to date.



- 21 -
Project Implementation
61.       BED Component.  BED is divided into six functional divisions, one
each for oil/gas, coal/uranium, geothermal and nonconventional energy
resources as well as one for legal aspects and negotiations and another for
monitoring service contract compliance, it also operates an energy research
center which provides supportive technical services to energy exploration
ventures. In its administrative role in the area of petroleum, BED negoti-
ates, regulates and oversees contracts for exploration, development and
production on behalf of the Ministry, and serves as a data repository for the
sector. On the operational side, BED is primarily concerned with a regional
approach to exploration for the purpose of evaluating the overall petroleum
potential of the Philippines.
62.       BED's Oil and Gas Division would be primarily responsible for carry-
ing out the BED component and for promoting petroleum exploration using the
information generated under the project (draft BED Loan Agreement, Section
3.01(c)). The Division presently has 8 geophysicists and 15 geologists, 10 of
whom are seconded from PNOC./1 Experience varies between 3 and 10 years, and
most of the professionals have attended training programs and short courses
abroad. The overall quality of BED exploration staff is generally good, but
few have had extensive direct exposure to oil exploration operations, and
therefore several of the more senior positions are filled by staff with rather
limited experience.
63.       Foreign contractors would carry out the aeromagnetic and offshore
seismic surveys. Outside consultants would supervise data acquisition to
ensure proper execution and quality control. BED junior staff would be
attached on a part-time basis to each survey in order to gain familiarity with
data acquisition, processing and interpretation, resulting in a total of about
39 man-months of on-the-job training. The basin evaluation program itself
would be largely carried out by BED staff under the direction of the Chief of
the Oil and Gas Division and with the assistance of PNOC-EC staff for onshore
areas, for a total of about 15 geologists and geophysicists full-time over a
two-year period. The evaluation teams would be assisted by: an experienced
senior consultant who would not only supervise the overall effort on a
full-time basis (2 years) but would participate actively in selected aspects
of the evaluation and play a major role in the preparation of the promotional
package; a geophysicist responsible for interpretation of the new offshore
seismic surveys and special problems for 1.5 years; and a geochemist to
organize the sampling and analysis for 3 months at the outset. Adiditional
consultants could be hired for short-term specialized assignments during the
project. BED has confirmed that the companies holding geophysical/service
contracts over the areas to be included in the evaluation have consented to
BED's u:se of their regularly submitted data in carrying out the study and to
the incLusion of their areas in the resulting geological compilations.  As it
/1 Seconded PNOC staff work full time for BED but will eventually return
to PNOC, where salaries are substantially higher.



- 22 -
is essential that the promotional package be issued as early as possible to
slow the exodus of the oil companies, BED has agreed to appoint the consul-
tants, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, to initiate work
on the basin evaluation program no later than January 1, 1983, and to hire
additional staff and employ consultants as needed if the basin evaluation
program should fall behind schedule (draft BED Loan Agreement, Sections
3.01(d) and 3.02). The implementation schedule proposed for the BED component
(Annex VI), although rather compressed, should be achievable given proper
guidance and participation from project management. BED has further agreed to
develop, in consultation with the Bank, no later than December 31, 1983, and
to periodically update thereafter and ultimately implement, a detailed plan
and schedule for a promotional campaign based on the results of the basin
evaluation program (draft BED Loan Agreement, Section 3.06).
64.       PNOC Component.  PNOC was created as a commercially-oriented,
Government-owned corporation at the onset of the energy crisis in 1973, under
Presidential Decree No. 334 (later amended), for the primary purpose of trans-
porting, refining and marketing crude oil and petroleum products. PNOC has
now grown to include 21 subsidiaries, of which seven are involved in explora-
tion and development of indigenous energy resources including petroleum, geo-
thermal, coal, uranium and alcogas. One of these, PNOC Exploration
Corporation, established in 1976, is responsible for oil and gas exploration,
although its Articles of Incorporation go far beyond this to all forms of
energy and subsurface deposits and the full spectrum of downstream activities.
PNOC-EC contracts with the Government much as would any oil company. As most
private oil company interest has been offshore, PNOC-EC has concentrated its
exploration operations onshore, in eight areas to date, for a total expendi-
ture of about $28 million. Its general policy has beenw to do preliminary
exploration work and then try to obtain a foreign oil company as the operating
partner before commencing drilling (e.g., Central Luzon where Chinese
Petroleum Corporation is operator and PNOC-EC has a 30% share). Another PNOC
subsidiary, PNOC Energy Drilling Incorporated (PNOC-EDI), is responsible for
drilling oil, gas and geothermal wells for PNOC energy companies and outside
parties.
65.       PNOC-EC would carry out the PNOC component.  The exploration pro-
gram would require the services of two seismic parties for 2.5 to 3 years,
and a drilling rig and associated services for 6 wells over about 1.5 years.
PNOC-EC's staff has acquired significant exploration experience in Northern
Luzon where it executes its own exploration program. The professional staff
presently numbers about 36 including 15 geophysicists and geologists and 4
engineers; its key operational staff have an average of 5 years of experi-
ence. PNOC-EC is undergoing a period of reorganization and growth, with the
objective of strengthening its exploration capacity and the technical
capabilities of its staff. In line with this, a limited amount of staff
training in short courses/programs (estimated at 36 man-months) given by the
industry, consultant firms, and universities, would be provided under the
project.



- 23 -
66.       Although PNOC-EC's staff is small, it has already successfully
completed some 6,500 line km of seismic surveys, and can handle a second
seismic party. To the extent possible, it has employed its own staff for
planning and execution of the surveys, and has contracted with a seismic
company for basic party services (seismic instruments and 6-10 specialists)
and some processing. As good quality data, produced in a timely fashion,
are essential to the success of the program, PNOC-EC would use outside
contractors for processing when locally available services are inadequate in
terms of scope of processing techniques, quality, and/or timeliness (draft
Project Agreement, Section 2.01(b)).
67.       The six wells under the proposed project would be drilled by
PNOC-EDI for PNOC-EC. PNOC-EDI has drilled 9 oil and gas exploration wells
for PNOC-EC and over 100 geothermal wells; the oil and gas wellis have gener-
ally been drilled in a technically efficient and cost effective manner, and
have not encountered any especially difficult drilling conditions. To the
extent necessary, the Philippine crew is assisted by 2 to 4 expatriate crew
hired under a labor contract with a drilling supervision firm. PNOC-EC, as
operator, provides its own supervisory staff, procures all drilling equipment
and materials not provided by PNOC-EDI, and contracts with generally accept-
able well service companies operating in the area. From time to time as
needed during the project, PNOC-EC would hire consultants, on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, to assist, for example, in seismic inter-
pretation, well location and drilling (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.02).
68.       In order to maximize flexibility in project implementation but at
the same time maintain control, a detailed execution plan for monitoring the
progression of exploration activities has been agreed with PNOC--EC (draft
Project Agreement, Schedule). A tentative exploration program for PNOC-EC
during 1982-85 (Annex V) has also been agreed, which PNOC-EC would update
annually in consultation with the Bank. The proposed implementation schedule
is based on PNOC-EC's experience, and is in line with operations elsewhere
under similar conditions and should be achievable by PNOC-EC. E'NOC-EC would
execute the proposed program in each project area in a stepwise manner,
deciding at each stage whether to seek joint venture participation, to proceed
directly to the next step, or to abandon the area altogether. lThese decisions
would be based on the results of the step completed and would be discussed
with the Bank before proceeding. In the event of a successful promotion
leading to a joint venture in which the other partner were to cover only a
portion of the foreign exchange cost, PNOC-EC's exploration expenditures under
the ;joint venture could be provided from the loan subject to the Bank's
approval of the contract, operator and proposed exploration program, as well
as various aspects, including procurement procedures, pertaining to the
exploration activities to be financed (para. 77) (draft Project Agreement,
Schedule). BED and PNOC-EC have both agreed to provide monthly progress
reports on their respective project components, as well as completion reports
evaluating the results of the project and their implication for exploration
and development efforts in the future (draft BED Loan Agreement, Section 3.04;
draft Project Agreement, Section 2.05).



- 24 -
Financial Aspects, Accounts and Audits
69.        Philippine National Oil Company.  PNOC has maintained a steady
growth in sales income since inception. Total revenue in 1981 was $2.7 bil-
lion, mainly through crude oil trading and oil products marketing. Operat-
ing profits (pre tax and interest) are high by international standards at
$164 million (about 6% on sales). Net margins are traditionally low, and
net profits at $43 million in 1981 are only about 2% on sales. The
projected decline in Philippine oil consumption is expected to lead to a
modest decline through the 1980s in PNOC's crude oil refining and sales of
gasoline, and to a significant decline in sales of fuel oil.  PNOC's geo-
thermal and coal developments are expected to approximately counterbalance
the decline in oil sales income. The expected shift in its activities
should, however, have a far more material impact on the net profits.
Geothermal, and to a lesser extent coal developments, carry wider profit
margins, and should ensure a strong profit growth. PNOC's preliminary
financial plans indicate that operating profits will increase by 30-35%
(1981 prices) by 1986 (about 9% on sales), giving net profits of more than
$85 million (about 3% on sales).
70.       The consolidated PNOC balance sheet position, which is acceptable,
is typical for a major refiner/marketer and is comparable to state oil
companies in many other countries (Annex VII). The long-term debt to equity
ratio is 26/74, and short-term loans, while substantial at $940 million,
closely match oil stock and short-term investments. Current assets at $1.5
billion are over 70% of total assets. The current ratio has declined
somewhat to 1.0 in 1981, which is low, but it is closely controlled and is
expected to continue at about this level through control of stocks, accounts
receivable and short-term borrowings. Little change is expected in the
debt/equity ratio, subject to implementation of satisfactory financing
arrangements for each major area of investment, principally geothermal,
petroleum and coal; initial developments in each of these areas are being
addressed through Bank-financed projects (para. 50). PNOC's estimated debt
service coverage was 4.1 in 1981; annual debt service fluctuates because of
maturity loans, but PNOC is expected to be able to continue to maintain
satisfactory coverage as in the past. The areas of financial vulnerability
have been identified, and PNOC is considering ways of dealing with them. In
the near term, the most significant risk is the exposure to varying interest
rates on short-term loans; it is currently profiting from the yield on
short term investments and the lower interest rates currently associated
with this form of borrowing are a factor in encouraging short-term loans.
In the medium-term, the most important unknowns are the geothermal pricing
policy and refinery and distributor's margins; the former is being studied
specifically by PNOC, and it is expected that the latter will be addressed
through a pricing study to be undertaken by the Government under terms of
reference agreed with the Bank.
71.        PNOC has had no integrated medium- or longer-term plans.  It has
taken steps to remedy this through engagement of local consultants, and,
following detailed discussions with Bank-missions, has prepared preliminary



- 25 -
five-year segregated and consolidated financial forecasts, analyzing
specifically the interrelationship between refining and marketing and
substitution through coal and geothermal. A more comprehensive five-year
financial forecast is now being developed, with a view to completion before
the end of 1982. This updated forecast will address the sensitivity of the
financial position to key variables, and is expected to be a suitable basis
for an civerall review of PNOC's policies and activities.
72.       PNOC Exploration Corporation.  PNOC-EC's authorized capital stock
consists of 30 billion shares, for a total capitalization of 320 million
pesos ($39 million). At the end of PNOC-EC's initial year of operation,
private subscriptions amounted to about 19% of the authorized shares, the
remainder being held by PNOC. Recognizing that the nature of PNOC--EC's
operations was often directed toward serving national interests to a greater
extent than would be expected of a private oil exploration company and that
such activities were thus perhaps inappropriate for direct private
participation except in the form of joint ventures pertaining to particular
contract areas, PNOC began in 1979 to seek voluntary buy-back of the
minority interests in PNOC-EC; as of December 31, 1981, private interests
had decreased to about 7% of the authorized shares and 2% of the paid-in
capital, total paid-in capital being $26 million. Some $18 million, or
about 73% of the capital paid in by PNOC, has come from the Oil Industry
Special Fund. Established under Republic Act 6173 as amended in 1977, the
Special Fund has been accumulating resources for energy development from a
levy imposed on petroleum products; its unappropriated balance as of
December 31, 1981 was $210 million.
73.       PNOC-EC's total assets reached $30 million in 1981.  Investment
in exploration accounted for nearly $27 million, or 88% of the company's
total assets; the rest included other current assets, mainly inventories in
parts and supplies, at 11% and net property, plant and equipment at less
than 1%. These exploration costs represent all costs incurred by PNOC-EC
to date, reduced by incidental revenues; PNOC-EC has yet to make its first
commercial discovery. PNOC-EC had financed, as of end-1981, about $26
million or 85% of its total assets through shareholders' equity. The cost
of its exploration and development activities, the main use of funds, had
risen to 1.5 to 2.5 times the level of annual equity contributions in 1979
and 1980, and PNOC-EC had thus turned to PNOC affiliated companies for
advances/loans. PNOC-EC resumed its practice of financing operations out of
shareholder's equity in 1981 and is expected to continue to do so, although
the balances due to affiliates at year-end represented 12% of PNOC-EC's
total financing; with the exception of normally recurring charges and
credits, these advances bear interest at approximately current prevailing
rates.
74.       The proposed project represents over 80% of PNOC-EC's planned
exploration activities during 1982-85. Most of these other activities, if
not already under way, are scheduled for 1982 or early 1983 by PNOC-EC on
its own account or in cooperation with Chinese Petroleum Corporation. In



- 26 -
view of PNOC-EC's presently weak financial position and the need to
strengthen its equity base and longer-term capital structure,'it has been
agreed that PNOC-EC, with the assistance of PNOC, would increase PNOC-EC's
equity, by calling in sufficient subscribed capital or other means as
appropriate, to cover all accumulated exploration costs effective January 1,
1983, and that any future exploration costs, until the completion of the
proposed project, would be financed through equity (draft Project Agreement,
Section 4.03(a); draft PNOC Loan Agreement, Section 5.05).
75.       Accounts and Audits.  PNOC and PNOC-EC prepare their accounts in a
satisfactory manner generally in accordance with standard international
practices. While PNOC has started to expense unsuccessful oil exploration
against reserves, it finds it difficult to apply the same accounting
principle to PNOC-EC due to PNOC-EC's lack of success in exploration to date
and the existence of its minority shareholders. PNOC-EC has agreed to
commence this practice, however, once it has a commercial discovery (draft
Project Agreement, Section 4.03(b)). BED and PNOC-EC have agreed to keep
separate project accounts for their respective project components, and to
submit financial reports on the project on a regular basis.  BED, PNOC and
PNOC-EC have further agreed to supply the Bank with copies of their
accounts, audited by an independent auditor satisfactory to the Bank, within
six months of the end of each fiscal year in the case of BED, and four
months in the case of PNOC and PNOC-EC (draft BED Loan Agreement, Section
4.02; draft PNOC Loan Agreement, Section 5.02; draft Project Agreement,
Sections 4.01, 4.02).
Procurement and Disbursement
76.       Most major purchases, including the aeromagnetic survey, offshore
seismic survey, land seismic party services, drilling supervision labor
contract, and materials and equipment, would be procured through international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines.
PNOC will use its own rigs, their rental will not be financed from the loan.
Highly specialized services, estimated at about 17% of the aggregate loan
amounts, supplied by only a limited number of contractors operating in the
area, would be procured through limited international tendering. Small
purchases of up to $150,000 for equipment, parts, materials, consumables and
services would be procured on the basis of local competitive bidding or other
local procedures acceptable to the Bank, provided their aggregate does not
exceed $2.5 million. Some advance contracting with respect to the land
seismic surveys and processing is necessary to maintain continuity of
operations on Mindoro due to the expiration of existing contracts; advance
contracting of the aeromagnetic survey is also necessary due to constraints on
data acquisition imposed by seasonal weather conditions. The total amount of
advance contracting is not expected to exceed $10 million, and will have been
procured in accordance with the Bank's procedures. Consultant services in
connection with BED's basin evaluation program and PNOC-EC's exploration
program would be hired in accordance with-the Bank's guidelines on the use of
consultants.



- 27 -
77.       Disbursement on all Bank-financed items would be made against 100%
of the f-oreign exchange expenditures, with the exception of fuel for which
disbursement would be made against 50% of cost (the estimated foreiLgn
exchange component), and other materials and equipment for which diLsburse-
ment would be made against 100% of ex-factory cost of locally manuf-actured
goods, 80% of cost of imported goods procured locally, and 100% of foreign
expenditures on directly imported goods. Disbursement under the PNOC loan
against expenditures on land seismic services would be made only after Bank
approval of the seismic program and schedule in question; similarly,
disbursement against expenditures on drilling-related services would be made
only after Bank approval of the particular well location and program. In
the event of a joint venture (para. 68), Bank approval would pertaiin to
seismic or drilling activities to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Bank loan. Such approvals would be given by the Bank on the basis of
adequate documentation provided by PNOC-EC (conditions of disbursement,
draft PNOC Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 5). Retroactive financing of
up to $1.0 million with respect to land seismic surveys and processing
(PNOC), and of up to $1.3 million with respect to aeromagnetic surveys (BED)
beginning July 1, 1982, is recommended in line with the above advance
contracting. The loans are expected to be fully disbursed by Decemiber 31,
1986.
Enviromnental Impact and Safety
78.       Very little, and no irreparable, damage to the environment should
occur. Although the land seismic operations use dynamite for an energy
source, the charges used are small and safety rules are strictly enforced;
the offshore seismic operations use airguns. No serious drilling problems
are anticipated, although high subsurface pressures are expected in one area
(Cotabato); PNOC-EC has handled similar problems capably in Northern Luzon.
Safety procedures have been designed and constitute a standard part of
PNOC-EC's drilling practices; appropriate industry practices are followed
regardinag disposal of fluids recovered in tests, borehole cuttings and other
waste materials normal to drilling operations. PNOC-EC has agreed to make
adequate safety provisions, including the immediate acquisition of any
specialized services required to mitigate the consequences of a blowout,
fire, or oil spill (draft Project Agreement, Section 3.04).
Project Benefits and Risks
79.       The proposed project comes at a critical stage in the exploration
strategy of the Philippines. After spending in excess of $650 million since
1972, the oil industry has come to realize that discoveries, if any, would
be small, in the order of 10 to 15 million barrels; furthermore, identifying
areas of interest would require an intensive regional evaluation. Conse-
quently, many of the large operators have abandoned exploration activities
in the Philippines, and others may follow soon.
80.       A major promotional effort on the basis of a careful examination
and interpretation of existing and new data, as planned under the RED
countrywide basin evaluation program, is therefore called for in order to



- 28 -
revive interest in petroleum exploration. An effort of the kind envisaged
is likely to receive immediate response, despite the declining trend in
exploration activity in recent years, as it will enable the oil companies to
focus on well defined prospective areas without a prior major evaluation
effort on their part. Chances are thus good that exploration interest will
be renewed by 1985/86, and the opportunity for additional oil or gas dis-
coveries increased. There are two risks, nevertheless, which may adversely
affect the envisaged promotion. The first would be the finding that no case
can be made for further exploration in the Philippines. Given the many
positive elements identified so far, however, this risk is considered small.
The second would be that the preparation of the promotional package took
substantially longer than anticipated, with the result that some of the
impact of a successful evaluation may then have been lost. This risk will
be minimized by adhering to a strict time schedule under close monitoring by
the project management and Bank staff and, if necessary, hiring additional
staff and consultants to ensure timely completion of the package (para. 63).
81.        While the BED component, by its nature, will not have an opera-
tional impact until the mid/late 1980s, the PNOC-EC component focuses on the
short-term. PNOC-EC's planned operations span a wide area of identified
petroleum potential, and once under way are likely to attract joint venture
partners. There is a fair chance (perhaps 1 in 5) that a cluster of oil
and/or gas fields would be discovered. The discovery of only one oil field,
of perhaps 15 million barrels, would increase forecast daily production by
20-30%, resulting in a net savings to the economy on the order of $100
million (1982 prices) over the life of the field. The main exploration risk
lies in drilling structures that have not been fully evaluated. This risk
would be minimized by insisting on comprehensive geological studies and high
quality processing of seismic data using advanced techniques before any
drilling is considered (paras. 66, 68). The consequence could be that
predrilling operations would become longer than now envisaged, a risk which
would have to be accepted if drilling of inconclusive locations were to be
avoided. The step-wise nature of project execution and close monitoring by
the Bank (para. 68) would further serve to ensure that exploration efforts
would be minimized in areas which now appear prospective but which yielded
discouraging results in the early stages of exploration. At the very
minimum, the project would result in a better understanding of the key oil
geological elements in the Philippines.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
82.        The draft Loan Agreements between the Republic of the Philippines
and the Bank, and between the Bank and PNOC, the draft Guarantee Agreement
between the Republic of the Philippines and the Bank, the draft Project
Agreement between the Bank and PNOC-EC and the Report of the Committee pro-
vided for in Article III, Section IV(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank are being distributed separately.



- 29 -
83.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Conditions of disbursement include approval by the Bank of. (a) the
seismic program and schedule for land seismic services and a particular well
location and program for drilling-related services, and (b) in the case of a
joint venture, the exploration program, expenditure estimates, procurement
procedures, and other items pertaining to the particular seismic or drilling
activities to be financed out of the proceeds of the loan as well as the
overall joint venture contract and operating arrangements (draft F'NOC Loan
Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 5). Provision has been made for the cross-
effectiveness of the BED and PNOC Loan Agreements (draft BED Loan Agreement,
Section 5.01; draft PNOC Loan Agreement, Section 7.01).
84.       I am satisfied that the proposed loans would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
85.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loans.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
September 8, 1982



ANNEX I
- 30 -                                     Page I of 5
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHZET
PHILIPPINES                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTD AVEGSAS
- HiST RECENT ESTIN        ATE
SQ.AL  30U.OMOSIT RECENT                                        MIDDL  INCUZ             NTDU I      ECUZ
AGRICULTURLAL    109.0               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA 4 PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIJCEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US5)                  150.0       250.0      690.0                  890.1                  1902.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       146.8       272.3      329.4                 701.7                  1259.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 27902.0      37540.0   49049.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 30.3         32.9       36.2                   32.4                   65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        76.9
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         126.7
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2073
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        93.0       125.1      159.2                 255.9                    35.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    282.4        361.0      438.2                1748.0                    92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.6        45.5      44.1                   39.9                    39.7
15-64 YRS.                          52.4        51.6      52.8                   56.8                    56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.0         2.9        3.1                   3.3                     4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               3.1         3.0        2.7                   2.3                     2.4
URBAN                               4.2         3.8        3.6                   3.9                     3.8
CRUDE BIRTH BATE (PER THOUSAND)      45.5        38.5       34.1                   31.A                   31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      14.6         9.6        7.3                    9.8                    8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.3         2.7        2.2                    2.0                    2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..       191.7      650.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          2.0       37.0                  36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          102.0       101.0      113.0                 115.6                   110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    96.6        97.2     106.7/c                106.4                   108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           45.0        47.5       52.0/c                54.4                    66.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        16.6        18.7       20.4/c                13.9                    34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      13.6         7.9        4.5                   6.7                     5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    52.8         59.0       63.5                  59.8                    64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           105.8        75.0       54.7                  63.7                    64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION )
TOTAL                                ..        24.0      43.0/d                 32.0                    65.6
URBAN                                ..          .,      66.0/d                 51.9                    78.9
RURAL                                ..          .,       33.0/1                20.5                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        57.0       56.0/d                37.7                    59.3
URBAN                                ..          .,       76.0/2                65.7                    75.3
RURAL                                ..          ..      44.0/d                 24.0                    30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               ..          ..    2809.4/c               8540.4                  1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          .,      3840.0    3173.1/c               4829.4                  1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1229.3       838.6     568.7                 1047.5                   477.4
URBAN                             547.3       400.6         ..                 651.6                   679.8
RURAL                                ..          ..        ..                 2597.6                  1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        30.0         .,                  27.0                    27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUISEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.8         5.9
URBAN                                ..         6.2
RURAL                                ..         5.8
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..         2.3
LRBAN                                ..         2.1
RURAL                                ..         2.4
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              16.5        23.2       36.0
URBAN                                ..        60.4      82.0
RURAL                                ..         6.8      10.0



Page 2 of 5
- 31 -
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PHILIPPINES                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEWAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMAXE 
HOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            HIDDLY CDHE
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE Lb         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 95.0        114.0      98.0                    96.2                    104.3
MALE                  98.0       115.0         ..                   99.8                    106.4
FEMALE                93.0       113.0         ..                   92.1                    103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 26.0         51.0      63.0                    37.6                     41.3
MALE                  28.0        52.0         ..                   41.1                     40.4
FEMALE                25.0        49.0         ..                   34.1                     41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Y OF SECONDARY)  14.3           8.9/e    33.9/c                  20.8                     33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            35.9         28.6      31.2/c                  35.5                     29.9
SECONDARY                          26.9/f       33.0      35.6/i                  25.0                     16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        71.9         82.6       75.0                   73.1                     79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.1          7.4       8.8/5                   9.8                     42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
PCPULATION                         21.5         40.0      44.0                   116.5                    270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.4         10.7      20.9                    37.6                    107.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  17.4         13.4       20.3                   53.7                     63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.6/h          ..        7.5/d                  2.8                      2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    11117.5       13730.4   17412.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   34.2         33.1      32.3                    33.6                     24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              61.0         53.0      46.0                    52.2                     31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 15.0         16.0      17.0                    17.9                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 39.8        36.6       35.5                   38.5                     33.6
MALE                                  52.1        48.6       47.6                   50.5                     50.4
FEMALE                               27.4         24.4       23.2                   26.6                     16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.2         1.3        1.3                    1.1                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..        25.1
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          54.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         5.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..        14.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     260.0                   194.7
RlRAL                                ..           ..     195.0                   155.1                   184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     266.0                   178.2                   518.0
RLRAL                                ..           ..     200.0                   164.9                   371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      32.0                    24.4
RURAL                                 ..          ..      41.0                    41.1
Nct available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  IThe group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not unifom.
/b   Enless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1975; /I  1972; /f 1962; /g 1976; /h 1958.
May, 1982



- 32 -                                                                           ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
wUhiiSS OF g80iL ifliG7Ma
boat    ltleeqt ole dsaetc        free earrse lseiidy itadge  th. lee0 esbrrtis                  tiii.i  ebatuit also be soosi obe  tO.y le, -t he~ its--
-eahsall   rwtbsber-eesef fits 1ok Of  fersadadelud dsftitilOue es  -oosIe ceet by diff-te  roIttei   oietaIbsdt,ftsdt   t
tieua   sfui to deecetb   otter  af ebglord, ".     rt  tras,sd oleeteIecrtt   aordfer"sI,eus   nuris
fits rferses grope er  (11  ite sa coutry goop o  the eujr   oOPI"ya   (2ieono   goterr  oads  hbthisenstg Ins  that tire  ot-Iry groop
an. snnurioe   etinta   ts                    s   oea log astage  Of ott indictort- ats her.  Thes  -acage  ers .oI, oful in-W cseiog. Ihes Islso
LANIA ltitheue  sqr.                                                                              orro   otdsie  le  - ros.otu,ad2os     Popolrio (tal
Ine  -Tfi1sts ia ersa copo.t,se   land sse sed intend   tes  1979 dets.                     o-to.ed  uti)  Ividadl br thir  sse   eetasIf boepis  bed.
for crops  pesroreet. eOfe   a   ice    odu  o   0lefio:17   aa                                hediiiur on  enore.Hopirl saresara lsbent  peruspst.i1ssMp
hyr at leas  one. ph,si Jso   ferebIt.ehee     prondiog P in  pel lycu.ic-
iMP PUI CAPITA4 (US1   GNiP per capitstisreecurneeirpcs.c-dalesasnoitteld..,gJa_,topieis   tett  iooshat
culate  by e    connsiion  antro  as WOrld  e.Ala(i-Ohst)Ib.ensdce  canins re  Iseoaly erfstb  *pycat(oth
1970.set iAQ dae.                                                                sairel  estettit .note. sitits.9rc. Iattic)oIis'it-prisnectose
fIWOGY CONtSUMPTION PER CdPITA   --Iiora  coieapoino Of cotrie1  dsergI.(coa                      ric           ..rnroa   ut. lospitaed  lo_In AO spf  niplgese'dhoep1isla
tnitry   i  kiogessof  oa  eqtoI-n  Per cspilr; 1960O. 1970. add 1919cers-Spiatutartestan lddoyodrrts-
POPULfATION AID VITAL STdATISTICS9l    .pll   1ied  ,h                                                                                b,t   e.
date.                                                                                itoerege hoe of "MouaeRhoid (fetaooe fet household) A- total. orhso, end.total -
diffenst deilit lon  of ooen  or   o                 bisr  tAl iry Of daeen  thei  saiesle.   A hoader . or ldger I                         or   -.'not he -Incded~ to
aeoncutte;196011.enIW da.                                                                    Itehoehoitfostitcapuoe.
Po-o-tto  PncjsctLerOOta   uboo   saosptto-oe,oien   n   oe   aeaens
It ieeoounye  io    nceanctcoot'   e   aita  Ion                                     Acestofetrciy  trrn   f  elire     ttl,oht.adrua_
-ene, en  reaelieepe  ac  araitgiiofatd7.   ear.  fip pea                                  onnnoa   olloactt  lcrcryi  Iig   otasasptet
ntsrst. for fetlIotr   lohn   ha   ees  eutgdciei                                            fttl   te,  n   oe   el  nsraetn  y
fertIlty acordit  to icoso  etel  nd pea  feelIf p-nninitetPellnce
herb country ie then ass lined one of these nina cotinatione of settelity  9006431CR~~~O
sod tertil Iy trenda forProeto   cpe                        Th.pjosG..nad.   .Itodlseot taros                       .1l
brattoneny rorulatiot-lnoetst onnary popI'ril  thee I ONo grooti eiore             fssry-1 acolb.- total  sale ad..l.. fe .l  -  rs   ct,sl  adf
fnheirirrtet    aqloh   dea .hy .r  IeadLsohaetotrr-erlfnoalgstoetstlrlep ctceorsein
niecosea     hi   s  cine   ol   ftrftr..li   etstslIr   oprutyeholee  oulrtne   cral   Icloe  cIdeneedhI
nth  bsolh.-j   ,,O               ',,                                                         ed-ceionteoiteet leathfoe            easc  epproet pisa           1 Inarrctio
fTtsat hntrOfle rlothis reced-ly      er  hr  ttont  pplainprods    entl  noctioul  ortebe   rion    nsec in   ortp
sis _ciiiiredeachd.                                                                        oouPI     of1  o1   er.o.g;crasodocoreer    eeal
to I'ara       be960.     , 197 j ant.199.dare.in.lo e rcocl,idetl                                                         rother  Itts sIchoeaed              nerd
only; 1960.190 add 1979 dae.                                      Pupil-teeter ratio- .1 :-orh.r. an   eeodur           e     __det  eIoD eoi
Pnnuiation Aus t    tiocc is (ereact e  - hlro(-i   srl.crigaeII-y  en   n   eodr   eeetotti yheotare  or tesynre to0. rite.
60 yar(.n   rted(6ptst             hnr   a re.negee ot_l-yeepopto-                       core       dOileia
latlot; iPirO. 1971. and 1990 dutu.                                     adult 1 iteraco rere Inerceor I - LIterate staIrs leA Ir to teed and e .  .... .t..
Petrons for. 190Al   9.-0.ad.90-0                                                          Pasne. Cor  (yt           Phosed o- l  Intl .-   enrny e  cas  Opt       ero
nottleYn;190 1960,. 11979.ed 1980 data.   eetlirory  tender. I.d                                                                          _.tt
tI  c   ats   ealyltn-ea   nrsc   ndn   n190!97.edY90                                         nsrutrdtu           ellehsd  I i1ateing
orctltlelt   g  I 1--'hyers teb  rae  l.hiri-otol  Opions on                                  ---s5pe   IclOf ton - dt1t Phossd ooo   on -9 (hone the  _nr    I -
all -cried__    oes   c  uor                                                                   u5Ito   delly geocteIl tnterae e rrceut-~  defior  aeaetdd
f90 pe 9110190-                                                                            to bebtally' Itgit apyeee at least po-rrlNtatteA.
Cludae eh ca   ed.   torat   ndrtn  fec   onr   sree   rIAO  OC
netoneI acras poloco  dtc   -ueigh  dlth  el-6t  1--.ar  IOf  tete.r                Toah,hrFreI osne(-t  rsclIyaoo    eno    n  o  o
anogy  qolelet  f tr fod  oy1 te esilite t"norryye  ocf0.d-neinoyrylarcnof" all  gs.b                                         ftttne1       croo   oocl    r
per Oa.tolteeuplecoriedstr rydr.Pr.IotnIi                                                   tt dstu            lele  190   91un   00d
eoporI...chosetecc.    eeopteeclOennI                            -,nde                        eehltten(tnarl...o.e...citgntotlehtott
qoacitreout I  lottrosernt  at lese  n  Oetlhulo.  iqotc 70tol   rrrrcn                                               -` utttm   o  oun.fctto.irto 
an-eo       p-5rtuto   of _Oplat, endallnir  IIprccr rOtfe__e a                       end        i. t bcror.1aehar ali-a-Sa  peroansue o  cora  letl ore
hooshPld-lete        le64.17  ad17   ae                                                        1960  19(0ue198 deco. f               .Y             e-:
tot ar re stth   or o Ot dlt -auapotdyl-fnl   oneto   o   cla                                 ucoIulnRc  Ipeor                   oa,sl,an   eaotri    eto
ot  spyy  i  on  ntda,   eteryl  o  fo  I dfleteoaion    O-  crnlrrreercspr     a  rta,  uTV   n  fesa r "ehI'oreo
qolteupota lot etC  roontria. 1Y1 eaatihed to tri  _roijefo  slot_u                 yrrnes  o   oe,sloattal  Oyl_Indfalurrercle
feosce  fhtors   ftoa                  -renptdu   n   1  rs   f  nsled                     90d9_,.d190tr.   teser_ee  o   LayarcIuto   ae
yracprten  othtcloeeehtlhen                         be prrt.Tesred                             olrlgotatntn                     trco luc.ndo                 TVlted 
urterelnnrciannose   r7tgasafrntl prtrlrndlgreeof                     taeeiee,teaate        (P. trnathnn.uTV-torccfa
TOOlnfed  . frog  nteeino  pose,.f, loaeredayi91.,190ad17  di.                            1099 ih,iTo
lge top1A(r.n  children  In thsaegop,i for soar dene,ping  oot-d po                                          -iant  rIces  10 yeren,pors    ecer.nd1h pooestIfyrc
ci-es  ard dnf oa  ln   lie te-leed190.  979ant198...u.                                       fdhoseold
ofeg cp  pt ,   nsn  itaAris  16,17   d   1970. dare    d.                                     AisLue  pnoymnslnllete   no-ln   hm cii     tle
he-fpepe(crl  oter  ettoal et                               Cesone leetssted eefora-
teonue  o   hi eerrnndpouayno.   noohslaes  uidc orunblesItte                                                          -otr.       Odhen  _ee 7ijere    oete  oa
mosdnt  sAleerI       o  esnIrteaces     thden--  hen .dI  oa   re                             --tnlare  Popuatio  gel7c dis 9ur  Pdnt   co    e         cn I-te
do et loe toeped a  teprportinnte prt o  th day  in  sthi   te                      poor1:1I 1l   f  --   .b,f,l
1-Iml s       91 eater nest..I!,11y"                                                                           Le~rI..
perren            Ofg1e7o therdro      197it  poplaio.. fteedsoa   a   ui
th    Itlsoln  d Odipslcboreroa  t-Pt"r.ofbes  noct
leti-naisi letteoedse.bO.'.1                                                                                                           'Ie       el
PeioosuPItyiiu     laoebrgon theda  by ntf e of. prrtaOg  hs-Noascadtre  Pr   tns
caeqefOetfras a- ntt_oi ecO,helda  eneiyiel                                                                            ruscaslsoadPoetn                     Dptec
Peenleogus poe Netstaa Person - Papulattas~~~~~~~~d. diltd by  r.   Ofs of 1 prrl ia  .e  IW
sae dd  ei g"redIt uno.  uss _e ee    p.eerLoa  -eaphspos adI'l
t,ueslaf"anuillur1-d,



- 33                                                             ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
PHILIPPINES - ECONOMIC INDICATOILS
mount
(zillion US$ at                                  Annual grovth rates (2)
current prices)                        Actual                                       Projected
Indicator                             1979           1976    1977    1978    1979    1980/a   1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1990
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic produLct           28,854            7.1      6.2      5.9      5.9      4.7       5.8      6.3      6.3      6.3      7.1     8.3
Agriculture                      6,991            8.6      5.0      4.8      5.3      4.3       5.2      5.2      5.0      5.0     5.0      5.0
Industry                        10,174           10.0      7.7      6.4      6.7      5.8      6.5      7.2       7.5     7.5      8.5    10.0
Services                        11,689            3.7      5.7      6.3      5.5      5.0       5.6      6.2      6.0     6.0      7.0      8.5
Consumption                       21,860            4.3      5.2      4.6      4.8      4.2       5.4      5.2      4.9      5.1      5.8      7.0
Gross investment                   8,576            8.0      0.7    13.3       7.4      4.8       6.3      6.3      6.3      6.3      7.1     8.3
Exports of GNFS /b                 5,528           19.9    17.6       1.6      7.4    11.3       10.2    10.7    11.2    10.6    10.8    10.5
Imports of GNFS                    7,110            1.3      5.3    13.2    10.3        5.2       6.6      6.7      6.5      6.6      6.8     7.2
Gross national savirLgs            6,665           -2.0    11.3       8.3      7.7      3.1       -        -        -       -        -        -
PRICES
GDP deflator (1972 - 100)                         183.6   198.8   210.6   250.8    296.9          -        -        -       -        -        -
Exchange rate (US$1 -)                             7.45    7.41      7.38    7.39       7.52      -        -        -       -        -        -
Export price index (1978 - 100)                    92.6    95.8   100.0   124.6    140.3   149.9   160.0   170.5   183.3   195.7   258.7
Import price index (1978 - 100)                    91.6    94.2   100.0   117.4    142.2   157.0   170.8   185.2   197.1   210.6   289.3
Terms of trade index (1978 - 100)                 101.1   101.7   100.0   106.1         98.7    95.5    93.7    92.6    93.0    92.9    89.4
Share of GDP at market prices (%)                        Average annual increatse (X)
(at current prices) /c                                  (at constant prizes)
1960    1970    1975    1980    1985    1990          1960-70    1970-75    1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product              100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0             5.1         6.1        5.9        6.3        7.6
Agriculture                       28.1    27.8    29.0    26.8    25.0    22.0              4.3        4.3        4.8         5.0        5.0
Industry                          25.8    29.6    33.5    35.5    37.7    40.6              6.0        8.6        7.6        7.5         9.1
Services                          46.1    42.6    37.5    37.7    37.3    37.4              5.2        5.4        5.7        6.1         7.7
Consumption                       85.3    79.2    75.8    74.5    72.4    68.7              4.8        5.5        5.2        5.2         6.5
Gross investment                  16.3    21.5    31.0    30.1    29.2    30.5              8.2       11.5         6.5        6.8        7.6
Exports of GNFS                   10.8    19.4    18.5    19.4    24.7    27.5              5.8        3.2       10.0       10.7        10.0
Imports of GNFS                   10.6    19.7    25.3    24.0    26.2    25.4              6.8        6.8        8.0        6.6        6.9
Gross national savinigs           16.2    20.5    25.3    23.1    25.4    29.2              7.4        9.7        -          -           -
As % of GDP
1960       1970       1975       1980         Labor Force in 1978           KLllions    (x)
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                Agriculture                   7.4       44.4
Current revenues                            9.8        9.5       13.9        12.8           Industry                      2.7       16.2
Current expenditures                        9.6       10.9        12.3        9.6           Services                      5.6       33.0
Current surplus                             0.2       -1.4         1.6       4.1            Unemployed                    1.1        6.4
Capital expenditure                         2.3         1.9       3.2         3.2
Foreign financing                           -          0.1        0.3         1.5               Total Labor Fvrce        16.8      100.0
1960-70          1970-75           1975-80           1980-85           1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (X)                                   5.1               5.6              5.9               6.3               7.7
Annual GNP per capilta growth rate (%)                       2.0               2.7               3.2              3.6               5.1
Annual energy consumption growth rate (%)                    7.4               6.2              4.2               4.7               4.6
ICOR                                                         4.5               4.7              4.6               4.5               4.1
Marginal savings ratLe                                     0.285             0.330             0.26              0.32              0.35
Import elasticity                                           1.33              1.12             1.20              1.05              0.90
/a  Preliminary estimate.
/b  Historical figures are official estimates based on 1972 weights.  In relation to the composition of Philippine exports
in the late 1970s these estimates give undue weight to stable or declining exports of raw commodities such as copra,
sugar, and logs, and insufficient weight to rapidly growing exports such as nontraditional manufactures and coconut oil.
Bank staff estimates of export volume based on 1978 weights are shown on Attachment 3b.
/c Projected years of constant prices.
East Asia & Pacific Regional Office
November 1981



-34-                                         ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(USS million, at current Prices)
Actual                Est.               Projected
1977   1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Summary of Balance of Payments
Exports of goods and services              4,161   4,838   6,177   7,863   9,084  10,710  12,830  15,360  18,370
Of which:  exports of goods              3,151   3,425   4,602   5,788   6,518   7,890   9,630  11,710  14,220
Imports of goods and services              5,248   6,323   8,108  10,348  12,076  13,680  15,620  17,820  20,210
Of which:   imports of goods             3,915   4,732   6,142   7,727   8,810  10,050  11,510  13,170  15,100
Transfers (net)                              260      312      355      434      500      550      610      660      730
Current Account Balance                   -827  -1,173  -1,576  -2,051  -2,490  -2,420  -2,180  -1,800  -1,110
Direct investment (net)                      216      171       99       45      290      320      350      390      420
MLT loans (net)                              662      891   1,091   1,032   1,370   1,600   1,540   1,310            920
Official-source loans (net)                332      333      449      375      851      940   1,050   1,120   1,150
Private-source loans (net)                 330      501      642      657      519      660      490       90    -230
other capital (net) /a                       113       56    -193       593      455      300      300      300      300
Overall Balance /b                         164      -54    -579    -381    -375    -200            -      200      530
International reserves (end-year) /c   1,525   1,883   2,423   3,155                    1
Reserve as months of imports                 3.5      3.6      3.6      3.7
External Capital and Debt
Gross Disbursements                        1,376   1,968   2,385   2,047
Concessional Loans                          88      120      183      178
Bilateral                                 62       56      113      101
IDA                                        2        1        3        2
Other multilateral                        24       63       67       75
Nonconcessional Loans                    1,287   1,848   2,202   1,869
Official export credits                  123      121      152        8
IBRD                                      99      160      204      221
Other multilateral                        30       47       81       83
Private sources                        1,035   1,520   1,765   1,557
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed           5,003   6,199   7,137   8,554
Official-source                        1,423   1,895   2,265   2,710
Private-source                         3,580   4,304   4,872   5,844
Undisbursed debt                         2,601   4,017   4,305   5,476
Debt Service
Total service payments                     762      910   1,028   1,259
Of which:  interest                      183      270      486      659
Payments as % of exports of goods
and services                            18.3    18.8    16.6    16.0
Average interest rate on new loans
Official-source                            7.5      5.5      5.5      6.9
Private-source (DRS)                       8.4      9.0    10.5    14.7
Average maturity of new loans
Official-source                           18.6    22.8    23.3    21.2
Private-source (DRS)                       9.0    10.2      11.1      9.9
/a  Short-term capital, monetization of gold, allocation of SDRs, and errors and omissions.
Th  Equals change in net international reserves.
/c  Gross reserves of the Central Bank ("International reserves," IFS).
East Asia and Pacific Region
November 1981



- 35 -                          ANNEX II
Page I of 18 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of March 31, 1982
Loan or
Credit                                                                     Amount (less cancellations)
Number      FY    Borrower                Purpose                          Bank      IDA  Undisbursed
Twenity-six Loans and three credits fully disbursed                        485.82  32.20
984-PI1   1974  Rep. of the Philip.    Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation          9.50              0.16
998-Pr!   1974          "                DBP 1                             50.00              0.43
1034-PHt   1974  National Power Corp.   Power                               61.00             0.51
1035-PIT   1974  Rep. of the Philip.    Population                          25.00              7.83
180-PiI   1975  Rep. of the Philip.    Tarlac Irrigation                  17.00              2.87
1102-Pu1  1975                            Rural Development                 25.00              4.88
1154-PH    1976                           Nagat Irrigation                  42.00              5.81
1190-PH   1976                            DBP II                            75.00              1.29
1224-T-P1l 1976                           Education IIt                     24.73              2.23
1227-PH1  1976                            Chico Irrigation                  50.00            25.80
1272-T-PIT 1976                           Manila UJrban                     10.00              2.99
1282-P11   1976                           Manila Urban                      22.00             6.58
1269-PIT   1977                           Second Grain Processing           11.50             4.04
1353-PH    1977                           Thirl Highways                    95.00            44.98
1367-P11   1977                           Jalaur Irrigation                 15.00              5.55
1374-P1I   1977                           Fourth Education                  25.00             6.64
1399-PHI   1977 Central Bank of the       Fourth Rural Credit
Philippines                                                36.50            12.30
1414-Pu   1977 Rep. of the Philip.        Nat. Irrig. Syst. Improvmt.    50.00               30.25
1415-PIT   1977                           Provincial Cities Water Sup.   23.00                7.89
1421-PH    1977                           Rural Dev. Land Stlmt. II         15.00             6.93
1460-P11   1978 Nattonal Power Corp.    Seventh Power                       58.00            30.63
1506-Plt  1978 Rep. of the Philip.        Smaliholder Tree Farming           8.00             5.90
1514-PIl  1978 Philip. National Bank   PDCP V                               30.00             5.15
1526-P1I   1978 Rep. of the Philip.       Nat. Irrig. Syst. Improvmt. II 65.00               48.30
790-PH    1978                           Rural Infrastructure                      28.00    21.09
S.8-PHI   1978                           Education                          2.00             0.88
1547-PH    1978 Nat. Electrif. Admin.   Rural Electrification               60.00              1.05
1555-PH    1978 Philip. National Bank   PIl(0                               15.00              1.05
1567-PH    1978 Rep. of the Philip.       Magat II                         150.00            22.97
1572-PHl   1978                           Industrial Investment IIt         80.00            25.20
1615-pHI   1979                           Manila Water Supply II            88.00            78.14
1626-PH    1979                           National Extension                35.00            30.10
1639-PH1   1979                           Magat River Multipurpose          21.00             14.22
1646-PH1   1979                           Small Farmer Dev. (Land Bank)  16.50                10.12
1647-PH1   1979                           Second IUrban Development         32.00            21.65
1661-PH   1979                            Highways IV                      100.00            97.44
1710-PH    1979                           Water Supply II                   16.00             16.00
920-PIT   1979                           Water Supply It                           22.00     19.17
1727-PH1   1979                           Small & Medium Industry II        25.00             0.36
923-PH    1979                           Population II                             40.00    39.30
1772-PH1   1980                           Samar Island Rural Devel.         27.00            23.92
1786-PH    1980                           Fisheries Trng. (Educ. VI)        38.00            37.31
1809-PH    1980                           Medium-Scale Irrigation           71.00            67.06
1814-PIT   1980                           Manila Sewerage & Sanitation   63.00               57.18
1815-PH    1980                           Rainfed Agric. Dev. (Iloilo)   12.00                11.21
1821-PH    1980                           Third Urban                       72.00            60.59
1855-PH    1980                           Third Ports                       67.00            65.11
1860-PH    1980                           Rural Roads Improvement           62.00            57.86
1890-PH    1981                           Watershed Management              38.00            36.48
1894-PH1   1981                           Third Livestock & Fisheries    45.00               33.90
1903-PHl   1981                           Structuiral Adjustment           200.00              3.96
1984-PH    1981  Central Bank of the    Industrial Finance (Apex)          150.00            149.88
Philippines
2030-PH    1981  Rep. of the Philip.    Flem. Ediic. Sector Loan           100.00            100.00
2040-PH    1982  Rep. of the Philip.    Ag. Support Services                45.00             44.97
2067-PIT/a 1982  Rep. of the Philip.    Urban Engineering                    8.00              8.00
Total                                                                2,967.55 122.20 1,546.57
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                                             236.50
Total now outstanding                                                2,731.05 122.20
Amount sold                                              24.34
of which has been repaid
(thiird parties)                                      23.06            1.28   -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchanlge rate adjustments)                             2,729.77 122.20
Total undisbursed                                                    1.346.55  79.56 1,426.11
/a Not yet effective.



- 36 -                     ANNEX II
Page 2 of 18 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of March 31, 1982
Fiscal                                                         Amounts ($ million)
Year                      Company                            Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the           15.0      4.4    19.4
Philippines
1967          Manila Electric Company                          8.0      -        8.0
1967          Meralco Securities Corporation                   -        4.0      4.0
1970          Philippine Long Distance Telephone               3.7       .8      4.5
Company
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                      0.8      0.4      1.2
1970          Paper Industries Corporation of the               -       2.2      2.2
Philippines
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation                  6.2      2.1      8.3
1972          Marinduque Mining and Industrial                15.0      -       15.0
Corporation
1973          Victorias Chemical Corporation                   1.9      0.3      2.2
1974          Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation            1.5      -        1.5
1974/1979    Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.   1.6            0.6      2.2
1974          Republic Flour Mills Corporation                 1.2      -        1.2
1975          Philippine Polyamide Industrial                  7.0      -        7.0
Corporation
1976/1980    Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                        2.6      0.2      2.8
1977          Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                       2.3      1.2     3.5
1977          Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                       3.5      -        3.5
1978          Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.   2.1          -         2.1
1979          General Milling Corporation                      4.0      1.1     5.1
1980          PISO Leasing Corporation                         5.0      0.1      5.1
1980          Ventures in Industry and Business                -        0.3     0.3
Enterprises, Inc.
1980          Consolidated Industrial Gases, Inc.              4.5     -         4.5
1981          Loans to Seven Corp. for SMSE                   18.5       .7    19.2
1981          Philippine Assoc. Smelting & Refining Corp. -             5.0     5.0
1981          Davao Union Cement Corp.                        16.0     -       16.0
Total gross commitments                       120.4    23.4   143.8
Less sold, acquired by others,               53.5    12.6    66.1
repaid or cancelled
Total commitments now held by IFC              66.9    10.8    77.7
Total Undisbursed                              34.5      0.8    35.3



- 37 -                        ANNEiX II
Page 3 of 18
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
as of March 31, 1982
Agricultural Sector
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project was completed on December 31, 1981 and preparation of
the Completion Report is well under way. Work on the Canili and DiLayo dams
and the transbasin canal was completed in 1975, about one year ahead of
schedule. However, difficulties in the award of construction contracts
delayed the start of improvement works in the Penaranda service areas which
were further hampered by severe typhoon damages in 1978 and 1980. Due to cost
increases, delays in construction and reduced cropping intensity resulting
from the overall shortage of water in the Upper Pampanga River IrriLgation
System, the internal rate of return is expected to be considerably lower than
the appraisal estimate of 17%.  The last consignments of O&M equipment are
being delivered.
Loan No. 1080  Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is now about 90% complete. Full completion is expected
by December 1982, a two-year delay in the original schedule, caused mainly by
managerial problems and late preparation of the designs for the drainage
works. The closing date has already been extended by one and a haLf years to
June 30, 1982, and it is expected that the Government will request a further
extension to complete the project works. The area developed is lilkely to be
some 20% less than originally planned, mainly because of flooding Erom the
Chico, Camiling and Agno rivers. Costs are higher than anticipated, partly
due to the delays referred to above, and the economic rate of return is now
likely to be close to 10% compared with an appraisal estimate of 15%.
Loan No. 1102 Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Overall project execution is well advanced. The irrigation works
are substantially completed, except for two communal systems which are planned
for completion by the end of 1982. After initial delays in the award of
construction contracts for the roads component, progress in project execution
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 38 - 
38 -               ~~~~ANNEX II
Page 4 of 18
has now improved with the mobilization of contractors on three national and
one provincial road contracts. Completion of the roads component is now
planned for mid-1983, about three years behind the appraisal schedule. The
closing date has therefore been extended to December 1983.
Loan No. 1154 Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Civil works by local contract and force acount for rehabilitation
and new construction of canals, drains and access roads are progressing well,
and the project is over 90% complete. All contracts have now been awarded,
but some of the work has been postponed until the end of the rainy season.
The water management training is continuing satisfactorily. Due to earlier
delays in contract award, budgetary constraints and typhoon damage in 1980,
project completion is expected to be delayed by about two years over the
original schedule of June 30, 1982.
Loan No. 1227 Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Although the project was scheduled for completion in June 1980, it
is now only about 54% complete. Work started slowly due to late procurement
of equipment for force account work. Further delays were caused by: changes
in design which resulted in rebidding the three major contracts for the
diversion dam, the main canal and the river siphon; severe and repeated
typhoon damage; and problems of right-of-way acquisition. Work on the
diversion dam was suspended for over four months because of security problems
in the area. The project is now scheduled for completion in June 1984, a
four-year delay over the appraisal estimate, and the closing date has
therefore been extended to December 31, 1984. Towards the end of 1981, in
an effort to accelerate project implementation, the National Irrigation
Administration created a special task force, reorganized and strengthened the
project organization and brought in additional equipment and materials.
Loan No. 1269 Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan
of July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:  October 4,
1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The loan is fully committed and the closing date is expected to be
met. The loan has disbursed rapidly since the end of 1980 after a slow
beginning which led to a two-year postponement of the closing date to June 30,
1983. The post-harvest study on grain losses is expected to be
completed in early 1982.



- 39 -
AMNEX II
Page 5 of 1P
Loan No. 1367 Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is about 85% complete. Remaining major conistruction
activities include the improvement of the Santa Barbara diversion dam by
contract, the repairs of the existing right bank of the Jalaur diversion dam,
and on--farm facilities, including some additional works by force account. The
National Irrigation Administration expects to complete all construction works
by the end of July 1982. The Government intends to use the anticipated
balance of $4 million for the detailed engineering of the Jalaur multipurpose
storages dam for Stage II of the project. A draft feasibility report is being
reviewed by the Bank.
Loan No. 1399 Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The escalation in fuel and machinery costs during 1978 and 1979,
accompanied by a sharp fall in sugar prices, substantially reduced the subloan
demand, particularly for four-wheel tractors, power tillers and light trucks.
Another major problem has been the growing arrears of several rural banks
resulting in many of them being ineligible for project lending. To compensate
for this, in November 1979, the project's scope was broadened to include new
categories of investments and new lending channels (private development
banks); however, their impact on the disbursement rate has been modest.
Effective January 1982, the institutional arrangements for project imple-
mentation have been further widened to include private investment corporations
to lend, on a selective basis, for project-supported inlvestments. The lending
terms have also been suitably rationalized. As a result, the pac,e of subloan
commitments is expected to accelerate; however, the undisbursed balance of the
loan ($12.8 million) may not be fully utilized by the extended closing date of
December 31, 1982.
Loan No. 1414 National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project;
$50 Million Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
August 9, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress in project implementation has been slow due to shortage of
staff and design problems at the outset, which caused delays in the finaliza-
tion of designs and preparation of bidding and contract documents for the
Abulog diversion dam and drainage works in Leyte.  Shortages of fuel and
construction materials, which initially caused major delays, were eventually
overcoime. Implementation improved in 1979 as a result of better planning and
organization and less complicated contract procedures. However, project
execution was severely delayed in 1980 and 1981 due to inadequate and, in
certain cases, late release of counterpart funds. Corporate funds have now
been approved, and in part released, for the 1982 construction program. Final
project costs and benefits are expected to be in line with original estimates.
Project benefits may be lower than estimated due to inadequate water,
particularly in Region 1. The project is now expected to be completed in
December 1984, about three years behind the appraisal estimate.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 18
Loan No. 1421 Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
A Cabinet subcommittee has been appointed to examine proposals for a
public land management policy emerging from an interagency workshop held in
August 1981. Feasibility studies have been completed for two of the three
settlements proposed for a follow-on Bank-financed project. Satisfactory
progress is being made in land allocation and titling and project infra-
structure; however, some titling and infrastructure works are expected to
extend beyond the current loan closing date. A recent promising start has
been made on the credit program and this should gather momentum.  Progress in
the agricultural development component has been promising, as reflected in the
adoption by settlers of improved techniques, in the extent of areas now under
cultivation, and in reported improved yields.  The reforestation component of
the project has, however, been neglected. In view of the status of some
project components, the Government is expected to request an extension of the
loan closng date by twelve months, to December 31, 1983.
Loan No. 1506 Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project;
$80.0 Million Loan of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
May 11, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Physical progress on the DBP tree farming component continues to be
satisfactory, and area commitments have reached approximately 82% of the
project's target. The BFD pine plantation component at Abra has been
seriously affected by insect attack resulting in the need to reconsider plans
for development and to initiate work on pest control measures and the use of
alternative tree species. The PCARR forestry research program is progressing
well and the draft Wood Industries Development Study has been submitted to
the Ministry of Natural Resources. Disbursement continues to be behind
schedule, principally because of procurement difficulties over vehicles,
infrastructure and equipment.
Loan No. 1526 Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project:
$65 Million Loan of March 15, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
June 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Topographic surveys, planning and design for most of the project
works have been completed and construction is under way. Overall implementa-
tion progress is slow due to delays in finalizing the design for diversion
works and drainage systems in Regions 9 and 12, slow bureaucratic processes in
bidding and award of contracts, and inadequate and belated release of
counterpart funds in 1981. Corporate funds have now been approved for the
1982 construction season, and the project is expected to be completed in 1985.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 18
Credit No. 790 Rural Infrastructure; $28 Million Credit of April 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: July 21, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Construction of rural water supply systems and health stations is
proceeding satisfactorily with about 360 water wells and 53 health stations
now completed. The construction of San Jose Port is expected to be completed
by mid-1983, allowing for the repair of typhoon damages. Work has progressed
well at the port of Culasi, but completion is delayed due the continuing
settlement of the storage platform. Construction of Dumaguit port is behind
schedule, as is construction of the irrigation components which were held up
by inadequate support facilities, ineffective farmer organizations and failure
of farmers to collaborate with project staff. However, remedial measures have
now improved the situation and the service area has been increased to about
10,400 ha. About 35 km of roads have been constructed through force account,
construction contracts have been awarded for 300 km of roads and the detailed
design of the remaining roads is well under way.  The total length of village
roads has been reduced from the appraisal estimate of 1,390 km to about 1,200
km. Project completion is now planned for December 1984, about two years
behind the appraisal schedule.
Loan No. 1567 Magat River Multipurpose Project - Stage II;
$150 Million Loan of May 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness;
August 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress is good. The first stage of river diversion has been
successfully achieved and excavation is substantially complete. Construction
of the main dam is making excellent progress. Concrete work for the spillway
started slowly and suffered from interruptions due to breakdown of the cranes,
but the contractor has made up for lost time and is once more nearly on sche-
dule. W'ork on resettlement of the population:-,to be displaced by the reservoir
is excellent, with work on one of the three new villages nearly complete. The
project is expected to be completed on schedule.
Loan No. 1626 National Extension Project; $32.0 Million Loan of
December 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 26, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
After a slow start due to the reorganization within the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA), the project is being further delayed by management and
financial constraints. Implementation in the regions is now the
responsibility of the Regional Directors, and performance varies depending on
the motivation of the Director. The Minister of Agriculture has now been
requested to ensure that Regional Directors are fully conversant with the
Project's objectives. The influence of the Project Manager - the Director of
the Bureau of Agricultural Extension - has been reduced since his agency
become a staff bureau. A shortage of local funds during the latter half of
1981 affected progress detrimentally.  Procurement problems persist, as it is
unlikely that the President's Office will allow the import of the full quota
of vehicles designated for the project because of their increased cost and
drain on limited fuel resources. MOA will request that surplus vehicle funds



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 18
be used for other purposes, including additional motorcycles and visual aid
materials, and increased travel and gasoline allowances for all field
technicians. This request is expected to be received by the end of June 1982
and will be reviewed at the next supervision scheduled later in the year.
Loan No. 1639-PH Magat River Multipurpose Project; Stage II Irrigation;
$21.0 Million Loan of January 26, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: April 25, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Implementation started early in 1980 and progress is generally
satisfactory. All major contracts have been awarded and some are ahead of
schedule. All construction equipment has been procured and delivered to site.
Completion is now expected by the end of 1984, eighteen months behind the
appraisal estimate. The major constraint is the overall shortage of local
funds which is being carefully considered by the Government.
Loan No. 1646 Small Farmer Development Project through the Land Bank of
the Philippines; $16.5 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The pace of sub-loan disbursements to small farmers continues to be
slow due to LBP's cautious approach to lending resulting from poor
collections under past sub-loans and to the delay in the reorganization of
field offices caused by belated government approval of LBP's proposals. In
addition, there has been a backlog in loan withdrawals in respect of
disbursements to second priority (non-agrarian reform) beneficiaries. The
field office reorganization and and other institution development measures
are, however, expected to be carried out in near future. Procedural
difficulties which held up withdrawals under the infrastructure component have
also been resolved, and the line agencies have started sub-project
implementation. The disbursements under the infrastructure component are
expected to start in May 1982.   The loan is expected to be fully drawn by
December 31, 1983, an 18-month delay over the appraisal estimate of June 30,
1982.
Loan No. 1772 Samar Island Rural Development Project; $27.0 million
Loan of February 1, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
May 21, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Bidding on road construction has been delayed due to political
disturbances on the island. Port work is proceeding satisfactorily but the
irrigation program has been delayed due to withdrawal of one of the sites
because of technical objections by the settlers. Alternative sites are now
being reviewed by the Bank. The construction of village wells is progressing
satisfactorily, and a pump maintenance problem was corrected by providing
specialized service tools under the project. The formation of water users'
associations, and the collection of water charges, have begun slowly but are
gaining momentum. The program of schistosomiasis control is proceeding on
schedule, as is the Catubig Valley development study.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 18
Loan No. 1809 Medium-Scale Irrigation; $71.0 million Loan of March 28,
1980. Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The consultants engaged to develop the design of the dams have now
started compiling design and construction standards for irrigation structures
and facilities. However, detailed engineering design of the diversion dams
is behind schedule due to unavailability of drilling rigs to conduct sub-
surface investigations. Force account works have been started. Construction
contracts have been awarded for three of the 12 major contract works. Diffi-
cult working conditions in the project areas and inadequate communications
facilities have resulted in poor response to invitations for competitive
bidding from prospective contractors. This is likely to cause further delays
in the implementation schedule.
Loan No. 1815 Rainfed Agriculture (Iloilo); $12.0 million Loan of
March 28, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
In spite of the complexity of the project, the Ministry of Agri-
culture's project management is making fair progress. The multi-agency set-up
of this project requires close financial monitoring, which needs further
improvement. The 1981 wet season multiple cropping target of 6,000 ha under
the Kabsaka methodology has been achieved. For the success of the coming 1982
wet seaison target of 16,000 ha, much will depend on the effectiveness of the
farmers' training sessions, the selection of farmer leaders and the mobility
of the field staff. The mobility of the coordinating management staff has now
improved with the provision of new vehicles funded through the National
Extension Project. The project has not to date been able to purchase its own
vehicles due to restrictions imposed by the Presidential Office.  Several
project components are seriously affected by the inadequacy or delay in the
allocation and/or release of local funds.
Loan No. 1890 Watershed Management and Erosion Control Project;
$38.0 Million Loan of August 4, 1980; Date of
Effectiveness: October 30, 1980, Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
In spite of funding restraints which affected project implementation
in 1981, the reforestation component achievement is close to target, and, with
the allocation of funds for 1982 now available, this progress shou:Ld continue.
Road works are behind schedule, as vehicles and equipment procured under the
project have not yet been delivered, and the use of hired equipment has been
plagued with problems.  Project staffing levels proposed by NIA have been
reduced by 32%, and the proposed salary grades of key management personnel
have also been reduced. The Bank is monitoring this situation closely to
determine its possible effect on project implementation.  The contract for the
Magat Feasibility Study was signed in November 1981. The forest protection
pilot project is behind schedule due to the late release of funds in 1981.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 18
Loan No. 1894 Third Livestock and Fisheries Credit Project; $45.0 Million
Loan of August 4, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: November 5,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is progressing well and cumulative disbursements have
ben slightly ahead of schedule. Estimated commitments over the medium term
indicate that this trend should continue. In general, lending for fishponds
and hog production has exceeded appraisal estimates, while lending for
seagoing vessels and some types of cattle has lagged. (Village level cattle
schemes have substantially surpassed appraisal estimates.) Studies being
carried out by the Bureau of Animal Industries should be under way shortly,
and institutional strengthening of the Development Bank of the Philippines
is currently in progress. The need for a study on fishing gear technology
to be handled by the Fishery Industry Development Council is being reviewed,
but a review of maritime regulations is expected to start shortly.
Loan No. 2040 Agricultural Support Services; $45.0 million Loan of August 25,
1981; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: November 10, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1987
This loan was signed on August 25, 1981 and was declared effective
in November 1981. New agencies have been established, and existing agencies
organized to implement the 24 components of the project. Delays have been
encountered due to confusion over the designation of responsibilities
between the Central Office, the staff bureaus and the Regional Offices
following the 1980 reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture and non-
release of scheduled local start-up funds in 1981.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 1353      Third Highway Project; S95.0 Million Loan of January 12,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Clcsing Date: December 31, 1983
Overall, the project is about 65% complete and two and half years
behind schedule because of slow procurement, poor performance of many contrac-
tors, and inadequate planning for the use of local funds. The Ministry of
Public Highways was poorly managed. However, it was merged in 1981 with the
Ministry of Public Works and its operations are now improving. Further
efforts are, however, required to strengthen its management, and a short-term
action program was agreed in detail in 1981 with the Ministry of Public Works
and Highways (MPWlH) in order to tighten the project implementation. MPWH
has adhered to the schedule of the action program, and works on national
and minor road contracts are now progressing satisfactorily. The road
maintenance and restoration programs have been reduced in scope to establish
more realistic targets. Procurement of road maintenance equipment, tools
and other machinery has been completed. Consultants for supervision of
construction of roads and workshops are in place and the road and ferry
feasibility studies have been completed. The technical assistance advisors
to MPWEI completed their assignment in November 1979 and training advisors to
tPWH completed their work in March 1980. Overall, the project is likely to
be completed by mid-1983, the revised completion date.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 18'
Loan No. 1661      Fourth Highway Project; $100 Million Loan of March 9,
1979 ; Date of Effectiveness: June 15, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After long initial delavs caused mainly by slow procuremetnt, the
implementation of this project has now started to progress more rapidly.  MPWT
has adhered, with some minor delays, to the action program agreed npon in
May 1981, and has recently made significant progress by awarding nine of the
ten national road construction contracts.  Nevertheless, the overall delay now
amounts to at least a year. The detailed engineering for construction of
workshops is well inder way.  Pilot maintenance programs for four regions have
started and procurement of maintenance equipment is under wav.
Loan No. 1855      Third Ports Project; $67 Million Loan of June 13,, 1980;
Proposed Date of Effectiveness: September 11, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Bids for almost all project components have been received and
evaluated. The soil consolidation work at the Port of Cebu is virtually
complete. Contracts for the main construction works at the ports of Iloilo,
Cebu and Zamboanga have been awarded and mobilization is under way., The
contract: for the main construction work at the Port of Cagayan de Oro is still
under evaluation.  Arrangements for construction supervision are still not
satisfactory and the Government is attempting to improve its field supervision
organization with the help of technical assistance consultants.
Loan No. 1860      Rural Roads Improvement Project; $62 Million Loan of
June 13, 1980; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: September 8,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Initial progress in preparing the 1981 rural roads program has been
slow due mainly to a delay in providing technical assistance services to the
implementing agency. Due to delays in preparing and reviewing detailed
engineering for rural roads, no construction contracts started in the 1981 dry
season, putting the project about nine months behind schedule. Recently, the
Ministry of Local Government has awarded contracts for the first year's
program packages, and the works are now starting. Contracts for irmprovement
of the national road in Occidental Mindoro have recently been awarded, and the
contractors are mobilizing.  Consulting services for the technical assistance
component are now under way.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1224-T   Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of Apr:il 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The main component of the project, which is the development,
printing and distribution of 27 million primary and secondary textbooks and
teachers' manuals in five subject areas, has made good progress. The project



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 18
has met its goal of producing and distributing 84 titles to schools,
amounting to over 31 million copies. Over 56,000 teachers have been upgraded.
A delay in the completion of a central facility for the Textbook Secretariat,
resulting from change orders and price escalation, has caused a one-year delay
in project completion. Two hundred seventy thousand dollars of the loan was
cancelled in March 1982 due to misprocurement when a contract was not awarded
to the lowest bidder.
Loan No. 1374      Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of March 25,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Implementation of the project is now some 18 months behind schedule.
Rapid price escalation and high credit costs in the 1978-80 period resulted
in a slow-down in building activity, the rescinding of an important contract
and renegotiation of others, thus delaying implementation of the project's
other physical components and dependent educational objectives. The problem
is being resolved, and in the process EDPITAF has devolved implementation
responsibilities to recipient institutions. The closing date has now been
extended for two years to December 1983. Overall project utilization of
Technical Assistance Specialists is only 20%, while over 80% of Fellowship
time has been committed. Enrolments are about on target and other educational
developments at UPLB and VISCA are proceeding satisfactorily. There is some
tendency to proliferate fields of specialized study and the National Governing
Board of the PTC-RD system has not functioned as planned in reviewing
important changes in policies and programs.
Loan No. 1786 Fisheries Training Project; $38.0 Million Loan
of February 1, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
May 19, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Overall physical implementation is behind schedule by about six
months mainly due to the transfer of detailed implementing responsibility from
EDPITAF to the respective project institutions, and to delays in Presidential
approval of civil works contracts (P 2.0 million each). Uncertainties over
where management responsibilities would lie are expected to cause further
delays. Seven of the 13 civil works contracts have now been awarded and
technical assistance is in progress. The Fellowship program is being
implemented on schedule, but the recruitment of consultants has been slow,
also affected by the transfer of implementing responsibility and the delay in
the release of the Obligation Authority for project funds to recipient
institutions. This release is expected shortly. The Bank has recommended
that an interministerial task force be created to review the management
difficulties and other issues which are hampering project implementation.
Loan No. 2030 Elementary Education Sector Loan; $100.0 Million Loan of
August 25, 1981; Proposed Date of Effectiveness:
November 10,1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This loan was declared effective in November 1981. The project has
made a good start, and project planning is proceeding well. The main



- 47 -
ANNEX I I
Page 13 of 18
difficulties anticipated would arise from the Government's complicated
procurement, payment and accounting procedures.  These difficulties should be
minimized by the transfer of expertise from EDPITAF to the Ministry of
Education, which is responsible for project implementation.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272-T   Mlanila Turban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282        $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
On-site infrastructure is about 90% complete and 4,800  plot titles
have been awarded with another 4,000 scheduled by September 1982. Improved
water supply is delayed and now expected by last quarter 1982. The sewer
outfall should be completed by February 1983, the R.10 road in late 1983 and
the C.2 road by april 1984. The site will be turned over to the local
government shortly.
Loan No. 1415  Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Overall project implementation is about one year behind schedule.
Major contracts have been awarded; however, due to unforeseen delays in well
drillinig and late deliveries of pipes, progress has been slow.  All major
contracts have been let, and better progress is expected through 1]982. Work
has started in four of the six project cities, and contractors are mobilizing
in the remaining two. The construction cost is expected to be close to
appraisal estimates; however, project completion is expected to be delayed by
about one year.
Loan No. 1615  Second Mlanila Water Supply Project; $88 Million Loan of
July 26, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project suffered a late start because of initial delays in
approvals of contracts in source development which delayed the construction
of the Bank-financed distribution system component.  Nearly all the major
contracts have now been let and no further slippage is expected. However,
because of the high cost of money, many contractors have delayed mobilization
on their contracts. A water rate increase of P 0.25 plus a 10% waste water
disposal charge were implemented on July 1, 1981.
Loan No. 1647        Second UJrban Development Project; $32.0 Million Loan
of January 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 26,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
In Manila, problems in funding contracts and poor coordination
between executing agencies, which caused considerable delays and cost over-
runs ('507 over appraisal estimates), are now being resolved. Physical works



- 48 -                       ANNEX II
Page 14 of 18
are expected to be completed by early 1984, 15 months behind schednle. In
the regional cities, after an initially slow start due to staffing and
political problems, work is underway on all sites and completion is expected
at the end of 1983.
Credit No. 920 Second Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $22 Million
Loan No. 1710   Credit and $16 Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness:  November 30, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
The 50 Water Districts required under the project have been formed.
Work is under way on the development of a financial planning and control
system, and consultants have started the preparation of a comprehensive
management assistance and training proposal. A new institution, the Rural
Water Supply Development Corporation, has been created, and is now preparing a
list of materials to be procured for rural water supply.
Loan No. 1814 Manila Sewerage and Sanitation Project: $63.0 million Loan of
March 28, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 10, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The project is proceeding well, with no major problems. Detailed
designs for the Tondo Pumping Station have been completed, and tenders for
sanitary sewers in Dagupan and Pandacan awarded. The organization for the
combined sewer program is in place; staffing and training plans are being
prepared; and equipment for the water quality monitoring program has been
approved for procurement.
Loan No. 1821 Third Urban Development Project; $72 Million Loan of
June 2, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 25, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Problems of funding and land acquisition have slowed the project.
Disbursements are now 60% of that projected at appraisal, and show an
improving trend. The problem of land for sites and services is expected to
be resolved shortly and contracting is expected to start later this year.
Overall costs are stable. Progress on finalizing policies for ZIP, and
precise agreements with local governments have been slow, but are now about
to be implemented. Preparation of the next phase of basic services programs
is progressing well.
Loan No. 2067  Urban Engineering Project; $80.0 Million Loan of
February 24, 1982; Date of Effectiveness: May 26, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30,1985
This loan was signed in February 1982 and is expected to be
effective in May 1982. Most of the consultants have been selected.



- 49 -                       ANNEX II
Page 15 of 18
Power Sector
Loan No. 1034       Sixth Power; $61.0 Mtillion Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The Pantabangan generating plant was commissioned in April 1977, and
the transmission facilities are now expected to be completed by ApriLl 1982,
about four years behind schedule. The main delays in the execution of the
transmission system have been due to the slow pace of engineering design and
preparation of tender documents, and delays in procurement. The revised
project cost estimate is 53% higher than the appraisal estimate. The
closing diate of the loan was postponed from June 30, 1981 to March 31,
1982 to allow additional time for payment of retention monies to
contractors.
Loan No. 1460       Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation is now two years behind schedule, mainly due
to delays in the construction of the load dispatching center. The revised
project cost is now estimated at $100 million (including additional works),
8% higher than the original estimate. Due to delays in procurement, and
because of additional works authorized by the Bank, the closing date of the
loan has been extended to December 1983. NPC has still been unable to meet
the 8% rate of return target provided in the Loan Agreement and the
Government has yet to provide specific assurances that appropriate action
will be taken to remedy this. This problem is being followed up by the
Bank.
Loan No. 1547      Rural Electrification; $60.0 Mfillion Loan of Mfay 10,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project is substantially complete, with about $1.2 million
uncommitted. These funds are to be used by NEA for the purchase of equipment
and materials for its 1982 program. NEA's lending to cooperatives for power
development has increased by over 50% in the last two years, and its financial
results and condition continue to be satisfactory according to unaudited
financial statements for 1981. However, ITEA's collation of the financial
results of its client cooperatives shows that a number are in financial
difficulties. The Bank is monitoring the situation closely, and is pressing
NFA, as the regulatory agency, to take all necessary remedial steps through
rate increases improvements in management, or other appropriate measures.



- 50 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 18
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 1514      Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP);
$30 Million Loan of February 9, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness: June 23, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982
The loan is now fully committed and disbursements as of March 31,
1982; stood at $24.9 million. The project progress is satisfactory. The
closing date might be postponed by one year to allow for completion of
disbursements.
Loan No. 1555      Philippines Investments Systems Organization (PISO);
$15 Million Loan of May 8, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
May 12, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan is fully committed and disbursements ($13.9 million as of
March 31, 1982) are proceeding at a satisfactory rate.
Loan No. 1572      Third Industrial Investment Credit Project through the
Development Bank of the Philippines: $80 Million Loan
of June 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 15,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
DBP's SMI program is operating satisfactorily; the loan allocation
of S29.7 million for this component has been fully committed. However,
commitments under the loan for medium/large industry financing ($50 million)
and related disbursements are slower than anticipated at appraisal. The
closing date might be postponed by 18 months to allow for completion of
disbursements.
Loan No. 1727      Second Small and Medium Industries Development Project;
$25 Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
November 9, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The IGLF component (824.5 million) was fully disbursed by October
1981 and overall progress of the project is satisfactory. Disbursements
under the MASICAP component ($0.5 million) are slower than anticipated
because of the recent reorganization within the Ministry of Trade and
Industry. However, this component is expected to be completed before the
current closing date.
Loan No. 1984      Industrial Finance Project; $150 million Loan of May 28,
1981; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Satisfactory progress has been made in achieving the main objectives
of the project. The Apex Development Finance Unit of the Central Bank has
been successful in meeting the institutional aspects of the project: the



- 51 -
ANNEX I I
Page 17 of 18
commercial Loan Agreement for $100 million was signed on August 7, 1981 on
favorable terms); issues discussed during negotiations relating to individual
participating financial institutions (PFIs) are being dealt with; and
subsidiary loan agreements with individual PFIs are being negotiated and
finalized (after due consultation with the Bank). Commitments by the three
participating financial institutions (PFIs) have started and good progress is
also being made in identifying and appraising new PFIs. Progress made so far
is in line with expectations, except that the pace of commitments is slower
than anticipated at appraisal.
Structural Adjustment Lending
Loan No. 1903       Structural Adjustment Loan; $200.0 million Loan of
September 25, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: November 14,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Considerable progress has been made in implementing the Government's
industri.al development program in support of which the loan was made. The
first stage of the Government's five year program of tariff reform and trade
liberalization became effective on January 1, 1981; the second stage of this
program became effective on January 1, 1982. Studies are under way to review
and improve the Government's industrial incentives and promotion system; and
subsector development programs are under preparation to assist domestic
industries to adjust to the tariff reform and trade liberalization measures.
The two requirements for the release of the second tranche of the loan were
met by the Government in July 1981.  The second tranche was subsequently
released and, with the exception of the $5 million technical assistance
component, the $200 million loan has been fully disbursed.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1035       Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
With the exception of some construction in Regions 6 and 9 and water
supplies to rural health units, the project has been substantially completed.
The balance of the loan is expected to be committed by mid-May of this year,
and all works and procurement completed by the closing date of December 31,
1982. This is, however, dependent upon the release of 1982 project funding
by the Budget Ministry.  Project implementation is now being handled by the
Ministr-y of Hlealth, whose performance is gradually improving following the
dissolution of the previous Project Management Service at the time of the
original closing date (December 31, 1979).  A major cause for concern,
however, is the project accounting, of which very little has taken place.
This situation has been brought to the attention of the TMinister of Health
and is being very closely supervised by Bank staff.  All project-related
training activities and staff recruitment programs have been completed.



- 52 -
ANN4EX II
Page 18 of 18
Information, education and communication activities are substantially com-
pleted, and management information services and technical assistance are
expected to be completed by September of this year.
Credit No. 923    Second Population Project; S40.0 Million Credit of
June 27, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 15, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The earlier slow pace of implementation is now improving with the
Ministry of Budget's advance release of funds to cover the carryover
activities of CY80 and those scheduled for 1981. The release of the 1982
project funds has been delayed, however, by the Ministry of the Budget.
All sites required for scheduled civil works have been acquired and surveyed,
arrangements for construction management and monitoring are being finalized
and the procedures designed to encourage community participation for Barangay
Health Station development under the first project are being applied to those
under the second project. Implementation of the Primary Health Care component
has attained notable momentum; however, activities in training, IEC and pro-
curement lag far behind the appraisal schedule. Greater decentralization of
the implementation responsibilities at regional, provincial and municipal
levels in recent months is expected to accelerate the pace of project
implementation.



- 53 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:          8 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                        Ministry of Energy/PNOC
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:             May 1981
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:             February 1982
(e)  Completion of negotiations:                 July 13, 1982
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:              December 1982
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
A substantial amount of supervision by Bank staff will be required
to monitor both BED's basin evaluation program and PNOC-EC's exploration
activities.
Section. III - Special Conditions
1.        BED would appoint consultants to initiate work on the basin eval-
uation program no later than January 1, 1983, and would hire additional staff
and/or consultants as needed if the basin evaluation program should fall
behind schedule (para. 63).
2.        BED would, in consultation with the Bank, develop no later than
December 31, 1983, periodically update thereafter, and ultimately implement, a
detailed plan and schedule for a promotional campaign based on the results of
the basin evaluation program (para. 63).
3.        PNOC-EC would seek private sector participation at appropriate
points in the course of implementing its exploration program under the project
by inviting oil companies to form joint ventures to continue exploration in
one or more of its areas (para. 55).



- 54 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
4.        The proceeds of the PNOC loan would be relocated to alternative
project areas for exploration by PNOC-EC in the event that PNOC-EC's pro-
motional effort was successful in one area, it was decided to cease explora-
tion in an area because of discouraging results, or BED's or PNOC-EC's
exploration results indicated a particularly prospective new area (para. 57).
5.        A detailed execution plan has been agreed with PNOC-EC for
monitoring the progression of exploration activities under the project,
whereby PNOC-EC would execute the proposed exploration program in a step-wise
manner in consultation with the Bank (para. 68).
6.         Conditions of disbursement for the PNOC loan are:
(a) Bank approval of the seismic program and schedule for land
seismic services, and Bank approval of a particular well
location and program for drilling-related services (para. 77); and
(b) in the event of a joint venture, Bank approval of the exploration
program, expenditure estimates, procurement procedures, and other
items pertaining to the particular seismic or drilling activities
to be financed out of the proceeds of the loan as well as approval
of the overall joint venture contract and operating arrangements
(paras. 68 and 77).



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 4
PHILIPPINES
Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project
Petroleum Geology and Prognosis
1.        The Philippine archipelago forms part of the Wespern rim of the
Pacific Ocean. Its total land area is about 300,000 square kilometers,
distributed over 7,100 islands. The shallow marine areas (0-200 meters)
comprise 180,000 square kilometers, while the deep water territory covers
in excess of 1,000 square kolometers.                                r
2.        The onshore areas show great topographical variations.  Access is
hampered by dense rain forests, rugged mountain chains or both. Due to the
fragmentation of the land into many islands, exploration on land is costly
and time-consuming. The shelf areas show similar variations. Shallow
reefs, shoals and submarine volcanoes make local navigation very difficult,
imposing some constraints on seismic acquisition.  In the undisturbed shallow
water areas, exploration faces no particular problems, and seismic data can
be of good quality, except where hard sea bottom prevails. Seismic
acquisition in the deep water areas offers no problems, but unstable sea
bottom conditions and strong currents may form major hazards for any deep
water development.
General Geology
3.        The Philippine archipelago, in common with Indonesia, TaLiwan and
Japan, has a very complex geological history. These areas are intensely
deformed, as they are the locus of interaction between Pacific ocetanic
elements and continental crustal fragments torn loose from the Asian con-
tinent. Extensive fault zones can be followed over long distances (several
hundred kilometers). There were several cycles of movement along such fault
zones in Tertiary times, giving rise to the great variety of mountain ranges
and basinal areas for which the Philippines and adjacent countries are well
known. The latest geological events, which gave shape to the archipelago
in its present form, took place mainly in mid to late Tertiary timaes.
Sediments deposited since then have been and remain the main target for oil
exploration.
Basin Development and Stratigraphy
4.        Despite the geological complexity, it has been possible to outline
some 15 sedimentary basins in the Philippines. However, the geological
record is often incomplete, and additional data is required for a better
understanding of their development and a full assessment of their oil
potential. Geological surveys and well records show wide variations in the
sedimentary fill of these basins, ranging from 1,000 to over 10,000 meters.



- 56 -                         ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 4
5.         In the northern part of the archipelago, in Luzon, sedimentation
commenced in Oligo-Miocene times. Although the composition of rock units
can change over short distances, a typical geological section consists of
shallow marine limestones and reefs, and shallow marine to deep water
shales interbedded with thick sandstones. Coals and lignites, considered
source rocks, occur locally. This sequence of sediments can be far in
excess of 6,500 meters.
6.         In the central part of the Philippines, in the Visayas, limestones
play a very important role; these rocks alternate with thick shale units.
Sand bodies, albeit of variable thickness, are also present.  The total
sedimentary thickness probably reaches 10,000 meters.
7.         A typical sedimentary section in the southern part, in Mindanao,
is composed primarily of shales, sandy shales with coals and sands of Lower
to Middle Miocene age. This sequence is overlain by limestones which may be
abs3ociated with reefs. The sedimentary section closes with Pliocene deep
water shales and sandstones. Total thickness is in excess of 8,000 meters.
8.         In the western part of the archipelago, in the Palawan offshore,
a somewhat different stratigraphical regime has been identified. Jurassic
to Cretaceous limestones, shales and coals and well developed quartz sands
are present. In the Lower Tertiary there is a predominance of thick
limestones and reefs which are oil-bearing locally; the Tertiary closes with
thick sandstones, conglomerates and shales.
Oil Shows and Source Rocks
9.         Surface oil and gas indications are known from all of the larger
islands.  In one case, on the island of Leyte (Visayas), a tar deposit (of
unknown dimensions) is being exploited for local road surfacing. Records
of past drilling operations show that outside the producing NW Palawan area,
over 50 wells have had oil and gas indications, ranging from weak shows to
subcommercial accumulations (e.g., gas in Luzon and oil in North Cebu
(Visayas)).
10.       Oil and gas source rocks have been identified in many wells and
surface geological sections. Their composition and quality are highly
variable, and changes over short distances are common. As evidenced by the
large number of oil and gas indications, these source rocks must have
reached maturity. Yet, outside of NW Palawan, no commercial oil and gas
fields have been found. Many reasons, none of them convincing, have been
put forward to explain this apparent discrepancy.
Reservoir Rocks
11.        Sedimentary rocks capable of containing oil and gas have been
identified in each basin. Sandstones are the predominant reservoirs in
Luzon and Miftdanao. Unfortunately, their quality is often poor, as they



57 -                        A14EX IV
Page 3 of 4
are derived from adjacent volcanic rocks; such rocks generally contain an
abundance of clay particles which reduce their reservoir potential. However,
as with source rocks, there are wide variations in their composition. In
the Palawan area, very clean sands occur which form excellent reservoirs.
There are indications that similar rocks occur locally in other areas (e.g.,
Luzon and Mindanao).
12.       Reef limestones occur in each of the Philippine sedimentary
basins. Reef bodies are of particular interest for oil explorat:Lon. They
are usually very porous and, when in communication with source rocks, can
contain prolific oil and gas accumulations, as is the case in Indonesia and
Malaysia. Production in NW Palawan is from such reservoirs.
Structures
13.       The geological forces which were operative in the recent history
of the Philippine archipelago are far from understood. The same rock
sequences appear to have undergone repeated deformation. Compreissional
forces led to the formation of extensive mountain chains, often accompanied
by volcanoes and lava flows. During periods of extension deep d,epressions
were formed which received vast amounts of sediments from neighboring
mountain chains and volcanoes. Recurring compression folded these basinal
areas. Each Tertiary basin has its own characteristics: some are strongly
asymmetric with steep, faulted flanks on one side while the opposite flank
rises gently or is interrupted only by weak faulting (such basement fault
scarps are often a preferred locus for prolific reef growth, e.g., Northern
Luzon); other basins, into which rock masses from adjacent high areas were
dumped, are narrow and very deep (e.g., Ilocos (Central Luzon)); and yet
other basins are of a platform type with thick limestone sequences which are
only moderately folded or faulted (e.g., Bicol Shelf).
14.       This complex geological history gave rise to a bewildering array
of structural types, ranging from simple anticlines to faulted and over-
thrust anticlines, basement highs, etc. All of these configurations could
contain petroleum given the presence of source rocks and reservoirs. An
important drawback is their complexity; dense, high quality seismic surveys
are required to define their precise configuration.
Conclusions and Prognosis
15.       At first glance the petroleum potential of the Philippines would
appear to be excellent, as all of the key elements needed for the formation
of oil and gas pools are present: mature source rocks, reservoirs and
structures. Yet, despite extensive and intensive exploration by the
industry, particularly in the last ten years, commercial oil production has
been established in only one basin, offshore NW Palawan. Exploration out-
side of this area has reconfirmed the presence of most elements needed for
the generation of petroleum, but no commercial accumulations were found.



-58 -                         ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 4
16.       Various geological factors are believed to be responsible for this
lack of success, but it is far from certain that they are universally
operative. An analysis of "representative dry holes" has indicated, for
example, that in many cases the rocks overlying the prospective formations
are not properly sealing off the reservoirs, thus allowing the petroleum to
escape and migrate to the surface. In addition, many wells were drilled on
small complicated structures which could not be mapped with confidence using
the available exploration methods. In still other cases, the possible oil-
bearing horizons are now recognized as being deeper than originally
envisaged when the geochemistry of the basins was not fully understood.
Other variables, not yet recognized, may also be operative.
17.       General Prognosis:  Against this background, BED and Bank staff
jointly attempted a critical examination of the prospectiveness of the
geological basins of the Philippines, in an effort to balance the positive
elements with the identified risks. It quickly became clear that explor-
ation coverage is not only concentrated in a few areas, but also that data
are often poorer in quality than thought previously. Nevertheless, it was
possible to arrive at a qualitative comparison among the various basins and
the following conclusions: (a) the Palawan area and the Visayas are well
explored by geophysics and drilling; yet in the latter area, there remain
some very important informational gaps, namely that structures at levels
deeper than 3,500 meters are practically unexplored; (b) Mindoro, Mindanao
and South Palawan contain the elements needed for generating oil and gas,
but exploration coverage is too sparse to be precise as to their petroleum
potential; and (c) in the remaining areas, exploration coverage is too
limited to allow even a tentative appraisal.
18.       The results of the assessment made it clear that it would be
premature to write off the petroleum potential of the areas outside NW
Palawan given present knowledge, and that efforts should be undertaken to:
(a) compile, for each geological basin, all available geological information;
(b) evaluate the recognized geological risks in an effort to quantify them;
and (c) complete the exploration data base in areas of insufficient
coverage by acquiring geophysical and geochemical data. BED and Bank staff
agreed that such a regional basin evaluation is needed if the present
decline in exploration activity is to be reversed. It would not only result
in a substantially improved understanding of the petroleum potential of the
Philippine basins, but it would also be a valuable basis for developing new
exploration strategies. While it is not possible to quantify possible
rewards, chances are considered good that discoveries on the order of 10-15
million barrels can be made. Although no large oil company would commence
exploration for such small fields per se, they may become interested once
they can focus on well defined prospective areas without a prior regional
evaluation effort, which would be too manpower-intensive for them.



- 59 -                         ANNEX V
Page 1 of 7
PHILIPPINES
Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project
PNOC-EC Exploration Program
Background
1.        PNOC-EC, as operator, have explored in three contract areas in
Northern Luzon. Their program has included geological surface wrork, seismic
exploration and drilling of nine wells; a tenth well is planned for 1982.
Wherever possible, PNOC-EC have employed their own staff. Where expertise
was lacking, as in seismic acquisition and processing/interpretation,
extensive use was made of consultants/contractors. Special projects, such
as geochemical evaluations, were carried out by oil company research
laboratories and consultant firms. PNOC-EC are also participating (30%
share) in a joint venture contract in Central Luzon, where Chinese Petroleum
Corporation (Taiwan) is the operator. Work to date has consisted of
geological and geophysical surveys, with plans for 235 kilometers of seismic
and a first well in 1982.
2.        PNOC-EC feel confident that they are able to undertake additional
exploration projects. They recognize, however, that they will require
advice and assistance from various advisors/consultants for some years to
come. PNOC-EC, together with Bank staff, have identified three onshore
areas of immediate interest: Mindoro, Cotabato (Mindanao), and Cebu, for
which they hold the necessary geophysical contracts or -permits. The choice
of these projects has been prompted by the following consideratjions:
(a)  PNOC-EC plan to continue exploration on land, where they have
attained some experience; only at a much later stage would
they consider exploring offshore where overall production
economics are much harsher.
(b)  The three areas are considered prospective despite the lack of
systematic exploration in the past. A joint examinatLon by BED
and Bank staff has confirmed that they contain good oil and gas
possibilities. This is also recognized by various oiL companies
which, however, do not intend to explore them due to the
expectation of relatively small fields and the need for fairly
extensive predrilling work.
Mindoro
3.        The exact geological relation of Mindoro to its neighboring areas
(Palawan, Southeastern Luzon) has yet to be established; regional geo-
physical surveys under the project should help to close this gap. On the
island itself, an area covering over 600 square kilometers is considered



- 60 -                        ANNEX V
Page 2 of 7
prospective. PNOC-EC geologists have identified a thick sedimentary section
containing good reservoir rocks separated by shales. The nature of the geo-
logical section shows many similarities to NW Palawan with which Mindoro
may form a geological unit. Surveys planned by BED will indicate the
extent to which the offshore area between Mindoro and Palawan is prospective.
Surface oil and gas shows have been recorded. A well drilled recently by
Sedco (US) on the southern part of the island encountered 3 meters of
hydrocarbon gas in a miocene conglomerate, which, however, was not con-
sidered worth testing; the well was abandoned, and the contract area
surrendered. PNOC-EC holds a geophysical contract covering the most
prospective part of the island.
4.        Geological surveys have demonstrated that an attractive strati-
graphical section is present. In the west, this section could be as thick
as 5,000-8,000 meters, while uncertainties remain in the east. Gravity
data show anomalies which could be related to fault blocks in the basement
and overlying sediments. These may be related to surface structural
indications which have been mapped. A seismic reconnaissance grid has
been laid out aimed at establishing optimum acquisition parameters and
finding areas which merit detailing to map structural features. Seismic
operations commenced in December 1981, and by July 1982 about 360 line
kilometers had been profiled.  Dynamite is used as an energy source.  While
no fully processed lines are available, the presence of seismic reflections
is indicated on preliminary records. Results to date are encouraging, but
considerable processing and experimentation are necessary as the subsurface
geology appears even more complex than expected.
5.         Exploration Program.  PNOC-EC plan to continue geological field
work (about 15 party months) in an effort to unravel the complex structural
conditions of West Mindoro. Emphasis will also be placed on collecting oil
source rocks and oil samples, a selection of which will be fully analyzed by
an established geochemical firm.  The first phase of reconnaissance seismic
has been completed, at a rate of progress of 50-60 line kilometers per
month. Processing is being carried out by one of the leading contractors in
the field. Starting about December 1982, a number of structural indications
will be detailed with a further 400 line kilometers, provided such struc-
tural leads are seen in the processed reconnaissance lines. PNOC-EC are
confident that the seismic work will lead toward defining two exploration
prospects. They plan to drill an own account well in early 1983, probably
close to the Sedco surrendered contract area. A Bank financed exploration
well is planned for early 1984 provided the presence of a viable prospect
can be proven.
6.         The planned exploration program in East Mindoro is similar to that
in the West. Some 14 party months of geological field work are planned, and



- 61 -                       ANNE_V
Page 3 of 7
potential reservoir rocks and source rocks will be collected for latboratory
analysis. Seismic operations will be carried out for 3-4 months in 1982
until the weather clears in West Mindoro and will resume in mid-1983 upon
completion of operations in the West; acquisition of some 800 line
kilometers, including reconnaissance and detail work, is planned. Drilling
is scheduled for mid-1984, contingent upon PNOC-EC's ability to demonstrate
that a bona fide structure can be mapped.
7.        Comments on Program.  Mindoro is an attractive exploration
prospect; active operations are justified even though the areal extent of
the basin, particularly its offshore part, remains to be clarified. The
planned program is sound and can be fully supported, with the possi'ble
exception of PNOC-EC's own account well in early 1983 which may be somewhat
premature and may not be drilled. The main risks lie in the acquisition of
seismic data which may take longer than planned, particularly if complex
processing is necessary. In any case, financing of drilling operations will
be considered only after technical agreement is reached between PNOC-EC and
Bank staff.
Cotabato (Mindanao)
8.        The Cotabato Basin in Southern Mindanao is geologically one of the
least known basins in the Philippines. Its areal extent is estimated to be
20,000 square kilometers, but it could be much larger as lava flows cover
extensive areas.  The sedimentary section is in excess of 8,000 meters and
consists of shales, sands, coals and limestones, possibly with locaLl reef
development. The area of interest is rather intensively cultivated which
may pose access problems for seismic operations. In the central/eastern
part of the basin, the terrain is swampy which will necessitate special
transport equipment (e.g., marsh buggies).
9.        Local and foreign oil companies conducted geological and geo-
physical operations in Cotabato in the 1950s and early 1960s; however,
the records are incomplete. Six exploration wells were drilled, apparently
on a plunging anticlinal nose, and gas shows were encountered in each.
Activities since then have been limited, due in part to restricted access
in many parts of the island during the late seventies. PNOC-EC commenced
their operations in 1980. They have completed a reconnaissance gravity
survey in the southern part of the basin. Numerous anomalies have been
identified, some of which may reflect structures. Geological operations
have started along the edge of the basin in order to establish a
stratigraphic framework.
10.       Exploration Program.  Geological surveys (about 34 party months)
will continue through 1985, by which time a stratigraphical framework should
be established to assist in selecting optimum exploration locations.



- 62 -                        ANNEX V
Page 4 of 7
Emphasis will be on collecting source rocks, with representative samples
subjected to complete geochemical analysis. Further gravity operations
(about 6 party months) will be completed in the first half of 1983. Seismic
operations, entailing the acquisition of some 2,200 line kilometers, will
commence in early 1984. Assuming two crews and a reasonable rate of
progress (80 kilometers per month per crew), the survey should be completed
in the second quarter of 1985. The first half of the survey will be of a
reconnaissance type to find areas of structural development, while the
remainder will be detail work. Exploration drilling is expected to start in
the first quarter of 1985; two wells are programmed.
11.       Comments on Program.  The work proposed by PNOC-EC can be fully
supported. The Cotabato Basin has been very lightly explored in the past;
the geological elements for finding petroleum are favorable. Seismic oper-
ations must expect slow progress in some areas due to swampy surface
conditions; progress may also be slowed on a local basis as much of the area
of interest is densely cultivated. It is believed, however, that sufficient
locations can be matured to commence drilling as scheduled. Drilling
operations may be further hampered by over pressures, although PNOC-EC have
had experience under somewhat similar conditions in Northern Luzon. As in
the other exploration areas, Bank financing will be contingent on PNOC-EC's
ability to provide technically justified and documented drilling proposals.
Cebu
12.       The island of Cebu has attracted the oil industry's interest since
the earliest days of exploration.  The occurrence of numerous oil shows,
particularly in the northern part of the island, triggered the drilling of
many wells in the early part of the century which produced small amounts of
oil (2,500 barrels per year of light crude). Systematic exploration work
on the island has been hampered by adverse terrain conditions, making seismic
acquisition particularly difficult; this remains a major obstacle.
13.       Recent drilling offshore has not met with success.  However, the
somewhat deeper horizons, which will form the main target on land, could not
be properly mapped in the offshore. There is little doubt that exploration
on Cebu should continue. Prior to undertaking any geophysical operations,
however, careful topographical and geological mapping is mandatory in order
to establish a stratigraphical basis and determine areas of access.
14.       Exploration Program.  PNOC-EC are aware of the operational
problems on Cebu. Extensive geological surveys (about 27 party months) and
topographical studies are therefore planned to establish a stratigraphical
framework, map surface geological structures and evaluate access which is
generally difficult and locally impossible due to very rugged terrain. The
six months of gravity work planned have been started. These results should



- 63 -                        ANNEX V
Page 5-of 7
help in laying out the seismic grid.  Seismic operations are expected to
commence in January 1983, with progress a conservative 40 line kilomneters
per month. It is estimated that some 600 kilometers of seismic will be
needed to map a drillable prospect, perhaps 400 kilometers of reconnaissance
and 200 kilometers of detail seismic; if successful, drilling will take
place in mid-1985, although it could possibly be advanced to late 1984.
15.       Comments on Program.  PNOC-EC's exploration program in Cebu can be
fully supported, despite the abortive drilling campaigns in the Visayan
offshore. The focus of land exploration will be horizons which were not
fully evaluated by offshore operations, and which are believed to be more
favorably located on Cebu itself. Seismic acquisition remains a major
problem, however, and extensive geological and topographical studiets must
precede seismic operations.
Additional Exploration Possibilities
16.       Northern Luzon.  PNOC-EC have operated three service contract
areas in Northern Luzon. To date, they have recorded more than 3,700 kilo-
meters of seismic lines and drilled 9 exploration wells. Gas shows have
been a common occurrence7 in one prospect, a small gas accumulation was
encountered.  Further appraisal drilling will be considered after additional
seismic reprocessing.
17.       A close examinatiion of the results of the exploration wells and
seismic data clearly demonstrate that seismic grids denser than have been
used in the past are needed in this area where prospects are mostly small.
Furthermore, there are indications that the formations overlying the
trapping structures are often too sandy, thus permitting petroleum to
dissipate to the surface. Careful reprocessing of existing seismic data
may assist in better predicting the composition of the cap rocks. PNOC-EC
plan tci experiment with advanced processing techniques which they have not
yet used, and, if successful, some 440 line kilometers of seismic data and
related gravity data from Northern Luzon would be reprocessed under the
proposed project.
18.       Exploration drilling objectives in Northern Luzon have generally
been in the 7,000 to 10,000 foot range. Recent geochemical studies indicate,
however, that the most promising trapping structures may be deeper, in the
12,000 to 14,000 foot range; in several areas, structural indicat:Lons are
clearly recognized at these levels. Detailed prospect mapping wi:Ll require
additional seismic data, perhaps as much as 500 line kilometers. If
drillable prospects can be mapped, one or two deep wells may be w,arranted.
19.       Leyte Tar Deposit.  A rock asphalt deposit on Leyte (Visayas) has
been exploited for some time. Although some shallow drilling has been
carried out, its dimensions are still unknown. Tar deposits are widely
known in many geological provinces; they can be of large dimensions, and



- 64 -                        ANNEX V
Page 6 of 7
in many cases can form a seal for liquid hydrocarbons. PNOC-EC are planning
a survey to determine more accurately the tar sand reserves on Leyte, and to
investigate whether the deposit is related with liquid hydrocarbons. If this
yields interesting results, the next phase would entail: (a) detailed
geological mapping focused on the structural configuration of the deposit,
(b) dense geochemical surveys with a hydrocarbon detector, and (c) drilling
of 10-15 wells with a depth range of 250 to 1,500 feet.
20.       Geological Surveys.  In addition to these activities, PNOC-EC
will continue to carry out a program of geological surveys over a range of
areas on Luzon and in the Visayas, as well as on-going surveys in Northern
and Central Luzon, in the interests of identifying new, potentially pros-
pective land areas for future exploration.



PNOC-EC Implementation Schedule
1982            1983             1984             1985
B A S I N             .
1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4
MINDORO
West
Geological Survey
Seismic Survey
Drilling
East
Geological Survey
Seismic Survey                           ,F4
Drilling                                                                                                       Cn
COTABATO
Geological Survey
Gravity Survey
Seismic Survey
Drilling
CEBU
Geological Survey
Gravity Survey
Seismic Survey
Drilling
NOTE:  The location of an additional 400 kilometers of seismic and one more well would be                         o
decided during project implementation.



PHILIPPINES
Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project
BED Implementation Schedule
1982             1983              1984
1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4
Aeromagnetic Survey
acquisition
processing                                                                   -4
interpretation
Offshore Seismic Surveys                                                                                              a'
acquisition                                                                                                       a'
processing
interpretation                                                              -
Basin Evaluations
data compilation & evaluation
field and laboratory work
packaging of results
Consultants
Basin evaluations
senior advisor
geophysicist                                                                  - 4
geochemist                                                 _     _X
Survey supervision
aeromag                                                 ,
offshore seismic



ANNEX VII
- 67 -                             Page 1 of 3
PHILIPPINES
Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project
PNOC Financial Statements
A. PNOC CONSOLIDATED
PNOC CONSOLIDAI'ED BALANCE SHEETS
As of December 31:                                      1981      1980        1979
(million pesos)
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                                                       185        164        163
Short-Term Cash Investments                             2,555      1,800       1,647
Accounts and Notes Receivable (1)                        4,246     2,212       1,249
Inventories (2)                                          4,914     4,330       2,765
Other Current Assets                                       534       513         202
Total                                                   12,434     9,019       6,026
Net Property, Plant and Equipment (3)                      2,705      2,357      1,760
Exploration and Development Costs (4)                      1,313        753        465
Other Assets                                                 640        514         678
TOTAL                                                     17,091    12,671       8,929
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Accounts "Payable                                        1,540      1,322        762
Liability for Crude Oil and
Petroleum Products Importations (5)                  2,533      1,406       1,247
Short-Term Loans                                        7,839      5,433       3,245
Other Current Liabilities                                  492       398         204
Total                                                   12,402      ,          5,458
Long-Term Debt                                             1,166      1,218      1,147
Other Liabilities                                             49         48         50
Equity of Subsidiaries' Minority Stockholders                170        166         161
Stockholders' Equity
Authorized Capital Stock:  10,000,000 shares-
no par value
Paid-In Capital Stock                                    1,477     1,093         837
Retained Earnings (6)                                    1,825     1,587       1,277
TOTAL                                                     17,091    12,671       8,929
Current Ratio-times                                         1.00       1.05       1.10
Debt/Equity Ratio                                          26:74      31:69      35:65
Total Debt/Equity Ratio                                    81:19      79:21      76:24



ANNEX VII
- 68 -                             Page 2 of 3
PNOC CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS
Year Ending December 31:
1981      1980        1979
(million pesos)
Sales and Other Revenues                                 22,491    18,576      11,513
Cost of Revenues                                         20,841    17,315      10,877
Gross Profit                                              1,650      1,261         636
Operating Expenses                                          301        294         198
Operating Income                                          1,349        968         438
Interest and Other Charges, net                             673        216         81
Income Before Tax                                           676        752        357
Tax Expenses                                                312        424          86
Income Before Share of Minority Stockholders                364        328        271
Share of Minority Stockholders                                6          4           5
Net Income                                                  358        324         266
Cash Dividend                                               109         84          -
Profit Margin                                                 6.4%       5.2%        3.8%
Return on Capital Employed                                    8.6%       9.0%        9.7%
Debt Service Coverage - times                                 4.10       5.18        5.54
Notes to PNOC Consolidated Financial Statements:
(1) Accounts and notes receivable at year-end 1981 consisted of 2,837
million pesos for trade and 1,463 million pesos for non-trade, less 54
million pesos allowance for doubtful accounts.
(2) Inventories including crude oil, petroleum products, materials and
supplies are valued at cost; those on hand at end-1981 totalled 3,439
million pesos and those in transit 1,475 million pesos.
(3) Property, plant, and equipment of certain subsidiaries was revalued in
1971; remainder is stated at cost. Total value is 3823 million pesos,
less accumulated depreciation of 1118 million pesos.
(4) Prior to 1980, for those subsidiary companies in the exploration and
development stage, all costs incurred, reduced by incidental revenues,
were accumulated and deferred. In 1981 PNOC set up a general
provision for the non-recoverability of these costs amounting to 92.2
million pesos. The balance of exploration and development costs is
net of this provision and the costs of projects written off pertaining
to geothermal and coal activities (63.2 million pesos in total for
1980 and 1981).
(5) Includes liabilities for customs duties and other importation costs.
(6) Includes outstanding balances on payments by Government special funds
as part of PNOC's reserves (208 million pesos year-end 1981), as well
as other credits (32 million pesos) and revaluation increment in
property, plant, and equipment (49 million pesos).



ANNEX VII
- 69 -                             Page 3 of 3
B. PNOC EXPLORATION CORPORATION
PNOC-EC BALANCE SHEETS
As of December 31:                                           1981       1980        1979
(million pesos)
ASSETS
Current Assets
Inventory of Parts & Supplies (1)                        27.2       18.1        12.1
Due from Affiliated Companies (2)                         -           2.4        0.7
Other Current Assets                                      1.5         5.9        8.8
Total                                                    28.7       26.4        21.6
Net Property, Plant & Equipment                             1.9         2.0         2.9
Exploration & Development Costs (3)                       222.0       187.0      136.9
TOTAL                                                     252.6      215.4       161.4
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Due to Affiliated Companies (2)                          31.0       30.6         0.6
Other Current Liabilities                                 7.5         5.8        3.5
Total                                                    38.5       36.4         4.1
Stockholders' Equity (4)
Authorized Capital Stock: 322.5 million pesos
Paid-In Capital Stock                                  214.1       179.0       157.3
TOTAL                                                     252.6      215.4       161.4
Notes to PNOC--EC Financial Statements:
(1) Inventories are valued at cost.
(2) Except for normally recurring charges and credits, the balances dlue
from/to affiliated companies bear interest at approximately the
current prevailing rates.
(3) All exploration costs incurred to date, reduced by incidental
revenues, have been accumulated and deferred; their recovery is
dependent on the success of future operations in the search for oil
and other energy sources in commercial quantities.
(4) About 93% of the authorized shares is held by PNOC and 7% by the
public, while about 98% of capital paid in has been by PNOC and 2% by
the public.  Subscriptions receivable as of December 31, 1981, which
are collectible upon call, amount to 108.4 million pesos (PNOC 91.8;
public 16.6).






C ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~Z
0                                   z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~
F.--                                                           -~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-     z;    r-   (;
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E C.,(A
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n9
~~~~~~~~0  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  00
14 ~     ~       
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ J                                                                                                     nm
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 ~ ~ ~ ~
7-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o - - (
-~~~0,="3 --§-&                                  m 5;
R                                                                                           cr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                                                         a~
0~~~~~~~






IBRD 16360
CHIN A20°                                                                                   PHIL I PPIN   ES                          APRIL 1982
77 50v,,o or~            ooBASIN  EVALUATION  AND
EXPLORATION  PRC)JECT
E lET NAM M        PHILIPPINES     -20°
0    Oil and Gos Shows In Wells
'4_ ,t/odonav                               52A                                  Oil Seep
BRUNE$/I                                                                                    A     Gas Seep
MALAYS A!                                                         .*. .             ,                    1-T   Proposed AreO foI' Seismic Survey (BED)
I     _     -    xP I  t  N                 1l Proposed Area foI- Aeromog Survey (BED)
~  .~*:4'*~  -           PNOC-EC  (Bank Funded
I NDONESI~A                               JJ
a INp0SES [A C A I  /  -~9                              ..                                          Explrortion Operotion)
I6e                                                                                              Internotionol Boundaries
(_>SEDIMENTARY BASINS:                                  A :         
i Norfthern Luzon                            A
2. Ceninal Luzont                r   2 X  tii         M    A                      °      -0 100       200        300 KILOMETERS
3. Southeaostern Luzon                                   A A I
4. Bicol Shelf                        i      :           _/ 
4i Bicol Shelf                  I        B ' ^4/ZX0                                       50       i00     150     200 MILES         60
S. Bicol                       I±             L%Izbhvf-
6 Samori* v                                                 2
7 Po noy
8. Visoyan                     I    f  
9. Agustn / Donco oI 
10 Cotaboto                     I       '           I
II. Sulu South                                                    4                   PH|L/PP/N  if    SEA
12. Polawon South
13 Polowon                                                                            P H /   P P  N  E    S f A
14. Mindoro
15. Reed Bank             ~
1_
SOUTH    CH/VA S-UYANS                                                       . _   _
-12,                   / ~_%\1'
-                     '-  '-*  *\                                                                        '
I                                                             I~~~~~ 
15 A l,
/                 <
126°     -.               12(!                                           124@                              </,-         128
M    /  A Y S'PALI  WA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~t~-v
/  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ hzh                                       0Md8k
SI/H]    CA~~~~~~~~6=(te                  whhi s t-edro.d. h
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cae f-o A pd t*t,0 h w  h bd0, df
S   ba H47=01fts -Ax(~t   t. tga.osO  ytW1Y   -
I      'dtms
~~~IL  £-~~~~~~20                                                     24                                            18



