LOAN NUMBER 2201 PH
Loan Agreement
(Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated          2                     , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2201 PH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      6& " t)'    01        , 1982 (herein-
after called the BED Loan Agreement), between the REPUBLIC OF THE
PHILIPPINES (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of Part A of the Project (described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement) which will be carried out by the Borrower
through its Bureau of Energy Development (hereinafter called
BED), by making the Loan (hereinafter called the BED Loan) as
hereinafter provided; and
(B) Part B of the Project will be carried out by PNOC
Exploration   Corporation   (hereinafter   called   PNOC-EC),   a
subsidiary of the Philippine National Oil Company (hereinafter
called PNOC), with the assistance of PNOC and the Bank and, as
part of such assistance, the Bank has agreed to make a loan
(hereinafter called the PNOC Loan) under a Loan Agreement of even
date herewith between the Bank and PNOC (hereinafter called the
PNOC Loan Agreement) under the terms and conditions therein set
forth;
WHEREAS the Bank is willing, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make a loan to the Borrower on the terms and
conditions set forth herein;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guara"tee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the


﻿-2-
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth, and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Consultants' Guidelines" means the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) "BED Special Fund" means the fund established by the
Borrower pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 910 of March 22,
1976, for the purposes of financing energy resource development
and exploitation programs and projects of the Borrower and for
such other purposes as may be directed by the President of the
Philippines.
(c) "BED" means the Bureau of Energy Development of the
Borrower established within the Ministry of Energy pursuant to
Presidential Decree No. 1206 of October 6, 1977, as amended to
the date of this Agreement.
(d) "Consultants' Services" means the services to be pro-
vided by consultants and experts to BED pursuant to Section 3.02
of the BED Loan Agreement.
(e) "Specialized Services" means the geological, geophy-
sical and geochemical services required to carry out the explora-
tion activities under Part A of the Project.
(f) "Local currency" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The BED Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirteen
million five hundred thousand dollars ($13,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the BED Loan may be withdrawn
from the BED Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank,
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and Specialized


﻿- 3 -
Services and Consultants' Services required for Part A of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the BED Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and Specialized Services required for
Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the BED Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1986
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. Not later than the Effective Date, the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee equivalent to one hundred
ninety-nine thousand five hundred seven dollars ($199,507). The
fee shall be payable in such currency or currencies as the Bank
shall specify. In the event that the Bank shall not have received
full payment of the fee by the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw the amount allocated to Category
(6) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, and pay to itself such amount required for the full
payment of the fee in the currency or currencies specified for
the purpose.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the BED Loan not with-
drawn from time to time.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the BED Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the BED Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Execution of Part A of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the
Project through BED with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineer-
ing and petroleum practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the generality
of Section 3.0' (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall allo-
cate budgetary or other funds (including funds accrued to the BED
Special Fund) estimated to amount to the equivalent of two mil-
lion five hundred thousand dollars ($2,500,000) for the local
currency expenditures required under Part A of the Project, and,
as and when needed, any other funds which may be required for the
timely completion of Part A of the Project.
(c) Thp Borrower shall carry out and coordinate the
activities under Part A of the Project, through the Oil and Gas
Division of BED under the direction of the Chief of such
Division, or other duly qualified Project Manager acceptable to
the Bank, and assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
(d) Without limitation or restriction upon Sections 3.01
(a), (b) and (c) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, through
BED, assign or employ such additional staff and experts as may be
required for the timely completion of Part A of the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist BED in carrying out
Part A of the Project and ensure its timely completion, the
Borrower- shall  employ  consultants and experts, as and when
required, in petroleum geology, geophysics and geochemistry,whose
selection, qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with
the principles and procedures described in the Consultants'
Guidelines.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the generality
of Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall employ
the consultants required to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the basin evaluation program and preparing the reports under
Parts A.4 and A.5 of the Project by such date as shall ensure
that their services are provided not later than January 1, 1983.


﻿- 5 -
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the BED Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods, Specialized      Services and Consultants'
Services financed out of the proceeds of the BED Loan to be used
exclusively for the purposes of Part A of the Project until the
completion thereof.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and' procurement schedules
for Part A of the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
a6equate to record and monitor on a regular basis the progress of
Part A of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the BED Loan, and to disclose their use in
Part A of the Project; (ii) exert its best efforts to enable the
Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and exploration
sites included in said Part of the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the BED Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; (iii) furnish to the Bank monthly
reports on the progress of Part A of the Project; and (iv) fur-
nish to the Bank at regular intervals all such other information
as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning Part A of the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the BED Loan
and the goods, Specialized Services and Consultants' Services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, Specialized Services and Consultants' Services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the BED Loan, the Bank may
publish a description thereof, the name and nationality of the
party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract price.


﻿- 6 -
(d) Promptly after completion of Part A of the Project, but
in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request, on the execution of Part A of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
iz (including an evaluation of the results of Part A of the
Project in relation to future petroleum exploration and develop-
ment operations in the Philippines), the performance by the
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under this
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the BED Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall through BED take all such
action as shall be necessary to acquire all such rights enabling
it to use all geological information necessary to carry out
Part A of the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) Not later than December 31, 1983, the
Borrower shall through BED submit to the Bank for its review and
comment, a preliminary plan and timetable, based on the results
of the petroleum exploration and geological evaluation activities
carried out by that date, for promoting private sector invest-
ments to further explore and develop petroleum resources in the
Borrower's territory, such plan and timetable to be thereafter
updated at regular intervals and in consultation with the Bank as
and when results of further exploration and evaluation activities
are made available.
(b) Promptly   upon  the  completion  of Part A.5 of     the
Project, and taking into account the Bank's comments on the plan
referred to above, the Borrower shall through BED take all such
measures necessary to implement said plan and, as part of such
plan, the Borrower shall, through BED, sell or otherwise make
available to private sector entities all such geological data and
reports pertaining to areas evaluated under Part A of the Project
as shall be deemed appropriate to induce investments by said
private sector entities.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall deposit into the BED
Special Fund any proceeds arising from any sale of geological
data acquired and processed, and geological reports prepared,
under Part A of the Project, and ensure that such proceeds are
used to finance energy exploration or development activities.


﻿- 7 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the BED Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that Effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the BED Loan by an equivalent lien
on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subsidivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.


﻿-8-
(d) The Borrower further undertakes that, within the limits
of the laws in force in its territories, it will make the f ore-
going undertaking effective with respect to liens on public
assets, and to the extent that the Borrower is unable within the
limits of the laws in force in its territories to make this
undertaking effective, the Borrower will give to the Bank an
equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall through BED maintain
separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of Part A of
the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall (i) have the separate accounts
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said separate accounts, records and expenditures and
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the BED Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions, namely that the PNOC Loan Agreement has been duly
executed and delivered on behalf of PNOC, and authorized or
ratified by all necessary governmental or corporate action, and
that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the PNOC
Loan Agreement (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement)
have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely that the PNOC Loan Agreement has


﻿- 9 -
been duly executed, authorized or ratified by PNOC and is legally
binding and enforceable upon PNOC in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date Iavoi{ 4  / '3  is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of tht Gen% al Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Manila
Philippines
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINFIN                              7550 CPB-PH
Manila                            40268 CB-CONF
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By             01A,t-
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
ByLj  Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the BED Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the BED Loan, the allocation of
the amounts of the BED Loan to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Specialized                 3,800,000        100% of foreign
Services for                                expenditures
aeromagnetic
surveys
(2) Equipment and               6,100,000        100% of foreign
Specialized                                expenditures
Services for
offshore seismic
surveys
(3) Goods and                     200,000        100% of foreign
Specialized                                 expenditures;
Services for the                            100% of local
basin evaluation                            expenditures
program and geo-                            (ex-factory);
logical reports                            and 80% of local
expenditures for
imported items
locally procured
(4) Consultants'                1,000,000        100% of foreign
Services                                   expenditures
(5) Training                      100,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
(6) Fee                           199,507       Amount due
(7) Unallocated                 2,100,493
TOTAL     13,500,000


﻿- 12 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the BED
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on *goods or services or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the BED
Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $1,300,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (4)
on account of payments made for aeromagnetic surveys before that
date but after July 1, 1982.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the BED Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the BED Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the BED Loan which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce
the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures
in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 13 -
6.   If  the Bank   shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inc   -istent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in th,s Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the BED Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the BED Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such
amount of the BED Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion,
represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the BED
Loan.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to accelerate the exploration
for petroleum resources in the territory of the Philippines with
a view to promoting private sector investments in the petroleum
sector and strengthening the technical capabilities of BED and
PNOC-EC in petroleum exploration operations through: (i) a
countrywide qualitative and quantitative assessment of petroleum
prospects (Part A of the Project); and (ii) an exploration
program to be carried out in various onshore regions of Mindoro,
Cebu and the Cotabato area of Mindanao, or in other onshore
regions agreed to between the Bank, PNOC and PNOC-EC (Part B of
the Project).
Part A:   Countrywide Assessment of Petroleum Prospects to be
carried out by BED
1.   A detailed aeromagnetic survey of about 8 areas and
comprising a total of about 168,000 line kilometers to
define the extent and potential prospectiveness of
geological basins.
2.   Offshore seismic surveys of about 13 areas and com-
prising the shooting of a total of about 8,400 line
kilometers.
3.   The compilation, processing and interpretation of all
relevant geological data acquired under, or pertaining
to, Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project.
4.   A regional basin evaluation program covering a total of
about  15  onshore   and  offshore  sedimentary   areas,
comprising   inter    alia   stratigraphical   studies,
geochemical investigations and the analysis of other
geological data, including the data acquired under Part
A.3 of the Project.
5.   The   preparation  of   petroleum   geology   evaluation
reports, including maps and integrating all pertinent
geological data, on each area which has been assessed
as  having   a   reasonable  potential   for   petroleum
development in commercial quantities oA the basis of


﻿- 15 -
the foregoing sub-Parts A.1 through A.4 of the
Project.
6.   Training  for  BED   staff  in  activities  related   to
aeromagnetic and seismic surveys and basin evaluation.
Part B:   Onshore Petroleum Exploration Program to be carried out
by PNOC-EC in Mindoro, Cebu and the Cotabato area of
Mindanao or in other onshore areas
1.   Preliminary   investigations,  including  mapping,
geological studies, and gravity surveys and
related processing.
2.   Shooting   of  a   total  of  about   4,400  lines
kilometers of land seismic as follows:
(a) reconnaissance    seismic   surveys  and   the
processing   and    interpretation   of    the
geophysical data so acquired; and
(b) detailed seismic surveys in areas selected on
the basis of the data acquired under Parts
B.1 and B.2 (a) of the Project and other
relevant   data,  and   the   processing  and
interpretation of the new seismic data so
acquired.
3.   Exploratory drilling of about 6 wells, as may be
warranted and in such locations as may be identi-
fied as having a reasonable potential for petro-
leum development on the basis of the data acquired
under the foregoing Part B.2 (b) of the Project
and other relevant data.
4.   Training for PNOC-EC staff, including, inter alia,
specialized courses in geophysics, production
geology,   reservoir   engineering   and    logging
services.
5.   Reprocessing  of  about 440   line  kilometers   of
existing seismic and related gravity data.
Part A of the Project is expected to be completed by
June 30, 1985 and Part B of the Project is expected to be
completed by June 30, 1986.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning June 1, 1988
through   December 1, 2002                 450,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 17 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the BED Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of
the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years                           1.75%
before maturity
More than three years but not                       3.50%
more than six years before
maturity
More than six years but not                         6.40%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                      9.30%
more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                    10.45%
more than eighteen years
before maturity
More than eighteen years                           11.60%
before maturity


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereunder, goods and Special-
ized Services required for Part A of the Project shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the current edition of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and Specialized Services to be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding, in addition to the
requirements of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower
shall prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in
any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availabi-
lity to the public of the first tender or prequalification
documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a general pro-
curement notice, in such form and detail and containing such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods and Specialized Services in question. The
Borrower shall provide the necessary information to update such
notice annually so long as any goods or Specialized Services
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive biddiDg: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditares incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 19 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Philippines may be granted a margin of preference in accord-
ance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Philippines if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in the Philippines equal to at least
20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in


﻿- 20 -
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from Group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for goods and Specialized Services, which do not exceed
the equivalent of $150,000 each, and which do not exceed in the
aggregate the equivalent of $500,000, may be awarded: (i) in
accordance with local competitive bidding procedures acceptable
to the Bank; (ii) on the basis of negotiated contracts, on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank, in cases where less than 3
suppliers are prepared to bid.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With  respect   to  all  contracts   estimated  to  cost  the
equivalent of $150,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 21 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of tha first application for withdrawal of
funds from the BED Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the BED Loan
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  KL      day of   e!    198 Z.
FOR SECRETARY


