At'       LOAN NUMBER 2202 PH
Guarantee Agreement
(Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                              1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2202 PH
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                     <        , 1982, between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES (hereinafter called the Guarantor)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the PNOC Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and the Philippine National Oil Company (herein-
after called PNOC) the Bank has agreed to make to PNOC a loan in
various currencies equivalent to twenty-four million dollars
($24,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the PNOC
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agrees
to guarantee the obligations of PNOC in respect of such loan as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the PNOC Loan Agreement with PNOC, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of PNOC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Loan Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth, and the term "Oil Industry Special
Fund" means the fund established by the Guarantor pursuant to
Republic Act No. 6173 of April 30, 1971, as amended to the date
of this Agreement, for the purposes of financing energy related
activities in the territory of the Guarantor.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the PNOC Loan,
and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the PNOC Loan, and
the punctual performance of all the obligations of PNOC under the
PNOC Loan Agreement, and the obligations of PNOC-EC under the
Project Agreement and under the Exploration Agreements.
Section 2.02. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of
Sections 2.01 and 2.02 (b) of this Agreement, the Guarantor shall
make available to PNOC funds required by PNOC-EC for expenditures
under Part B of the Project under appropriate arrangements,
including, inter alia, as and when needed, the allocation, to
PNOC for PNOC-EC, of funds accrued to the Oil Industry Special
Fund.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically
undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that
the funds available to PNOC will be inadequate to meet the
estimated expenditures of PNOC-EC for the carrying out of
Part B of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the
Bank, promptly to provide PNOC such funds as are needed by
PNOC-EC to meet such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no Qther external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,


﻿-3 -
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the PNOC Loan, and the Guarantor,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the PNOC Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Guarantor.
(d) The Guarantor further undertakes that, within the
limits of the laws in force in its territories, it will make the
foregoing undertaking effective with respect to liens on public
assets, and to the extent that the Guarantor is unable within the
limits of the laws in force in its territories to make this
undertaking effective, the Guarantor will give to the Bank an
equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.02. (a) The Guarantor shall, through BED, grant to
PNOC-EC and renew such exploration rights and permits as and when
required by PNOC-EC for the purposes of carrying out Part B of
the Project, under Exploration Agreements entered into or to be
entered into between BED and PNOC-EC for Part B of the Project,
whose respective terms and conditions shall be acceptable to the
Bank.


﻿(b) The Guarantor shall, through BED, exercise its rights
and undertake its obligations under the Exploration Agreements in
such manner as to protect the interests of the Guarantor and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the PNOC Loan, and except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Exploration Agreements or
any provision thereof.
(c) The Guarantor, through BED, undertakes that it shall
take all reasonable action necessary or appropriate which may be
required on its part to support and facilitate the efforts of
PNOC-EC to enter into joint ventures as provided for in Section
2.09 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Manila
Philippines
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINFIN                             7550 CBP-PH
Manila                            40268 CB-CONF
For the Bank
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-5-
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By (S
&  Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original i the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of_O     _ 198 '.
FOR SECRETARY


