Report No. PID7678
Project Name                     Costa Rica-Ecomarkets (GEF)(@)
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Environment
Project ID                       CRPE52009
GEF Supplement ID                CRGE61314
Borrower(s)                      Republic of Costa Rica
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Environment and Energy
Environment Category             F
Date this PID was prepared       May 23, 2000
Project Appraisal Date           April 15, 2000
Project Board Date               June 6, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Costa Rica is one of the world's leading proponents of environmentally
sustainable development, pursuing social and economic growth in conjunction
with a strong and healthy environment. The environmental policy of the
government has been progressive, including use of economic instruments such
as electricity surcharges and reforestation credits which are targeted at
protecting forest ecosystems throughout the country. Conservation areas
comprise 25t of the national territory, half of which are national parks or
areas under strict protection. Although it is not a large country, Costa
Rica holds five percent of the world's tropical forest species. As such,
Costa Rica's natural assets have led to the development of a thriving
ecotourism industry, which earned revenues of $700 million in 1994.
Nonetheless, Costa Rica experienced one of the highest rates of deforestation
worldwide during the 1970s and 1980s. In 1950, forests covered more than
one-half of Costa Rica; by 1995, forest cover declined to approximately
twenty-five percent of the national territory. World Bank estimates indicate
that eighty percent of deforested areas were converted to pastures and
agriculture, principally due to inappropriate Government policies including
cheap credit for cattle, land titling laws that rewarded deforestation, and
rapid expansion of the road system.
Costa Rica's efforts to internalize environmental values provided by forest
ecosystems date back to 1979, with the passage of the first Forestry Law and
the establishment of economic incentives for reforestation. Subsequent laws
strengthened incentives for reforestation, broadening opportunities for
landowners to participate in reforestation programs and making the program
accessible to small landowners within rural areas. In 1996, Costa Rica
adopted Forestry Law No. 7575, which explicitly recognized four environmental
services provided by forest ecosystems: (i) mitigation of GHG emissions;
(ii) hydrological services, including provision of water for human
consumption, irrigation, and energy production; (iii) biodiversity
conservation; and (iv) provision of scenic beauty for recreation and



ecotourism. The law: (a) delegates responsibilities and duties inter alia
to licensed foresters, the Ministry of Environment and Energy (MINAE), the
National Forestry Financing Fund (FONAFIFO), the National System of
Conservation Areas (SINAC), and the Costa Rican Office for Joint
Implementation (OCIC); (b) provides the legal and regulatory basis to
contract with landowners for environmental services provided by their lands
and establishes a financing mechanism for this purpose; and (c) empowers
FONAFIFO to issue such contracts for the environmental services provided by
privately-owned forest ecosystems.
With the passage of Forestry Law No. 7575, the forestry sector has
established a modern legal framework, which (i) recognizes environmental
services provided by forest ecosystems; (ii) defines the role of the State in
protecting forests as well as in promoting and facilitating private sector
activities; (iii) decentralizes duties and responsibilities to local actors;
and (iv) establishes that forests may only be harvested if there exists a
forestry management plan that complies with the criteria for sustainable
forestry as approved by the State. Regulations within Forestry Law No. 7575
establish the conditions for and levels of environmental service payments
(ESPs) through FONAFIFO to small- and medium-sized landowners. At present
(The levels of the payments changed in 1998 to adjust them due to inflation
(1US$ = 303 Colones), there are four different types of ESP contracts. They
are:
Forest conservation easements: US$200 per hectare (equivalent to $40 per year
per hectare) disbursed evenly over a five-year period. Eighty-six percent of
environmental service contracts in the ESP program to date support forest
conservation easements, which in large part are targeted at minimizing
disturbance of vegetative cover in primary and mature secondary growth forest
areas (see Map 4).
Sustainable forest management: US$313 per hectare disbursed over a five-year
period. Nine percent of contracts in the ESP program support sustainable
forest management. Landowners must make a commitment to maintain forested
areas for a period of 15 years.
Reforestation A: US$513 per hectare disbursed over a five-year period.
Landowners must make a commitment to maintain reforested areas for a period
of fifteen to twenty years, depending upon tree species. Five percent of
contracts in the ESP program support reforestation of degraded and abandoned
agricultural lands.
Reforestation B: US$200 per hectare distributed evenly over a five-year
period. This type of contracts started in 1998, and only landowners that
establish forest plantations with their own resources can applied for
payments under this type of contract. Less than one percent of contracts in
the ESP program support these activities.
In all cases, participants must present a sustainable forest management plan
certified by a licensed forester, as well as carry out sustainable forest
management activities throughout the life of individual contracts. Management
plans include inter alia information on land cadastre, cartography, and
physical access; description of topography, soils, climate, drainage, actual
land use, and carrying capacity with respect to land use; plans for
prevention of forest fires, illegal hunting, illegal harvesting; and
- 2 -



monitoring schedules. Commitments associated with the environmental service
contracts are registered with the deed to the property, such that contractual
obligations transfer as a legal easement to subsequent owners for the life of
the contract. Furthermore, landowners cede their rights to sequestered
carbon to FONAFIFO to sell on the international market. It should be noted
that the ESP program sets different regulations for indigenous territories.
Experience indicates that indigenous territories have clear land boundaries
but they do not always hold titles to their land nor have legally established
associations as representative of the territory. As a result, FONAFIFO
exempts indigenous territories from complying with land ownership
regulations.
From a conservation perspective, the ESP program provides market-based
incentives to conserve natural forest ecosystems. As such, these incentives
help maintain habitats that are critical to a rich, globally-important
biodiversity, as well as help maintain biological corridors linking protected
areas (Coincidentally, the Government of Costa Rica's Protected Areas Project
aims to consolidate approximately 530,000 hectares within the borders of
national parks and biological reserves which have been declared as protected
areas but which have not been purchased and/or registered in the National
Property Registry as part of the forest patrimony of the State. Through the
sale of Certified Tradable Offsets, the Government of Costa Rica hopes to
purchase and legally transfer these lands from their current ownership to the
forest patrimony of the State, thereby guaranteeing the integrity of state-
owned protected areas). Approaching biodiversity conservation through the
FONAFIFO mechanism is akin to the sophisticated system of easement payments
that are widely used in the United States and several European countries. By
rewarding private landowners that maintain forest cover, the ESP program acts
as a market where incentives are provided to investors who "produce" and
"sell" ecological services and values that are important at local, national,
and global levels. In 1997 and 1998, US$15 million were annually disbursed by
the ESP for the conservation and sustainable use of privately-owned forests;
since nearly 220,000 hectares of forests have been incorporated into the ESP
program at a cost of approximately US$57 million.
In conclusion, with the introduction of a variety of forest incentives in
recent years, Costa Rica has slowed the rapid pace of deforestation witnessed
in the 1970s and 1980s. In terms of overall land cover, the gross area of
deforestation has been counterbalanced by regrowth equivalent to
approximately 75t of the deforested area. Some of this regrowth represents
the establishment of forest plantations; other parts represent spontaneous
regeneration of abandoned pasture on poor terrain, especially in the Pacific
slopes. While this regrowth may provide valuable environmental and economic
services, it should be noted that, in terms of biodiversity values, it is not
equivalent to lost primary forest.
2. Project Objectives
The development objective of the proposed project is to increase forest
conservation in Costa Rica by supporting the development of markets and
private sector providers for environmental services supplied by privately
owned forests. As such, the project directly supports the implementation of
Forestry Law No. 7575: providing market-based incentives to forest owners in
buffer zones and interconnecting biological corridors contiguous to national
parks and biological reserves for the provision of environmental services
-3 -



relating to carbon sequestration and reductions of carbon emissions,
biodiversity conservation, scenic beauty, and hydrological services.
The project aims to contribute to environmentally sustainable development in
Costa Rica through: (i) supporting the supply of and demand for
environmental services provided by forest ecosystems; (ii) strengthening
management capacity and assuring financing of public sector forestry programs
administered by the Ministry of Environment and Energy (MINAE), including the
National Forestry Financing Fund (FONAFIFO) and the National System of
Conservation Areas (SINAC); and (iii) strengthening management capacity of
local non-governmental organizations.
3.   Project Description
The proposed project aims to increase forest conservation in Costa Rica by
supporting the development of markets and private sector providers for
environmental services supplied by privately-owned forests, including
protection of biological diversity, greenhouse gas mitigation, and provision
of hydrological services. As such, the project will support the
implementation of environmental policies in the forest and energy sectors and
contribute to sustainable human development. Furthermore, the project will
strengthen offices within the Ministry of Environment and Energy (MINAE) as
well as local and regional non-governmental organizations responsible for the
execution, promotion, supervision, and monitoring of the environmental
service program.
Costa Rica's pioneering efforts to achieve environmental goals through the
sustainable use of forest ecosystems entails developing commercially viable
activities, which are based upon the environmental services. The project
will assist in developing markets, attracting financing and investment, and
consolidating the institutional framework for:
marketing environmental services at the global level relating to the
conservation of biodiversity in privately-owned buffer zones surrounding
national parks and biological reserves, thereby protecting the MBC/CR;
marketing environmental services at the global level relating to the
mitigation of greenhouse gases, through support for forestry initiatives
promoting carbon sequestration;
marketing environmental services at the local level relating to hydrological
services provided by forest ecosystem, including the protection of water
quality and dry season stream flows in watersheds where small hydroelectric
projects are presently operating or planned.
The project will have the following components:
Project Component 1: Strengthening Market Development for Environmental
Services - US$37.7 million (total cost of component)
Costa Rica has developed novel financial mechanisms to promote financial
sustainability in the medium-term for the ESP program executed through
FONAFIFO with close coordination with SINAC (see Section B.2 above). This
component will support committed expenditures of the Government of Costa
Rica's ESP program while long-term financing mechanisms for the program are
developed and institutionalized. This financing will permit the Government
of Costa Rica to meet its long-term commitments to private landowners that
- 4 -



have been incorporated into the ESP program.
(i) Programmed ESP contracts: 1995-1999. Since 1995, the Government of
Costa Rica has signed environmental service contracts incorporating 224,191
hectares of privately owned forest ecosystems throughout Costa Rica into the
ESP program. Of this total, 195,128 hectares of land incorporated into the
ESP program have pending payments to be paid over the next four years (see
Annex 2a). The project will finance remaining commitments on these contracts
as well as incorporate into the ESP program approximately 100,000 hectares of
land in MBC/CR priority areas (see below).
The principal criteria for the prioritization and assignation of resources
were developed by SINAC-MINAE. The principal document detailing coverage and
representivity of priority areas is the 1996 GRUAS Report; in 1999, SINAC
updated these priorities in each of the ten Conservation Areas. Priority
areas for contracts between 1995 and 1999 include: (i) forest ecosystems in
buffer zones of state-owned national parks and biological reserves; (ii)
forest ecosystems within the MBC/CR; (iii) forest ecosystems which provide
critical hydrological services; degraded forests or those at high risk of
fire; (iv) wildlife refuges; and (v) priority areas for recuperating forest
ecosystems.
(ii) New ESP Contracts. Beginning in 2000/2001, the ESP program will
finance: (A) 50,000 hectares of conservation easements in Tortuguero, La
Amistad-Caribe, and Osa Conservation Areas. These areas comprise important
portions of the MBC/CR, internalizing the benefits of services provided by
small- and medium-scale landowners in forest ecosystems relating to
biodiversity conservation; (B) 50,000 hectares of conservation easements in
areas of high biological importance as identified in the 1996 GRUAS Report
outside of Tortuguero, La Amistad-Caribe, and Osa Conservation Areas. These
easements aim to ensure the proper conservation of high priority biological
corridors and explicit biodiversity habitat quality characteristics. Each
local corridor is a long continuous block of forest covered areas with very
small patches of grasslands; likewise, each corridor has significant
biological and geographic value given connectivity with existing National
Parks and/or other priority areas; and (C) additional hectares of land
outside of GRUAS Report areas based upon priorities established by SINAC-
MINAE, ensuring regional representivity within the ESP program.
Priority local corridors for targeting within Tortuguero, La Amistad-Caribe,
and Osa Conservation Areas (see Map 3) include:
The Tortuguero Biological Corridor connects the Reserva del MaUz protected
area in Nicaragua with Tortuguero National Park and Barra del Colorado
protected area in northeastern Costa Rica. Within Costa Rica, this local
corridor covers 87,200 hectares of land, two-thirds of which are public lands
belonging to Tortuguero National Park. Approximately 29,000 ha are privately
owned and suitable for participation in the ESP program.
The Barbilla Biological Corridor connects Barbilla National Park with La
Amistad International Park and Cordillera Volcanica Central Biosphere
Reserve; in addition, the local biological corridor is adjacent to the
Chirripo Reserve, the largest indigenous reserve in Costa Rica. This local
corridor covers 106,647 hectares of land, eighty-five percent of which
includes private lands covered by dense primary and secondary forests
- 5 -



appropriate for inclusion in the ESP program.
The Corcovado-Piedras Blancas Biological Corridor located in the Osa
Conservation Area connects Corcovado National Park and the Piedras Blancas
National Park. This local corridor covers 29,984 ha of privately owned land
within the Golfo Dulce Forest Reserve. Eighty-nine percent of the local
biological corridor is eligible to be included in the ESP program for
conservation easements; the remaining land is suitable for natural forest
restoration.
The Fila CosteEa Biological Corridor located in the Osa Conservation Area
includes primary and second growth forest in the Southern Fila CosteEa
Mountain Range of Costa Rica. The corridor covers an area of 15,000 ha, and
it is one of the few remaining forests in the southern part of Costa Rica and
it has unique biological populations that have developed on this mountain
range. The ESP program has strong support from local environmental groups in
the area. This particular corridor has received strong support from local
organizations, mainly because it will make viable the development of present
and future ecotourism activities of the area, it supplies water to the
communities and hotels in the zone, and because it is the refuge of the
remaining wildlife populations in the area.
Priority local corridors for targeting outside of Tortuguero, La Amistad-
Caribe, and Osa Conservation Areas include areas of high biological
importance within the MBC as identified in the GRUAS Report (see Annex 2b and
Map 5). This targeting will support SINAC's and FONAFIFO's efforts to move
progressively from a "scattered" approach of ESP contracting to one in which
conservation easements can be contracted to support explicit policy goals of
SINAC (i.e., conservation and consolidation of Costa Rica's MBC sites
throughout the country in coordination with other environmental priorities).
The above-mentioned conservation easements will be contracted with small- and
medium-sized landowners for twenty years under Article 69 of Forestry Law No.
7575. GEF resources will be utilized to reimburse FONAFIFO
US$10/hectares/yr. for each hectare of priority area integrated into the ESP
program during the life of the project. In return for the twenty-year
commitment on the part of small- and medium-sized landowners in these areas,
the Government of Costa Rica will seek continued financing beyond the five-
year life of the project. Table 4 indicates the existing contracts for
conservation easements in the MBC/CR as well as priority areas awaiting
contracts and potential areas for inclusion should increased financial
resources be available to the ESP.
Outside of GRUAS Report priority areas, SINAC-MINAE has expressed regional
priorities for remaining areas to be incorporated into the ESP program.
These include: protection of watersheds, and in particular watersheds that
provide water for human consumption and hydroelectric production; and
biodiversity protection in local biological corridors.
(iii) Development of revenue capture mechanisms. Incremental resources will
support the analysis, design and implementation of revenue capture mechanisms
to internalize the value of the environmental services through explicit
payment schemes, with emphasis on complementary services to biodiversity in
forest conservation areas (i.e., hydrological services and scenic beauty).
- 6 -



Furthermore, the sub-component will support the design and establishment of a
trust fund-to be established by 2004-to capture and provide funds to pay
for contracts targeting biodiversity conservation beyond the life of the
project. This trust fund will be designed in accordance to GEF's "best-
practice" guidelines; the project will also support initial fundraising
efforts through the development of a capitalization plan and fundraising.
Project Component 2: Strengthening Administration and Field Supervision of
the ESP Program US$11.2 million (total cost of component)
FONAFIFO and SINAC will carry out day-to-day management and supervision of
the ESP program, in coordination with MINAE. Projected expenditures will
finance program administration, coordination, financial management, direct
contracting of landowners, geographic information systems, and field
supervision.
(i) ESP supervision. Project resources, including a 5t administrative fee
currently paid to FONAFIFO, will be used to support monitoring, supervision
and evaluation of the ESP program as well as implementation of a financial
management system for project activities. GEF co-financed activities include
refining the administrative organization, the operational system, and the
financial controls and disbursements within FONAFIFO, as well as technical
training for personnel within FONAFIFO and SINAC.
Furthermore, the project will support technical support for FONAFIFO's GIS
system, such that the monitoring system will allow for the generation of
technical data relating to land ownership, forest ecosystems, forest type,
forest quality and growth variables, coverage area, identification of
priority zones for the conservation of biodiversity outside of national parks
and biological reserves, and the monitoring of the consolidation of the
MBC/CR utilizing satellite imagery and geographic information systems with
field verification to monitor changes in land use. This type of monitoring is
additional to FONAFIFO's and SINAC's ongoing monitoring efforts, and will
provide information to better correlate ecological variables with the level
of payments for environmental services.
(ii) SINAC forest protection and field supervision. Committed expenditures
of the Government of Costa Rica will be complemented by incremental GEF
resources to strengthen forest protection programs and field supervision
activities carried out by SINAC. Government resources will cover
expenditures related to personnel, operations costs, and goods and services.
Incremental resources will support training of regionally based SINAC field
staff, implementation of effective field supervision of the ESP program, and
field-based monitoring of compliance with existing environmental legislation
relating to conservation of forest ecosystems.
(iii) Strengthen local and regional NGOs. Throughout Costa Rica, local and
regional organizations provide bundling services to small farmers to access
the ESP program resources, reducing transaction costs related to contracting
of environmental services for small landowners as well as for FONAFIFO. Such
bundling allows small forest owners to access the ESP program, through legal
assistance and technical advice relating to conservation and sustainable use
of forest ecosystems. Bundling numerous small landowners together serves to
reduce the unit cost of such services while supporting landowners who might
otherwise have difficulty complying with ESP program regulations.
-7 -



Furthermore, local and regional NGOs provide evaluation and contract
compliance services to FONAFIFO, thereby reducing program administrative
costs.
Incremental GEF resources will be used to improve the technical and
administrative capacity of local NGOs and private sector associations
providing these services, including field supervision, contract compliance,
preparation of technical and administrative manuals for forest conservation,
as well as assistance to individuals lacking land titles. Furthermore, this
component will support organizational and technical strengthening of local
women organizations to develop capacity to promote natural resources
management and increased participation in the ESP program. Prospective
activities include recompilation and systematization of the experiences of
organizations of woman farmers as well as training of rural woman regarding
the political and legal framework of the natural resources sector.
4. Project Financing
The estimated cost of the Ecomarkets Project is US$49.2 million. This is
distributed between the following financing sources: Government of Costa
Rica-US$8.6 million; IBRD-US$32.6 million; Global Environment Facility-
US$8 million.
5. Project Implementation
The main institutions involved in implementation would include the National
Forestry Financing Fund (FONAFIFO), the National System of Conservation Areas
(MINAE-SINAC), and various local non-governmental organizations (NGOs).
FONAFIFO, as implementing agent for GOCR, would have full responsibility for
overall management and supervision of the loan and grant, as well as
monitoring and evaluation. This responsibility would be carried out in close
collaboration with SINAC regarding activities executed in the Conservation
Areas, and with NGOs for which proper agreements and accords would be signed.
The institutional framework for the Project would be defined legally by a
subsidiary agreement between MINAE, FONAFIFO and SINAC, and two memorandums
of understanding receptively between MINAE and FONAFIFO and MINAE and SINAC
which would incorporate legal agreements between the Bank and the Republic of
Costa Rica and FONAFIFO and specify details of operations and operational
arrangements. The Project would be implemented within the existing
organizational framework of FONAFIFO and SINAC, with specified division of
responsibilities between them and assignment of management authority over
specific project components to existing sub-units. Overall coordination
would be performed by the office of the Executive Director of FONAFIFO.
6. Project Sustainability
Costa Rica has extensive experience in the development and implementation of
innovative forestry-related programs. As such, the country has developed the
technological and administrative capacity to implement the ESP program.
Likewise, the country has developed the capacity to prepare and implement
projects relating to greenhouse gas mitigation. Nonetheless, the ESP program
will depend upon the continued commitment of the Government of Costa Rica
with respect to implementation of Forestry Law No. 7575 and, more broadly, to
forest conservation particularly through continued commitment to finance the
- 8 -



ESP program at current levels. At the institutional level, the project
includes training programs for staff of public sector institutions relating
to conservation and sustainable management of forest ecosystems and supports
coordination between responsible public sector agencies at both the national
and local levels.
The ultimate goal of the proposed project is to develop self-sustaining
markets for environmental services. Three elements are key to ensuring such
markets: (1) financial sustainability of FONAFIFO to continue to play its
market clearing role; (2) financial sustainability of SINAC to monitor ESP
contracts; and (3) sustainable sources of funding for ESP payments (likely
differentiated by the various specific environmental services). The first
two elements are required to create and sustain the marketplace for
environmental services while the last element ensures there will be sustained
effective demand for environmental services.
It is extremely unlikely that markets for environmental services can be
created and sustained without the ongoing market-clearing role of FONAFIFO.
While the demand for environmental services is often concentrated in a
limited number of actors (for example, hydropower producers demand for
sufficient and timely water flows and international NGO and multinational
demand for biodiversity conservation), the provision of environmental
services is scattered over a large number of private land owners.
Transaction costs would be prohibitively high if each actor demanding
environmental services had to write contracts with each individual supplier.
Thus the nature of the transaction costs for environmental services requires
an institution such as FONAFIFO to play a market-clearing role. Through
strengthening FONAFIFO, the proposed project improves its ability to play
this market-clearing role. More importantly, the US$6.8 million commitment
by the GoCR (5 percent of which goes to cover FONAFIFO administrative costs)
ensures that financing will be available for FONAFIFO to play its role after
the proposed project ends.
In addition to market clearing, ongoing institutional support for monitoring
ESP contracts is necessary to create confidence that the contracted
environmental services are actually provided. Within the ESP program, SINAC
plays this role and the ongoing GoCR commitments to finance SINAC ensures
that it will be able to play this role of monitoring ESP contracts beyond the
end of the proposed project.
While the financial sustainability of FONFAFIFO and SINAC ensures a sustained
marketplace for environmental services, effective demand for environmental
services is required to finance ESP payments. The GoCR commitment of US$6.8
million per year for ESP contracts ensures the ongoing funding over at least
100,000 hectares in the ESP program. Therefore, the GoCR commitment is
sufficient to guarantee the financial sustainability of the contracts written
during the proposed project.
Additional sources of financing are likely to be differentiated by the four
environmental services. The GEF contribution to the proposed project
provides funding for the biodiversity conservation content of ESP payments.
Contributions to the ESP trust fund from international NGOs and multinational
agencies concerned with biodiversity conservation also will promote
sustainable financing of the biodiversity content of ESP contracts.
Hydropower producers are already expressing demand for ESP contracts in the
-9-



watersheds above their projects. Additionally, the proposed electricity law
will require all hydropower producers to pay one percent of their post-tax
profits to FONAFIFO for ESP contracts in their watersheds. Municipalities
also are expected to provide financing for ESP contracts in watersheds that
supply municipal drinking water. Financing for the carbon sequestration
content of ESP payments is being pursued through the sale of CTOs. Finally,
financing for the scenic beauty content of ESP contracts could be provided by
local ecotourism industry (for example, hotels and guide companies) demanding
conserved forests located in key ecotourism sites.
7. Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Involvement
One of the most important lessons learned from activities associated with the
projects within the MBC includes the importance of involving local
populations and institutions (e.g., local government, community and sectoral
organizations, NGOs) in project design and implementation in order to ensure
long-term conservation of biodiversity outside of national parks and
biological reserves. As such, the project includes technical assistance for
local NGOs and associations to support forest conservation activities carried
out by small landowners, rural women's organizations and indigenous groups.
Consultations have taken place in priority areas to strengthen local
participation in the project.
A World Bank review of deforestation in Costa Rica carried out in the early
1990s identified three principal types of forest intervention in Costa Rica:
(i) clear cutting to change the use of lands under forest cover; (ii)
selective cutting of large, valuable trees in primary or secondary forest;
and (iii) exploitation by owners of pasture areas that contain patches of
forest. The study confirmed that clear-cutting and selective logging are
principally driven by economic interests. While loggers play an important
role in such activities, the main motivation for these processes comes from
landowners seeking to obtain revenue from timber sales or agricultural
activities; environmental concerns tend be external to decisions made by
landowners when they are not directly related to on-site productivity.
Hence, the project supports the internalization of local (hydrological and
scenic beauty) and global (biodiversity and climate change) environmental
values derived from intact forest ecosystems.
The experience of projects throughout the MBC with buffer zone communities
indicates the importance of: (i) clearly defining the roles of the project
and the communities in project administration, decision making, and
implementation in order to avoid creating false expectations or leaving
ambiguities which cause implementation delays; and (ii) providing for a
strong administrative and coordination capacity supported by adequate
technical assistance and, initially, close implementation supervision.
Project preparation has focused upon consolidating the gains made by FONAFIFO
in recent years, including supporting administrative capacity at the local
levels (e.g., local NGOs and associations as well as local SINAC offices) and
at the national level (e.g., FONAFIFO's administrative capacity).
8. Poverty Category
Target populations for the ESP program include small- and medium-scale
landowners whose livelihoods depend on the provision of a variety of goods
and services, only a percentage of which may pertain directly to conservation
- 10 -



and sustainable use of forest ecosystems. As of 1998, there were
approximately 1,570 landowners participating in the ESP program.
GEF resources also will be used to target these landowners. GEF resources
will be used to establishment of a sinking fund within FONAFIFO, whose
proceeds will be used to internalize the benefits of biodiversity
conservation services; provide technical assistance for monitoring,
supervising and evaluating ESP program activities; strengthen programs for
forest protection and supervision within SINAC in priority areas of the
Mesoamerican Biological Corridor; increase local capacity to value and market
designated within Forestry Law No. 7575; and strengthen regional institutions
that are promoting biodiversity-friendly activities compatible with the
conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity and which are providing
solutions to problems resulting from deforestation and environmental
degradation. In particular, institutional strengthening will be directed to
organizations that provide technical assistance to small landowners whose
forests qualify for financing under the ESP program, and, likewise which
promote contract compliance under the framework of the ESP program.
The project complies with the objectives of OP 4.36 Forestry, namely, "to
reduce deforestation, enhance the environmental contribution of forested
areas, promote afforestation, reduce poverty, and encourage economic
development."
9. Environmental and Social Aspects
The project will have highly beneficial impacts upon the environment,
supporting improved natural resources management and biodiversity
conservation particularly in the buffer zones of protected areas and local
biological corridors as identified in the 1996 GRUAS report. Biodiversity
conservation on state-owned lands, while not covered by this project, is
relatively secured because of the legal status of said lands. Although the
conservation of biological diversity depends on a variety of factors, the
outlook for its successful implementation is positive because there is a
strong policy framework at the national level supporting the protection of
forest ecosystems.
Preparation work will explicitly look at any potential risk of ESP payments
for reforestation encouraging forest clearing. Preparation work will
explicitly look at any potential risk of ESP payments for reforestation
encouraging investment in agricultural activities and thus promoting forest
clearing. The Bank team will monitor this issue closely as the project is
implemented.
10.   Project Objective Category
Environmentally Sustainable Development.
11. Benefits
Important project benefits include the conservation and sustainable use of
forest ecosystems in privately owned land outside of national parks and
biological reserves. The project will: (i) empower small- and medium-scale
private land owners in the conservation and management of forest ecosystems
and in making choices that contribute to sustainable development; (ii)
- 11 -



support the long-term viability of the ESP program and promote increased
institutional efficiency of FONAFIFO, SINAC, and non-governmental
organizations promoting conservation and sustainable management of forest
ecosystems; and (iv) benefit regional users of hydrological services by
supporting the provision of high water quality and hydrologic stability from
forest ecosystems. Beneficiaries include small- and medium-sized landowners,
indigenous communities, women's organizations and other non-government
organizations, and public sector institutions promoting forest conservation.
Environmental benefits related to biodiversity conservation likewise accrue
to the international community.
The GEF-financed component will provide incremental support to the ESP
program to provide market-based incentives to private landowners to conserve
priority areas as determined in the 1996 GRUAS Report within the Mesoamerican
Biological Corridor. The incremental benefits related to biodiversity
conservation will be accomplished through two complementary objectives: (i)
ensuring the maintenance of the strategic corridors identified in the GRUAS
Report, and (ii) providing technical assistance to ensure that explicit
biodiversity objectives are achieved through the conservation of forest
habitats. In addition, the project will support technical assistance in
support of monitoring, verification, and supervision of ESP program
activities. Finally, the component will support the involvement of non-
governmental organizations and community-based groups in the ESP program. In
the absence of GEF support, the ESP program would be expected to promote the
maintenance of forest patches, but their geographic configuration and habitat
quality will not necessarily maximize biodiversity conservation or the
maintenance of biological corridors.
12. Risks
13. Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Team Leader
John Kellenberg
WB Country Office
San Jose, Costa Rica or
Gabriela Boyer
Operations Analyst
Telephone: (202) 473-4561
Fax:        (202) 522-0206
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 26, 2000.
Note: This document contains tables that cannot be converted into text files.
- 12 -



However, if you have MS Word or Word Viewer on your computer, you should be
able to download the complete original version by going to
- 13 -



