E-324
Annex 8a
Summary of Environmental Analysis
Costa Rica: Ecomarkets
The goal of the proposed project is to promote the development of markets and private sector
providers for environmental services supplied by privately-owned forests. As such, the project
directly supports the implementation of Forestry Law No. 7575: providing market-based
incentives to forest owners in buffer zones for environmental services in forest ecosystems; and
assisting and strengthening management capacity to continue and assure sustainable financing of
public sector forestry programs administered by the Ministry of Environment and Energy
(MINAE), including the National Forestry Financing Fund (FONAFIFO) and the National
System of Conservation Areas (SINAC).
The main services supplied by forest ecosystems in Costa Rica outlined in Law No. 7575 cover
carbon sequestration, water resources protection, biodiversity protection, and scenic beauty.
Based on the overall significant positive environmental benefits of the project, alleviation on
deforestation and protection of biodiversity, the quality assurance team (QAT) within LCSES
gave the project an environmental rating of Category "B."  By providing national economic
incentives to preserve priority forest ecosystems, the project contributes to national, regional, and
global conservation goals. At the regional level it supports the Mesoamerican biological corridor
through the support of conservation easements in three areas and at the global level it contributes
to management of climate change.
Environmental Services Payments Supported by Forestry Law 7575
During the 1960s and 1970s, Costa Rica suffered a steady decline in forest cover, driven mainly
by inappropriate Government Policies. A shift in policy began to take place in the 1980s and
early 1990s culminating in the Forestry Law 7575, which was passed in 1996. The Government
initiative recognized the value of environmental services. Forest ecosystems provide a variety of
environmental services. In general, forests provide a higher quality of environmental services in
comparison with other natural or artificial systems. Among these services are: stream flow
regulation, aquatic environments protection; slope stabilization; sediment retention and erosion
control; soil formation; nutrient cycling; flood regulation; climate and biological control; fauna
refuge; food production; provision of scenic beauty; biodiversity protection; and cultural
protection.
Hydrological Resources. The forest cover effects the hydrological balance of a watershed
because it affects the amount of time that the water stays in the ecosystem before it is released
into the stream. Forest soils have high infiltration capacity because of the accumulation of
organic material on the soil, and the presence of a deep root system by which water may
percolate. Secondly, forest soils act at times as a sponge or a medium for water retention that
release water gradually and equitably, in comparison to shallow soils that release water swiftly.
Essentially, forests ecosystems maintain more even water quantity during the year, assuring better
distribution of water and mitigating the potential for floods of high intensity and short duration.
Furthermore, forests maintain a low rate of erosion and sedimentation, increasing water quality,
due to the high capacity for infiltration. An associated project, financed by the Prototype Carbon
Fund (PCF), will support mitigation of GHG emissions, and promote the demand and supply of
environmental services provided by priority watersheds.
Mitigation of GHG Emissions. Globally, forests play a central role in that they store great
quantities of carbon in its vegetation and soils, and exchange carbon with the atmosphere through



photosynthesis and respiration. In general terms, ecosystems store 20 to 100 more times' carbon
per area unit than agricultural ecosystems. Tropical forests contain approximately 52% of carbon
reserves from the world. Thus, forests can be an altemative for maintaining or reducing carbon
dioxide levels in the atmosphere. The project sets the stage to assist in formulating mechanisms
for international marketing and sale of Certified Emissions Reductions produced by small
renewable energy projects in light of growing demand as well as forest-based carbon.
Biodiversity. Protection of biodiversity in forests is as important for the multiple economic
services that it offers as it is for the role that it plays in the health and stability of the forest
ecosystem. Costa Rica has an extremely wide representation of plant and animal species and
ecosystems-a total of 85,891 species have been identified, representing 6% of the world's total
known species. Biodiversity uses include scientific research, food consumption, medicinal
purposes, and agriculture. Biodiversity also serves as a source for education and research and
particularly as a source of cultural value for society. The project will have a positive impact on
biodiversity by preserving privately-owned buffer zones surrounding protected areas that can
serve to protect the Costa Rican portion of the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor.
Protection of Scenic Beauty. Closely linked to biodiversity protection, scenic beauty of forests
carries subjective aspects that are linked to conservation and enjoyment of the national
patrimony: mountains, forests, waterfalls, lakes, rivers, flora and fauna. Scenery and its elements
(such as forest ecosystems) have an intrinsic potential to generate services of ecotourism,
adventure tourism, and recreation. The project maintains and enhances scenic beauty.
Deforestation Rates and Actions Taken Prior to the Payment of Environmental Services
Annual rates of deforestation in the country prior to 1980 vary from 40,000 to 70,000 hectares.
Such deforestation rates caused forestland in Costa Rica to decrease from 53% of the national
territory in 1961 to 31.1% in 1977. By June 1983, the forest cover in general had diminished to
26.1% or approximately 1,133,710 ha. Remaining forest ecosystems in the country were those
that had been placed under some protective regime such as forest reserve, national parks, and
others.
The Government of Costa Rica began to regulate the cutting of trees from native forests starting
in 1969. But it was not until 1979, when the first National Plan for Forest Development was
introduced, that activities of the sub-sector were integrated with the activities of the country. The
strategy aimed to pursue three main objectives: i) producing forests in exploitation; ii) protecting
forest ecosystems; and iii) reforestation in areas of forest vocation.  Subsequently, the
Government of Costa Rica introduced and passed several laws and regulations devoted to the use
of forest resources in State land as well as in private properties, marking the introduction of
increasingly technical requirements and restrictions for those who wished make use of forest
products.
While the incentives created by Forestry Law No. 7032 passed in 1986 facilitated forest
plantations in the country, these incentives benefited largely large landholders and companies.
One of the principal changes which took place after the passage of this law was the creation of the
Forestry Credit Certificate or CAF. Under this system, the State awarded permits to those
farmers who reforested their properties, transferring the incentive from wealthier landowners to
farmers. The system allowed greater involvement of land owners in the reforestation and forest
protection, and of small land owners who lacked the financial capacity to establish plantations
with their own resources. The CAF allowed reforestation of 26% of the area covered by
plantations and was available to any farmer. FONAFIFO records indicate that the series of
incentives passed resulted in the reforestation and protection of more than 115,000 ha, at an



average of 12,800 ha per year; while the plan of income tax deductions resulted in the
reforestation of approximately 35,000 ha over a term of fifteen years. The system of incentives
established by the laws passed previous to Forestry Law No. 7575 set the stage for the current
system of Payment of Environmental Services.
Analysis of Why Environmental Services Payments will Ease Deforestation
Contrary to the command-and-control model that typifies many agencies in Latin America, the
Government of Costa Rica has worked to facilitate and provide incentives for private sector
participation in forest protection and management.  After 1995, subsidies were cancelled,
including CAFs and other certificates for forest protection, while the Government's forestry
strategy shifted to Payments of Environmental Services as established under Forestry Law No.
7575. State subsidies generated uncertainty in the sector and general government dependency.
Subsidies also encouraged a fixation on a single product, typically wood, valued in monetary
terms, with a tendency to neglect other forest services.  On the other hand, the EPS system
incorporates the "polluter pays" principle to shift the burden to the beneficiaries of environmental
services. Two Bank studies conducted in early 1993, highlighted the importance of environmental
services: the value of environmental services is high, the global community receives the major
benefits of these services, and owners of resources that provide these services are not
compensated for their full value. In the few years of implementation, the EPS system has yielded
highly positive results for the environment.
The trend indicates that Costa Rica's financial system for implementing the ESP program
executed through FONAFIFO with close coordination of SINAC encourages conservation of
natural forests and reforestation. Private landowners in the country are already committed to
conservation.  Costa Rica's consistent forestry strategy delegates responsibility of forest
management to private landowners, eliminating many of the incentives for agriculture that were
previously encouraged.  Moreover, the system for conservation and management provides
standards based on technical criteria for sustainable forest management, which have been
internationally recognized by the Forest Stewardship Council. Through site specific contracts
with individual small-and medium-sized farmers, participants must present a sustainable forest
management plan certified by a licensed forester, and carry out sustainable forest management
activities throughout the life of the individual. The project. supports the contracting of
conservation easements in priority Conservation Areas under Article 22 of the Forestry Law.
Social participation in the protection and environmental management has found fertile and
stimulating ground in the country in the past decade. Different groups concerned with the use of
natural resources have emerged in the political landscape as well as ecotourism and
environmentally friendly projects and a way of conducting business that will not harm the
environment. The project will further strengthen Costa Rican forest owners' organization and
local NGOs with technical support for forest management and forest conservation.
The rate of deforestation rate has fallen dramatically. Costa Rica's deforestation rate decreased
from about 46,500 ha/year in 1950 to approximately 16,000 ha/year in 1997. Secondary forests
increased at a rate of 13,000 ha/year from 1987 to 1997. More than 22,000 small and medium-
sized forest landowners, with a total area of 279,000 ha have benefited from forest incentives and
ESP contracts. Support from the private sector investments under Article 87 reached at least
US$32.8 million. Private sector participation grew rapidly between 1980 and 1999, further
illustrated by the creation of Costa Rican Network of Private Reserves (CNPR) in 1996, with
44,026 ha of land. The Group is concerned with deforestation and the use of secondary forests,
and is formed of NGOs, education centers, environmentalists who own forests, and small and
medium-sized properties.



Forest cover corresponds to 824,091 ha within protected areas and 1,193,021 ha in private
ownership.  The concept of providing incentives for private sector protection of land is
particularly important because most Costa Rican forest ecosystems are on private property. The
ESP program strengthens the participation of the private sector, democratizes and decentralizes
the incentive mechanism by delegating responsibilities to other private and public entities.
Preparation work will explicitly look at any potential risk of ESP payments for encouraging
investment in agricultural activities and thus promoting forest clearing. Similarly, the project will
monitor whether payments for reforestation encourage deforestation in order to participate in the
program. The Bank team will monitor this issue closely during project implementation.



Annex 8b.
Eligibility Criteria for Beneficiaries and Environmental Service
Contracts
Costa Rica: Ecomarkets
1. Objective:
To establish all the applicable procedures for environmental service payment (ESP) contracts from the
forests and forestry plantations in the country, by promoting reforestation, management and forest
cover protection activities.
2. Priority Areas:
The Conservation Areas shall evaluate and identify the priority regions for the ESP program (for
protection, forest management and forestry plantations).
The following criteria shall be taken into account in prioritizing the regions that would benefit from
the ESP program:
2.1 Criteria for the development of management plans for reforestation:
ESP contracts may be issued:
-  Where there is high potential for concentration of plantation blocks, which may allow for
industry development.
-  Where there is availability, at the regional level, of areas without forest coverage due to
neglect of agriculture and cattle rising.
*  Where there are successful experiences from individual beneficiaries or organizations in
establishing and managing forestry species.
-  Where the management plan is located in areas with potential for forestry production:
o  Steeps up to 60%, as far as the effective deepness is equal or greater than 70 cm.
o The areas subjected to management plan shall be located outside a protected area,
o  The species to be utilized shall have a good productive potential.
2.2 Criteria for the development of management plans for plantations established with own
resources:
ESP contracts may be issued:
*  Where there are established plantations that require management resources.
*  Where there is a high potential of concentration of plantation blocks, which may allow for
industry development.
*  The evaluation of the plantation shows satisfactory results and potential for production.
*   That the management plan is located in areas with potential for forestry production:
o  The areas subjected to management plan shall be located outside a protected area,
o  Plantations with blocks of at least 400 trees per hectare, in good shape and in good
sanitary conditions], and with at least two years of age. Additionally, the owner shall
guarantee the permanency of the plantation for all the payment period.
2.3 Criteria for the development of management plans for natural forests:
ESP contracts may be issued:
* Management of forested areas with or without intervention, with technical aptitude for
exploitation, will be allowed.



*  It is allowed to manage all forests under private ownership. In the case of wildlife areas
protected by the State, the restrictions established for each management category shall
prevail.
*  The forests subjected to management, shall have productive potential measured through the
following criteria:
2
o  For primary forests the basal area shall be equal or greater than 15 m , measured in
trees with diameters at chest height equal or greater than 30 cm.
o  For secondary forests, the total number of tress per hectare shall be equal or greater
than 60 measured in trees with diameters at chest height equal or greater than 15 cm.
*  The principles, criteria and indicators for the sustainable management of forests (executive
decree 27388-MINAE of Nov. 2, 1988) apply. In the case of secondary forests, Principle 11
of such regulation applies.
2.4 Criteria for prioritization of management plans for forest protection:
ESP contracts may be issued:
.  The projects located within the Biological Corridors identified in the Mesoamerican
Biological Corridor GRUAS Report shall be priority.
*  Forestry  areas protecting  water resources for human  consumption, irrigation  and
hydroelectric production.
*  Privately owned land located within wildlife refuges, protected areas and buffer zones.
3. Minimal and Maximum Areas:
The minimal and maximum areas to be eligible for ESP are the following:
*  For established forestry plantations which have not received funds from property tax-break or
forestry incentives, or under Article 87 of Forestry Law 7174, or Articles 29 and 30 of
Forestry Law 7575, and reforestation management plans to be implemented, the minimum
area for ESP is one hectare and maximum 300 hectares per year, per beneficiary per year.
*  ESP for natural forest management, minimum area is two hectares and maximum is 300
hectares per year, per farm or group of adjacent farms or close within a five kilometers radius
when owned by the same beneficiary.
*  ESP for forestry protection, minimum area is two hectares and maximum of 300 hectares per
year, per farm or group of adjacent farms when owned by the same beneficiary.
*  For community-based reforestation and protection projects, the maximum area per producer
will be up to 50 hectares.
*  The maximum area for indigenous reserves per each ESP contract category is 600 hectares.
4. Beneficiaries and Land Holders:
Beneficiaries are all physical or legal entities, owners or holders of forests, forestry plantations, that
wish to be eligible for ESP contracts, according to article 3 c) of the Forestry Law, in exchange of
ceding their environmental services rights. The interested beneficiaries can issue their request in the
following manners:
*  Individually, for protection and management of natural forests and for established or to be
established forestry plantations.
*  Globally, through an organization of small or medium-size landowners: for the protection of
natural forests and for forestry plantations to be established.
5. Commitments:
5.1 Beneficiaries:



The beneficiaries that access ESP, either individually or globally, will subject the area under
compensation to the following commitments:
* To prevent and control forest fires.
* To prevent and support the control of illegal hunting.
* To prevent cutting and extraction of forestry products in areas declared as protected according
Article 33 of the Forestry law nor in the areas that benefit from ESP under the protection
alternative with the exception of specific instances according to Article 19 of the Forestry
law.
* To assist the State's Forestry Management (SFM) in research and education activities in areas
under ESP contracts.
* To fulfill all commitments established in the Forestry law, its regulations and any other
applicable norm.
* To follow all technical recommendations issued by SFM and the forestry inspector. These
shall be appropriately justified in writing.
* To cede to FONAFIFO all rights derived from paid ESP contracts as long as the contract is in
force.
* To attend contractual aspects regarding environmental services that shall be registered by
individual beneficiaries and organizations with MINAE and FONAFIFO accordingly.
5.2 Organizations:
All organizations eligible for ESP for natural forestry protection and forestry plantations:
e Must be regulated under the Associations Law, Centros Agricolas Cantonales Law and
Cooperatives Law, and shall be legally established and with current legal representation
inscribed in the corresponding registry.
*  Must lack pending commitments with forestry projects, financing programs, incentives or
credits provided by MINAE or any of its decentralized institutions. It is the responsibility of
the corresponding Conservation Area to verify and to certify these requirements regarding
CAFA, FDF and ESP contracts when it refers to global projects (reforestation or protection);
and it is the responsibility of FONAFIFO regarding credits. The organization shall request
this information to the Conservation Areas and to FONAFIFO before submitting the ESP
contract request.
* Must have an organizational structure that allows enough administrative, accounting and
technical capacity for directing and implementing projects. They shall have at least one full-
time manager, an accountant and a forestry professional, those last two working half time,
transportation (at least a motorcycle), basic computer equipment and basic administrative
and accounting manuals. An external auditor shall audit their procedures at least once a year.
It is the responsibility of the Conservation Areas to verify and certify the fulfillment of these
requirements previous to allowing the organization to manage a communlity project. The
organization shall request this information to the Conservation Areas and to FONAFIFO
before submitting the ESP contract request.
* Must commit to charge, as a maximum, 18% of the annual tranche for each beneficiary, for
the technical services, preparation of studies or any other administrative cost for ESP in
global reforestation and protection projects.  The organization shall prove successful
experience in forestry projects (reforestation and protection). This requirement does not
apply to new organizations, but it does to its members, or full-time staff.
* Must have an exclusive account in any bank or the national banking system, to receive and
distribute the resources from the ESP program.



*   Must, before processing further requests, send to the appropriate Conservation Area and to
FONAFIFO, an annual externally audited report specifying the income received from ESP
contracts, disbursements to beneficiaries, and the general use of the funds.
*   Follow up all commitments established in the contract with the State.
5.3 Forestry Inspector
The forester credited as forestry inspector shall fulfill the requirements established in the forestry law,
its regulations, and the regulations for Forestry Inspectors issued by the Professional Association of
Agriculture Engineers of Costa Rica.
The forester credited as forestry inspector shall provide reports on the conditions and qualities of the
area subjected to ESP (status of the project, follow-up of management plan, etc), when the
management plan requires so.



Annex 8c.
MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR DRAFTING MANAGEMENT
PLANS FOR ESP
A. FOR FORESTRY PROTECTION: INDIVIDUAL OR COMMUNITY
For community projects, only one technical document per sub-region shall be presented, which
shall include all information and recommendations. Individual information on each beneficiary is
required for topic 7 of the proposal (see below).  From topics eight to 13, the technical
recommendations shall be presented for all the beneficiaries as a group.
1. GENERAL DESCRIPTION
Name of the management plan.
Name, qualities, and address of the interested party.  For community-based projects, legal
personality number, legal representative, address to receive notices, telephone and fax.
Area in hectares and current use of land.
Data on the legal inscription of the property(ies):
*  Boundaries,
e  Volume, page and entry of inscription of land title,
*  Legal procedure id number for legalizing land title,
*  Total dimension of the land.
Administrative location:
*  Province
*  Canton
*  District
*  Neighborhood
Geographic location:
*  Vertical coordinates (Lambert projection)
*  Horizontal coordinates (Lambert projection)
*  Official map indicating the exact location of the land
2. REASONS FOR THE MANAGEMENT PLAN
Brief description of the resource to be protected according to the project objective.
3. FOREST FIRE PREVENTION
In medium to high fire risk areas, the establishment of fire breaking clearance will be required.
These will be described, located and explained in the management plan. Other prevention
measures will be described there as well.



In high-risk areas, fire-breaking clearance shall have a width of at least eight meters, in medium
fire risk areas; these clearings shall have a width of at least for meters. The low risk areas do not
require these clearings. Clearings shall be kept free of vegetation or combustible material during
the dry season, which is also when the greatest fire hazard occurs. All these activities shall be
included in the chronogram.
4. MONITORING
The forestry inspector shall visit the project at least once a year and provide the sub-regional
office with a report in which he recommends, or does not recommend, ESP.
5. ACTIVITIES SCHEDULE
The scheduling of activities will be planned for the contract duration. It will include at least the
establishment of fire breaking clearings and fences, their maintenance, supervision visits and
presentation of reports by forestry inspector.
6. OTHER LAND PROTECTION MEASURES
Describe the prevention activities to control illegal hunting, cutting and extraction of forest
products and any other.
7. SURVEILLANCE
Indicate surveillance activities planned.
8. SIGNS
Signs shall be erected, indicating that the land is contracted within the ESP program with due
requirements regarding forest fire prevention, and prohibition of hunting, illegal cut and
extraction of forest products. The minimal size of these signs shall be of 40 cm. x 60 cm.
B. FOR REFORESTATION: INDIVIDUAL OR COMMUNITY
1. INTRODUCTION
Objectives and nature of the management plan
2. GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPERTY
Legal status of the property (ownership or rental).   For community-based projects, legal
personality number, legal representative, address to receive notices, telephone and fax.
Data on the legal inscription of the property(ies):
*  Boundaries,
*  Volume, page and entry of inscription of land title,
*  Legal procedure id number for legalizing land title,
*  Total dimension of the land.
Data from Land Title (Registro de Propiedad)
Administrative location:



* Province
* [Canton]
* District
* Neighborhood
Geographic location:
* Vertical coordinates (Lambert projection)
* Horizontal coordinates (Lambert projection)
* Official map indicating the exact location of the land
Access, established and planned roads (approximate location in the property map).
For community-based projects, a list of the beneficiaries shall be included, with the information
previously requested.
3. PHYSICAL AND ECOLOGICAL CONDITIONS
Topography, quantify the areas for each category (locate them in map).
Soils:
* Description of the depth, texture, structure, rockiness, superficial and underground
drainage up to one-meter depth, pH, flooding risk.
* Physical and chemical soil analysis, issued by the appropriate soils laboratory.
* For community-based projects, a soil analysis (sampling and lab analysis), only for
beneficiaries with areas greater than 25 hectares.
Weather:
* Rainfall (annual distribution, dry months)
* Temperature
* Wind, fog, relative humidity when this information is available
*  Land elevation (m)
* Life zones.
Drainage:
* Description of the natural drainage, rivers, creeks, ponds, wetlands, etc (location within
the property or mapped by forestry professional).
Current and previous use (agriculture, cattle grazing, forest etc.)
Capacity of land use (refer to the manual for determining the land use capacity of Costa Rica).
Show map of land use capacity. For community-based projects determining the land use capacity
will not require chemical soil analysis.
4. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Area to be reforested
Description and location of the area to be reforested, by stages and by specie accordingly (show
map with plantation stages).



Vegetative material: the use of certified seed will be required for those species in which there is
enough seed to respond to the country's demand. The National Seed office will communicate the
State's Forestry Management, the forestry inspectors and the forestry sector the availability of
this material.
Selection of the specie/(s).
Explanation of the density of the plantation (the minimal density shall be 800 trees per hectare. A
lesser density will only be accepted if the applicant can prove that the material has been
genetically improved).
Description of the land plot preparation.
Silvi-cultural projection until harvest.
Chronogram of works by trimester during the forest two years, semester during the next three
years, and annual until harvest of each specie, including fire prevention activities.
In the case of community-based projects, only the first three items will be required. The
remaining items will be done as a group.
5. FIRE PREVENTION PLAN:
The following items will be required only in areas of high or medium fire risk:
Management of vegetable fuel, previous to establishing forestry plantation.
Establishment of artificial firebreaks.
Treatment of residual fuel, produced by appropriate silvicultural practices.
Installation of signs,
In the case of community-based projects, a list of beneficiaries will indicate the fire risk level and
a general description of the activities to be carried out per level will be included.
6. PREVENTION PLAN AGAINST PLAGUES AND FORESTRY ILLNESSES
Description of preventive activities for controlling plagues and illnesses in the different
development stages of the management plan (nursery, planting, maintenance and silvipastoral
activities). For community-based projects, a general description of the measures to be undertaken
shall be presented.



