                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                           Report No.: 28389




              PROJECT    PERFORMANCE       ASSESSMENT REPORT


                                 EL SALVADOR

                EARTHQUAKE       RECONSTRUCTION     PROJECT
                                 (LOAN 28739ES)



                                  March 30,2004




Sector and Thematic Evaluations Group
Operations Evaluation Department

Currency              Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit = Salvad~~a~ Colon (SVC)

January 1987 US$l .OO                   5.000                                             January 1995 US$l .OO     8.755
January 1988 US$l .OO                   6.80                                              January 1996 US$l .OO     8.755
August      1992 US$l .OO               7.26                                              January 1997 US$ 1.OO     8.755
January 1993 US$ 1.OO                   8.755*                                            January 1998 US$l .OO     8.755
January 1994 US$ 1.OO                   8.755                                             January 1999 US$l .OO     8.755
January 200 1 US$ 1.OO                  8.750**
*fixed rate  since   1993,  **fixed   rate    since    January      2001.
Note:  since   January   2001,    the   US   dollar    has     also  become      legal tender.
Source:   CIA   Factbook   http://~.odci.gov/cia/publications/factbook/geos/es.html                   and the ICR GOES  report (for 1987,
1988,  and   1992).



Abbreviations                  and Acronvms
                                                           J



ANDA                            Administracidn National                     de Acueductos y Alcantarillados     (National Water and
                                Sewerage Authority)
ANTEL                           Administracidn National                     de Telecomunicaciones (National Telecommunications
                                Administration)
BAC                             Banco Agricola Comercial (Agricultural and Commercial Bank)
CEPREDENAC                      Center for Prevention of Disasters in Central America
CHF                             Cooperative Housing Foundation
CNE                             National Emergency Committee
CREM                            Comite de Reconstruccibn de Emergencia de1Area Metropolitana
                                (Cornmittee for Emergency Reconstruction of the Metropolitan                         Area)
ECLA                            United Nations Commission for Latin America
FIGAPE                          Fonda de Financiamiento y Garantia para la Pequen"a Ernpresa
                                (Fund for the Financing and Guaranty of Small-Scale Enterprises)
FNV                             Financiera National                  de la Vivienda (National Housing Finance Agency)
FSV                             Social Housing Fund
FUNDASAL                        Fundacidn SaZvadore6a de DesarroZZoy Vivienda Minima
                                (Salvadoran Foundation for Development and Low-Cost Housing)
GOES                            Government of El Salvador
ICR                             Implementation              Completion Report
IDB                             Inter-American              Development Bank
MIPLAN                          Ministry of Planning
MOF                             Ministry of Finance
MOP                             Memorandum of the President
NC0                             Nongovernmental                  organization
OED                             Operations Evaluation Department
PIU                             Project Implementing Unit
PRONAVIPO                       Programa National                   de Vivienda Popular (National Program for Low-Cost Housing)
RU                              Reconstruction Unit
SNET                            National Service for Territorial Studies
UNDP                            United Nations Development Program
USAID                           United States Agency for International Development


Fiscal Year

Government:                            January 1 - December 31

Director-General,         Operations Evaluation                                                : Mr. Gregory K. Ingram
Director, Operations Evaluation Department                                                     : Mr. Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation                                                        : Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                                                                   : Mr. Ronald Parker

   OED Mission:         Enhancing       development        effectiveness      through    excellence      and independence            in evaluation.     I

About     this Report
       The Operations       Evaluation      Department     assesses the programs          and activities of the World Bank for tvvo
purposes:     first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation             process and to verify that the Bank's work is
producing     the expected       results, and second, to help develop           improved    directions,   policies, and procedures          through
the dissemination       of lessons drawn from experience.            As part of this work, OED annually           assesses       about 25 percent of
the Bank's lending operations.           In selecting operations      for assessment,       preference     is given to those that are
innovative,     large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming                studies or country evaluations;          those for which
Executive     Directors or Bank management              have requested      assessments;       and those that are likely to generate
important    lessons. The projects, topics, and analytical            approaches       selected for assessment          support    larger evaluation
studies.
       A Project    Performance        Assessment       Report    (PPAR)    is based on a review of the Implementation                 Completion
Report (a self-evaluation          by the responsible       Bank department)        and fieldwork     conducted       by OED. To prepare
PPARs,      OED staff examine          project files and other documents,           interview   operational     staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing       country for onsite discussions          with project staff and beneficiaries.          The PPAR thereby           seeks to
validate   and augment         the information      provided    in the ICR, as well as examine          issues of special       interest to broader
OED studies.
       Each PPAR is subject           to a peer review process        and OED management             approval.     Once cleared        internally,  the
PPAR is reviewed         by the responsible         Bank department       and amended        as necessary.       The completed         PPAR is then
sent to the borrower        for review; the borrowers'         comments       are attached    to the document        that is sent to the Bank's
Board of Executive         Directors.    After an assessment         report has been sent to the Board,            it is disclosed     to the public.


About     the OED Rating          System
      The time-tested        evaluation      methods    used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World                      Bank's work.
The methods        offer both rigor and a necessary            level of flexibility  to adapt to lending      instrument'      project design, or
sectoral    approach.     OED evaluators         all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings.                    Following   is
the definition     and rating scale used for each evaluation              criterion   (more information       is available     on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.                html).
       Relevance       of Objectives;        The extent to which the project's         objectives   are consistent        with the country's
current    development       priorities   and with current      Bank country and sectoral         assistance     strategies     and corporate
goals (expressed        in Poverty Reduction          Strategy   Papers,    Country Assistance        Strategies,     Sector Strategy        Papers,
Operational      Policies).    Possible     ratings:  High, Substantial,     Modest,     Negligible.
       fX~cacy;     The extent to which the project's            objectives    were achieved'      or expected      to be achi eved j taking into
account    their relative     importance.      Possible   ratings:   High, Substa ntial, Modest,        Negligible.
       Efficiency:     The extent to which the project achieved'               or is expected    to achieve,     a return higher than the
opportunity      cost of capital and benefits         at least cost compared        to alternatives.    Possible    ratings:    High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible.        This rating is not generally        applied   to adjustment      operations.
       Sustainability;      The resilience       to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible            ratings:    Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely,    Highly Unlikely,      Not Evaluable.
      institutional      Development          Impact:   The extent to which a project improves              the ability of a country        or region
to make more efficient,          equitable    and sustainable      use of its human, financial,       and natural       resources     through:    (a)
better definition'     stability, transparency'       enforceability,    and predictability     of institutional   arrangements         and/or   (b)
better alignment       of the mission and capacity          of an organization       with its mandate,      which derives       from these
institutional    arrangements.        Institutional   Development      Impact includes       both intended      and unintended        effects of a
project.   Possible    ratings:    High, Substantial,      Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome;        The extent to which the project's           major relevant      objectives   were achieved,         or are expected      to be
achieved j efficiently.     Possible     ratings:   Highly Satisfactory,      Satisfactory,    Moderately      Satisfactory,     Moderately
Unsatisfactory,       Unsatisfactory,      Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Bank     Performance;        The extent to which services           provided    by the Bank ensured         quality at entry and
supported      implementation        through    appropriate    supervision     (including   ensuring     adequate      transition   arrangements
for regular    operation    of the project).      Possible   ratings:  Highly Satisfactory,      Satisfactory,     Unsatisfactory,       Highly
Unsatisfactory.
      Borrower       Performance;         The extent to which the borrower            assumed     ownership      and responsibility       to ensure
quality of preparation        and implementation,         and complied     with covenants       and agreements,          towards    the
achievement       of development        objectives    and sustainability.      Possible   ratings:   Highly Satisfactory,        Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory,       Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                           l  . .
                                                           111



Contents

Principal Ratings .o*~~eo~~oooooo~.......o............~.~....o.~.....~...a..o..........*......*........~...8........~..........*.*                       V


Key Staff Responsible ...~....................oo.....~...~...oo....o.o.o*........~o.oo..........................oo..~.........                           V


Preface o.*~..~.~~.o..o....o..~.o.o.....................*...................~....o........~.~...o.o..~.......*oom.....*...............vii

Summary o...........o.*...............................~..~o........~..............o...~.....o.o.o.~.......*........~..oo.....~..o.~                     ix

1. Disaster Response: Two Steps Forward and One Step Back                                                                                                1
                                                                                              l . . . . . . . ..o.....*...o....~....*....




         Evaluation Approach for an Older Project .............................................................2

2. Project Design ..........~..................~............~..........o................o.o..~....*.o...................o3                       ........

         Project Objectives ....................................................................................................3

         Project Preparation Issues ......................................................................................4

3. Implementation:        Intended Outcomes and Unexpected Results .................o.*..........5

         Objectives (i) and (ii): Rehabilitation, Reconstruction, and Expansion to the
             North ~~~~.~`..~.......~...~......~~....~.~.................................~~.~.............~.....~.~................~.6

                  Housing ..~~~~.........~..~...~.............~..~..................................~....~...~...............~....6
                  Schools .~~..........~~~...........~.~~..~..~............~.~..~..........~~.~.~.~..........~...~.....~...~....~10
                  Public Buildings .......*....*.............*....*............................*.....*.*..*................*10
                  Roads......................................~....................~.............~..........................~.....                      11
                  Public Services ...........~~.~..............~..~...............................~..........................12
         Objective (iii): Rehabilitation of Micro-Enterprise and Income Generation.. ......12

         Objective (iv): Strengthening Capacity for Preparedness and to Plan and Manage
             Reconstruction ......~.~.~~.~........~..~~~~....~~.~.......~......~~.~~~........~.~~.~...............~....~.~.~.13

4. Conclusions and Lessons *...~..*o.o.........o....~..e*.....*......om..~.~....~.........o~......o......o...........o14

        Bank Performance .................................................................................................15

        Borrower Performance ..........................................................................................16

Annex A. Basic Data Sheet .......o.........o~o~.......~.......~...~.....~...o....~.....~......*.o.....~..~o                               .............19

Annex B. Results of Household Survey in El Salvador ...........~............................~.......21

Annex C. Borrower Comments .~.....o~~.........*~.......o..o....~.o.......~..oo*...~.~o*o...~..~.o.....*~......oo.40


Boxes
Box 1: More Recent Earthquakes .....~...................~.................................................~...........2

This report was prepared by Ronald Parker and Kristin Little who assessedthe project in September 2003.
The report was edited by William Hurlbut and Helen Phillip provided administrative support.

IV

                                                              V



Principal           Ratings

                                                                      /CR Review*                           PPAR

Outcome                                     Satisfactory                Moderately                Moderately   Satisfactory
                                                                     Unsatisfactory

Sustainability                                  Likely                     Likely                           Likely

Institutional  Development    Impact            Partial                   Modest                        Substantial

Bank    Performance                         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    Satisfactory

Borrower     Performance                    Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    Satisfactory


* The Implementation      Completion   Report   (ICR) is a self-evaluation    by the responsible    operational    division of
the Bank.    The ICR Review    is an intermediate    OED product     that seeks    to independently   verify the findings   of
the ICR.


Key Staff Responsible

Project              Task Manager/Leader                  Division     Chief/                   Country    Director
                                                          Sector    Director

Appraisal               Thakoor   Persaud              Michael  John    McGarry          Suitbertus  M. L. van der Meer

Completion            Fernando   Montenegro                Manuel    Sevilla                 Donna   Dowsett-Coirolo


                                              vii


Preface

        This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) on the El Salvador
Earthquake Reconstruction Project (Loan 2873-ES), for which the World Bank approved
a loan in an amount of $65 million on October 16, 1987. The loan was made effective on
June 17, 1988, and it was closed on June 30, 1996. The original closing date was
December 3 1, 1993. A JapaneseGrant of about $13.5 million supported the housing
component and financed technical support and studies undertaken within the project.

        This report is unusual in that it looks at a project begun 16 years ago and closed
now more than 7 years. This year OED is looking at several older projects to assesstheir
contribution to borrowers' long-term development and to determine which factors were
associated with (observed rather than predicted) sustainability and institutional
development impact. The report is based upon reviews of the Implementation Completion
Report (ICR), the Memorandum and Recommendation of the President (MOP), legal
documents, project files, and discussions with Bank staff involved with the project. OED
fielded a two-person mission to El Salvador in September 2003 to review the project
results and to conduct a survey with the beneficiaries of the emergency housing
component. The results of this survey will inform a forthcoming OED evaluation of Bank
assistancein the context of natural disasters. The performance assessmentalso will be of
general use to OED's ongoing work on social development and natural disasters.

        The mission visited central government departments and project agencies in San
Salvador but spent most of its time in the field, visiting project sites, and speaking with
project officials and stakeholders. The mission appreciates the courtesies and attention
given by interlocutors and is particularly appreciative of the efforts made by Francisco
Rivas and Albert0 Morales of the Directorate General For External Cooperation, and
Julia de1Rosario Lainez Pineda of the Ministry of Public Works. It also gratefully
acknowledges the logistical support provided by the Cooperative Housing Foundation
(CHF).

        Following standardprocedures, copies of the draft PPAR was sent to the relevant
government officials and agencies concerned for their review and comments. The
comments are attached as Annex C.


                                                  ix


 Summary          '
          A major earthquake hit San Salvador, the capital of El Salvador, on October 10,
 1986, at 1150 in the morning. The 7.6 magnitude quake left 1,500 persons dead, 10,000
injured, and 300,000 homeless, and damage to physical assetstotaled $1,030 million;
 equivalent to one-fourth of the nation's 1986 GDP. In response to the disaster, the World
Bank financed the El Salvador Earthquake Reconstruction Project for which it approved a
loan in an amount of $65 million on October 16, 1987.

          The objectives of the project were to help: (i) rehabilitate and reconstruct the San
 Salvador metropolitan areathrough the provision of low-cost housing, public office and
school buildings, and essential public services; (ii) support the expansion of the capital
city toward the north; (iii) rehabilitate the micro-enterprise sector to restore its production
and income generating capacity; and (iv) strengthen the government's capacity to plan
and manage the reconstruction efforts and enhanceits preparednessto deal with national
emergencies in the future.

         This assessmentwas carried out aspart of OED's evaluation of a selectednumber of
older projects to assesstheir contribution to borrowers' long-term development. The project
being assessedwas begun 16 yearsago and the loan hasbeen closed now more than 7 years.
On balance,the result of the exercisewas most valuable in terms of lessonlearning. In the
first place, an earlier visit to project sitesmight have seena different world. Project-built
buildings would not have had to survive two subsequentearthquakes,and the long-term
results of insufficient attention to social aspectswithin the low-income housing efforts would
not have been as apparent.Secondarily, the passageof time allowed OED to examine
sustainability and institutional development impact in greaterdepth than would havebeen
possible at a lesserremove. The results of an OED survey of over nine hundredproject
beneficiaries informed this assessment.

         The project contributed effectively to the rehabilitation of the San Salvador
metropolitan area,performing best on the reconstruction of public offices and restoration
of essential public services. Low-cost housing was provided to the low-income target
group: 6,344 new urban units were provided to carefully screenedbeneficiaries.

         The Government encouraged earthquake victims to relocate to Apopa, a northern
suburb of San Salvador. Many of the project-financed activities -a        telephone exchange,
the paving of the roads, the provision of wells for potable water, aswell as the
construction of much of the low-income housing -          took place in and around Apopa. The
extent of the expansion of the capital city toward the north exceeded expectations.

         The micro-enterprise credits suffered from poor targeting and record-keeping, and
it was not possible to evaluate the extent to which project activities contributed to the
restoration of sector capacity. Overall 1,436 small loans were approved (compared to
1,500 originally estimated). The amount made available was approximately $4.5 million
(against an original objective of $9 million).

         The project strengthenedthe Government's capacity to plan and manage
reconstruction efforts and enhancedits preparednessto deal with national emergencies in
the future. Evidence of the increasedcapacity consists of the new regional and national
institutions that have been created.In partnership with the Inter-American Development

                                                  X



Bank, the Bank supported the Center for Prevention of Disasters in Central America.
Within the Government, three major milestones can be identified in terms of increased
capacity to confront disaster. The first is the establishment of a permanent body for disaster
management, the National Emergency Committee. The secondis the creation of a disaster
responsestructure in eachministry. The third hasbeen the creation of the National Service
for Territorial Studies, a scientific institute responsible for risk management. These
agenciesare staffed and run effectively

        Overall the project outcome is rated moderately satisfactory. The project
addressedthe problems causedby the earthquakein a comprehensiveway, and exceeded
appraisalestimatesin many components. Benefits were provided to a large number of low-
income families, who were painstakingly identified according to criteria agreedwith the
Bank. The project was relevant to government priorities following the earthquake and
substantially achieved all of its physical objectives. However, in several project
components there were significant problems: housing was poorly designed in terms of
adaptation to occupants' lifestyles and the quality of materials in some communities was
poor. Efficiency was modest: although no ERR was calculated, unit costs were generally
higher than appraised estimates (at this remove it is difficult to ascertain whether this was
due to underestimation at appraisal or implementation inefficiencies). In the caseof
housing, high unit costs imposed a significant burden on the poor-resulting       in high
delinquency rates and the financial demise of the financial intermediaries involved in the
project. This is one of several indications documented in this report that relocation took
place with inadequate attention to social aspects.And in (just) one complex of public
buildings seismic resistance was so low that repairs were necessary following another
earthquake in 2001.

        The establishrnent of the three disaster institutions, and the sharedvision behind
them, warrants an institutional development impact rating of substantial.

        Sustainability is rated likely. By and large, project-built infrastructure is still in
use. And some works are immaculately maintained, notably the public buildings, albeit
many now serve different ministries than intended.

        The Bank respondedquickly after the 1986 earthquake,andthe appraisalmission
was staffed by some of the Bank's most disasterknowledgeable staff Bank performance is
rated satisfactory. The borrower's performance is rated satisfactory.

        Among the lessons suggestedby the project experience are the following:

    l   Do not have unrealistic expectations about low-income disaster victims' ability to
        pay for housing.
    *   Also, every effort should be made to build on existing social networks during
        relocation and resettlement.

    l   Lastly, when constructing seismic-resistant buildings, it is important to take into
        account the additional loading which could be causedby their intended use.


                                                                          Gregory K. Ingram
                                                                           Director-General
                                                                         Operations Evaluation

                                                        1


 10       Disaster Response: Two Steps Forward                                 and One Step
          Back

 11       A major earthquake hit San Salvador, the capital of El Salvador, on October 10,
 1986, at 1150 in the morning.' The 7.6 magnitude quake left 1,500 persons dead, 10,000
injured, and 300,000 homeless, and damage to physical assetstotaled $1,030 million;
equivalent to one-fourth of the nation's 1986 GDP.2 In responseto the disaster, the World
Bank financed the El Salvador Earthquake Reconstruction Project (Loan 2873-ES).

 12       Over one-third of San Salvador's population of 1.5 million was directly affected
by the earthquake. The most serious physical damage was to housing, commercial, and
public buildings. The supply of electricity was cut, and telephone systems and other
public services were interrupted. Basic urban infrastructure (water and sewerage,roads,
and drainage) also sustained heavy damage.

13.       Like several of its Central American neighbors3 El Salvador is a highly disaster-
prone country. During the 400 years preceding the 1986 seismic event, San Salvador
experienced 12 earthquakes over 6.5 on the Richter scale. On October 24, 1998, El
Salvador was hit by Hurricane Mitch, which caused landslides, flooding, and extensive
damage to coastal communities. Not long after, two more earthquakes further devastated
San Salvador (seeBox), causing extensive damage to the city in January and February of
2001. This succession of disasters highlights the importance to the central and local
governments and the citizenry of taking preventive measures. The long-term impact of
losing 10 to 15 percent of GDP to a single natural event about once a decade, is
exacerbatedby the added cost of more frequent smaller events.4

14        Reconstruction following the 1986 earthquakewas hindered by civil war.
However, between 1989 and 2000 El Salvador achieved peace, and poverty declined as
the economy began to prosper. In the period before the 2001 quakes, the government
carried out reforms that changed economic policy and the structure of government
organizations. The earthquakes of January and February 2001 were a huge setback. Pre-
earthquakeprojections of a 30 percent decline in poverty were made obsolete: poverty



1. (Information from George Pararas-Carayannis.
http://www.geocities.com/CapeCapeCanaveral/Statio~8361/Quake2OO1ElSalvador.htnll).

2. The estimate of total damage is based on areport by the UN Economic Commission for Latin America
(ECLA) dated November 14, 1986.

3. In Central America, disaster figures are dizzying. Between 1960 and 1998, the region suffered the effects
of 21 major floods, 8 hurricanes, 11 other tropical storms/weather events, 10 earthquakes, 5 volcanic
eruptions, 4 major mudslides, 2 major fire emergencies, and 2 droughts. These disasters took the lives of
56,669 people, and affected 10,247,330 in Central America. Damages totaled more than $15.5 billiolz
($15,535,655,000).   Figures based on an inventory of disasters in Central America carried out by
CEPREDENAC (Centro de Coordination          para ZaPrevention de 10sDesastres Naturales en America
Central). h~://www.cepredenac.org/doc/inventar.htm.

4. Landslides and flooding are regular events, and the occurrence is not limited to the period just following
major hurricanes.

                                                         2


levels rose between 2.6 and 18 percent -               thus, at a minimum about 162,500 additional
people temporarily fell below the poverty line as a result of the later quakes.


Box 1. More Recent Earthquakes

On January      13 and February     13, 2001,    two earthquakes       struck El Salvador,     killing   more than
1,000 people      and severely     damaging    the country's      infrastructure.    While    most   of the deaths
occurred   in a few urban areas, the physical      destruction    affected   the entire country.    The Economic
Commission      for Latin America    has estimated     the costs of the damages at about $1.6 billion,         about
12 percent    of GDP. The damage occurred mainly           in physical    infrastructure   and equipment     (about
$0.9 billion),   and the rest ($0.7 billion)    came from losses in production          and income,      losses that
would    be felt   during    2001.  The   earthquakes      affected    about    18 percent    of the population,
destroyed    163,866 houses, and affected another        107,787 houses.

Sources of data: ECLA,  El Terremoto de1 13 de Enero de 2001 en El Salvador:   Impact0 SocioeconGmico    y Ambiental,
LC/MEX/L457,21     de Febrero de 2001, and El Salvador: Evaluaci6n  de1 Terremoto  de1 Martes, 13 de Febrero de 2001,
LC/MEX/L457/Add.2,     28 de Febrero  de 2001, and Direccih   General  de Estadisticas y Censos, Censo de Vivienda
Afectada  200 1.



15.       Seismic and extreme weather events take governments (and international
organizations) by surprise too often. Earthquakes almost always occur where there are
known fault lines; and Central America is located where three major tectonic plates
converge. Seismologists also note that earthquakestend to be more common in countries
where there are volcanoes.' They make a distinction between hazard and disaster. In
vulnerable countries hazards (earthquakes or floods, or tropical storms, etc.) take place
with regularity and no human action can alter this reality. But it is the actions taken by
policymakers and the extent to which cities are made ready to withstand such events that
determine whether there will be extensive damage and loss of life.

16        Risk maps sharedwith the mission by the Servicio National de Estudios
Territoriales (SNET6) show that every part of the country is subject to either floods,
landslides, volcano eruptions, and/or earthquakes.Between 1960 and 1998, Central
America suffered the effects of 21 major floods, 8 hurricanes, 11 other extreme weather
events, 10 earthquakes,5 volcanic eruptions, 4 major mudslides, 2 major fire emergencies,
and 2 droughts (seefootnote 3). It was only chancethat kept the impacts of many of these
eventsjust outside El Salvador's borders.


Evaluation      Approach for an Older Project

17        This report looks at a project begun 16 years ago, and the mission and beneficiary
survey on which this report is based examined project impacts 7 years after the loan
closed. This was at times a challenge. OED staff developed a questionnaire, and hired
and trained a survey team. Doing a household survey 10 years or more after the housing


5. Because of the presence of subduction zones (where one tectonic plate is sliding under the other)

6. Publicly available versions contained in the Special Supplement to La Prensa GraJica, published
October 8,2002.

                                                3


units were built identifies the problems with the component and offers clear lessons to
future post-disaster operation worldwide. The passageof time weighed most heavily on
the mission's efforts to assesshow effective the project was at rehabilitating the micro-
enterprise sector and giving training: essential baseline information has been lost and
what record keeping remained left much to be desired. Although it is harder to track
down staff that worked in the project, find project-related documents, and find data in key
areasfor accountability purposes, it would seem that on balance result of the exercise was
quite valuable in terms of lesson learning. In the first place, an earlier visit to project sites
might have seena different world. Project-built buildings would not have had to survive
two subsequentearthquakes, and the long-term results of insufficient attention to social
aspectswithin the low-income housing efforts would not have been as apparent. Looking
at this older project gave a much clearer picture of its contribution to borrowers' long-
term development. Secondarily, it allowed OED to examine sustainability and
institutional development impact in greater depth.



20       Project Design

21       The Bank responded quickly after the 1986 earthquake with a mission staffed by
some of the Bank's foremost disaster experts. The government was primarily concerned
with promoting economic recovery, restoring essential public buildings and services, and
ensuring that the victims received assistancein a manner consistent with long-term urban
planning goals. The El Salvador Earthquake Reconstruction Project consisted of $65.0
million in Bank finance for local and foreign costs. Total project cost was estimated at
$102.4 million (actual project cost amounted to $107.85 million).

22       The loan was approved on October 16, 1987, and made effective on June 17,
1988. The anticipated closing date was December 31, 1993, but the project actually
closed two and a half years later on June 30, 1996. The ICR attributed project
implementation delays to disruption causedby the civil war (198%1989), the poor
absorptive capacity of project institutions, a lack of managerial capacity in the newly
created project implementation unit (the Reconstruction Unit), the lack of experience of
key personnel, and the lack of coordination between the Reconstruction Unit and the
implementing agencies. The final disbursement was made in November 1996.


Project Objectives

23       The objectives of the project were to help: (i) rehabilitate and reconstruct the San
Salvador metropolitan area through the provision of low-cost housing, public office and
school buildings, and essential public services; (ii) support the expansion of the capital
city toward the north; (iii) rehabilitate the micro-enterprise sector to restore its production
and income generating capacity; and (iv) strengthen the government's capacity to plan
and manage the reconstruction efforts and enhanceits preparednessto deal with national
emergencies in the future.

                                              4


24      Project Components. The Bank financed 67 percent of the estimated total project
cost, including physical and price contingencies. The project consisted of the following
components at appraisal (estimated loan allocation in parenthesis):

        1. Housing. The Bank loan financed $8.2 million of the $18 million total
            component cost for dwelling reconstruction. An additional $2.2 million was
            made available for relocation expenses.The housing needs not covered by the
            project were to be covered by the private sector and other donors, including
            USAID and Italy.

        2. Schools ($11.8 million). Reconstruction of classrooms in greater San
            Salvador.

        3. Public Buildings ($14 million of the Bank loan was allocated for this
            component). Construction of two- and three-story office buildings for the
            Ministries of Justice, Planning, and Public Works.

        4. Roads ($8.8 million). Rehabilitation of the urban corridor linking San
            Salvador to Apopa, and Apopa to San Jose Las Flores.

        5. Water Supply ($0.5 million). Provision of water supply to Apopa to meet the
            needs of up to 2,500 additional families.

        6. Telecommunications ($4.0 million). Provision of three mobile telephone
            exchangeswith an aggregatetotal of 4,000 lines.

        7. Micro-Enterprise Credits ($9 million). Loans (1,500) for fixed asset
            investments such as equipment and machinery, and for lines of credit to
            provide the working capital required to rehabilitate the micro-enterprise sector
            in San Salvador and develop micro-enterprises in Apopa.

        8. Training ($3 million). Given the amount of rebuilding that was needed and the
            shortage of skilled labor; classroom and on-the-job training was to be
            provided for 6,000 skilled and semi-skilled laborers in the construction trades.
            Within the context of the housing component, some apartment buildings were
            to be constructed as condominiums. Training for two groups of twenty
            community workers each was to be given to assist low-income families in
            applying for housing credits and to help them form condominium associations
            to manage and maintain their new shared dwelling units.

        9. Studies and Technical Assistance ($3.4 million). Improvement of the building
            code to take seismic resistance more into account, and update the national
            emergency plan. Preparation of technical designs for District 7, and
           procurement of consultant services to strengthen the organizational and
           management capabilities of participating agencies.

Project Preparation Issues

25      Creating an implementing unit. The Reconstruction Unit (RU), headedby a
Director-General, was established in the Ministry of Planning (MIPLAN)      to manage the

                                               5


overall reconstruction effort and coordinate foreign assistance.The Bank assisted
MIPLAN     in the preparation of a detailed reconstruction program.

26       Planningfor   the northern expansion. Before the earthquake, the poorest families
lived at an unhealthy density in mesones, tenement rooms subdivided out of larger
apartments or single-family homes. The government encouragedsome of the victims to
relocate to Apopa, a northern suburb of San Salvador. Many of the project-financed
activities -the  telephone exchange, the paving of the roads, the provision wells for
potable water, as well as the construction of much of the low-income housing -       took
place in and around Apopa. As had happened following earthquakesin several other
Latin American cities (such as Popayan, Guatemala City, Managua, and Mexico City),
the El Salvador earthquake provided an opportunity to remove slum dwellers from the
city center and opened urban land that had increased in real estate value to higher value
development. Of course, it also permitted the families that remained behind to be housed
at a lower density, and much of the land around Apopa is relatively flat and, thus, not at
risk of landslides.

27       The northern expansion and the relocation of hundreds of low-income families to
Apopa were originally quite contentious becauseplans did not provide for economic
heterogeneity in the new neighborhoods and did not take into account the increased
commuting distance and cost of getting to work. The mission found that these issues have
been laid to rest in the face of the successof the northern expansion. Even middle-income
families have moved to the scores of new neighborhoods (colonias) that have sprouted up
in the 16 years since the earthquake along the road upgraded and paved by the project.



30       Implementation:           Intended Outcomes and Unexpected
         Results

31       While the review of implementation below covers all objectives of the project, it
focuses most intensely on the rehabilitation of San Salvador and especially the housing
component, which also involves the second objective, the expansion of the city to the
north. The reason for this focus is that several project components were ultimately
implemented by other donors or financed by the government out of the force account. In
addition, there is a lack of adequatedocumentation on work that was conducted at a
minute scale (housing repairs and small credits for new entrepreneurs). The location of
new housing, on the other hand, was well documented, and the lessons learned in that
component were of interest for the OED Social Development and Natural Disaster
studies.

32      The ICR reports on project achievements and provides a full description of the
nature and causesof project delays in the roads, schools, and housing components. It also
describes reporting and accounting deficiencies. It arguesthat delays diminished the
emergency nature of the project. Seven years later OED visited the project-built
infrastructure for accountability purposes, and this evaluation identifies the long-term
impacts of the project's activities.

                                                    6


Objectives (i) and (ii): Rehabilitation,        Reconstruction, and Expansion to the `North


Housing

33        Infrastructure.     The project's reconstruction activities centered on the provision of
private homes ($29.13 million spent versus $20.2 appraised). The appraisal document7
calls for: (i) the reconstruction of 3,000 units of low-cost apartments in situ; and (ii)
construction of 1,000 sites and services plots (embryo units with a wet utility core and
one unfinished room) for families being relocated to Apopa's District 7. The ICR
reported that the original target for new housing units was surpassedby 31 percent: 5,277
new housing units were constructed, and an additional 1,436 were rehabilitated and
improved, but it was silent on the sites and services component. The PPAR mission found
that both high-rise and single-story units were actually built, but that no "wet utility core"
units had actually been constructed. During site visits to District 7, OED found that
instead of core units, with the support of the Government of Italy, it proved possible to
construct completed housing units there, and in recognition of Italian generosity the area
has become known as the "Italian District" (Distrito Italia). Government informants said
that no core units were constructed anywhere, and official reports available in-country
cite 6,344 as the total number of housing units built8 The mission was unable to find
documentation identifying the location of the repaired homes and consequently did not
visit any. Once cracked masonry is replastered there is nothing to seein any event.

34        Credit Aspects. An additional hurdle that only confronts disaster projects is that
beneficiary identification is difficult: families need to have their status as "victim"
verified in addition to income and employment status. Habitat, a local NGO not to be
confused with either the U.S. or UN groups with the same name, was contracted by the
Vice-Ministry     of Housing and Urban Development to help disaster victims fill out the
necessary forms to establish their income (only low-income families were selected) as
well as to perform home visits (in order to verify that applicants had been harmed by the
seismic event).

35        Of the 16,000 families that applied, Habitat qualified 1,200 (8 percent) that met
all the criteria. All received housing, albeit at monthly payments about 50 percent higher
than they were led to expect when they began the application process. Other families
were qualified by project partners. The PPAR mission identified several individuals who
had worked on the NGO side of the housing credit qualification effort. When interviewed
they made a number of points based on their experience:

          The cost of the project built homes was too high for the project beneficiaries.
          They estimated that $2,000 was the most that families that met the project's (low)
          income criteria could afford.




7. Following emergencies, this is the Memorandum  of the President [MOP]).

8. Fonda  Social para la Vivienda, March 31, 1994.

                                                        7


          The housing was unnecessarily expensive (some costing $6,000 per unit)." The
          units were only "affordable" with subsidies and the assumption of continued
          wage inflation.
          Low housing costs are only possible when projects provide the minimum in terms
          of finish and amenities. People will decorate when they can afford to.
          Their high cost was a function of using greenfield sites rather than rebuilding in
          situ (where water, sewerage, and electric connections already existed).
          The decision to relocate was environmentally negative (it would not have been
          necessary to cut trees, sacrifice agricultural land, etc. had victims been allowed to
          stay put).
          Moving beneficiaries farther from their places of work reduces the amount that
          they can pay for housing costs.
          Mishandled relocation ruptured long-established social and family networks.
          Many poor families, including those that met the income criteria, have seasonal
          income. Obligating them to pay penalties for missed monthly payments is ill-
          advised
          The current legislation on land titles prevents families with legitimate rights to
          land (heirs, for example) from having accessto credit. Especially in the post-
          disaster context, it has to become easier for those with complicated land tenure
          situations to get provisional title. Traditional land transfer practices need legal
          recognition.
          All the financial intermediaries that worked with the project were bankrupted by
          the high cost of collection and management, not to mention the high levels of loan
          delinquency.

          The last point merits further discussion. In order to get housing credit,
beneficiaries had to sign an agreement with the Financier-a National de la Vivienda
(FNV, the Social Housing Fund, an agency that granted credits for housing development
to employees under the social security system) or the Programa National de la Vivienda
Popular (National Program for Popular Housing, PRONAVIPO)                        which in turn signed
contracts with Savings & Loan Associations to provide long-term mortgages to home
buyers (the whole arrangement was known in-country as the Program Nuevo Amanecer).

37        That the monthly payments on the project-provided homes were too expensive for
the intended beneficiaries is reflected in the (anecdotally reported) low levels of
repayment at the original loan amount and term. The four financial institutions associated
with Nuevo Amanacer were: AHORROMET                      S.A.; ATLACATL          S.A.; CASA; and
CREDISA. They were either closed or under liquidation by the time of the OED mission,
which made obtaining actual repayment data too time-consuming, given the mission
travel schedule." Habitat staff estimated that half of the original families had been

9. Taking both repaired and new houses together and dividing them by the amount spent on the housing
component, the average cost per unit is $4,330. Total cost to the beneficiaries is estimated at about $3,000
taking into account GOES subsidies and others paid out of the Japan Grant. It was once planned that
payments would start small and increase annually, but this idea was never put into practice once one of
financial intermediaries offered a fixed payment.

10. Other institutions have bought their portfolios for some fraction of their nominal value.

                                                      8


obliged to move out, many having forfeited years of mortgage payments. Survey results
(given below) confirm this estimate, although they cannot explain why the original
inhabitants left. Another project participant interviewed during the course of the mission
was the Cooperative Housing Foundation (CHF), a nongovernmental agency, which both
built houses and qualified beneficiaries.

38       The families who were able of keep up their original payment plans have already
paid off their loan. Those who fell behind were offered the opportunity to refinance, but
when the accumulated interest was incorporated into the principal, a higher rate was
applied and the term significantly extended. Thus, many original families are still paying
back their loans. But they are complaining bitterly and they have created associations to
lobby the government for loan forgiveness. Numerous association members have stopped
paying, although some credit agencies (including successorsto the bankrupted ones)
forcibly evicted delinquent mortgage holders and resold the units according to families
interviewed by the mission and its survey team. The cost of screening applicants and
administering the loans was considerable, and it was passedon to the beneficiaries, who
had just suffered a disaster with loss of personal possessions,medical or funeral
expenses,and temporary loss of employment.

39       Social Aspects (Housing). In order to find out whether the families living in
project-financed homes more than a decadelater were the ones qualified by Habitat, and
to seewhether they had been driven from the new communities by the high cost of credit
(seediscussion below), the survey asked current residents to describe the 1986
earthquake's impact on their lives. This reveals the degreeto which the current occupants
are legitimate victims of that event. Ultimately, the surveyors visited 916 households in
IO communities (a little over 17 percent). They also asked how the project-created
communities were functioning, and how the dwelling units had held up over the years.
The questionnaire and a detailed analysis of the responsescan be found in Annex B.

3. IO    Many of the neighborhoods constructed during the project have fallen under the
control of violent gangs. The obvious dangers complicated the survey process
significantly. Several neighborhoods arebadly located, near rivers that tend to flood and
on the edge of embankments. One unit is in danger of falling off a cliff - the occupants
no longer use the room which is in the air now that the soil on which it was built has
dropped into the river. Another community is only linked to the outside world by a bridge
that is about to be torn down becauseits abutments are poorly supported: the underlying
soil has washed away.

3.11     A strong majority of respondents (67 percent) said that they were the original
occupants. Nearly 79 percent of those interviewed said that they owned the unit they
were occupying. The observed longevity of the respondent group in El Salvador may be
partly due to NGOs' insistence that, when there was reason to believe that the family unit
was unstable, the units be put in the wife's name." The survey found some communities


11. A previous project assessment (Argentina Flood Rehabilitation, Loan 3521), documented that, in
Argentina, following a major flood positive social impacts resulted from putting house and land titles in the
wife's name.

                                                       9


where 50 percent of respondents reported that a woman was the legal homeowner; and
that, overall, 37 percent of the homes responding were owned by women.

3.12      Many of the visited units (68) were found to be abandonedor (perhaps
temporarily) uninhabited. l2Taking those into account, only 57 percent of units for which
OED has data are occupied by the original occupants. During the survey, 273 households
answered the door but refused to be interviewed. It is risky to infer anything about non-
respondents. Nevertheless (since all observers acknowledge a squatter presence), if the
abandonedunits and those who refused to respond are counted with those who admitted
that they were not the original inhabitants, only 47 percent of units would be currently
occupied.by income-qualified and NGO-certified disaster victims. Given the scale of the
emigration out of Central America (current estimates are that about a third of all
Salvadorans reside in the United States), it can be concluded that, in general terms,
disaster victims who were capable of meeting the required payrnents were satisfied
enough with the housing they received under the project to stay in it.

3.13      As noted above, the project built condominiums (low-income, multi-story
apartment buildings) as well as single-story semi-detached housing units. A
representative sample of both groups was surveyed. Conditions were substantially worse
in the condos than in the individual units. When asked in an open-ended question what
they like best about the housing they received, inhabitants of single-story houses most
common answer was that they liked "everything." Their second most common answer
was that they enjoyed having a place that they owned. In contrast, the condo owners were
quite prone to say that they liked "nothing" about their housing, although there were
numerous respondentswho were quite content. It could be observed in communities
where families were provided semi-detached houses, they tended to make major
improvements. About a fifth of respondentsreported building additional rooms onto their
unit. Condo occupants tended to make repairs rather than improvements.

3.14      The social aspectson which the livability of the housing infrastructure rests did not
receive adequateattention. The project documents called for condo associationsto be
created to manage and finance maintenance of the commons in each condo. While some
training was given in each condo (by consultants) at the outset, none of the condominium
groupings was supported until they reachedthe point where they could sustain their
associations. The results can be easily imagined. If the roof leaks, either the family under it
repairs it, or it does not get fixed and dampnesspermeatesthe building. The interior
danknessis further exacerbatedby plumbing leaks-any                   family with leaky pipes in their
floor has no incentive to fix them asthe impact of the leak affects only their downstairs
neighbors. Furthermore, the architects did not take into account that poor families wash
their laundry in the sink, and since there is no place to hang it outside (and it would be
stolen if left unguarded in any event) they have laundry lines in their apartments and even
more dripping water seepsinto the masonry. Of course a condominium association, if such


12. The existence of unoccupied units provides a location for gang-related activities. There is reason to believe
that the worse a community gets, the more abandoned units, the more powerful gangs become. In some
communities, lending institutions recognize this problem and fill the units with families whose legal
relationship to the unit is only clarified later.

                                               10


a thing existed, could contract one of the women to watch outdoor laundry lines for a very
small salary, but nowhere have such associationsbeen createdby the current occupants. In
contrast, in the mesonesthat they occupied before the earthquake,community cohesiveness
-   partially a result of a smaller number of families per building -  had allowed laundry to
be dried in common outdoor areasunattended.The annex provides more inforrnation
regarding what is working and what is not in the project-built communities.


Schools

3.15     The appraisal goal was to reconstruct about 400 classrooms in San Salvador and
Apopa. This component was not executed becausegrant money for the same purpose was
made available by USAID. An additional 160 classrooms were to be rebuilt in the same
areathrough reallocation of $4.1 million under an existing Bank-financed education
project (Loan 173%ES). The project redirected its attention to undamaged zones away
from the capital area.The PPAR mission did not visit these schools as there is no record
of their original condition, and, following a decadeof use they are likely to look as
though they could once again benefit from maintenance. The ICR reported that 25 12
classrooms were rehabilitated with the loan proceeds and that new school furniture was
acquired for 350 schools as well.


Public Buildings

3.16     All the major public buildings constructed were inspected by the OED team to
ascertain how they had resisted the 2001 earthquake, aswell as to evaluate their current
condition and usefulness, and the degreeto which they were being maintained. The
appraisal estimates for public buildings comprised the demolition of four government
buildings and the construction of five new ones. The mission visited the complex where
two- and three-story office facilities were originally constructed for MIPLAN,      an
institution that no longer exists. They are currently being used by the Ministry of
Economy and the Ministry of Education. They are in a wonderful state of repair and
maintenance -     unfortunately -they   recently had to undergo repairs becauseof the
damage they experienced in the 2001 earthquakes.Although the buildings' steel-
reinforced concrete frame had been designed to resist earthquakes,the structural
engineers did not take into account that some of the rooms would be used for filing. The
weight of the file cabinets, when they were located in rooms used nearly exclusively for
file cabinet storage, caused the buildings to be unbalanced to a degree that led to
structural damage to bearing walls and cosmetic damage to the exterior. The cost of the
repairs was reported to be SVC 2.5 million (government funds) by staff responsible for
their oversight. When buildings built on the site where the previous buildings had to be
demolished because of earthquake damage, are themselves damaged by the next
earthquake, it calls into question the degreeto which earthquake resistance was designed
into the structures and the extent to which the then government (and the Bank's staff)
were truly committed to mitigation.

3.17     The mission also visited the Centro Judicial Isidro Menendez complex
constructed for the Ministry of Justice. It found that the facilities were in excellent

                                                      11


 condition and in full use. They have been well maintained, surrounded by amenity
plantings, and they suffered no significant damage following the 2001 quake. As of
 September 2003, 1,200 employees were working in the complex. There were 67 courts
 and tribunals (the distinction reflects their focus on civil, penal, or mercantile matters) in
regular functioning.

 3.18     Additionally,     the mission visited the complex originally created to house the
Roads Department of the Ministry of Public Works. The facility was turned over to the
National Police and it is currently maintained at a high level of security, seemingly
without free public access.After some formalities, the mission was given permission to
inspect the facilities. The construction was completed to a high standard, it is in an
excellent state of repair and is receiving regular maintenance. The government maintains
that the costs for much of the infrastructure built were higher than necessary becausethe
Bank refuses to accept Central American construction practices.13

3.19      While the ICR stated that 26 government buildings were constructed, it was not
possible for the mission (using the project files before going in-country, and with
government assistanceafterwards) to identify that many buildings. The government
completion report for the project only claims six. It is, however, difficult to say how
many buildings were observed because,what might be considered to be separate
buildings were connected by walkways with concrete floors and roofs. Government
reports give figures for repairs to an unspecified number of post offices. Some housing
units were still being used for project purposes and by local government at loan closing,
and they may have been taken into account.


Roads

3.20      Project financing provided for the upgrading of approximately 16.5 kilometers of
road connecting San Salvador and Apopa, and Apopa with San Jose Las Flores. The civil
works included paving, drainage structures, and street illumination. Implementation of
this component was accomplished by contracting its construction in two sections. The
upgrading of 8 kilometers of road linking San Salvador and Apopa was completed as
appraised, and the Apopa-San Jose Las Flores road was completed as anticipated but after
the loan closed and by force account.

3.21      The Ministry of Public Works kindly provided the mission with 2002 traffic data
for the Bank-financed Apopa road. Annual averagedaily traffic (AADT) consists of:
15,385 cars and pickup trucks, 4,165 microbuses, 2,122 full-sized buses, 2,004 two-axle
trucks, and 23 1 three-axle trucks. The mission traveled the two roads during off-peak
times and rush hours to ascertain their condition and utilization. Their condition is good
but reflects the intensified use to which they are subject. Even during off-peak hours the
traffic is heavy. They have been regularly maintained, although they could use patches in
a few spots. The Highway Conservation Fund has included the neededrepairs in their



13. In a confidential self-evaluation prepared by the Borrower.

                                                 12


 2004 work program. A cloverleaf and overpass are under construction to facilitate traffic
 flow at a major intersection.


Public Services

 3.22    Water. The original goal of this component was to provide water supply to 2,500
 families in District 7 (Apopa). The ICR reported that the National Water and Sewerage
Authority (ANDA) surpassedthis figure without utilizing any of the loan proceeds. The
mission met with ANDA staff, who reported that although the water supply had been
increased when two deep wells were bored, the expansion of San Salvador toward the
north has rendered this project contribution less important than it might otherwise have
been. Between 2000 and 2001 occasional shortageswere the subject of complaints. By
 September 2003, when the mission was in country, the news media were highlighting the
severity of the water shortage in Apopa. One water company official explained that the
current shortage is so great, and the production of expensively produced deep wells in the
areais so small, that the water authority believes that the shortfall can only be overcome
with a large-scale aqueduct that brings water from distant sources to meet the demand.

3.23     Telecommunicatiorzs. The ICR reported that the objective of "three mobile
telephone exchanges with a total capacity of 4,000 lines.. .was surpassed" with the
purchase of three exchanges with a total capacity of 13,000 telephone lines. The mission
opted not to attempt locating portable switching devices purchased several decadesago.


Objective (iii): Rehabilitation     of Micro-Enterprise and Income Generation

3.24    Micro-Enterprise     Credits. The Central Bank (BCR) was the original
implementing agency for the micro-enterprise credit component. During implementation
the component was re-assigned to the Multi-Sectoral Investment Bank (BMI). The
mission met only with staff from the BMI, and contacted three recipients of micro-credit.
One of them had gone bankrupt. The two that were still functioning, a commercial bakery
and a private school were visited and key staff were interviewed. Both were sizeable
operations. Interviewees stated that the principal place of business had been destroyed,
and were it not for the credit, they would have gone under. The ICR reported that overall
1,344 small loans were granted (compared to 1,500 originally estimated). Government
documents report 1,436 small loans granted.14The amount made available was
approximately $4.5 million (the original objective was to provide $9 million).

3.25    Most government informants were of the opinion that, beyond the lower-than-
anticipated level of lending and the shortfall in amount lent, the micro-enterprise credits
had not been very successful in creating new entrepreneursor keeping indebted
businessesfrom closing their doors. BMI staff argued that the best use of this type of
credit is with businesses large enough to be subject to commercial credit. And that those
who had outstanding loans that were not in arrears at the time of the disaster but which
they could not make payments on becauseof the disaster had the best record when


14. Fonda National para la Vivienda, March 31, 1994.

                                                13


provided with a breather and additional working capital. Based on the mistakes
committed and lessons learned under this loan, the provision of lines of credit was one of
the most successful government activities following the 2001 event.

3.26     Training. INSAFORP, the institution involved in project-financed vocational
training and social organization was also visited and the capacity-building process
discussed. Because none of the current staff had been with the organization during the
project, and becauseold records had been destroyed prior to a move to a new office
building INSAFORP staff could provide no data on classroom and on-the-job training for
6,000 skilled and semi-skilled laborers in the construction trades; and community
workers each to assist low-income families in relocating, applying for housing credits,
and support for the creation of condominium associations. The ICR noted, "The original
target for this component was surpassedby 160 percent. Bank loan funds provided for the
short term training of 2,000 persons per year over three years in building trades skills.
This objective was greatly surpassedwith the training of 15,568 persons." It is not known
whether the training was residential or on-the-job, and it has already been noted above
(seepara. 3.14) that the training with the condo groups was inadequate.

3.27     Studies and Technical Assistance. The ICR reported, "five of the studies (the
most important being the study to improve seismic construction standards,planning and
regulation, including the improvement of the existing building code) were carried out
with the help of local and foreign consultants. The study pertaining to the detailed urban
design of the District 7 (Apopa) was partly completed without Bank financing with the
support of bilateral agencies that provided housing for low income families."


Objective (iv): Strengthening Capacity for Preparedness and to Plan and Manage
Reconstruction

3.28     In partnership with the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the Bank
(under an FY99 IDF Grant) supported the Center for Prevention of Disasters in Central
America (CEPREDENAC).          The objectives of CEPREDENAC         are to support
vulnerability and risk assessments,training for public and private officials, carrying out
of small emergency response tests, and raising awarenessabout ways to reduce risks at
the local level.

3.29     Within the government, three major milestones can be identified in terms of
increasedcapacity to confront disaster.The first is the establishment of a permanent body
for disastermanagement, the National Emergency Committee (&mite            National de
Emergencias, CNE). The CNE consists of a standing secretariatand a number of
decentralized offices. One representativefrom eachministry sits on the committee, which
only meets in times of need. The secondis the creation of a disaster responsestructure in
eachministry. These structures are unique to eachministry asthe nature of each one's
activities in times of disastervaries. The third has been the creation of the National Service
for Territorial Studies (SNET), a scientific institute responsible for risk management. Its
purview extends to geology, hydrology, and meteorology. It monitors all phenomena
having to do with the weather, the ocean,the climate, seismic and volcanic events, and soil

                                                      14


stability; aswell aspopulation dynamics, human settlement patterns, ecosystem stability,
and it evaluatesthe impact ofreal and proposed investments on all of the above?



40        Conclusions and Lessons

Achievement of Objectives

41        Given El Salvador's vulnerability to disaster, the most relevant of the objectives
was to strengthen the government's capacity to plan and manage reconstruction efforts
and enhanceits preparednessto deal with national emergencies in the future. This has
been fully attained. The PPAR mission in September of 2003 found that significant
progress had taken place in this area? Evidence of the increased government capacity to
manage disaster consists of the new regional and national institutions that have been
created and run effectively.

42        The project contributed effectively to the rehabilitation of the San Salvador
metropolitan area, performing best on the reconstruction of public offices and essential
public services (even those done under the project entirely with government funds). The
expansion of the capital city toward the north took place largely as anticipated. Indeed, it
would be fair to say that what happened in that regard exceeded expectations.

43        Disaster-related institutional development has been concentrated at the central
government level. Local governments need to commence building their capacity for
disaster response and disaster risk management creating and keeping specially designated
groups with the professional training to react effectively. Research in neighboring
Honduras and Nicaragua indicate that investments in prevention can pay major dividends
even in years when major disasters do not occur. And both of those neighboring countries
have incorporated local governments into permanent disaster response structures.


IRATINGS

44        Outcome. It is clear that the project achieved highly relevant objectives but with
significant shortcomings. Overall the project outcome is rated moderately satisfactory.
The project substantially achieved all of its physical objectives, but in several of the
project components there were significant problems (housing [design, quality of
materials, poor adaptation to occupants' lifestyles, inadequate attention to social aspects]
poor targeting and record-keeping in the micro-enterprise credits, and the lack of seismic
resistance in some public buildings). Efficiency cannot be evaluated with an ERR (which
emergency reconstruction projects do not calculate). Unit costs were generally higher
than appraised estimates, but at this remove it is difficult to ascertain whether this was
due to underestimation at appraisal or implementation inefficiencies. Low-cost housing


15. SNET was only created in 2001 and since 2002 receives $1.3 million in annual tinding. Donors provide
additional support for certain monitoring activities.

16. The impetus for the observed change includes Hurricane Mitch and the 2001 earthquakes.

                                               15


was provided to the target group. Thousands of urban units were provided to carefully
screenedbeneficiaries. However, in the caseof housing, high unit costs imposed a
significant burden on the poor.

45      Institutional Development Impact. The PPAR mission was able to ascertain that
the institutional capacity developed initially in the RU and implementing agencies is alive
and well, albeit sitting in new positions in the public and NGO sectors. Although not all
the project's institutional objectives were attained (for example, the poor experience with
the condo associations), the project had an impact far beyond them. The project
experience with micro-enterprise credits in the post-disaster context, while only partially
successful at best, reportedly taught valuable lessons and led to a situation where such
credits are now managed with great success.A new seismic-resistant building code was
developed, and the National Assembly modified the existing building law to allow its
issuance. The period since project closing has been fraught: two more major earthquakes
and Hurricane Mitch. But the result of the work begun under the Bank loan, and the
added stimulus of repeatedbuffeting by disasters has been the creation of permanent
public institutions to manage risks, monitor hazards, and predict disasters. And, in some
ways, these are an example to other countries in the region. SNET staff noted that there
had been a major change in strategic thinking on disasters in the past decade: risk
management is central in the government planning process for the first time. The
establishment of the three disaster agencies, and the sharedvision behind them, warrants
an institutional development impact rating of substantial.

46      Sustainability. Given the amount of time that has elapsed since the project closed,
its sustainability can be rated on observed rather than predicted performance. Some of the
infrastructure developed under the project has problems: the housing is made with poor-
quality materials (see survey results in the annex), and a number of communities have
been built in areassafer from earthquakesbut vulnerable to run-off and landslides. But by
and large, project-built infrastructure is in use. And some works are immaculately
maintained, notably the public buildings, albeit many now serve different ministries than
intended. Sustainability is rated likely.


Bank Performance

47      The Bank responded quickly after the 1986 earthquake. The appraisal mission
was staffed by some of the Bank's foremost disaster experts. Bank staff helped to design
a project that addressedthe problems causedby the earthquake in a comprehensive way.
The government reports that the Bank also supported the work of the RU quite
effectively. Staff also coordinated activities with other donors and mobilized funding
from other sources that complemented project activities in important ways (Italy and
Japan). The urgency surrounding project preparation may have caused some of the
project's components to be underestimated and contributed to project delays (in the
education sector and with the road component due to land acquisition difficulties). The
borrower highlighted the quality of the management brought to the project generally,
although there were complaints about the Bank insistence on applying models from

                                                 16


elsewhere and unwillingness to take into account Salvadoran social characteristics.17On
balance, Bank performance is rated satisfactory.


Borrower Performance

48       Although there were problems with reporting and accounts (para. 3.2), the
deconstruction Program is widely considered to be a major government achievement.
Project-built infrastructure that remained in public hands has been well maintained, and,
notwithstanding all the difficulties described in this report, government commitment to
cost recovery in the housing component is noteworthy. The project exceeded appraisal
estimates in many components, and benefits were provided to a large number of poor
families, who were painstakingly identified according to criteria agreedwith the Bank.
Assistance to the OED team and willingness to learn from the project experience were
exemplary. The borrower's performance        1srated satisfacto ry overall.


LESSONS

49       Infrastructure  should be responsive to demand and be constructed to cover the
needs of the expectedpopulation. The wells that were constructed barely provided
enough water to serve the existing population of Apopa plus the new housing units
constructed under the project. Yet it was a main project objective to support the
expansion of the capital towards the north. Today, there is not enough water to serve the
northern area.

4. IO    When constructing seismic-resistant buildings, take into account the loading
implications of their intended use. The public buildings that were constructed under the
project were supposedto be earthquake resistant, yet some were damaged in the 2001
earthquake becausethe weight of all the file cabinets within the file room was not taken
into account by the engineers and architects that designed their structure.

4.11     Do not underestimate the time and effort needed to train community groups to     '
manage infrastructure built by the project. As was found by the recent OED study on
Social Development,18Bank projects consistently fail to take fully into account the
amount of time and the extent of the effort that will be required to leave community
groups in a condition that will allow them to sustainably manage the project-built
infrastructure. The experience with the condominium associations under this project was
execrable, and detracts from the numerous significant achievements that were made in
many sectors, including housing.

4.12     Build on existing social networks when relocating disaster victims. The families
who had lived together in mesoneshad developed patterns of interaction based on an
established level of trust. They had spent years working out ways of doing things like
childcare, laundry, and holidays; there was a formal and informal leadership structure.


17. Borrowers Supplementary Implementation Report, July 11, 1996, p. 31.

18.An OED Review of Social Development in Bank Activities, 2003.

                                              17


When they were relocated, no effort was made to keep social groupings together. Even
under the best of circumstances, taking people from a 7neso~:arrangement (where there
had been a landlord involved with building maintenance) and making them owners of
condominium units was going to be a challenge. Putting together families that did not
know each other made the adjustment infinitely more challenging.

4.13    Do not have unrealistic expectations about disaster victims' ability to pay for
housing. The occupants of the housing units have been through three earthquakesin
recent memory. This has affected their ability to pay for food, clothing, and medical care.
Emergency projects need to recognize that low-income beneficiaries are likely to have
lost most of their possessionsduring and after a disaster event that destroys housing.
Normal expectations regarding cost recovery in the short term need to be held in reserve
for the middle income families. It makes little senseto deal with the poor by means of
repayment schemes that cannot work for them. Emergency projects should screen
middle-income housing beneficiaries by ability to pay; and they should just give away (or
heavily subsidize) minimally  finished units for the poor. In this case,housing costs were
too high (as indicated by the extent of refinancing), need was weighed more heavily than
ability to pay, and the consequencesfor the housing finance sector are still being felt.


                                                                             19                                                                                  Annex A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

 EL SALVADOR                             EARTHQUAKE                         RECONSTRUCTION                                         PROJECT
 (LOAN               2873-ES)


                                                                         Appraisal                    Actual    or                          Actual               as  % of
                                                                         estimate                current    estimate                      appraisal               estimate
Total    project    cost                                                    102.4                       107.85                                             5%




                                                                                    Original                                                Actual
Departure        of Appraisal     Mission                       1 I I24186                                          IO/20186

Board       approval                                                                                                10/16/87
Signing                                                        8187                                                 1 O/l 6/87

Effectiveness                                                   12/3   l/87                                         6/17/88

Closing      date                                               1213 I /93                                          6/30/96




                                                                                     Actual/Latest        Estimate

                                                            if' Staff     weeks                                           us$us$(`ooo)

Through        Appraisal                                            103.0                                                        210,600

Appraisal       -  Board                                             13.1                                                        28,400

Supervision                                                        207.5                                                         570,400

Completion                                                           5.9                                                          14,000

Total                                                              329.5                                                         823.400


Mission Data                                                                                                        . .-._.-___.-_.__..-_____._-.--_...-._...--_.--.~
                              Date         No.   of    Staff         Specializations                           Phormance                 Rating           1/
                        (mon   Myear)     persons     days  in        representeda
                                                       field                                 PImplementation           Development                                Types   of
                                                                                                     Status                  Impact                        problem@/
Identification/         I O/86            6          5             LO,H,A,U,ED
Preparation
First   -               11186             7          14            LO,H,A,U,ED,S,L
Appraisal
Post-                   I/87              3          5             LO,A,H
Appraisal
Post-                   3f87              7          5             LO,H,A,U,ED,S,E
Appraisal

Post-                   4/87              2          IO            LWJ
Appraisal

Post-                   4/87              4          9             LO,E,W,H
Appraisal

Second       -          5187              3          12            LO,H,E
Appraisal

Post-                   10187             7          3             LO,A,L,ED,H,W,P
Appraisal

Supervision             10187             6          5             TM                         2                       1                                  MJ-
Supervision             1 I/87            2          5             TM                         2                       1                                  MJ
Post-                   12187             2          13            LO,H                       N/A                     N/A                                WA
Appraisal

Supervision             4188              4          3             TM                         2                       I                                  M,T

                                                                                  20                                                                 Annex A


                              Date          No.   of        Staff        Specializations                            Performance          Rating   ;r/
                       (mont~/year)       persons        days      in    represen       tedz/
                                                            field                                 lmplementa        tion     Development              Types   of
                                                                                                           Status                impact             problems/
Supervision            6188                            5                TM,H,E                                                                    MJ-
Supervision            11188                           IO               F                                                                         My-f-
Supervision            1189                            5                TM,H                                                                      MJ-
Supervision            2/89                            7                F                                                                         MJ-
Supervision            6189                            5                TM                                                                        MJ-
Supervision            8189                            3                TM                                                                       M
Supervision            9/89                            6                TM                                                                       M

Supervision            1 O/89                          6                TM                                                                       M
Supervision            3190                            6                TM,H                                                                     MF
Supervision            1 O/90                          4                TM                                                                       M/F
Supervision            l/91                            5                TM                                                                       M,F
Supervision            3191                            5                TM                                                                       M/F
Supervision            3191                            5                TM                                                                       MF
Supervision            3191                            5                TM                                                                       M/F
Supervision            8/91                            5                TM                                                                       MF
Supervision            11191                           5                TM,H                                                                     MF
Supervision            3192                            5                TM,H                                                                     M
Supervision            7192                            5                TM,H                                                                     M
Supervision            1 II92                          12               TM,H                                                                     M
Supervision            2/93                            5                TM,H                                                                     M

Supervision            7193                            11               TM,H,E,                                                                  M
Supervision            8193                            5                TM                                                                       M
Supervision            3194                            12               TM,E,H                                                                   M
Supervision            10194                           7                TM                                                                       M
Supervision            3195                            5                TM                                                                       M
Supervision            7195                            5                TM                                                                       M
Supervision            2/96                            4                TM                                                                       M
Supervision            5196                            4                TM                                                                       M
Completion             7/96                            5                TM,E


_1/ 1=Problem     free;   2=Moderate    Problems;    S=Satisfactory
2/ L.O.=Loan      Officer;    L=Legal;  P=Procurement       Specialist;  W=Water       Supply   Specialist;    S =Seismic    Specialist;  A=Architecture;
ED=Education        Specialist;   U=Urban    Planner;  H=Housing       Specialist;   E=Engineer;    F=Financial      Specialist;  TM=Task      Manager
3/ M=Managerial;         T=Technical;   F=Financial


Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing           Agency:

FOLLOW-ON        OPERATIONS
Operation                                                                                  Credit   no.                                   Board      date
Basic   Education        Modernization     Project                                           3945-ES                                           1995

                                              21                                     Annex B


Annex B. Results of              ousehold Survey in El Salvador

SURVEYMETHODS AND SAMPLE SIZE

        A total of 918 housing units were visited in greater El Salvador (including Apopa
and Santa Tecla). In six neighborhoods of single-family homes surveyors visited 753
units, and in four neighborhoods of multi-story condominium buildings surveyors visited
165 families. Table Bl shows the responserate.


Table 1: General Survey Information

                                       No. Percent
Housing  units visited                 918
Consent  to be interviewed             465       51%
Abandoned/uninhabited     units         89       10%
Declined to be interviewed             364       39%


        A team of four surveyors conducted the survey between September 25 and 29,
2003, under OED supervision. The survey instrument (attached to this annex) was
developed in conjunction with the Ministry of Foreign Relations Department of External
Cooperation. The housing units surveyed covered the work of the four participating
financial institutions: CREDISA, CASA, Atlacatl, and AHORROMET.             It was not
possible to use random sampling. In many areashousing was not numbered and streets
had no visible name. It also was not possible to find maps of the communities. Surveyors
were unwilling to enter a number of communities for safety reasons, and government
informants concurred that the risk was as great as the surveyors described. The surveyors
stayed in visual contact with each other at all times, going to all the units on every street
or floor. A vehicle was placed at the disposition of the survey team, and the driver
assisted with the monitoring of gang activity. Work in each community ended when the
survey team or the driver felt endangered,or at the end of the working day. The surveyors
participated in the data analysis process. At the endsof each day there was a debriefing
with the task manager. At the end of the analysis process the team presented written and
oral observations.


HOUSEHOLDERCHARACTERISTICS

        One third of all respondents said they were not the original occupants of their
homes. Almost 70 percent had lived in the capital city before living in their current home,
while 22.4 percent had lived in another city, and only 8.2 percent had moved to where
they currently lived from rural areas.

        A large majority, 78.6 percent, said they owned the home, with almost 50 percent
of the leasesin the name of the man of the house and 39 percent in the woman's name.
(For the rest, either both names were on the lease or they did not know.) In contrast, only
one-quarter of the respondentshad been homeowners before they moved to their current

                                                              22                                       Annex B


 unit. Sixty-two percent had been renters, and 11 percent had been non-paying members
 of others' households.


 Table B2: Responses to Homeownership                         questions

                                                                                                Number

  Iid someone      occupy     this unit before   you?            Yes                                153     33%

                                                                 NO                                313      67%

  J/hat is your   legal  situation   regarding   this   house?   Owner                             316    78.6%

                                                                 Under   contract                    IO    2.5%

                                                                 Renting                             58   14.4%

                                                                 Occupying     an abandoned          18    4.5%
                                                                house/    squatter

 f you own     this unit,   in whose    name   is the title?    Man                                193    49.5%

                                                                 Woman                             153    39.2%

                                                                 Both                                 7    1.8%

                                                                Don't   know                         37    9.5%

 3efore   moving    to this   home,    where  did  you live?     Rural  area                         38    8.2%

                                                                 Capital  city                     323    69.5%

                                                                Another    city                    104    22.4%

 n your   last home,     what    was  your  legal  situation     Owner                             115    24.7%
 `egarding    that  unit?

                                                                 Under  contract                      I    0.2%

                                                                 Renting                           288    61.9%

                                                                 Living  with  others without        51   11.0%
                                                                paying
                                                                Living  in an abandoned               0    0.0%
                                                                house

                                                                Public   dormitory                    2    0.4%

                                                                Homeless                              0    0.0%

                                                                 Other                                8    1.7%


           A large number of respondents, 210, said that they lost the use of their houses as a
result of the 1986 earthquake. An additional 77 had their houses damaged. However, 156
said that they were not affected by the 1986 earthquake at all.


THE HOUSINGUNIT ANDSURROUNDINGNEIGHBORHOOD

           When asked what they liked about their homes, I3 1 said "everything." This was
about twice as many responsesas the next two ranked options, which were location and
the fact that they owned their home. However, 55 respondents said they liked "nothing"
about their units. When asked about what specifically worried them about their units, the
roof was the most chosen option with 150 respondents saying they were concerned about
it. However, 130 respondents said there was nothing about their units that worried them.
The next most worrisome item was the quality of construction and measuresto protect

                                             23                                   Annex B


against flooding following heavy rainfall. The worries lowest on the list were flooring
and environmental pollution.

       Almost 200 said that no improvements have been made to their homes, while 99
said they had replaced doors or windows. The next highest improvement made was
adding extra rooms (95), while 56 members had replaced their roofs.

       Among the things respondents liked about their neighborhoods, the availability of
mass transportation topped the list with 146 responses.This was followed closely by low
crime (132 responses) and by central location. A number of respondents (73) liked
everything about their neighborhood. The items mentioned least often in this category
were the neighbors and the climate.

       When asked for things that worry them about their neighborhood, the most
frequent response (128) was "nothing." Of those that noted things that bothered them, the
shortage of potable water was most cited (79 responses),followed by risk that
accessibility to their building or neighborhood would be lost due to deterioration to roads
or bridges caused by erosion or extreme weather events. Danger and crime were the next
most mentioned items, followed by concern about contaminated waterways nearby and
inadequate garbage collection. Percentagesare not given for each responsein Table B3
becausemultiple answers were solicited in several questions.

                                                    24                                                Annex B


Table B3: Ranked Responses (Number of responses)

How did the   1986 Earthquake    affect  you?        Destroyed       my home                       210
                                                     Nothing/don't       remember                  156
                                                     Damaged        my home                        77
                                                     Psychological        impact                    15
                                                     Lost    personal    effects                    11
                                                     Lost    a family   member                      4
                                                     Familv     member     iniured                  3
`Vhat do you  like about  this house?                Everything                                    131
                                                     Location                                      65
                                                     That    I own   it                            64
                                                     Nothing                                       55
                                                     Privacy                                       47
                                                     House     size                                35
                                                     Land     area                                 23
                                                     Comfortable                                   20
                                                     Accessibility
Yhat worries   you about   this house?               Roof    (houses)
                                                     Nothing
                                                     Quality    of construction/
                                                     materials/water       infiltration            58

                                                     Walls                                         47
                                                     Interior   space    is too small              34
                                                     High    monthly     payment                   30
                                                     Location                                      19
                                                     Insecure/Vulnerable           to criminals    13
                                                     Plumbing                                      12
                                                     Flooring                                       4
                                                     Environmental        pollution                 4
Vhat improvements      have  been  made   on this
louse?                                               None                                          197

                                                     Replaced      doors   or windows              99
                                                     Extra    rooms                                95
                                                     Replaced      roof                            56
                                                     Enlarged     at least    I room               55
                                                     Dividing    walls                             24
                                                     Added     a second     floor                  15
                                                     Replaced      the flooring                    IO
                                                     Security    grill work                         9
Name  3 things  you like  about this  neighborhood   Mass    transportation                        146
                                                     Low    crime                                  132
                                                     Central    location                           100
                                                     Everything                                    73
                                                     Quiet                                         69
                                                     Basic    services                             65
                                                     Green     zone                                58
                                                     School     nearby                             55
                                                     Nothing                                       50
                                                     Neighbors                                     40
                                                     Climate                                       28

                                                     25                                           Annex B


 Name   3 things that worry     you about this
 neighborhood                                        Nothing                                   128

                                                     Potable    water    in short   supply     79
                                                     Risk   of road   or pedestrian
                                                     accessibility     to the community        68
                                                     being    lost
                                                     Danger-Iris   k                           53
                                                     Crime                                     49
                                                     Contaminated        river nearby          47
                                                     Inadequate     garbage      collection    43
                                                     Flooding                                  39
                                                     Retaining     walls                       36
                                                     Lack   of play   areas                    19
                                                     Lack   of schools                         17
                                                     Everything                                15
                                                     Lack   of street   lights                 13
                                                     Poor   quality   materials     in
                                                     stairslwal   kways                         4



DIFFERENCES         BETWEEN        CONDOMINIUMS     AND SINGLE FAMILY                HOMES

           The differences between single-family home neighborhoods and condominium
apartment buildings were significant for some of the topics reported upon by this survey.
There was a lower responserate among condominium dwellers, with only 32.5 percent
consenting to participate in the survey, versus 55 percent of single unit residents.

                                               Houses               Condos*
Number     of houses visited                      753                         165
Percent interviewed                               55%                       32%
Percent of abandoned/uninhabited         units     9%                       13%
Percent of non-respondents                        36%                       56%

*Total % is 101% due to rounding  up


           There are more renters in the condominium units than in the houses, but more
people admit that they are squatters(5 percent) in the houses than in the condominium
units (2 percent). Currently, 74 percent of condominium dwellers own their units.
Interestingly, less than 10 percent of these condominium respondentshad owned their
previous home, so there was quite a dramatic shift in their status/poverty impact. Of the
house owners, 27 percent had owned their previous homes, compared to 79 percent who
currently do. A larger percentage of women in houses (41 percent) had property titles in
their own names. Only 30 percent of condominium title holders responding were women.
A larger percentage of people in houses had moved to the city from rural areas.Almost
all condominium residents had always been city dwellers.

                                                              26                                        Annex B


Table B4: Responses to Homeownership                          Questions

                                                                                                  House     Condo
                                                                                          ~~~
Did someone       occupy    this  unit before   you?                 Yes                            32.5%        35%

                                                                     NO                             67.5%        65%

What   is your   legal  situation   regarding   this   house?        Owner                           79%         74%

                                                                     Under   contract                3%

                                                                     Renting                         13%         24%

                                                                     Occupying     an abandoned      50/          2%
                                                                     house/  squatter                    0
                                                                                                            ~~
If you  own   this unit,   in whose    name   is the title?          Man                             49%         51%

                                                                     Woman                          40.5%        30%
                                                                     Both                            1.5%         4%

                                                                     Don't  know                     9%          15%

Before   moving    to this   home,    where  did you     live?       Rural  area                     9%           2%

                                                                     Capital  city                   69%         75%

                                                                     Another   city                  22%         23%

In your  last home,     what    was  your  legal  situation          Owner                                        9%  '
regarding    that  unit?                                                                             27%

                                                                     Under  contract                0.2%

                                                                     Renting                         60%         75%

                                                                     Living  with  others without    1 I %        8%
                                                                     paying
                                                                     Living in an abandoned
                                                                     house                           0.0

                                                                     Public  dormitory              0.2%          2%

                                                                     Homeless                        0.0

                                                                     Other                           1%           6%


          On quality of life and living questions, respondents in both groups said
"everything" most frequently when asked what they liked about their homes. The second
most frequent response for condo dwellers was "nothing." The surveyors reported that,
some project beneficiaries were very happy and others very unhappy with their current
situation. They attributed both to the conditions where they are living, and also whether
they feel that their current situation is better or worse than what they had before. The
second most frequent response for house residents was "homeownership." One
householder, a single mother with two children, had been homeless on the streetsafter the
earthquake, and shetold the surveyors in great detail how much it meant to the children
that they have a place to live of their own. "Location" was the third most frequent
response for both groups.

          When asked what worried them about their units, of 11 possible options, the
house dwellers said the "roof' was what they worried most about in their units, followed
by "nothing." It could be seenthat the houses had been provided with shoddy roofing
material that allowed moisture to penetrate. Condo owners said "nothing" most

                                              27                                   Annex B


frequently. A concern for the quality of construction materials and flood-proofing
measureswas the second most frequent responsefor condo dwellers. This item was
fourth for house dwellers.

        The majority of both house and condo dwellers had not made improvements. But
of those who had, the house dwellers had replaced doors and windows most frequently,
while the condo dwellers had made internal divisions to create more rooms. The third
most frequent improvement for house dwellers was adding additional rooms to increase
the interior area, and for condo residents it was increasing the number of rooms, since
they live in high rises.

        Regarding their neighborhoods, survey respondents were asked what they liked
best about where they lived. The house dwellers most frequently responded that they
liked the accessto mass transportation and the condo residents cited the central location
as the most appreciated assetof their neighborhood. Low crime was the second most
frequent responseby both groups. Compared to the other neighborhoods not surveyed,
crime was definitely lower in the respondents' neighborhoods. Condo inhabitants' third
most cited responsewas "everything." Central location was the third most frequent
response for the house respondents.

        Both groups most frequently responded "nothing" when asked what worried them
about their neighborhoods. Of those that did have concerns, lack of potable water was
most often cited by the house residents and risk or danger was cited by the condo
respondents. For house dwellers the next two most frequent worries were loss of access
to the downtown as the result of floods or (usually rainstorm-related) loss of road
infrastructure. For condo residents it was a lack of potable water, followed by a response
of "everything."

                                                                             28                                                 Annex B


Table B5

                                                                     tfouses                                         Condos
How did     the  1986  Earthquake
3ffect  you?                               Destroyed           my    home          179    Destroyed           my    home          31

                                           Nothing/Don't
                                           remember                                137    Nothing/Don't             remember      19

                                           Damaged           my    home             75    Damaged           my    home              2
                                           Psychological             impact         13    Psychological             impact          2
                                           Lost      personal       effects         PI    Lost      personal       effects          0
                                           Lost      a family     member             4    Lost      a family      member           0
                                           Family       member         injured       3    Family       member         injured      0
JrVhat  do  you  like about    this
rlouse?                                    Everything                              fO3    Everything                              28

                                           That      I own     it                   58    Nothing                                 16
                                           Location                                 56    Location                                  9
                                           Privacy                                  40    House        size                         7
                                           Nothing                                  39    Privacy                                   7
                                           House        size                        28    That      I own     it                   6
                                           Land       area                          23    Accessibility                            6
                                           Comfortable                              17    Comfortable                              3
                                           Accessibility                            II    Land       area                          0
Nhat   worries    you  about    this
louse?                                     Roof                                    740    Nothing                                 34

                                                                                          Quality       of  construction1
                                           Nothing                                  96    materials/        water                 15
                                                                                          infiltration
                                           Walls                                   44     Roof                                    10
                                           Quality       of  construction/
                                           materials        water                  43     Interior      space      is  too         6
                                           infiltration                                   small

                                           Interior      space      is too
                                           small                                   28     Plumbing                                 4

                                           High      monthly       payment         27     Walls                                    3
                                           Location                                 78    High      monthly       payment          3
                                           Insecure/vulnerable               to           Insecure/vulnerable               to
                                           criminals                                11
                                                                                          criminals                                2

                                           Plumbing                                  8    Flooring                                 I
                                           Environmental             pollution       4    Location                                 7
                                           Flooring                                  3    Environmental             pollution      0
What   improvements        have    been
nade    on  this house?                    None                                    151    None                                    46

                                           Replaced         doors      or
                                           Jvindows                                89     Extra      rooms                        15

                                           Extra      rooms                        80     Englarged          at  least    1
                                                                                          rooms                                   12

                                           Replaced         roof                   53     Added       a second         floor      IO
                                           Enlarged        at least      one              Replaced         doors      or
                                           poem                                    43
                                                                                          Jvindows                                70

                                           Dividing       walls                    23     Replaced         the   roof              3
                                           Security       grill  work                7   Replaced          flooring               3
                                           Replaced         the   flooring           7    Security       grill   work              2
                                           9dded       a second         floor       5     Dividing       walls                     I

                                                                              29                                                     Annex


                                                                      Houses                                             Condos
 blame   3 things    you   like about  this  Mass      transportation                         Central      loation                      24
 neighborhood                                                                          134

                                             Low     crime                             770    Low     crime
                                             Central      location                     76     Everything
                                             Quiet                                     65     Basic      services
                                             Everything                                54     School       nearby
                                             Basic      services                       48     Green      zone
                                             Green      zone                           45     Nothing
                                             School       nearby                       41     Mass      transportation
                                             Nothing                                   38     Quiet
                                             Neighbors                                 38     Neighbors
                                             Climate                                   27     Climate
 qame    3 things    that  worry  you
 tbout   this  neighborhood                  Nothing                                   709    Nothing

                                             Potable       water     in short          75     Danger/risk                               7
                                             supply
                                             Risk     of  road     or
                                             pedestrian         accessibility
                                             to   the   community           being      67     Retaining        walls                    5

                                             lost

                                             Crime                                            Potable      water      In short
                                                                                       49                                               4
                                                                                              supply
                                             Contaminated             river            47     Everything                                4
                                             nearby
                                             Inadequate         garbage                42     Crime
                                             collection
                                             Danger/risk                               42     Flooding

                                             Flooding                                  37     Poor     quality     materials      in
                                                                                              stairs/walkways
                                             Retaining        walls                    37     Lack     of  play    areas
                                                                                              Risk     of  road    or

                                             Lack     of Schools                       17     pedestrian         accessibility
                                                                                              to   the   community           being      7

                                                                                              lost

                                             Lack     of  play    areas                17     Inadequate         garbage                7
                                                                                              collection

                                             Lack     of  street     lights            c13    Contaminated             river
                                                                                              nearby
                                             Everything                                77     Lack     of  street     lights
                                             K.   Poor    Quality       Matrls   in
                                             stairs/walkways                            2     Lack     of  schools




EUSPONSESBYINDIVIDUALCOMMUNITY

             Shown below are the complete results from each neighborhood. In the
condominium buildings, all units were approached. In the single-unit neighborhoods, the
percentage of units which the survey team attempted to interview ranged from about a
third to 90 percent. Of course not all those approached consented to be interviewed. The
percentage interviewed ranged from 23 percent for Condo Marconi to 67 percent for Los
Naranjos. The percentage of respondentswho owned their units ranged from as high as
90 percent for Condo San Miguelito to as low as 37.5 percent for Condo America. Four
of the neighborhoods had no squatters among the respondents,but two had squattersin
about 13 percent of the units visited. The percentageof property titles that were held by
men ranged from 76 percent in one neighborhood, to 27 percent in another. In the
community with a lower percentage of men as title holders, a third were in the name of
both the man and woman of the household. In one condominium community, Condo
Marconi, title holders were exactly half male and half female. The percentage of units

                                             30                                   Annex B


occupied previously by someone else ranged from 20 percent to 44 percent. Of the
condos, only one condo, Condo America, had residents who had moved there from rural
areas.The vast majority of the condo residents were from the capital city. In the single-
unit neighborhoods, those formerly from rural areasranged from 4 percent to almost 11
percent. The percentage of respondentswho had owned their previous homes before
occupying project-built units ranged from 7 percent in Condo El Bosque to just over 35
percent in Bosque de Prusia, a single-family neighborhood. Most had previously been
renters, with one condominium having 90 percent of respondents having rented
previously. On the lower end, 47 percent of the Bosque de Prusia neighborhood
respondents had previously been renters.

         The most frequent response for all but two of the communities when asked how
the 1986 earthquake had affected them was "loss of their home." The second most
frequent response for all the neighborhoods was "nothing/don't remember." Damage to
their home was the third most frequent responsein all the communities but one.

         When asked what they liked about their home, "everything" was the most
frequent response from half of the communities. For three other communities, the
location was what they liked best and in one of the communities, Condo America, the
most frequent response was that they liked nothing about their home. When asked what
worried them about their homes, four of the six single-unit neighborhoods cited the roof
most frequently, while one cited the poor quality of workmanship and materials. Of the
remaining communities, the most frequent responsewas that they had no worries about
their home. The respondents were asked what improvements they had made on their
homes. All but two of the communities responded most frequently that they had made no
improvements. Of the remaining communities, room enlargement and adding a room
were the most frequent responses.

         When asked what they liked about their neighborhood, the most frequent response
varied. Three communities most frequently cited the central location. "Everything," mass
transit, and low crime were each cited most frequently by two communities respectively.
Quietness was the factor most frequently cited in the last community, Residencia Europa.

         Respondents in six of the ten neighborhoods said "nothing" when asked what
worried them most about their neighborhoods. Two of the condominium apartment
respondents cited high crime and one of the neighborhoods cited poor garbage pick-up,
while the last one, Los Almendros, had most respondents worried about a risk of being
cut off (by flooding, for instance). Among other frequent responseswas river
contamination, and lack of potable water.

                                                                                                                    31                                                                         Annex B




El Salvador            Survey:       Responses           from       Individual         Neighborhoods


                                                                                                                                                                                                   v) -'
                                                                                                                                                                                                    50

                                                                                                                                                                                                   ; $3
                                                                                                                                                                                                   0OiE

General     interview       info              Condokasa                                                           casa     casa     casa     casa     casa     casa    condo    condo    condo    condo

                                              Number       of    houses      visited                               103     149       121     146      129      105        60       33       48       22

                                              Percentage          interviewed                                    43.7%    64.4%    66.9%    47.9%    51.2%    51.4%    30.0%    42.4%    22.9%    45.5%

                                              Percentage         of   non-respondents         (sum     of next   56.3%    35.6%    33.1%    52.1%    48.8%    48.6%    70.0%    57.6%    77.1%    54.5%
                                              two)

                                              Percentage         of   abandoned/uninhabited             units     7.8%    4.7%     14.9%    11 .O%            18.1%    6.7%     21.2%    16.7%     9.1%

                                              Percentage         of   inhabited      but non-respondent          48.5%    30.9%    18.2%    41.1%   49.0%     30.5%    63.3%    36.4%    60.4%    54.5%
                                              units



1. Alguien     ocupo       la casa   antes                                                                       35.6%    38.5%    37.0%    30.0%    19.7%    31.5%    44.4%    35.7%    33.3%    20.0%
de  usted?

                                                                                                                 64.4%    61.5%    63.0%    70.0%    80.3%    68.5%    55.6%    64.3%    66.7%    80.0%

                                                                                                                                                                                                  100.0%

2. Cual   es su     situation     referente   proprietario                                                       79.5%    86.6%    75.3%    77.1%   46.2%     81.8%    37.5%    84.6%    72.7%    90.0%
a esta   casa?

                                              con    promesa         de   venta                                   0.0%    5.2%     3.7%     0.0%     7.7%     1.8%     0.0%     0.0%     0.0%      0.0%

                                              alquilando                                                         20.5%    7.2%     16.0%    10.0%   46.2%     10.9%    50.0%    15.4%    27.3%    10.0%

                                              ocupando         casa     abandonada                               0.0%     1.0%     4.9%     12.9%             5.5%     12.5%    0.0%     0.0%      0.0%



3. Si es  dueno,       a nombre               hombre                                                             47.2%    51.8%    50.0%   75.9%    27.3%    45.5%     33.3%    66.7%    50.0%    66.7%
quien   esta    la escritura?

                                              mujer                                                              50.0%   42.2%    46.7%    22.2%    37.9%    47.7%     16.7%    33.3%    50.0%    33.3%

                                              ambos                                                              2.8%     2.4%     0.0%     1.9%     1.5%     0.0%     11.1%    0.0%     0.0%      0.0%

                                              no  se                                                             0.0%     3.6%     3.3%     0.0%    33.3%     6.8%     38.9%    0.0%     0.0%      0.0%



4. Antes    de   pasar     a esta  casa,      camp0                                                              4.4%     10.4%    7.4%     10.0%    10.6%    9.3%     5.6%     0.0%     0.0%      0.0%
donde    vivio?

                                              ciudad      capital                                                68.9%   64.6%    75.3%    62.9%    66.7%    75.9%     61.1%    92.9%    81.8%    70.0%

%O'O     %O'O     %O'O     %L'9  1   %6' 1   %O'E     %6'2               %O'O    %O'O                                    tZJ)O

%O'O     %O'O     %O'O     %O'O      %O'O    %O'O     %O'O               %O'O    %O'O                              ese3    ys

%O'O     %O'O     %l'L     %O'O      %6-l    %O'O     %O'O               %O'O    %O'O                 omlqnd   ~oyo~~tu.~op

%O'O     %O'O     %O'O     %O'O      %O'O    %O'O     %O'O               %O'O    %O'O      epeuopueqe     ese3  opuedmo

%O'O     %2'81    %O'O     %l'll     %C'6    %9'0 1   %W       %S'8  1  %V'O 1  %9'S  1        Je6ed  u!s SOJ)O  uo3opipi

%0'06    %L'ZL    %L'138   %I'19    %L'CS    %9'09   %E'P9     %E't?G   %6' 1L  %L'9t7                             uel!nble

%O'O     %O'O     %O'O     %O'O      %O'O             %O'O     %O'O      %O'O    %Z'Z             eJuan  ap esaurold      uo3

                                                                                                                                                juo!3engs    ns ma
%O'O 1   %1*6     %l'L     %1'11    %E'EC    %8'S 2  %9'8 2  . %Z'LZ    %L'L 1  %9xX                                 o!dond     len3 `tlpuayyn   Jo!Ja~ue  ns ug l s



%O'OE    %2'81    %l'L     %E'EC    %8-P  1  %L'ZZ   % 1'LZ   %L!    1  %O'~Z   %L'92                         pepry      eJ)o




                                                                                 ZE

                                                                                                                   33                                                                                                   Annex B




El Salvador            Survey:      Ranked         Response           Questions
               6. Como        le afecto  el terremoto           de 1986?

           Bosque       Prusia                       Los   Almendros                            Los   Naranjos                           /Won te   Carmelo                          Res.    Europa                            San    Lucas

G. en nada/no      se acuerda          24 B. perdida   de vivienda           51 B. perdida    de vivienda                40 B. perdida     de vivienda             33 B. perdida   de vivienda               31 G. en nadalno     se acuerda    22

A. danos    a la vivienda              13 G. en nada/no      se acuerda      22 G. en nada/no      se acuerda            28 G. en nada/no       se acuerda         23 G. en nadalno     se acuerda           18 B. perdida    de vivienda       19

B. perdida    de vivienda              5 A. danos     a la vivienda          20 A. danos    a la vivienda                11 A. danos     a la vivienda             11 A. danos    a la vivienda              8  A. danos    a la vivienda       12

C. perdida    de efectos               3 F. dano    psicologico              7  C. perdida    de efectos   personales    1  F. dano     psicologico                1  C. perdida    de efectos   personales  2  F. dano   psicologico           2
personales

F. dano    psicologico                 2 C. perdida     de efectos           5  D. perdida    de un familiar              I C. perdida     de efectos  personales  0  D. perdida    de un familiar           0  D. perdida    de un familiar     1
                                          personales

                                                                                                                                                                                                                C. perdida    de
D. perdida    de un familiar           0  E. heridas                         3  F. dano    psicologico                    1 D. perdida     de un familiar          0  E. heridas                              0                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                personales

               7. Que     es lo que     le gusta       de esta     casa?

            Basque      Prusia                       Los   Almendros                             Los   Naranjos                          /Won te   Carmelo                          Res.    Europa                             San   Lucas

A. ubicacion                           16 E. todo                            33 E. todo                                  24 A. u bicacion                          16 E. todo                                15 H. accesibilidad

D. es propio                           15 I. Privacidad                      16 D. es propio                             14  E. todo                               16 A. ubicacion                           IO B. tamano     de casa

E. todo                                13 B, tamano     de casa              13 A. ubicacion                             13  D. es propio                          14 D. es propio                            9 E. todo

G. comodo/acogedor                      7 C. tamano     de terreno            9 F. nada                                   8  I. Privacidad                         IO F. nada                                 8 D. es propio

F. nada                                 6 F. nada                             8 I. Privacidad                             5  C. tamano     de terreno               8 G. comodolacogedor                      5 F. nada

I. Privacidad                           5 H. accesibilidad                    7 B. tamano     de casa                     4  F. nada                                8 I. Privacidad                           3 I. Privacidad

C. tamano     de terreno                2 D. es propio                        5 C. tamano     de terreno                  3  B. tamano     de casa                  6 B. tamano     de casa                   2 A. ubicacion

B. tamano     de casa                   1 A. ubicacion                        1 G. comodo/acogedor                        0  G. comodolacogedor                     4 C. tamano     de terreno                1 C. tamano     de terreno

H. accesibilidad                        0 G. comodo/acogedor                  1 H. accesibilidad                          0  H, accesibilidad                       0 H. accesibilidad                        1 G. comodolacogedor

                                                                                                                               34                                                                                                         Annex B




                8. Que        es lo que    le preocupa           de esta       casa?

            Basque        Prusia                        Los    Ahendros                                  Los    Naranjos                            /Won    te Camel0                              Res.    Europa                                San    Lucas

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C. calidad    de
 I. Nada                                 24 A. techo    (casas)                      29 A. techo    (casas)                          22  A. techo   (casas)                       42 A. techo   (casas)                        25 construccion/materiales/~ltracion       8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  de agua

 A. techo   (casas)                      22 I. Nada                                  21 I. Nada                                      18  I. Nada                                   18 I. Nada                                  I5 F. inseguridadl     entrada     de
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ajenos

                                                                                        C. calidad    de                                                                             C. calidad   de
 G. espacio    interior   muy    pequeno  12 B. paredes                              20 construccion/materiales/filtracion        de  4  B. paredes                                9 construccion/materiales/~ltracion          9 G. espacio    interior  muy     pequeno  1
                                                                                                                                                                                     de agua

 B. paredes                               7 E. cuota    alta                         15 E. cuota   alta                               3  J. ubicacion                              8 G. espacio    interior  muy    pequeno     8 J. ubicacion

                                             C. calidad   de                                                                             C. calidad   de
 J. ubicacion                             3 construccion/materiales/filtracion       13 G. espacio    interior   muy     pequeno      3 construccion/materiales/filtracion         7 B. paredes                                 7 A. techo   (casas)                      0
                                             de agua                                                                                    de agua

 C. calidad   de
construccion/materiales/filtracion        2  F. inseguridadlentrada         de
                                                                                      5 B. paredes                                       E. cuota   alta                           5 E. cuota   alta                            4 B. paredes
de agua                                      ajenos

 D. piso                                  0 G. espacio     interior  muy     pequeno  3 H. plomeria                                      H. plomeria                               4 F. inseguridadjentrada         de ajenos   4 D. piso

 E. cuota   alta                          0 J. ubicacion                              2 K. contamination
                                                                                        am biente                                        F. inseguridadientrada         de ajenos  1 J. ubicacion                               4 E. cuota   alta

F. inseguridadientrada          de
ajenos                                    0 D. piso                                   0 D. piso                                       0 G. espacio     interior  muy     pequeno   1 D. piso                                    3 H. plomeria                             0


H. plomeria                               0  H. plomeria                              0 F. inseguridadlentrada          de ajenos     0 D. piso                                    0 H. plomeria                                3 I. Nada

K. contamination       dell medio         o K. contamination       del medio                                                            K. contamination                             K. contamination       del                 3 K. contamination
ambiente                                    am biente                                 0 J. ubicacion                                  0 ambiente                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                     ambiente                                     ambiente

               9. Que         mejoras    le han hecho            a la casa?

            Basque       Prusia                        Los     Almendros                                Los    Naranjos                             /Won    te Came/o                              Res.    Europa                               San     Lucas

E. ampliacion      de cuartos            22 H. nada/no                               35 H. nada/no                                   32 H. nada/no                                40 A. Cuartos    extras                      18 H. nada/no                              6

H. nada/no                               21 G. cambio     de puertalventanal                                                         1g G. cambio      de puerta/ventana/                                                      17 G. cambio     de puerta/ventana/        4
                                            balcon,   instalacion    de defensas     32 A. Cuartos    extras                            balcon,   instalacion    de defensas      22 H. nada/no
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  balcon,   instalacion   de defensas

F. cambio     de techo                   IO F. cambio    de techo                    22 G. cambio     de puerta/ventana/                                                          21 G. cambio    de puertalventana
                                                                                        balcon,   instalacion    de defensas         13 A. Cuartos     extras                                                                  12 A. Cuartos    extras                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                     Ibalcon,  instalacion     de defensas

A. Cuartos     extras                     9 A. Cuartos     extras                    13 B. muros    divisores                         8 F. cambio     de techo                     8 F. cambio    de techo                     9  B. muros    divisores                   0

G. cambio     de
puerta/ventana/baIcon,                    6 E. ampliacion      de cuartos            IO F. cambio    de techo                        4  B. muros    divisores                      4 E. ampliacion     de cuartos              7  C. verjas
instalacion    de defensas

B. muros    divisores                     5 I. Cambio    de piso                     4  C. verjas                                    2  E. ampliacion      de cuartos              2 B. muros   divisores                      5  D. segunda      planta                  0

6. verjas                                 4 B. muros    divisores                     1 E. ampliacion     de cuartos                 2  I. Cambio    de piso                       1 C. verjas                                  1 E. ampliacion     de cuartos

                                                                                                                        35                                                                                                     Annex B




D. segunda      planta                   4 C. verjas                             0  D. segunda     planta                    0  C.                                       0 D. segunda       planta                  1 F. cambio     de                       0

I. Cambio    de piso                     1 D. segunda      planta                0  I. Cambio    de piso                     0  D.                                       0 I. Cambio     de piso                    1 I. Cambio                              0

                10. Mencione          3 cosas     qu le gusta         de este  barrio

           Basque        Prusia                       Los    Almendros                              Los     Naranjos                         Man    te Carmelo                            Res.     Europa                            San     Lucas

C. transporte     colectivo             23 I. Poca   delincuencia               44 A. todo                                   20 C. transporte     colectivo             40 H. apartado      de ruidos              22 G. centric0                            6

K. el clima                             18 C. transporte     colectivo          37 C. transporte     colectivo               18 I. Poca    delincuencia                 34 C. transporte     colectivo             16 H. apartado     de ruidos              4

H. apartado     de ruidos               16 G. centric0                          22 D. servicios    basicos                   16 G. centric0                             19 E. escuela     cerca                    13 A. todo                                1

G. centric0                             15 F. 10s vecinos                       21  E. escuela    cerca                      12 J. zona    Verde                        13 I. Poca    delincuencia                 12 B. nada                                1

A. todo                                 14 J. zona   Verde                      21  F. 10s vecinos                           6  H. apartado      de ruidos              12 D. servicios     basicos                IO D. servicios    basicos                1

I. Poca   delincuencia                  14 B, nada                              14 H. apartado     de ruidos                 6  A. todo                                 IO G. centric0                             IO E. escuela     cerca                   1

D. servicios    basicos                 11 D. servicios    basicos               6 I. Poca   delincuencia                    6  B. nada                                  9 B. nada                                  8 K. el clima                            1

E. escuela     cerca                     8 H. apartado     de ruidos             5 J. zona   Verde                           6  E. escuela     cerca                     7 A. todo                                  7 C. transporte     colectivo            0

F. 10s vecinos                           5 A. todo                               2 B. nada                                   4  D. servicios     basicos                4  K. el clima                              6 F. 10s vecinos                         0

J. zona   Verde                          3 E. escuela    cerca                   0 G. centric0                               4  F. 10s vecinos                          4  F. 10s vecinos                           2 I. Poca   delincuencia                 0

B. nada                                  2 K. el clima                           0 K. el clima                                  K. el clima                              1 J. zona    Verde                         2 J. zona   Verde                        0

               II.     Mencione       3 cosas     que le preocupa            de este   barrio

           Bosque        Prusia                       Los    Almendros                              Los     Naranjos                         Monte       Carmelo                          Res.     Europa                            San     Lucas

H. nada                                 14 A. riesgo   de incomunicacion        55 H. nada                                  26  H. nada                                 23 H. nada                                 27 D. basura     (servicios)             14

E. las maras/delincuencia               13 C. mal sericio    de agua   potable  45 B. rios contaminados                     22  J. muros     de contention              11 G. aguas     lluvias   en pasajes       22 H. nada                               14

B. rios contaminados                    7  M.Crime                              24 C. mal sericio     de agua    potable     14 E. las maras/delincuencia               6  J. muros    de contention               15 A. riesgo   de incomunicacion         12

C. mal sericio     de agua     potable  6  L. Lack   of Schools                 16 E. las maras/delincuencia                 12 B. rios contaminados                    6  MCrime                                   7 B. rios contaminados                  IO

D. basura     (servicios)               6  G. aguas    lluvias   en pasajes     IO D. basura     (servicios)                 11 C. mal sericio     de agua    potable   5  D. basura     (servicios)                6 N.Lack    of play areas                9

F. alumbrado      public0               4  E. las marasldelincuencia             5 M.Crime                                   9  D. basura     (servicios)               4  B. rios contaminados                     2 E. las marasldelincuencia              5

                                                                                                                                                                        2  K.Poor    Quality   Materials   in
M. Crime                                4  H. nada                               5 F. alumbrado      public0                    N.Lack     of play  areas                                                           2 C. mal sericio     de agua   potable   4
                                                                                                                                                                           stairs/walkways

I. Todo                                 3  I. Todo                               3 J. muros    de contention                    M.Crime                                 2  N.Lack    of play areas                  2 MCrime                                 3

G. aguas    lluvias    en pasajes        1 D. basura    (servicios)              1 N.Lack    of play   areas                    I. Todo                                 2  C. mal sericio     de agua    potable    1 G. aguas    lluvias    en pasajes      1

A. riesgo   de incomunicacion           0  F. alumbrado      public0             1 G. aguas    lluvias    en pasajes            G. aguas     lluvias   en pasajes       2  E. las marasldelincuencia                1 I. Todo                                1

J. muros   de contention                0 B. rios contaminados                   0 I. Todo                                      L.Lack    of Schools                     1 F. alumbrado       public0               I J. muros    de contention              1

K. Poor   Quality     Materials         0 J. muros    de contention              0 A. riesgo   de incomunicacion             0  K-Poor    Quality    Materials  in      0  I. Todo                                  1 F. alumbrado      public0              0
                                                                                                                                stairs/walkways

                                                                                                     36                                                                                    Annex B




               4. Como        le afecto   el terremoto   de 1986?

                             Condo.     America                                Condo.      El Basque                     Condo    Marconi                 Condo.     San   Migueiito

B. perdida      de vivienda                                    10 B. perdida      de  vivienda          10 B. perdida     de vivienda        6 B.  perdida    de vivienda

G. en    nada/no     se acuerda                                9  F. dano     psicologico               2  G. en    nada/no   se acuerda     3 G. en    nada/no    se acuerda

A.  danos     a la vivienda                                    0  G. en     nada/no    se   acuerda     2  A.  danos    a la vivienda        I A. danos     a la vivienda

C.  perdida     de efectos     personales                      0  A. danos     a la vivienda            ,  C. perdida     de efectos         o C.  perdida    de efectos
                                                                                                           personales                          personales

D. perdida      de un   familiar                               o  C.  perdida     de  efectos                                                                                           0
                                                                  personales                            0  D. perdida     de  un familiar    0 D.  perdida    de un   familiar

E. heridas                                                     0  D.  perdida     de  un   familiar     0  E. heridas                        0 E. heridas                               0

               7. Que     es lo que      le gusta  de esta casa?

                                                                                                                         Condo    Marconi                 Condo.    San    Migueiito

                                                                                                        5  A. ubicacion                      4 E. todo                                  16

                                                                                                        3  E. todo                           3 B. tamano      de casa

                                                                                                        2  I. Privacidad                     2 F. nada                                  6

                                                                                                        0  D. es   propio                    I D. es   propio                           4

                                                                                                        0  F. nada                           1 I. Privacidad

I. Privacidad                                                     C.  tamano     de   terreno           0  G. comodo/acogedor                1 A. ubicacion

B. tamano       de casa                                        0  D. es propio                          0  B. tamano      de casa            0 H. accesibilidad

C.  tamano      de terreno                                     0  G. comodolacogedor                    0  C. tamano      de terreno         0 G. comodo/acogedor

H.  accesibilidad                                              0  I. Privacidad                         0  H. accesibilidad                  0 C. tamano      de terreno                0

                                                                                                                   37                                                                                               Annex B




              8. Que       es lo que      le preocupa        de esta  casa?




I. Nada                                                               2  E. cuota     alta                            2 A. techo    (casas)                         2 G. espacio      interior   muy   pequeno   4

E. cuota    alta                                                      1  I. Nada                                      2  H. plomeria                                2 F. inseguridadientrada          de
                                                                                                                                                                      ajenos

G. espacio      interior   muy   pequeno                              1  G. espacio       interior   muy    pequeno   1  D. piso                                    I H.  plomeria                               2




A. techo    (casas)                                                   0  D. piso                                      0 E. cuota    alta                           0  B. paredes

D. piso                                                               0  F. inseguridad/entrada            de         0 F. inseguridadlentrada           de
                                                                         ajenos                                         ajenos                                     0  D.  piso

F. inseguridadientrada          de   ajenos                           0  H. plomeria                                  0 G. espacio      interior   muy    pequeno  0  E. cuota    alta

H.  plomeria                                                          0  J. ubicacion                                 0 J. ubicacion                               0  J. ubicacion

K. contamination         del   medio    ambiente                      o  K. contamination          del   medio        o K. contamination         del   medio       o  K. contamination         del  medio        0
                                                                         ambiente                                       am biente                                     am biente

             9. Que        mejoras       le han  hecho       a la casa?

                             Condo.      America                                     Condo.       EI  Basque                         Condo       Marconi                        Condo.       San   Miguelito

t-1. nada/no                                                          14 H.  nada/no                                  8 H. nadalno                                 8  H. nada/no                                 16

E. ampliacion       de  cuartos                                       2  E. ampliacion        de  cuartos             2 G. cambio      de   puerta/ventana
                                                                                                                        /balcon,   instalacion      de  defensas   5  A. Cuartos      extras                     14

G. cambio      de   puerta/ventana/balcon,        instalacion   de    2  G. cambio       de   puerta/ventana/
defensas                                                                 balcon,    instalacion      de  defensas     1 I. Cambio     de   piso                    2  D.  segunda      planta                    10

A.  Cuartos    extras                                                 0  A.  Cuartos     extras                       0 A.  Cuartos    extras                      1  E. ampliacion       de  cuartos            8

B. muros     divisores                                                0  B. muros     divisores                       0 B. muros    divisores                      1  F. cambio     de   techo                   3

C.  verjas                                                            0  C.  verjas                                   0 C.  verjas                                 0  C. verjas                                  2

D. segunda       planta                                               0  D. segunda        planta                     0 D.  segunda      planta                    o  G. cambio      de   puerta/   ventanal     2
                                                                                                                                                                      balcon,   instalacion      de  defensas

F. cambio     de techo                                                0  F. cambio      de   techo                    0 E. ampliacion       de  cuartos            0  I. Cambio    de    piso                    1

                                                                                                                     38                                                                                                     Annex B




I. Cambio        de  piso                                              0   1. Cambio        de  piso                     0 F. cambio        de   techo                   0 B. muros       divisores                       0

                10. Mencione            3 cosas        qu le gusta  de este barrio

                                Condo.     America                                       Condo.        El Basque                          Condo        Marconi                         Condo.        San    Miguelito

A.  todo                                                               6   G. centric0                                   6 G. centric0                                   9 I. Poca     delincuencia                      16

B. nada                                                                5   B. nada                                       3 A. todo                                       3 D. servicios        basicos                   13

G. centric0                                                            2   A.   todo                                     2 E. escuela        cerca                       3 J. zona     Verde                             12

H.  apartado        de   ruidos                                        2   D. servicios        basicos                   2 I. Poca     delincuencia                      3 C.   transporte       colectivo               11

I. Poca     delincuencia                                               2   I. Poca     delincuencia                      1 D. servicios       basicos                    2 E. escuela        cerca                       IO

E. escuela       cerca                                                 1   J. zona     Verde                             1 H. apartado        de    ruidos               2 A. todo                                        8

C.  transporte       colectivo                                         0   C.   transporte      colectivo                0 C. transporte        colectivo                1 G. centric0                                    7

D.  servicios       basicos                                            0   E. escuela       cerca                        0 F. 10s vecinos                                1 B. nada                                        4

F. 10s vecinos                                                         0   F. 10s vecinos                                0 B. nada                                       0 F. 10s vecinos                                 1

J. zona     Verde                                                      0   H.   apartado       de   ruidos               0 J. zona     Verde                             0 K. el clima                                    1

K. el clima                                                            0   K. el clima                                   0 K. el clima                                   0 H. apartado         de   ruidos                0

                11. Mencione            3 cosas        que le preocupa   de este       barrio

                                Condo.     America                                       Condo.        El Basque                          Condo        Marconi                         Condo.        San    Miguelito

H.  nada                                                               5   H.   nada                                     8 E. las    marasldelincuencia                  4 E. las    maras/delincuencia                   3

C.  mal    sericio    de agua      potable                             2   C.   mal   sericio    de    agua   potable    1 J. muros      de   contention                 4 H.   nada                                      3

I. Todo                                                                2   J. muros      de    contention                1 H. nada                                       3 MCrime                                         2

K.Poor     Quality      Materials     in stairs/walkways               ,   K.Poor     Quality      Materials     in      1 G. aguas       Iluvias    en   pasajes        2 C.   mal   sericio     de   agua   potable     1
                                                                           stairs/walkways

M.Crime                                                                1   MCrime                                        1 N.Lack      of play     areas                 2 D.   basura      (servicios)                   1

A.  riesgo    de    incomunicacion                                     0   A.   riesgo    de   incomunicacion            0 A.   riesgo   de    incomunicacion            1 I. Todo                                        1

B. rios    contaminados                                                0   B. rios    contaminados                       0 I. Todo                                       1 A. riesgo      de   incomunicacion             0

D. basura       (servicios)                                            0   D. basura       (servicios)                   0 B. rios    contaminados                       0 B. rios    contaminados                        0

E.  las  maras/delincuencia                                            0   E. las    maras/delincuencia                  0 C.   mal   sericio     de   agua   potable    0 F. alumbrado          public0                  0

F. alumbrado          public0                                          0   F. alumbrado          public0                 0 D.   basura     (servicios)                   0 G. aguas       lluvias     en  pasajes         0

G.  aguas      lluvias    en   pasajes                                 0   G.   aguas     lluvias    en   pasajes        0 F. alumbrado          public0                0  J. muros      de    contention                 0

J. muros     de    contention                                          0   I. Todo                                       o K.Poor     Quality      Materials    in      o  K.Poor     Quality       Materials    in       0
                                                                                                                           stairs/walkways                                 stairs/walkways

                                                                            39


Attachment:      Survey Instrument

Colonia:
Pasaj e:

1. LAlguien   ocupo la casa antes de usted?          OS1      ON0

2. ;cuB1  es su situation    referente  a esta casa?
OPropietario      OCon promesa de venta         OAlquilando     OOcupando   casa abandonada
OOtra

3. $i  es duefio,  a nombre     de quien  esta la escritura?
OHombre            OMuj er          IJAmbos         ONo sk

4. $omo     le afecto el terremoto    de 1986?




5. iAntes  de pasar    a esta casa, donde   vivio?
OEn el campo          OEn la ciudad capital          OOtra ciudad

6. LEn su anterior    vivienda,   cual era su situation?
OPropietario       OCon promesa de venta          OAlquilando     q Vivia con otros, sin pagar
OOcupando     casa abandonada         ODormitorio    ptiblico   OSin casa
OOtra

7. ~Que es lo que le gusta de esta casa?




8. ~Que es lo que le preocupa       de esta casa?




9. ~Que mejoras     le han hecho a la casa?




11. Mencione    tres cosas que le preocupa      de este barrio:

                                                    40                                Annex C


  Annex C. Borrower                 Corn



   Ministerio   de Obras  Ptiblicas,   Tiansporte,    Vlvienda  y Desarrallo   Urbana



MOP-DMOP-0334/04

                                                41                           Annex C




     Ministerio  de Obras Pljblicas, Transport&   Vivienda y Desarrollo  Urban0

 MOP-DMOP-0334/04




-    -     -


