Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16188
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EL SALVADOR
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2873-ES)
December 17, 1996
Infrastructure Leadership Group
Central America Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
ANDA             Administraci6n Nacional de Acueductos y Alcantarillados
(National Water and Sewerage Authority)
ANTEL            Administraci6n Nacional de Telecomunicaciones
(National Telecommunications Administration)
BAC              Banco Agricola Comercial
(Agricultural and Commercial Bank)
BCR              Banco Central de Reserva (Central Bank)
BMI              Banco Multisectorial de Inversiones
(Multisectoral Investment Bank)
DUA              Direcci6n de Urbanismo y Arquitectura - MOP
(Directorate of Urban Affairs and Architecture)
DGC              Direcci6n General de Caminos - MOP
(Directorate of Roads)
FNV              Financiera Nacional de la Vivienda
(National Housing Finance Agency)
FONAVIPO         Fondo Nacional de Vivienda
(National Housing Fund)
FUNDASAL         Fundaci6n Salvadorefia de Desarrollo y Vivienda Minima
(Salvadoran Foundation for Development and Low-Cost Housing)
IDB              Inter-American Development Bank
MINED            Ministerio de Educaci6n
(Ministry of Education)
MINTRABAJO       Ministerio del Trabajo
(Ministry of Labor)
MIPLAN           Ministerio de Planificaci6n
(Ministry of Planning)
MOP              Ministerio de Obras Puiblicas (Ministry of Public Works)
PROCINCO         Programa de Capacitaci6n en la Industria de la Construcci6n
(Program for Training in Construction Trades)
PRONAVIPO        Programa Nacional de Vivienda Popular
(National Program for Low-Cost Housing)
RU               Reconstruction Unit originally with MIPLAN, since 1995 merged with MOP
USAID            United States Agency for International Development
VMVDU            Vice Mirastro de Vivienda y Desarrollo Urbano
(Vice-Ministry of Housing and Urban Development)
Acting Vice President      :Gobind T. Narnkani
Director                   :Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Country Sector Leader      :Martin Staab
Staff Member               :Fernando Montenegro



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ....   ....................................................................... i-v
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Introduction .................  ....                                      .1
Project Objectives.2 ....................2
Evaluation of Objectives                               .4
B. Achievement of Objectives                                  .5
Physical Objectives .                                              ..5
Capacity Strengthening Objectives                           .6
Cost Effectiveness                                 .7
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project                             .7
D. Project Sustainability                                  .9
E. Bank Performance ............. .                                                        10
Identification .10
Preparation and Appraisal .10
Supervision .11
F.   Borrower Performance ...................                      .... 11
Preparation .11
Implementation .11
G. Assessment of Outcome.. 12
H. Future Operation.. 12
I.  Key Lessons Learned ...............                                                    13
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not other%ise bc disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



Paze No.
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .................................................... 14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans ....................                        .        15
Table 3: Project Timetable .................... .                               16
Table 4a: Loan/ Disbursements:
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Loan Disbursements ................... . 16
Table 4b: Grant Disbursements Cumulative Estimated and
Actual Grant Disbursements .................... ...........        17
Table 5: Key Indicator for Project Implementation .   .....................................   18
Table 6: Key Indicator for Project Operations.       ......  ................ ....... .. 19
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project          .       .      ........................... 20
Table 8a: Project Costs ...................................  21
Table 8b: Project Financing                        .         .        .     22
Table 9: Cost Effectiveness of the Project        .       .      ........................... 23
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants            .       .       .......................... 24
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statement ....................................... 35
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ....................... ... 35
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions                 .. ................ 36
List of Implementing Agencies ............................ 38
APPENDIXES
A. Mission's Aide Memoire. Original in Spanish was translated into English,
available in the Project files.
B.  Borrower's Final Implementation Report. Original in Spanish was
translated into English, available in the Project files.
MAP
EL SALVADOR: Metropolitan El Salvador - Earthquake Reconstruction
Project (IBRD 20374)



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EL SALVADOR
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2873-ES)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Earthquake
Reconstruction Project in El Salvador for which Loan 2873-ES in the amount of US$65.0
million was approved on October 16, 1987 and made effective on June 17, 1988.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1996 compared with the original closing date of
December 31, 1993. The applications for final disbursement have been received and
will be disbursed in November, 1996.
The ICR has been prepared by Messrs. Joseph Perrone and Manzoor Rehman,
consultants, under the supervision of Mr. Fernando Montenegro, the task manager for
the project.
Preparation of this ICR began at the time of the Bank's completion mission during
July, 1996. It is based on materials in the project file. The borrower coritributed to the
ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the project's execution. (Appendix B).






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EL SALVADOR
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2873-ES)
Evaluation Summary
Project Objectives
1.    In the wake of the earthquake of October, 1986, in San Salvador, the Bank
responded by assisting the Government in its efforts to reconstruct and restore the
affected areas. The emergency program included: (i) rehabilitation and reconstruction of
the San Salvador metropolitan area through the provision of low-cost housing, public
office, school buildings, and essential public services including telephone exchanges; (ii)
support for the expansion of the capital city towards the north (Apopa) which is less
vulnerable to earthquakes; (iii) rehabilitation of the micro-enterprise sector to restore its
production and income generating capacity; and (iv) strengthening the Government's
capacity to plan and manage the reconstruction efforts and enhance its preparedness to
deal with national emergencies in the future (para. 6).
2.    The project consisted of: (a) housing credits for 4,000 families; (b)
reconstruction, furnishing and equipping of 395 schools; (c) demolition and on-site
reconstruction of four government office buildings and the construction of one new
government building; (d) upgrading of approximately 16.5 kilometers of road linking
San Salvador-Apopa-San Jose Las Flores; (e) provision of water supply to 2,500 families;
(f) acquisition and installation of three mobile telephone exchanges; (g) credit to micro-
enterprises; (h) training of 6,000 workers; and (i) studies and necessary technical
assistance (para. 8).
3.    The emergency status of this project was diminished to some extent due to
various delays during implementation: (i) the Government was unable to acquire land
for the construction of the road; (ii) housing activities were stalled due to financial
sector reforms and problems with credit agencies; and (iii) additional residential areas
were discovered requiring more families to be relocated from the high risk zones, which
required additional planning and time. The emergency nature of the operation was
further diminished with the restructuring of the school component early during project
implementation. Due to delays under the project, the earthquake-damaged schools
originally included in the project were rehabilitated with USAID finance. To utilize
remaining resources under this component the loan was amended to include the
rehabilitation of schools outside of the damaged area.



iii
Implementation Experience and Results
4.     The project met and in many cases exceeded its physical targets: 5,277 housing
units were constructed as compared to the appraisal estimate of 4,000 units; 2,512
classrooms were constructed against an originally estimated total of 2,000 (the original
scope was modified during implementation); 26 government office buildings were
constructed with a total construction area of 74,095 square meters, as compared to the
original plan of reconstructing four existing buildings and one new building with a total
construction area of 23,276 square meters; the upgrading of 8 kilometers of road linking
San Salvador and Apopa was completed; and the second road segment, Apopa-San Jose
Las Flores, was completed in October, 1996. The water component was accomplished by
the water utility entity using its own resources. As for the telephones, the original target
was surpassed with the acquisition and installation of three mobile telephone exchanges
with a capacity of 13,000 lines. The original target of three exchanges had an estimated
capacity of 4,500 lines. For the micro-enterprise credit component, 1,344 loans have
been granted, as against 1,500 loans originally estimated. The training of 15,568
workers in the building trades greatly surpassed the original estimate of the training of
6,000 workers. Four out of six planned studies were completed (paras. 13-23).
5.     The sustainability of the project appears likely provided there is compliance
with the Government's new seismic codes and building law and local agencies carry
out regular maintenance in accordance with the training provided under the project.
T'he technical assistance was helpful in inculcating institutional capabilities in areas such
as: project management; planning; supervision; procurement; and financial information
systems (paras. 3942).
6.    The final project costs amounted to US$107.85 million or about 5% greater than
the estimated US$102.4 million. The financial disbursements were negligible during the
first 2 years of project implementation. Most of the Bank's proceeds were disbursed
during 1991 to 1995. The loan was closed on June 30, 1996, two and one half years later
than the estimated date (para. 30).
7.     Project implementation was estimated to begin in early 1988 and was scheduled
to be completed by December 31, 1993. Project implementation was stalled during the
years 1988-1989 due to several reasons: civil war; the absorptive capacity of the
institutions; the lack of managerial capacity in the newly created Reconstruction Unit
(RU), the lack of experience of key personnel, and the lack of coordination between the
RU and the implementing agencies. As the civil war ended and other problems were
resolved, implementation began to progress at a modest pace during the period from
1990 to 1992. Beginning in 1993, implementation progress picked up considerably
(paras. 26-29).
8.     The Bank's performance during preparation is judged to be marginally
satisfactory. While the Bank responded quickly as was required, this inevitably resulted
in some details being overlooked. The Bank's performance during appraisal, however,
is judged to be deficient since the project's focus on urgent works was partially diluted



iv
at this stage by the inclusion of some less urgent rehabilitation work. Project
supervision was weak initially but then greatly improved over most of the
implementation period. Consequently the Bank's overall supervision performance is
judged to be satisfactory. The Borrower's performance during preparation was also
marginally satisfactory. Implementation performance was weak during the first two
years due to the lack of knowledge of Bank's procedures, civil strife and the reasons
stated above. The Borrower's implementation performance improved during the period
1990-1992, and then made steady progress after 1992 (paras. 44-48).
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
9.    The physical objectives were substantially achieved and, in some cases
surpassed (for housing, schools, public buildings, teleconmmunications and training).
The project only had a few institutional objectives, which were partially accomplished
(paras. 49-50).
10.   The implementing agencies have taken appropriate steps to ensure continuity
and effective project operations in the future. Necessary resources have been allocated
to the various implementing agencies for the maintenance of completed facilities. The
Ministry of Education has an on-going operation financed by the Bank which will
ensure continuity of the project's objectives (para. 52).
11.    Upon reviewing the project's financial statements the auditors have issued
unqualified opinions on all the statements. They also reviewed compliance of the
implementing entities with applicable laws and regulations and the adequacy of the
Internal Control Structure (ICS). Regarding the ICS, the auditors identified two
deficiencies: differences between disbursement records kept by DGR-UR and several
implementing entities; and one institution (the Ministry of Education), which had a
serious backlog in its review of disbursement applications. These problems were
addressed.
12.   The following lessons emerged from the project (paras. 53-61):
(a)   Project Design. An emergency operation should only focus on
reconstruction activities, attending immediate needs in a disaster area.
More long term support activities, such as financing schools and housing
not immediately affected by the earthquake should form part of a
separate investment operation, proposed under the framework of the
country's CAS.
(b)   Project Implementation. More attention should be placed upon the
institutional capacity of the implementing agencies to administer and
manage the project. An attempt must be made to minim;ze delays and
lack of actions arising from coordination problems between different
agencies. For example, the housing component was halted due to
problems in the housing finance institutions: FSV; Fondo Nacional de



v
Vivienda (FONAVIPO); and the Cooperative Housing Foundation
(CHF), an NGO group.
(c)   Roads. The implementing agency should undertake a more critical
review of completed designs, cost estimates and bidding documents
before initiating bidding processes. In addition, prior to awarding civil
works contracts, the implementing agency should undertake a complete
review of the selected contractor to determine the firm's capacity and
ability to perform the work.
- Also, all necessary rights of way for the construction of works
should be obtained prior to awarding civil works contracts.
(d)   Housing. The beneficiaries of housing credit may also benefit from
technical assistance in areas such as: energy saving designs and
equipment; leakage and wastage control; maintenance; etc.
- There are advantages in working with financial intermediaries from
the non-governmental sector in order to reduce political pressures and
arrears in credit account.
(e)   Schools. During the procurement process, implementing agencies
should take into account the scope and complexity of work, and the
capacity of the local contractors in estimating construction periods for
project execution.
- In order to avoid long delays in processing payments to contractors,
disbursements should be made directly from a special account to the
respective contractors.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EL SALVADOR
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2873-ES)
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    A major earthquake struck the metropolitan area of San Salvador on October 10, 1986,
leaving over 1,500 persons dead, 10,000 injured and 300,000 homeless. Over one-third of San
Salvador's population of 1.5 million was directly affected by the earthquake. The epicenter of
the earthquake was located 3 km south of the city at a depth of 8 km. While the earthquake
registered only 5.4 (Ms) on the Richter Scale, it had an explosive effect, especially along the
West-Northwest fault through the middle of the city, with the highest incremental velocity and
displacement recorded in the history of earthquakes with comparable magnitudes.
2.    The most serious damage occurred in the areas of: (i) housing; (ii) commercial and
banking buildings; and (iii) public sector administration and services. Basic urban
infrastructure--water and sewerage, road and drainage, electricity, and telephone systems--also
sustained heavy damage. Most of the small shops and business as comprising the informal
sector, which are concentrated in downtown San Salvador, were hit heavily while medium-
and large-size enterprises suffered only minor damage.
3.    Total earthquake damage was estimated at about US$1,030 million. The housing sector
was most severely hit with about 24,000 units completely destroyed, another 36,000 heavily
damaged and total damage estimated at US$273 million. Damage to hospitals, schools and
historical and religious buildings was estimated at US$185 million. Physical infrastructure-
water supply and sewerage, telecommunications, electricity and transport--also suffered heavy
damage, estimated at US$106 million. In addition, about 80% of Central Government buildings
were left unusable, including the Ministries of Justice, Finance, Public Works, Agriculture and
Planning (MIPLAN), with damage estimated at US$56 million. The damage to commercial
buildings (including banks) was estimated at US$247 million. Most of the small shops and
businesses in downtown San Salvador, where much of the informal sector was located, were
also heavily hit. Total physical damage to the informal sector was estimated at US$17 million.
Finally, emergency needs, demolition, rubble removal and indirect costs, such as loss of
income, were estimated at US$146 million. In addition to heavy physical damage,
unemployment in San Salvador rose from 26 % to 35 %, as 38,000 people lost their jobs. The
estimated loss of output in 1986 was equivalent to between 1 % and 2% of GDP.
4.    The Government's reconstruction strategy consisted of three phases: (i) a first phase that
provided immediate relief operations; (ii) a second, transitional phase that provided temporary
arrangements for housing and public administration and restored essential public services; and
(iii) a third phase, that planned and implemented the long term reconstruction efforts.



2
5.    There was an almost immediate response from the international community,
multilateral groups and international financing agencies to assist the Salvadoran Government
in its national emergency needs and reconstruction efforts.
Project Objectives
6.    The project's main objective was to assist the borrower in its Reconstruction Program:
(i) rehabilitate and reconstruct the San Salvador metropolitan area, through the provision of
low-cost housing, public office and school buildings, and the restoration of essential public
services; (ii) support the expansion of the capital city towards the north (Apopa), which is less
vulnerable to earthquakes; (iii) rehabilitate the micro-enterprise sector to restore its production
and income generating capacity; and (iv) strengthen the Government's capacity to plan and
manage the reconstruction efforts and enhance its readiness to deal with national emergencies
in the future.
7.    Ten days after the earthquake, a Bank mission assessed the earthquake damage in San
Salvador. Following recommendations from this mission, the Bank acted to: (a) reallocate
US$4.1 million of an existing education loan (the only ongoing operation) to facilitate urgent
reconstruction of primary and secondary schools; (b) recruit a short-term consultant (a seismic
engineer) to help the Government prepare an emergency building code; and (c) began
preparation of the earthquake reconstruction project.
8.    The project comprised the following components:
(a) Provision of Lines of Credit for Housing
(i)   reconstructing 3,000 units of low-cost apartments in situ; and
(ii)   constructing 1,000 embryo units (a wet utility core and one unfinished
room), for families being relocated to Apopa's District 7.
(b) Schools and Public Buildings
(i)    Schools: (a) Demolition of about 295 classrooms; (b) reconstruction,
furnishing, and equipping of about 340 classrooms in 29 schools; and (c)
new construction and furnishing of about 54 classrooms in two schools in
Apopa;
(ii)   Public Buildings: (a) Demolition and on-site reconstruction of four
government office buildings; and (b) construction of a Government office
building at a new site.
(c) Roads and Public Services
(i)    Road Improvements: (a) Upgrading of approximately 10 kilometers of
road between San Salvador and Apopa; and (b) Upgrading of



3
approximately 6.5 kilometers of road between Apopa and San Jose de Las
Flores (District 7).
(ii)   Water Supply. Provision of water complementary to new dwelling
construction in District 7, Apopa, by drilling two wells and construction of
a storage tank with a chlorinating plant.
(iii)   Telecommunications. Acquisition, installation and utilization of three
mobile telephone exchanges, one with 2,000 telephone lines and two with
1,000 telephone lines each.
(d)  Informal Sector Enterprises
Provision of lines of credit for raw materials, equipment, facilities, spare
parts and other production inputs for Informal Sector Enterprises.
(e)  Training
Short-term, intensive training of about 2,000 persons per year over three
years, on construction skills and training of about 40 social workers in methods of
organizing and assisting families in carrying out housing reconstruction and
relocation.
(f)  Studies, Technical Assistance and Project Management
The studies were aimed at:
(i)    revising the existing building code to incorporate seismic-
resistant design standards, and finalize the micro-zoning of San
Salvador based on available seismological data;
(ii)    updating the National Emergency Plan to mitigate damage and
reduce catastrophic losses in the future;
(iii)    developing a cost recovery mechanism for the housing credits;
(iv)    preparing detailed urban designs for proposed improvement in
District 7 (Apopa);
(v)     developing detailed sub-project plans, including engineering
designs, cost estimates and implementation schedules;
(vi)    evaluating structural conditions of damaged buildings for the
purpose of determining whether to demolish or salvage them.
The technical assistance components was aimed at:



4
(i)    developing financial models, contracts and architectural designs
for carrying out housing sub-projects through lines of credits;
(ii)    organizing local communities during reconstruction and
relocation efforts;
(iii)   strengthening FIGAPE, PRONAVIPO and other PFIs
(iv)    training informal enterprises in organization, production
management, marketing and quality control;
(v)    improving earthquake monitoring stations of the Geotechnical
Research Center; and
(vi)    providing project management and support during the
reconstruction effort.
9.    In addition to loan 2873-ES, the Earthquake Reconstruction Project was supported by a
development grant awarded by the Government of Japan and administered by the Bank, which
co-financed the housing, studies and technical assistance components,
Evaluation of Objectives
10.   The project's objectives were consistent with the overall Bank lending strategy, given
the need for: (i) restoring essential public services, economic activity, and public
administration; (ii) providing essential technical assistance to strengthen the Government's
capacity to plan, manage and coordinate the reconstruction program; (iii) strengthening the
Government's capacity to deal with similar emergencies in the future; and (iv) providing
housing and employment to affected low income families. Though the stated objectives
appeared to be mostly of an immediate nature, departure from the original emergency focus
occurred when the scope of school rehabilitation was enlarged to include parts of the country
outside of the earthquake affected area. Also, the scope of the public buildings component was
augmented.
11.   Within the Ministry of Planning, a Reconstruction Unit (RU), the Directorate of
Reconstruction (DGR), was created with the responsibility for coordinating, managing and
supervising the reconstruction efforts. Consulting services and technical assistance were
utilized to provide engineering, supervision, administrative and technical support to the RU as
well as to the Implementing Agencies in charge of each component of the project. Procurement
of goods and construction services was handled by the RU with the assistance of each
Implementing Agency. This arrangement was workable during the first phase of project
implementation. However, delays were experienced as the irmplementation progressed. To
address this, procurement was decentralized to the implementing agencies and role of the RU
was reduced to overall supervision and coordination. A listing of the implementing agencies is
shown in Table 13.



5
12.   At appraisal, total project cost was estimated at US$102.4 miUlion (including about
US$5.1 million of taxes and duties). with a foreign exchange cost of US$41.7 million
(representing 41 % of total project cost). Included in this cost were physical and price
contingencies estimated at 29% of base cost. The Bank loan of US$65.0 million was to finance
about 67% of project costs excluding taxes. A Japanese Grant of Y1,500 miUlion (estimated to be
equivalent to US$13.5 milion) was to finance 42% of amounts disbursed under the housing
component, and 100% of foreign and 78% of local expenditures for some of the consultants
services and studies planned under the project.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Physical Objectives
13.   The project had mainly physical objectives, which were substantially achieved. They
are summarized as follows:
Housing: The target was surpassed by 31 %.
14.   Project financing was expected to provide for the reconstruction of 3,000 units of low
cost apartments in situ, and the construction of 1,000 embryo units (a wet utility core and one
unfurnished room) for families being relocated to Apopa. The physical targets were more than
achieved, as 5,277 new housing units were constructed and an additional 1,436 were
rehabilitated and improved.
Schools: This component's target was surpassed by 25% .
15.   The original objectives of this component were to demolish 295 classrooms, to
reconstruct, furnish and equip 340 classrooms in 29 schools and to construct, furnish and equip
54 new classrooms in 2 schools in Apopa.
16.   These objectives were modified during the initial stages of project implementation to
include the rehabilitation of an additional 2,000 classrooms throughout the country. These
obljectives were met and surpassed with the reconstruction of 2,512 classrooms and the
acquisition of school furniture for 350 schools.
Public Buildings: Its target was surpassed by 200%.
17.   Project funding supported the reconstruction of 26 government buildings, with a total
area of 74,095 square meters. The original component objectives included the demolishing and
reconstruction of four government buildings and the construction of a new building, with an
estimated area of only 23,276 square meters.
Roads & Public Services:
18.   Project financing provided for the upgrading of approximately 16.5 kilometers of road
connecting San Salvador-Apopa-San Jose Las Flores, including paving, drainage structures and
street illumination. Implementation of this component was accomplished by contracting its



6
construction into two sections. The first segment, San Salvador-Apopa (10 kilometers) was
satisfactorily completed in 1994. The implementation of the second segment Apopa-San Jose
Las Flores (6.5 Kilometers) was 90% complete as of June 30, 1996 (loan closing date) .
Remaining civil works were completed with Government funding in October, 1996.
Water:
19.   The original objective of this component was to provide water supply to 2,500 families
in District 7 (Apopa). Although this objective was met, no Bank loan funds were used, since
ANDA, the local public water utility company, undertook this work utilizing its own funds.
Telecommunications: The original budget was surpassed by 200%.
20.   Bank funds were expected to provide for the acquisition and installation of three mobile
telephone exchanges with a total capacity of 4,000 lines. This objective was surpassed with the
purchase and installation of three exchanges with a total capacity of 13,000 telephone lines.
Micro-Enterprise Credit:
21.   The original objective was to provide US$9 million for 1,500 loans to the micro-
enterprise sector in San Salvador and Apopa for fixed assets and operating capital. The
objective was substantially met by granting 1,344 loans in the amount of approximately US$4.5
million. Additionally, Government funds were utilized to create pool loans to micro-
enterprises and individual entrepreneurs in the Apopa-Torocotepeque area.
Training: The original target for this component was surpassed by 160%.
22.   Bank loan funds provided for the short term training of 2,000 persons per year over
three years in building trades skills. This objective was greatly surpassed with the training of
15,568 persons.
Studies and Technical Assistance:
23.   This component included the preparation of six studies and technical assistance for
project management and sub-project supervision. Five of the studies (the most important
being the study to improve seismic construction standards, planning and regulation, including
the improvement of the existing building code) were carried out with the help of local and
foreign consultants. The study pertaining to the detailed urban design of the District 7 (Apopa)
was partly completed without Bank financing with the support of bilateral agencies that
provided housing for low income families.
Capacity Strengthening Objectives
24.   The objective of strengthening the Government's capacity to plan and manage
reconstruction efforts was achieved. Consultants were hired to train professional, technical and
administrative personnel in charge of project implementation. Government staff received
valuable training and upgraded their skills and capacities in: project planning and preparation;



7
project management and administration; procurement procedures; contract preparation;
construction supervision; financial planning; information systems; and auditing. The seismic
and building code developed under the project will serve as the backbone of the modified
building law.
Cost Effectiveness
25.   A cost effectiveness analysis was performed on each of the project components by
comparing the estimated objectives and costs with the actual objectives and costs. It was
found that the overall project was cost effective. A comparison of appraised and actual
construction costs for the road component indicates significant cost overruns. Early in the
design period of this road, it was found that the original cost estimates were underestimated
(Table 9).
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
26.   The project was scheduled to begin in early 1988 and be completed by December, 31,
1993. Project implementation was delayed by two and a half years and, with the exception of
the road component, the project was completed on June 30, 1996.
27.   During 1988-1989, very little progress was made in project implementation. The main
causes of this delay were related to: lack of absorptive capacity of the implementing agencies
compounded by the political situation of the country; large number of donor agencies
involved; and lack of awareness of Bank procedures (procurement, auditing), resulting from a
gap in Bank financing since the beginning of the decade. During that initial period, the
establishment and staffing of the Reconstruction Unit was slow and faced institutional,
administrative and technical problems, such as: cumbersome administrative procedures within
the implementing agencies; delays in obtaining Government approval of RU staff due to an
overall freeze on hiring; lack of experience of the personnel assigned to main management
positions; and lack of coordination between the RU and the implementing agencies.
28.  In that early period of project implementation (especially from 1988 to 1989), progress
was very slow. Of the nine project components, the most noteworthy activity was in the
telecommunication component, under which procurement of telephone equipment had been
awarded early on. Limited activity in other components included the demolition of some
government buildings and some micro-enterprises. Other problems observed during this
period included: the need for preparing new design and cost estimates for the road component,
including the removal of utilities from the right of way; delays in the acquisition of the
necessary road rights of way; lack of project preparation and designs for the education
component; lack of institutional capacity and cumbersome implementation procedures in the
micro-enterprise credit, housing, education, and public buildings components; and lack of
clear definition of the scope of the housing component.
29.   By 1990, many of the early problems in project implementation had been resolved.
Internal hostilities had substantially ceased, the RU was firmly established and began
performing its managerial and administrative responsibilities in a satisfactory manner, key
personnel were being trained, and project implementation started to make modest progress.



8
Factors that subsequently affected project implementation are listed in the following
paragraphs.
30.   The final cost of the project amounted to US$107.85 million, or about 5% greater than
the original estimate. From 1988 to late 1990 there were no significant disbursements under the
loan. Only US$265,194 of loan funds had been disbursed by October, 1990, mainly under the
telecommunications component. Almost 80% of loan funds were disbursed during FY91-
FY95.
Housing:
31.   The housing component presented two implementation phases. In the first phase,
irnplementation of the housing component required that VMVDU sign an agreement with the
Financiadora Social de Vivienda, which in turn signed contracts with Savings & Loan
Associations to provide long-term mortgages to home buyers (Program Nuevo Amanecer).
After a good start, the housing component activities stalled as a result of overall financial sector
reforms that caused the closing of Financiadora Social de Vivienda. VMVDU signed a
subsidiary agreement with the newly created FONAVIPO, which took over and completed the
utilization of project funds under Program Nuevo Amanecer.
32.  In the second phase, two action plans were agreed upon to fully utilize funds under this
component. Cooperative Housing Foundation (CHF), a non-governmental agency, carried out
an action plan for granting credits to low-income families for housing improvements. Another
action plan was implemented by the Social Housing Fund (FSV), an agency that granted
credits for housing development (to employees under the social security system).
Schools:
33.   Since there were delays in initiating this component, the originally envisioned
rehabilitation of about 400 classrooms damaged by the 1986 earthquake was financed by
USAID. As a result, the loan was restructured in April, 1990 to provide financing for the
reconstruction/rehabilitation and equipping of 2,000 classrooms in 900 elementary schools
nationwide, which had the effect of detracting from the emergency nature of the operation,
Public Buildings:
34.   During the construction phase of the new Govemment Center (Centro de Gobierno), it
was discovered that 69 families were living in a high-risk zone on the construction site, under
precarious living conditions. This situation went undetected during project preparation and
design. During the initial stages of construction, the affected families were relocated by the
Government with assistance from the Italian Govemment. The 69 families were relocated into a
single new community, Distrito Italia, close to Apopa (Distrito Italia is about 12 kilometers
from Centro de Gobierno in San Salvador). Comfortable homes were provided with access to
electricity, water supply and sanitation. The Government also created four micro loan pools for
developing self-employment opportunities in the new community.



9
Roads:
35.   As stated, there were two road reconstruction segments included in the Roads sub-
component: (i) San Salvador-Apopa with about 9.9 kilometers; and (ii) Apopa-San Jose de Las
Flores, about 6.5 kilometers. Both segments suffered delays during implementation. In the first
case, the Government failed to acquire the necessary land, resulting in a two year delay (para.
36). In the case of the second segment, the original contractor and its guarantor defaulted
causing about 18 months delay (para. 37).
36.   San Salvador-Apopa Road segment. According to the Loan Agreement, the
Government was to acquire all land required for rights of way by December 31, 1987. The
Ministry of Public Works was unable to comply. One of the reasons was lack of funds. The two
year delay in not obtainling the required land caused the contractor to continually fall behind
schedule, which in tumn increased project costs due to price adjustments. Further, the San
Salvador-Apopa segment was delayed by an additional six months as a result of incomplete
designs, plans and cost estimates. A consulting firm had to re-design the project to include the
removal of utilities from the right of way.
37.   Apopa-San lose Las Flores Road segment. This section also suffered serious delays.
Since the contractor could not execute the work on schedule, the Ministry of Public Works
suspended the contractor's operations and asked the bonding company to complete the works.
A firm contracted by the bonding company abandoned the works, which were then halted for
about 16 months. During this time, the project was re-bid and work resumed in June, 1995.
Construction was 90% complete at project closing Uune 30, 1996). Civil works continued at full
speed and the Government completed the works, with its own funds, in October, 1996.
Micro-Enterprise credit:
38.   The Central Bank (BCR) was the original implementing agency for the micro-enterprise
credit component. The component was subsequently assigned for a short time to a new sister
organization, the Multisectoral Investment Bank (BMI). Due to a lack of interest in BMI, this
component did not make much progress. As a result, the remainder of this component was
canceled (the amount utilized in the component was reduced from the appraisal estimate of
US$9.0 million to US$4.5 million) and the funds were utflized to support the public buildings
and road components.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILI1Y
39.   The project achieved almost all of its stated physical objectives and the likelihood of its
sustainability is favorable, given the established plans for continued maintenance of the
restored facilities, the additionally trained staff and the development of seismic and building
codes which should help to minimize the extent of damages during future earthquakes. A
satisfactory plan for operating and maintaining facilities has been received from the
Government which is included in the Government's contribution to the ICR. Throughout
project implementation (which spanned over three administrations), the Government showed
a positive attitude and supported the project, which bodes well for the future.



(
40.   Under the pr oject, the technical assistance component was effective in strengthening
project implementation capacity in the executing agencies. This assistance was instrumental in
getting the project to a successful completion. Key personnel were trained in modern methods
of project management; administration; contracting of goods and services; project planning,
programming and preparation, and financial management and auditing.
41.   The National Assembly modified the existing building law to allow the issuance of the
seismic and building codes developed under the project. The law was modified to allow the
regulation by decree of construction standards safety and materials. The seismic and building
codes developed under the project constitute the nucleus of the proposed draft regulatory
decree, which is in the final stages of approval by the executive branch.
42.   Project sustainability is expected to be furthelr supported by Bank Loan 3945-ES for the
Basic Education Modernization Project and possible Bank follow-up projects for infrastructure
privatization,
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
43.   The Bank spent nearly 161 staff-weeks on identifying, preparing and appraising the
project, including 317 staff-days in the field. A total of 171 staff weeks was spent on
supervision, including 333 staff-days in the field.
Identification
44.   It is judged satisfactowy--the Bank responded immediately after the 1986 earthquake.
The Bank dispatched a reconnaissance nussion to collaborate and coordinate with the
Government authorities in assessing the damages to houses, commercial and public buildings,
services and infrastructure. Also, the Bank coordinated and mobilized efforts to solicit funds
from other international financing agencies as well as multilateral and bilateral entities.
Preparation and Appraisal
45.   Preparation is judged to be marginally satisfactory, given the emergency nature of the
operation. However, the rapid speed at which thie project was prepared did cause some corners
to be cut. For example, project preparation did riot assess the degree of difficulty and steps
required to conmplete the required acquisition of land and right of way to construct the road
component. During preparation the Bank sent seven missions to identify the emergency
requirements and the constraints posed by the weak institutional capacity. The missions
involved specialists with various expertise (seistmic, education, housing, water supply,
telecommunications, urban plannng, architecture, vocational training and micro-enterprise
credit). To assist the Government in its immediate reconstruction needs, the Bank reallocated
funds from an on-going education project (Loan 1738-ES). The Bank collaborated with the
Salvadoran authorities in preparing the project, in defining its scope and financing, and in
establishing the Reconstruction Unit to coordinate and manage the program. Project Appraisal
however, is judged to be deficient. It was not completely focused on immediate emergency



11
needs, since it allowed the project to include rehabilitation components outside of the
earthquake affected areas.
Supervision
46.   Overall, supervision is judged to be satisfactory. Supervision started out weak, but then
steadily improved throughout project implementation. The Bank collaborated with the
Reconstruction Unit, the implementing agencies and other key entities involved with the
project in the resolution of problems arising during the early implementation stage. The status
and progress of implementation improved and was satisfactory after 1990. The problems were
identified in a timely manner and actions were taken on the proposed recommendations.
During implementation, the Bank sent 30 supervision missions to review the project, as well as
to discuss and resolve outstanding issues and problems. In addition, the Bank contracted
consultants in specialized fields, such as a road engineer, a vocational training expert and a
telecommunications engineer, to collaborate with the implementing agencies in the resolution
of issues and problems. The Bank provided professional and timely advice to the
Reconstruction Unit and the implementing agencies, contributing to the eventual success of
project implementation.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Preparation
47.   The Borrower's preparation performance is rated marginally satisfactory. Due to the
emergency nature of the project and the need to move quickly, some corners were cut, with the
result that some studies, designs, plans, cost estimates and bidding documents had to be
prepared during actual project implementation. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Works did
prepare a comprehensive preparation plan which focused on the following key areas:
institutional framework for reconstruction; sectoral organization and coordination; housing
arrangements including land tenure; resettlement of the affected population; and commitment
of funding.
Implementation
48.   The Borrower's implementation performance is rated satisfactory overall. During the
period from mid-1988 to early 1990, practically no progress was made on project
implementation. Although US$8 million was transferred in 1988 to an advance account, only
US$265,194 were disbursed (for the telecommunications component) up to October, 1990. The
reasons for the delay in project implementation were essentially due to: difficulties in obtaining
field data in the midst of an ongoing civil strife and hostilities; lack of coordination between the
RU and the implementing agencies, especially with regard to scope and definition of some of
the project components; lack of knowledge of Bank's implementation procedures; and lack of
capacity of key staff within the RU and implementing agencies to handle a complex
reconstruction project. In addition to this, serious delays occurred as a result of MOP's failure
to obtain the necessary right of way for road construction. During the period from 1990 to late



12
1992, project implementation progressed at a modest but steady pace. Project implementation
progressed remarkably well beginning in 1993 to the completion of the project in June, 1996.
The RU had satisfactorily fulfilled its managerial role, staff were well trained and there was
excellent coordination between the RU and the implementation agencies. Procurement
procedures for the contracting of goods and services were correctly followed. Progress reports
were submitted to the Bank. Project components were satisfactorily monitored and supervised,
both by staff and contracted consultants.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
49.   Overall the project is rated satisfactory. The project substantially achieved all of its
physical objectives. In many of the project components (housing, public buildings, schools,
telecommunications and training) the physical objectives were surpassed. In the road
component the physical objectives were partially met. As of the June 30, 1996 loan closing
date, the second section of the 4.5 kilometer road was 90% complete. Road work was
successfully completed with Government funding in October, 1996.
50.   The project partially fulfilled its institutional objectives. A new seismic code was
developed and it is about to become the new law of the land. Through the Study and Technical
Assistance component, the contracting of consultants and specialists contributed to the
development and strengthening of the institutional capacity of the RU and implementing
agencies in: project planning, programming and preparation; project management and
administration; procurement of goods and services; and project supervision.
51.The project also achieved its objectives in the development and strengthening of the private
sector through the granting of credits to micro-enterprises for operating capital and for the
acquisition of necessary equipment and machinery.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
52.   During the closing mission, the Government prepared a satisfactory maintenance and
operations plan (Plan Operational y de Mantenimiento--see Back-to-Office Report and Aide
Memoire dated July 19, 1996). Resources have been allocated by the various executing agencies
for maintenance of completed works. In the National Budget, MOP (DGC and DUA do not
exist any more) has allocated sufficient funds for the maintenance operations of the road and
public buildings components. Similarly, the Ministry of Education has allocated sufficient
funds for school maintenance. With regard to the telecommunications component, ANTEL has
adequate funds allocated in its Maintenance and Operations plan. To further ensure effective
project operation, the Ministry of Education has an on-going project for the Modernization of
Basic Education financed under Bank Loan 3945-ES. Table 6 contains a list of key indicators for
project operations by which the project can be monitored and evaluated in the future.



13
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
The following lessons emerge from the project:
An emergency operation should only focus on reconstruction activities attending
immediate needs in a disaster area. More long-term support activities, such as financing
schools and housing not immediately affected by the earthquake, should form part of a
separate investment operation proposed under the framework of a country's CAS.
54.   More attention should be placed on the institutional appraisal of the implementing
agency, both with regard to awareness of Bank's procurement procedures and of its capacity to
administer and manage the contracting of goods and services. In the event that there are
institutional weaknesses within the implementing agency with regard to procurement
procedures, specific technical assistance should be included in the project to correct this
deficiency at an early stage in order to avoid delays in project implementation.
55.   Prior to initiating bidding procedures, the implementing agency should undertake an
intensive review of completed designs, plans, cost estimates and bidding documents. In the
event that the implementing agency lacks the in-house capacity to make this review, short-term
consultants should be contracted for this purpose.
56.   Prior to awarding civil works contracts, the necessary right of way should be legally
acquired in order to avoid delays in the execution of works and corresponding increases in
project costs and possible claims. Any resettlement activity should follow a properly designed
resettlement plan, whose implementation should be supervised by specialists in this field.
57.   Prior to awarding construction contracts, the implementing agency should make an in-
depth review of the qualifications of the selected construction firm to determine its capacity to
satisfactorily execute the works, The suggested review should include details of: technical
capacity; qualifications and previous experience of key personnel; availability of the required
type and amount of equipment and machinery; financial liquidity of the firm; and previous
experience on projects of similar nature and size.
58.   Beneficiaries of housing credits also benefit from technical assistance in areas such as
energy saving technology, maintenance schedules, etc,
59.   There are advantages in working with financial intermediaries from the non-
governmental sector. The entities tend to be more efficient in loan marketing, processing and
management, presenting less non-performing loans.
60.   During procurement, an implementing agency should take into account the scope of
work, the project's complexity and the capacity of local contractors in estimating the
construction period for project execution.
61.   In order to avoid long delays in processing payments to contractors, disbursements
should be made from the project's special account directly to the contractor.



14
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EL SALVADOR
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2873-ES)
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: SumuAry of Assessments
A.  Achievement of Objectives               Substantial       Partial         Negligible      Not Applicable
Macroeconomics Policies                                                                            X
Sector Policies                                                X
Financial Objectives                                           X
Institutional Development                                      X
Physical Objectives                            X
Poverty Reduction                                                                                  X
Gender Concerns                                                                                    X
Other Social Objectives                                                                            X
Environmental Objectives                                       X
Public Sector Management                                                                           X
Private Sector Development                       X
B. Project Sustainability            Likely          -          Unlikely                    Uncertain
X
C. Bank Performance             Highly satisfactory            Satisfactory                 Deficient
Identification                                                    X
Preparation Assistance                                            X
Appraisal                                                                                     X
Supervision                                                       X
D. Borrower Performance          Highly satisfactory           Satisfactory                 Deficient
Preparation                                                       X
Implementation                                                    X
Covenant Compliance                                               X
Operation (if applicable)  .
E. Assessment of Outcome            Highly                                                      Highly
Satisfactory       Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory       Unsatisfactory
x



15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan No.                       Purpose                      Year of            Status
Approval
Preceding
Operations
Housing:
1050-ES         Sites and Services                           1974           Completed
1465-ES         Sites and Services                           1974           Completed
CR 0031         Sites and Services                           1974           Completed
Roads:
0104-ES         Coastal Highway Project                      1954           Completed
0216-ES         Feeder Roads                                 1959           Completed
0521-ES         Highway Project                              1967           Completed
0031-ES         Highway Project                              1962           Completed
Telecommunications:
0358-ES         Telecommunications Project                   1963           Completed
0811-ES         Second Telecommunications Project            1972           Completed
1570-ES         Third Telecommunications Project             1978           Completed
Training:
1571-ES         Vocational Training Project                  1978           Completed
Education:
0609-ES         Education Project                            1969           Completed
1007-ES         Second Education Project                     1974           Completed
1738-ES         Third Education Project                      1979           Completed
Following Operations
3945-ES         Basic Education Modernization Project        1995            Ongoing



16
Table 3: Project Timetable
Step in Project Cycle              Date Planned                Date Actual
Reconnaissance                   October 20, 1986              October 20, 1986
First Appraisal                  November 24, 1986            November 24, 1986
Second Appraisal                 May 4, 1987                  May 4, 1987
Negotiations                     July 10, 1987                 August, 1987
Board presentation               September 15, 1987           September, 1987
Signing                          August, 1987                 October 16,1987
Effectiveness                    December 31, 1987             imne 17, 1988
Project completion               December 31, 1993            June 30, 1996 y
Loan dosing                      December 31, 1993            June 30, 1996
#/    The project was completed on June 30, 1996 for all of the components with the exception of the road component.
Physical completion of the remaining section of the road (APOPA-San Jose de Las Flores) was completed in
October, 1996, utilizing Government funds.
Table 4a: Loan Cumulative Disbursements: Estimated and
Actual Loan Disbursements
(US$ hfiluions)
FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94    FY95            FY96     FY97
Appraisal    15.0    21.0    21.0    4.0    4.0       -       -
Estimate
Cumulative   15.0    36.0    57.0   61.0   65.0
Actual               8.097   0.129   6.37    6.52    7.35    16.54    9.06      7.13       2.49
Cumulative           8.097   8.226  14.596  21.048  28.396  44.938  53.997    61.131       63.62
Actual as %
of estimate          4.46    0.14    0.24   0.325
1/ As of November 8, 1996 (according to Disbursements office) a total amount of US$63,537,623.15 of loan funds have been
disbursed and US$83,943 are in pipeline for disbursement for a total of US$63,621,566.15. Final disbursements of loan funds
are expected to be made during November, 1996.
2/ Any unpaid balance of loan fund will be canceled after under review applications are finalized in November, 1996.
Date of First Disbursement:   October, 1988
Initial Loan Closing Date:  December 31, 1993
Actual Loan Closing Date:    June 30, 1996
Date of Final Disbursement:   Expected in November, 1996.



17
Table 4b: Grant Cumulative Disbursements Estimated and
Actual Grant Disbursements
(US$ Millions)
FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94    FY95            FY96    FY97
Appraisal     4.5     4.5     2.5    2.0       -       -       -       -
Estimate
Cumulative    4.5     9.0    11.5   13.5
Actual         -       -     1.24    1.52    1.32   -2.52    2.15     1.30     2.56      0.152/
Cumulative                   1.24    2.76    4.08    6.60    8.75    10.05     12.61      12.76
Actual as%     -       -      50      45       -       -       -       -
of estimate
./ As of November 8, 1996, a total amount of US$12.76 million (eq JPY 1,453,502,058) of Grant Funds have been
disbursed.
J/ After final disbursements have been made towards applications received by October 31, 19%, any undisbursed balance
amount from the grant fund will have to be canceled by the Bank.
Date of First Disbursement    October, 1988
Initial Loan Closing Date:  December 31, 1993
Actual Loan Closing Date:    June 30, 1996
Date of Final Disbursement:   October 30, 1996.



18
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Indicators                  Estimated                           Actual
Housing Lines of         Lines of credit for reconstruction of  Line of credit for the construction
Credits                  3,000 dwelling units and the       of 5,277 housing units and the
relocation of 1,000 displaced      improvement of 1,436 units.
families.
Schools                  Rehabilitate 339 classrooms in San  Rehabilitated a total of 2,512
Salvador and Apopa area, was modified  classrooms and the furnishing of
to 2000 classrooms nationwide.     equipment for 350 schools.
Public Buildings         Demolition and relocation of office   Reconstruction/construction of 26
buildings of four Ministries and the  buildings with a total constructed
construction of a new site for     area of 74,095 square meters.
another Ministry. Total area =
23,276 square meters.
Roads                    Rehabilitation and upgrading of    Rehabilitation and upgrading of
16.4 Kilometers. of road linking San  16.4 Kilometers. of road linking
Salvador-Apopa-San Jose de Las     San Salvador-Apopa-San Jose de
Flores.                            Las Flores.
Water                    Water supply for 2,500 families.   Undertaken by ANDA utilizing
its own resources and funds.
Telecommunications       Procurement and installation of    Three mobile telephone exchanges
three mobile telephone exchanges    were acquired and installed with
with a total capacity of 4,000 lines.   a total capacity of 13,000 lines,
including transmission
equipment.
Micro-Enterprise         Credit for equipment, machinery    1669 (1344+40+285) credits have
Credits                  and operating capital to micro-    been awarded for equipment,
enterprises in San Salvador.       machinery and operating capital
Estimated to about 1500 credits (@   to micro-enterprises in San
$8,000/credit).                    Salvador.
Training                 Intensive training of 6,000 workers   Intensive training of 15,568
in building trades.                workers in the building trades.
Studies and Technical    Studies for: the improvement and    Studies prepared for:
Assistance               application of seismic resistant   improvement and application of
building code; updating of the     seismic resistant building code;
national emergency plan; cost      evaluation of high risk seismic
recovery mechanism for housing     zones; evaluation of structural
credit; evaluation of high risk    condition of public buildings; and
seismic zones; evaluation of credit   the evaluation of credit plans for
plans for housing; evaluation of the   housing.
structural condition of public
building cost recovery mechanism
for housing credits.



19
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key Implementation            Estimated                    Actual
Housing                        Arrears less than 8%     Arrears less than 2.5%
Schools                     Increase in student body   Increase in student body
80%                       18%
Public Buildings                 Occupancy 80%             Occupancy 100%
Roads and Public Services     Relocation to northern     Relocation has begun
and safer suburbs
Telecommunications             3 mobile telephone      3 mobile telephone lines
exchanges with 4,000      exchanges with 13,000
telephone lines           telephone lines
Micro-Enterprise Credit      nearly 50% lost business-    for fixed assets awarded
1500 loans @ $9 million  1669 credits at $4.5 million
Training                      6,040 workers trained     15,568 workers trained



20
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Study                   Purpose as defined at                    Status                      Impact of Study
appraisal
i) Revision of the existing building   To improve seismic construction                            After reviewing the study, the
code to incorporate seismic-    standards, planning and regulations         Completed             National Assembly of El Salvador
resistant design standards and the   and the improvement of the                                   modified the Building Law,
condusion of the micro-zoning and   existing building codes;                                      permitting the seismic and building
the study of the seismological data;  Evaluate seismological data to                              codes included in the study to be
demarcate high risk zones in the                                 incrporated in the loan through a
project area;                                                    regulatory decree. The proposed
project area;                                           regulatory decree is expected to be
issued by Executive order in the
near future.
ii) Updating the National       To better prepare the country for           Not Done
Emergency Plan.                 simnilar future disasters in order to
mitigate the damage and loss of
life;
iii) To develop a mechanism of cost  To evaluate the impact of the                                Inprovement of the operations in
recovery for the housing credits;    housing credit component of the     Partly Completed         the granting of the housing loans to
Project;                                                         low income groups
iv) Detailed urban design for   For efficient urban investments,            Completed             Helped to restore production,
district 7 of Apopa;                                                                              economical and efficient designs;
v) Studies to prepare sub-project    For better assessment, budget and                            Helped strengthening the
plans, induding detailed        time evaluation and control;                Completed             institutional capacity, and training
engineering, cost estimates and                                                                   of local personnel;
implementation schedules;
vi) Evaluate structural conditions    For the purpose of determining   Carried out informally     On this basis, decisions were
of damaged buildings.           whether to demolish or salvage                                    taken, buildings were either
them.                                                            rehabilitated or demolished.



21
Table 8a: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)     Actual Estimate (US$M) #    X
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign       Total
Costs    Costs             Costs    Costs
I/ Housing - Lines of Credit          13.3       6.9     20.2    19.23      9.90      29.13
Schools and Public Buildings
- Schools Reconstruction             8.3       3.5     11.8     8.46      3.63     12.09
- Reconstruction of Office           8.4       5.6     14.0    19.55     13.03     32.58
Buildings
Roads and Public Services
Roads                                5.7       3.1      8.8    11.79      6.35     18.14
Water                                0.3       0.2      0.5        -         -       -
Telecommunications                   0.7       3.3      4.0     0.77      3.51      4.28
Micro-Enterprise Credit              3.0       9.0     12.0     1.08      3.24      4.32
Training                             2.4       0.6      3.0     1.62      0.41      2.03
Studies and Technical Assistance
Studies and Technical Assistance     3.4       0.8      4.2     3.61      0.90      4.51
Project Management                   0.7       0.1      0.8     0.18      0.02      0.20
1/ Unallocated/Advanced               14.5       8.6     23.1     0.36      0.21      0.57
TOTAL                                 60.7      41.7    102.4    66.65     41.20     107.85
3/4/
1/    Include US$188,450 and US$380,720 in disbursements in advance accounts for the Grant
and Loan, respectively, as indicated in the breakdown sheets sent by the
implementation agency dated October 15, 1996.
2/    Status as of November 8, 1996. It is based on the information received from the Bank's
disbursement unit and based on the information sheets received from the borrower's
implementation agency, dated October 15, 1996.
3/    Final disbursement applications received as of October 31, 1996 are in the pipeline-to be
disbursed in November, 1996.
4/    The Government's contributions for Value Added Tax (IVA) has been included in the
total cost of the project, imposed at the rate of 10% after September, 1992 and at 13%
after April 1995.



22
Table 8b: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)         Actual Estimate (US$M)
Local   Foreign     Total      Local    Foreign       Total
Costs     Costs                Costs      Costs
IBRD                         28.80     36.20      65.00      27.99      35.63    63.62 I/
Gover nment Contribution     23.90         0      23.90      31.72         0     31.72 2/
Co-Financing                  8.00      5.50      13.50       7.40      5.36    12.76 3/
TOTAL                        60.70     41.70     102.40      67.11     40.99    108.10
1/    Amounts disbursed as of November 8, 1996 include US $380,720 in advances. The
breakdown is shown on the sheets sent by the implementation agency dated October 15,
1996.
2/   Amounts disbursed as of June 30, 1996 do not include equivalent of US$1,012,045 for
amounts paid in Government Contributions for Value Added Tax (IVA) imposed at the
rate of 10% after September, 1992 and 13 % after April, 1995.
3/   Amounts disbursed as of October 30, 1996, include US$188,450 in advances.



23
Table 9: Cost Effectiveness of the Project
I  Project                                                                     Appraisal                                                                     Actual
Component                                         Estimated                                                                      Costs
Physical Objectives                   j  Cost (US$M)                        Physical Objectives                      Cost (US$M)
Housing              Lines of credit for reconstruction of 3,0  dwelling units and    20.2         Line of credit for the conetruction- ot 4,000 housing units   29.13
.th relocation of 1,000 displaced families.               !                   and rehabilitation of 1,436 nuts.                                        I
Schoois              Rehabilitate 393 classrooms in San Salvador and Apopa             11L8        Rehabilitate a total of 2,51 '1assroonis and the              12 09
!   ! which was modified durmg project inmplementatlon tf, >                  furnishing of equipment for 350 schools
include an additional 2,000 nationally
Public Puildings     Reconstruction of four office buildings and the construction      14 0        Reconstruction /construction of '2 buildings. with a total    32.58
of a new building. Total constructed area = 23,276 square                     constructed area of 74,095 square meters.
I  meters.
t Road               t Rehabilitation and upgrading of 164 KSiometers of rao    &.88                 Rehabilitation and upgradmig of i6 4 Kilometers of road      18.06
-      , linking San Salvador-Apopa-San Jose de Las Flores.                            lnking San Salvador-Apopa-Sari jose de Las Flores
Water              t Water supplv tor 2,500 families                                   0.'T      I Undertaken by ANLDA utiu1zing its own resources and                      I
funds.        _
Tele- -              Pr curemrent and installation r riirec tmobile telephone          4.         'Three mobile telephone exchangc, wN,-re acquired and          4.28
cormnrunucations     exchanges with a total capacitv s)t 4,000 lines                              installed with a total capacity oe.t 13.000' ines., including
__ i' Itransmiissiorn equipment
ilicro-Entem"ise    | Credit fo, equipment, nmachinerv and operating -apital to       626 169- Credit was given foT Equipment, machinery and                     4.32
ireciits          jiri.rienterprises in San Salvador Ah per origirnal eslrniatc                I operating capital to micro-enterprises in San Salvador
aiout 1500 ((u $8,000/credit)                              __ _             I _          _                              _                       ___ !
Trainng              Intensive training of 600..0) workers in building trades.         3d          Intensive trairnig of 15,568 woikers mn the building           2.03
of seismic                        trades.
Studies an.d         Studies for the improvt.rnent and application of setsic           4.2,'       Studic-s prepared tor: ;mprovement and application of          4.4
Technical            resistanit building code; updating- of the national emergency                 seismic resistant building code, evaluation of high rnsk
Assistanc           plan: cost recovery iriecharuism for housing .red.        j                   seis-nic zones; -valuat,orr ot strui:tural condition of
evaiuation of high risk seismic zones, evaluation ot credit                   p ublic buildings; and tihe evauiat,jon of credit plans for
plans for housing, evaluation of the structural condition ot                  hOUSIng.
public building cost recovery mechanism for housing
credits.



24
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Local       Text     Covenant  Status   Original   Revised       Description of Covenant          Comnments
Credit    Reference   Class(es)       Fulfill Date   Fulfill
Number                                              Date
G22870     L2873      Section       3        C                           The recipient shall open and  In full compliance
2.02 (b)                                          maintain in dollars a
revolving account in BCR.
Section       5       C                           Good and services shall be     In full compliance
2.03                                             procured in accordance with
the IBRD Loan Agreement.
Section      10       C    12/31/93   12/31/95  The closing date shall be        Most EIAs still
2.04                                             December 31,1993 or such later  reviewed at INE
date as the Administration shall
._______  establish.
Section       5      CD    1/19/88    6/17/88   This Agreement shall become    The project became
4.01                                             effective upon the Effective  effective June 17 1988
Date of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2     3,5      C                           Payments out of the Revolving   In full compliance
Para 2                                            Account made exclusively for
______  __ _  eligible expenditures in.
Section 2.     3       C                           The Recipient shall furnish to    In full compliance
Para. 3(b)                                         the Administrator requests for
replenishment of the Revolving
Account.



25
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agree-    Local      Text     Covenant  Status   Original   Revised        Description of Covenant           Comments
ment     Credit   Reference   Class(es)        Fulfill Date   Fulfill
Number                                             Date
L2873    L28730   Schedule       3,5      C                          For each payment made by the     In full compliance
2. Para. 4                                        recipient out of the revolving
account, the recipient
shall furnish to the Administrator
such documents showing that
such payment was made of
eligible expenditures.
L2873     L2873    Section       3        C                          The borrower shall open and      In full compliance
2.02 (b)                                         maintain in dollars a Special
Account in BCR.
Section      10       C    12/31/93   6/30/96   The Closing Date shall be        In full compliance
2.03                                            December 3191993 or a later date
as the Bank shall establish.
Section    3,4.5,10    C                         The Borrower shall carry out the   In full compliance
3.01 (a)                                         project through the
Implementation Agencies.
Section     5,10      C                          The Borrower, through MIPLAN,  In full compliance
3.01 (b)                                         shall enter into a CONVENIO
with each IA (I) to carry out
part(s) of the Project, and (ii) to
transfer the necessary loan
proceeds and counterpart funds
required.
Section      10       C                          Procurement of goods, works, and  In full compliance
3.02                                            consultant's services.



26
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Local         Text      Covenant  Status   Original   Revised         Description of Covenant             Comments
Credit    Reference    Class(es)           Fulfill    Fulfill
Number                                       Date      Date
L2873      L28730      Section        5        C                            The borrower shall establish and   In fuHl compliance
3.03 (a)                                            maintain an adequately staffed
reconstruction unit
and appoint and retain a Director
General, a Technical Advisor and
professional staff for the
Reconstruction Unit.
Section       3.4       C                           The borrower shall ensure that
3.03 (c)                                            the Reconstruction Unit has
sufficient futnds to carry out its
responsibilities.
Section       10       NC                           The borrower shall within one     The National Assembly
3.04 (i)                                            year of the Effective Date of the   modified its Building
Loan, adopt and put on full force   Law permitting that the
and effect, and anti-seismic     seismic code and
building code.                    construction regulations
be incorporated as a
regulation to that law,
which is expected to be
decreed by Executive
Power.



27
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Local       Text      Covenant  Status   Original   Revised        Description of Covenant          Comments
Credit    Reference    Class(es)       Fulfill Date  Fulfill
Number                                               Date
L2873     L28730      Section       10       C                           The borrower shall ensure that   In full compliance
3.04 (ii)                                         all Housing Sub-Projects
financed from the proceeds of
the Loan comply with the
Provisions of the Emergency
Code, or when effective with the
anti-seismic building code.
Section     4,5,10     C                          The borrower shall furnish the   In full compliance
3.05 (a)                                          implementation schedule and
financing plan for the first year
of the Reconstruction program
to the Bank by October 31, 1987
Section      10        C    12/31/87              The borrower shall acquire or   Not complied
3.05 (b)                                          provide, by December 31,1987,
all land required to carry out the
Project.
Section      10        C                          The borrower, semi-annually,    In full compliance
3.05 (d)                                          shall discuss with the Bank the
and (e)                                           progress of the Reconstruction
Program.
Section       9       CP                          The borrower shall furnish to   The Bank has received
3.06 (a)                                          the Bank bimonthly progress     only sporadic reports on
reports.                       project progress.



28
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Local       Text     Covenant  Status  Original  Revised        Description of Covenant          Comnments
Credit    Reference   Class(es)         Fulfill    Fulfill
Number                                   Date      Date
L2873     L28730     Section      5,10      C                         The Borrower shall inform the   In full compliance
3.06 (b)                                         Bank of any condition which
interferes with the operations of
the Reconstruction Unit.
Section      5        C                         The borrower shall, through     In full compliance
3.07                                           VMDU enter with each
Housing Intermediary.
Section      5        C                         the Borrower shall furnish to the  In full compliance
3.08                                           Bank by October 31,1987, the
architectutral designs and
standardized construction and
financing contracts.
Section      2        C                         The Borrower shall cause BCR to  Full compliance until
3.10                                           enter into Agreement wit each   end of '94. At that point
PFI.                           the Government
transferred BCR's
responsibilities to BMI,
which in turn did not
sign satisfactory
agreements with BACC,
the only PFFI remaining
under the project &
Government, causing
cancellation of
remaining funds.



29
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Local       Text     Covenant  Status  Original   Revised        Description of Covenant           Comments
Credit    Reference    Class(es)        Fulfill    Fulfill
Number                                    Date      Date
L2873     L28730      Section       1       C                          The Borrower shall maintain     In full compliance
4.01 (a)                                         separate accounting records of
the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the
Implementation Agencies.
Section       1       C                          The Borrower shall have the     In full compliance
4.01 (b)                                         Accounts for each fiscal year to
be audited by independent
auditors.
Section       1       C                          For all withdrawals from the    In full compliance
4.01 (c)                                         Loan Account made on the basis
of SOEs, the borrower shall (i)
maintain accurate records; (ii)
retain full records for one year
after last withdrawal from
Accounts.
Section     2,5,11    CD                         Additional conditions to the    Completed after delay
6.01                                            effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement.
Section      13       C                          That each CONVENIO has been   In fuRl compliance
6.02 (a)                                         duly authorized, executed and is
legally binding
Section     3,4,5     C                          The Extraordinary budget        In full compliance
6.02 (b)                                         procedures are valid and legally
binding



30
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Local       Text     Covenant  Status  Original   Revised       Description of Covenant          Comments
Credit    Reference   Class(es)         Fulfill    Fulfill
Number                                   Date      Date
L2873     L28730   Schedule 5,     3        C                         Payments out of the Special    In full compliance
Para 2                                          Account shall be made
exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures in accordance with
the provision
Schedule 5,    3        C                         The Borrower shall furnish to the  In full compliance
Para. 3(b)                                       Bank requests for replenishment
of the Special Account.
Schedule 5,    3        C                         The Borrower shall furnish to the  In full compliance
Para. 4                                         Bank documents showing that
payment loan was made for
Eligible Expenditures.
Schedule 6,   1,3,5     C                         Each CONVENIO and HI            In fuUl compliance
Para 2                                          participating Agreement shall
establish that loan proceeds shall
be utilized for purpose of
carrying out the project.
Schedule 6,    2,3      C                         VMVDU shall re-lend such funds  In full compliance
Part.lI.1                                       from the proceeds of the loan as
are required by each Housing
Intermediary to carry out the
project.



31
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Local       Text     Covenant  Status  Original   Revised       Description of Covenant          Commients
Credit    Reference   Class(es)         Fulfill    Fulfill
Number                                   Date      Date
L2873     L28730   Schedule 6,    2,5       C                         VMVDU shall ensure that each    In full compliance
Part.II.2                                        Housing Intermediary shall
comply with the provisions for
making Housing Credits.
Schedule 6,   2,3,5,6   C                         HI Participating Agreements    In full compliance
Part.JD3                                         shall establish the Housing
Intermediary's obligation.
Schedule 6,   2,3,5     C                         MIPLAN shall relined such funds  In full compliance
Part. IV                                         from the proceeds of the loan as
are required by ANTEL to carry
out the project.
Schedule 6,   2,3,5     C                         MIPLAN shall relined such funds  Full compliance until
Part.V.l                                        from the proceeds of the loan as   end of 1994. At that
are required by BCR to carry out  point the Government
the project.                   transferred BCR's
responsibilities to HMI,
which in turn did not
sign satisfactory
agreements with BAC,
the only PPFI remaining
under the project &
government, causing
cancellation of
remaining funds.



32
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Local       Text      Covenant  Status   Original   Revised       Description of Covenant           Commnents
Credit    Reference    Class(es)         Fulfill    Fulfill
Number                                    Date      Date
L2873     L28730   Schedule 6,    2,3,5      C                          BCR shall make funds available   Full compliance until
Part.V.2                                          to each PFI for purposes of     end of 1994. At that
carrying out the Project        point the Government
transferred BCR's
responsibilities to HMI,
which in turn did not
sign satisfactory
agreements with BAC,
the only PPFI remaining
under the project and
government, causing
cancellation of
remaining funds.
Schedule 6,    2,5,9    CP                          BCR shall determine the financial  Reports have been
Part.V.3                                          condition of each PFI, on the   received only
basis of criteria acceptable to the   periodically.
Bank
Schedule 6,     3        C                          Repayments to BCR of funds      In full compliance.
Part.VA4                                          relent by BCR to PFIs under the
project shall be used to finance
similar activities for similar
purposes.



33
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Local        Text      Covenant  Status   Original   Revised        Description of Covenant            Comments
Credit    Reference    Class(es)          Fulfill    Fulfill
Nurmber _                                  Date       Date
L2873      L28730   Schedule 7,    3,5        C                           Each Housing Credit shall: (i) be   In full compliance.
Para 1                                            processed in accordance with the
Housing Intermediary Lending
Policies Manual (HILPM); (ii)
finance housing sub-projects
acceptable to the Bank.
Schedule 7,    2,3       C                           Terms and conditions of Housing  In full compliance.
Para 2                                            Credit.
Schedule 8,    2,3       C                           Credit received by the PFI from    In full compliance.
Para.(a) &                                          BCR for ISE sub-loans shall be
(b)                                              denominated and repaid in
Colones
Schedule 8.    2,3,5     C                           The PFI shall make each ISE sub-  In full compliance.
)                                              loan to be financed from the
proceeds of the loan pursuant to
________  _____               ________ written ISE Sub-loan Contract.
Schedule 8,     1        C                           The PFI shall comply with the    In full compliance.
Para.1                                            auditing and record keeping
requirements.



34
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Local      Text     Covenant  Status  Original  Revised       Description of Covenant          Comments
Credit    Reference   Class(es)        Fulfill   Fulfill
Number                                  Date      Date
L2873     L28730   Schedule 9,   2,3,5     C                         Each ISE Sub-loan shall be     In full compliance.
Para 1                                         processed in accordance with the
PFI Lending Policies Manual.
Schedule 9,    2,3     C                         The terms and conditions of each  In full compliance.
Para 2                                         ISE Sub-loan shall acceptable to
the Bank.
Schedule 9,    5       C                         Each ISE Sub-loan contract,    In full compliance.
Para 3 (i)                                      between a PFI and each ISE
beneficiary shall establish the ISE
._______  _______ ______ __  ___ ____  beneficiary's  obligation.
Codes for level of compliance            GA= Guarantee Agreement  LA= Loan         Status: C- Complied with
Agreement                                      CD- Compliance after Delay
I - Fully complied                       Codes for Type of Covenant                     NC- Not Complied with
2- Partialy compled- not affecting       ADT= Audit                                      SOON- Compliance Expected in
inplementation                        CRY= Cost Recovery                        Reasonably Short Time
3- Non1comphance                         FIN= Financial                                  CP- Complied with Partially
MAN= Management and Staffing
4- Not yet due                           ORG= Organizational
5- Covenant no longer applicable- should be   RPT= Reporting
deleted/ modified                     STD= Studies
TCH= Technical



35
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Indicate any significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual
Statement (OD or OP/BP).
All the statements of operation manual have been complied with.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                 Actual
Staff of Project Cycle                          _
Weeks        US$      Weeks        US$
Through appraisal                 N/A         N/A       103.0   210,600
Appraisal - Board                 N/A         N/A        13.1    28,400
Board - Effectiveness             N/A         N/A         -      --
Supervision                       N/A         N/A       207.5   570,400
Completion                        N/A         N/A        5.9      14,000
TOTAL                                                   329.5   823,400



36
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of Project   Month/year  Number    Days in    Specialized staff             Performance rating 1/
Cycle                    of          field      skills 7
persons               represented              .
Implemen    Development    Types of
-tation          Impact      problems /
status
Identification     10/86          6          5         LO,H,A,U,ED         N/A            N/A             N/A
First-Appraisal    11/86          7          14      LO,H,A,U,EDS,L        N/A            N/A             N/A
Post-Appraisal     01/87         3           5           LO,A,H            N/A            N/A             N/A
Post-Appraisals    03/87         7           5       LO,H,A,U,ED,S,E       N/A            N/A             N/A
Post-Appraisal     04/87          2          10           L, 0, U          N/A            N/A             N/A
Post-Appraisal     04/87         4           9           LO,E,W,H          N/A            N/A             N/A
Second-            05/87          3          12           LO,H,E           N/A            N/A             N/A
Appraisal
Post-Appraisal     10/87          7          3       IO,A,L,ED,H,W,P       N/A            N/A             N/A
Supervision        10/87          6          5             TM                2             1              M,T
Supervision        11/87          2          5             TM                2             1              KMT
Post-Appraisal     12/87          2          13           LO,H             N/A            N/A             N/A
Supervision        04/88          4          3             TM                2             1              M,T
Supervision        06/88          3          5           TM, H,E             2             1              M,T
Supervision        11/88          1          10             F                2             1              M,T
Supervision        01/89          2          5            TM, H              2             1              MT
Supervision        02/89          1          7              F                2             1              M,T
Supervision        06/89          1          5             TM                2             1              M,T
Supervision        08/89          1          3             TM                2             1               M
Supervision        09/89          1          6             TM                2             1               M
Supervision        10/89          1          6             TM                2             1               M
Supervision        03/90          2          6            TM, H              2             1              M,F
Supervision        10/90          1          4             TM                2             1              M,F
Supervision        01/91          2          5             TM                2             1              M,F
Supervision        03/91          1          5             TM                2             1              M,F
Supervision        03/91          1          5             TM                2             1              M,F
Supervision        03/91          1          5             TM                2             1              M,F



37
Performance rating/
Month/year   Number    Days in    Specialized
Stage of Project             of persons  field       staff skills _/
Cycle                                           represented
Implementation    Development    Types of
status          impact      problems -V
Supervision        08/91          1          5             TM                  2               1             M,F
Supervision        11/91          2          5            TM,H                 2               1             M,F
Supervision        03/92          2          5            TM, H                2               1              M
Supervision        07/92          2          5            TM, H                2               1              M
Supervision        11/92          2          12           TM, H                2               1              M
Supervision        02/93          2          5            TM, H                2               1              M
Supervision        07/93          3          11          TM, H, E              2               1              M
Supervision        08/93          1          5             TM                  2                              M
Supervision        03/94          3          12          TM, E, H              2               1              M
Supervision        10/94          1          7             TM                                                 M 1  M
Supervision        03/95          1          5              TM                 S               1              M
Supervision        07/95          1          5             TM                 S                1              M
Supervision        02/96          1          4             TM                 S                1              M
Supervision        05/96          1          4             TM                 S                1              M
Supervision        07/96          2          5            TM, E               S                1
1/      1 - Problem free; 2 - Moderate problems; S - Satisfactory
L.O. - Loan Officer; L - Legal; P - Procurement Specialist; W - Water Supply Specialist; S - Seismic Specialist; A -
Architecture;
ED - Education Specialist; U - Urban Planner; H - Housing Specialist; E - Engineer; F - Financial Specialist; TM -
Task Manager.
M - Managerial; T - Technical; F - Financial



38
List of Implementing Agencies
PROJECT COMPONENT                           AGENCY
Housing                          VMVDU, through Housing
Intermediaries (Fonavipo,
CHF, and FSV)
Public Buildings                 MOP, through DUA
Schools                          Ministry of Education
Roads                            MOP, through DGC
Water                            ANDA
Telecommunications               ANTEL
Micro-Enterprises                Central Bank, Multisectoral Investment Bank,
and Financial Intermediaries (BAC, Banco
Salvadorefno and FIGAPE)
Training                         Ministry of Labor
LHarper
M:AMANZOORACR-ES1.DC
December 13, 1996 11:31 AM



39
APPENDIX A
EL SALVADOR - EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2873-ES)
AIDE-MEMOIRE
PROJECT COMPLETION MISSION
July 8-12, 1996
I.    THE MISSION
1.1   A Mission from the World Bank (the Bank) traveled to El Salvador to supervise the
Earthquake Reconstruction Project (Loan 2873-ES) during July 8-12, 1996. The mission
comprised Messrs. Fernando Montenegro and Joseph Perrone.
1.2   The main purpose of the Mission was to undertake a global evaluation of the project, whose
implementation was completed on June 30, 1996, to prepare the Project's Implementation
Completion Report. This Aide-Memoire describes the progress observed, the agreements
reached and the actions to be taken to proceed with Project execution.
1.3   The Mission acknowledges the support and cooperation received from the following
Direcci6n General de Reconstrucci6n-DGR (General Reconstruction Directorate);
Ministerio de Obras Publicas -MOP (Ministry of Public Works); Vice Ministerio de
Vivienda y Desarrollo Urbano-VMVDU (Assistant Ministry of Housing and Urban
Development); FONAVIPO (National Fund for Affordable Housing); Housing Social Fund
(FSV); Ministerio de Educaci6n-MINED (Ministry of Education); Ministerio de Trabajo
(Labor Ministry); Secretaria General de la Familia (Family General Secretariat); Banco
Multisectorial de Inversiones (Multisectoral Investment Bank); and National
Telecommunications Agency (ANTEL). The list of officials contacted during this Mission is
shown in Annex I.
IL    PROGRESS AND ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION OBJECIIVES
2.1   The Mission considers that most Project objectives have been achieved. A listing of the
objectives achieved by component, along with some of comments/lessons learned by the
Mission and the Government appears in the next section. Annex II provides more details of
several specific components.
2.3   The Mission stated its concern for the unfinished Apopa-San Jos6 Las Flores highway (see
Section III). Although the highway indicates that considerable progress has been made
since the previous supervision Mission, long periods of rain have obstructed its full
completion. The Government has committed itself to complete the highway with its own
funds within the next two months. To that end, it will send to the Bank for its review and
comments, a proposed plan of action, before August 1,1996 showing the extended period
of works and the financing required, to be provided by the Government, with the possible
exception of materials bought and maintained at the works site before June 30,1996, whose
financing will be requested from the Bank. The Mission supports this request



40
mL    PROJECr COMPONENTS
Housing and Construction
3.1   This component has been satisfactorily completed. From an estimated total of 4,000 houses
to be built or rebuilt, 5,277 new houses were built and 1,436 others were renovated.
3.2   As to the FONAVIPO/CHF subcomponent, 1,436 households with incomes lower than
tiree minimum wages (96% with incomes lower than two minimum wages) qualified for
loans and subsidies for housing renovation in the area of San Salvador; all the resources
allocated under this component were used. Most beneficiary families have already
completed the approved expansions to their houses. The percentage of borrowers in arrears
in the portfolio is less than two percent We can derive the following lessons learned from
this subcomponent (1) that it is convenient to clearly differentiate the subsidy component
from the loan component when supporting housing remedies for low income families; (2) to
control arrears in the loan component, it is convenient to establish liability clauses to
reimburse the subsidy component in case of loan default; and (3) it is important to provide
technical assistance to beneficiaries along with the credit. Based on the experience with this
line of credit, FONAVIPO has recently created a similar line of credit/subsidy, with its own
funds, for families with incomes lower than 2 minimum wages.
3.3    As to the Fondo Social de la Vivienda (FSV) component, which was also completed
satisfactorily, 1,690 mortgage loans were awarded to families with incomes lower than three
minimum wages (85% with incomes lower than two minimum wages) for an average value
of ELS$46,617.43. All the proceeds allocated (ELS$12,270,000 from the loan and
ELS$33,060,000 from the Japanese grant), were used.
3.4    With respect to the Nuevo Amanecer subcomponent, carried out by FNV until its
dissolution and then by FONAVIPO, 3,587 houses were provided to families with incomes
lower than two minimum wages affected by the earthquake (as prequalified by the NGO
Habitat). This program suffered delays in its execution and arrears in the portfolio during
the privatization process of the four financial
intermediaries (first floor organizations) that worked with FNV and FONAVIPO. The
problem was solved when the privatized financial intermediaries bought, at a discounted
value, the portfolio in arrears controlled by a Government trustee. We have the following
lessons learned: (1) the convenience of working with financial intermediaries from the non-
governmental sector to reduce political pressures and arrears in the portfolio; and (2) the
convenience of separate in a transparent manner the market and subsidy components in
loans for affordable housing (see para. 3.2).
Highways
3.5   The objectives of this subcomponent were to rebuild and improve the San Salvador-Apopa
and Apopa-San Jose de las Flores highways. The widening of the first section to four lanes



41
was completed more than two years ago. Recently, horizontal signaling was provided to
this section and a 60-meter segment was completed, where there were only two lanes due to
a house located on the right of way. The Mission reiterated once again the comments made
during previous missions regarding the need to consider additional road safety measures
for the highway (more warning signals and/or installation of median strips or "islands" in
the median), given the heavy traffic and the high number of pedestrans.
3.6   The Mission visited the civil works of the reconstruction/enhancement of the Apopa-San
Jose Las Flores highway section. The works on this highway were began by a contractor
that went bankrupt, then were taken up by the financier who was unable to complete them
and, finally, new bids were called to complete them. Considerable progress has been made
in the works since the mission of January/February 1996, even though they have not been
completed. The delays are mainly due to the prolonged rainy season during 1995 and 1996.
The Government confirmed its intention to complete the works during the next two
months, with its own funds. The Mission considers that works can be completed within this
time framework, as all the terracing works have been completed and the only thing left is
the pavement of some segments of the highway. The Mission noted that the Bank may
finance works or services provided and materials purchased before 6/30/96.
3.7   Among the lessons learned in this component, we note that in road works: (1) the lack of
good engineering designs lead to delays and cost overruns; (2) full right of way should be
available before the start of civil works; and (3) the company qualification requirements
should be appropriate to the volumes of work involved.
Schools and Public Buildings
Schools
3.8   The original objectives of this component were to rehabilitate 393 classrooms in San Salvador
and Apopa. The legal documents were subsequently modified to include the
rehabilitation/reconstruction of 2,000 classrooms throughout the country as a project
objective. These objectives were largely exceeded with the reconstruction of 2,512
classrooms. Additionally, school fumiture was purchased for 350 schools. Among the
lessons learned in this component are: (1) the use of reasonable construction plans; (2) the
use of appropriate qualifying criteria (not too "flexible) to avoid problems during the
construction phase; and (3) cause payments to contractors from the special account so as to
reduce the payment cycle.
Public Buildings
3.9   This component was satisfactorily completed in October 1995. The objectives of this
component included demolishing and reconstruction of buildings in four sites and
construction of a new building. These objectives were largely exceeded with the
reconstruction/construction of 26 Government buildings. The Mission visited the
completed works and ascertained their quality. The buildings in Judicial Center (completed
on 12/10/96) and at the Government Center (completed in 10/96) are already occupied.



42
3.10   Distrito Italia, a housing development where 60 families that lived in a slum as squatters in
the Government Center (Comunidad Guadalupe) were relocated, has been inaugurated and
is fully occupied. It includes a school a community center, and all necessary services,
including electricity, drinking water and a wastewater treatment plant. The Mission visited
the District and talked to ADEL staff who commented on the social development status of
the community. Even though the Secretaria Nacional de la Familia (SNF) through the Banks
for Progress, did not sign the Action Plan not objected by the Bank to create
nicroenterprises to benefit Distrito Italia, and especially the seven families from Comunidad
Guadalupe who were identified as being adversely affected economically by the relocation,
the related works were carried out Four community banks were created in Distrito Italia,
where these seven identified families were helped. On its part, ADEL has also worked in
Distrito Italia, delivering training courses and promoting the creation of microenterprises.
Four families from Comunidad Guadalupe benefitted from ADEL's loans for
microenterprises and 20 families attended training courses on the handling of productive
and labor units. The final resettlement report is expected shortly. See Section V of this Aide-
Memoire.
Microenterprises
3.11   The objective of this component was to grant loans for equipment, machinery and
operational capital to microenterprises in the San Salvador Area. Originally, the equivalent
of US$9 million was assigned to this component. The implementation of the component
was carried out by the Central Bank and by Banco Multisectorial de Inversiones - BMI, as
second floor institutions, and by Banco Agricola Comercial - BAC, Banco Salvadoreno, and
FIGAPE as first floor institutions. Of the latter, the BAC portfolio was the most important.
The loans amounted to approximately US$6 million equivalent. When BMI became a
second floor institution, by national Law, no agreement was reached quickly enough to
recognize its costs in the management of the portfolio, and the decision was made to close
the line. The component shows positive results: the Bank's line of credit helped to develop a
loan market to microenterprises in the satellite towns of San Salvador. It enjoyed a certain
degree of importance until 1991-1992 when privatization of the banks made more funds
available to the microenterprise sector. Among the lessons learned are: lines of credit should
offer attractive intermediation spreads to first floor institutions, otherwise the latter will tend
to want to place their own funds first
Training
3.12   This component has been completed, exceeding largely all objectives established in the Loan
Agreement. The original objective of the component was to train 6,000 persons in
construction techniques. During the first phase of the component, 3,776 individuals were
trained through FEPADE. In the second phase, PROCINCO, through specialized
institutions delivered 713 courses to 11,792 individuals for an overall total of 15,568
individuals trained. An analysis of the qualitative impact of training in terrns of
employment possibilities for the people trained verify the success of the program.



43
Telecommunications
3.13   The objective of this component was to purchase three mobile telephone exchanges for 4,000
telephone lines. This objective was largely exceeded as three telephone exchanges were
acquired for a total of 13,000 lines, including transmission equipment
ANDA
3.14   During Project evaluation, financial support to ANDA for the rehabilitation of drinking
water connections to 2,500 low income families in the Apopa area was discussed. However,
ANDA carried out this activity with its own funds, without requesting loan resources.
Studies and Technical Assistance
3.15   The following studies were carried out under the framework of the Project development of
the seismic code, evaluation of high seismic risk areas in the country (by the UNAM),
evaluation of lending plans for housing and evaluation of the structural condition of public
buildings (with Government funds). The following studies planned in the loan evaluation
were not carried out: update of the national emergency plan and the development of a
housing loan repayment system. Among the most important achievements of the
component is the development of the national seismic code. The Legislative Assembly
amended the Construction Law, allowing the seismic code and the construction regulations
developed within the framework of the Project, to be incorporated as regulations of that
Law. The draft regulations have already been discussed with the Executive Branch and are
expected to be issued within the next two months.
3.16   Technical assistance was provided to all the executing agencies as well as training to
microenterprises. With the help of technical assistance, financial models applied in the
housing component were improved. The Geotechnical Research Center received equipment
and technical assistance for its monitoring stations.
IV.   DISBURSEMENTS
4.1    Annex III shows the status of disbursements of Loan 2873-ES and of the Japanese Grant
related to the same at June 30, 1996. The Mission reiterated that any remaining request for
disbursements must be received in the Bank before October 31, 1996.



44
V.   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR) - OPERATIONAL AND
MAINTENANCE PLAN (O&MP)
5.1   The Mission provided support in the preparation and submitted its comments to the
Government on its contribution to the ICR, to the proposed operational and maintenance
plan (O&MP) for the use of the works and services implemented under the Project and the
final report on the resettlement (FRR) of Comunidad Guadalupe. The summary of the
Government's contribution to the ICR, including the proposed O&MP, appears in Annex IV.
The Bank will receive the ICR and FRR before luly 17,1996.
San Salvador, July 11, 1996
Eng. Enrique Vega GonzAlez           Eng. Ra(il Godoy
Direcci6n General de Reconstrucci6n  Ministerio de Obras Pfblicas
Fernando Montenegro                  Joseph Perrone
World Bank                                 World Bank



45
APPENDDI B
SUMMARY
BORROWER'S SUPPLEMENTARY IMPLEMENTATION REPORT
EL SALVADOR
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
LOAN 2873-ES
JULY 11, 1996
Management Direcci6n General de Reconstrucci6n
Division:    lnfrastructure
Department: Technical/Supervision/Monitoring of Civil Works
Region:     Central America



46
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
January 1988          US$1 = ELS$6.80
August 1992          US$1 = ELS$7.26
February 1996         US$1 = ELS$8.77
WEIGHTS AND MEASUREMENTS EQUIVALENCIES
Lineal meter       3.33 feet
Foot               9.0 inches
Square meter       1.4308 square rods
Block              10,000 square meters
Task               0.25 square
Hectare            10,000 square rods
Kilogram           2.25 pounds
Pound              16 ounces
Liter              4 bottles
Bottle             0.32 gallons
Gallons                   4.25 liters
OTHER UNITS:
Electrical Unit Dice, plate and jack or switch
Living Space       Static type living space for human use
Educational Space    Classroom, lab or academic, not
administrative
BORROWERS FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
Comments on the Project Closing of books is made as provided for by the Ministry of Finance for
public agencies. DGR as such does not require nor monitors audited books of its contractors.
Therefore, individual fiscal closures may vary, including those of NGOs.



47
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
DGR         Direcci6n General de Reconstrucci6n, now MOP (Ministry of Public Works)
MIPLAN      Ministerio de Planificaci6n (Ministry of Planning)
MOP         Ministry of Public Works. Execution Unit
DUA         Direcci6n General de Urbanismo y Arquitectura (Urban Development and
Architecture General Directorate)
UR/UE       Unidad de Reconstrucci6n/Unidad Ejecutora (Reconstruction Unit/Execution Unit)
MINED       Ministry of Education
ANDA Asociaci6n Nacional de Acueducto y Alcantarilla (National Association of Aqueducts
Sewer)
CAESS Compania de Alumbrado Electrico de El Salvador (Electric Lighting of El Salvador)
ANTEL       Asociaci6n Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (National Telecommunications
Association)
DGC         Direcci6n General de Caminos, MOP (National Roads General Directorate, Ministry
of Public Works)
CIG         Centro de Investigaciones Geotecnicas (Geotechnical Research Center)
GOES        Government of El Salvador
UIE         Unidad de Infraestructura Educativa, MINED (Educational Infrastructure Unit,
Ministry of Education)
HABITAT    Fundaci6n pro Vivienda, NGO (Pro Housing Foundation)
BCR         Banco Central de Reserva (Central Reserve Bank)
PROCINCO   Programa de Capacitaci6n en la Industria de la Construcci6n. Ministerio de Trabajo
(Construction Industry Training Program, Ministry of Labor)
BAC         Banco Agricola Comercial (Agricultural Commercial Bank)
CHF         Cooperative Housing Foundation. NGO
PACC        Action Plan
SRN         Secretaria de Reconstrucci6n Nacional (National Reconstruction Secretariat)



48
TABLE OF CONTENTS
REPORT PREPARED BY GOES
1.  INTRODUCTION
2.   EVALUATION SUMMARY
2.1 PART IPROJECI IMPLEMENTATION
2.2  PART II   STATISTICAL ANNEXES (TABLES)
3.   APPENDICES
3.1  I)   TABLE OF MEASURABLE VALUES BY COMPONENT
3.2  ID   MAP(S) AND REFERENCE CHARTS
3.3  IID   MISCELLANEOUS APPENDICES
3.4  IV)  AIDE-MEMOIRES OF MISSIONS
REF. APPENDIX B. BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR



49
SUPPLEMENTARY IMPLEMENTATION COMPLEMION REPORT
EL SALVADOR
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCIION PROJECT
LOAN 2873-ES
1- INTRODUCTION
This is the Supplementary Implementation Completion Report (SICR) on the Earthquake
Reconstruction Project in El Salvador for which Loan 2873-ES was signed in San Salvador on
October 16, 1987, in the amount of ELS$565 million, or US$65 million equivalent, became effective
on April 22, 1988.
The Loan Agreement was closed on June 30, 1996. It is expected that by October 31, 1996, all
pending commitments will be fulfilled and project funds will be fully disbursed. The Government of
Elsalvador cofinanced the Project, through multiple sources, both from the General National Budget
and the Extraordinary Budget as well as from other donors.
This report is the contribution from the Borrower to the ICR which will be prepared by the
Infrastructure Division of the World Bank This report was reviewed by the General Reconstruction
Director, a Unit within the Ministry of Public Works on behalf of El Salvador. The Borrower has
issued comments from its related agencies and these have been included in the appendices.
Preparation of the ICR began after the Bank's February 1996 supervision mission and is based on
information from the Project files. The Borrower was participated in the ICR preparation with all
the information requested, files, field visits, follow-up and monitoring of works, as well as
coordination among the different Execution Units charged with handling the specific subprojects of
each component
2- EVALUATION SUMMARY
2.1   PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
L     INTRODUCTION
As a consequence of the San Salvador earthquake of October 10, 1986, El Salvador sought
alternatives with friendly countries and financial institutions to initiate the reconstruction process of
its capital city, which was seriously damaged by the earthquake.
The IBRD as an outstanding institution that provides funds for infrastructure reconstruction and the
development of qualified countries, was one of the main organizations from which the Ministry of
Planning sought assistance in 1986.



50
The infrastructure Division of the Bank was assigned the responsibility to undertake this project
Due to good management of funds and the adopted control methods, the original achievement
targets were exceeded in several of its components.
II.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES
According to the Action Plan submitted by GOES, loan proceeds were to be used to fund several
subprojects which included under the components for:
- Roads                        - Public Buildings
- Schools                      - Housing/Water
- Microenterprises             - Loans
- Telephony                    - Seismic Studies
- Supplementary studies and training
Several joint, subsidiary and/or cofinancing agreements were signed for these components with
multiple entities such as:
- VMVDE           - MOP    - DUA
- CHF             - ANDA       - CAESS
- ANTEL           - MICDES   - SNF
- PROCINCO        - BAC        - FONAVIPO
- HABITAT         - FSV - BCR, among others
T'hus, all of them sought to speed up the processes or provide coverage to the needs arising after the
first implementation stage.
Changes which were not exclusively as a result of the earthquake, war and migrations were also
included through amendments, agreed by the Bank, had consequences in terms of extensions to the
project Also it caused the rescheduling and restructuring of funds that had to be requested to be
able to meet the proposed objectives. Some of the components had to be eliminated
(Microenterprises) at the request of GOES, reducing the PACC by up to 20 to 30% (see
measurement).
The strategy of having a specialized coordinating and managerial office allowed the maximization
of the use of funds. DGR's experience in managing the funds of the USAID Grants 0333 and 0331
was very helpful.
The financial monitoring and control structure executed by SETEFE as Auditor and the monitoring
by the Accounts Court, even with the obstacles, has allowed the Reconstruction Project to be singled
out as one of the best achievements of the Administration. In qualitative and quantitative terms it
has brought many benefits to the Salvadorean population.



51
IIL   QUANTIFIABLE ACHIEVEMENTS
Summary of the Measurement
The data presented in Annex I are measurable parameters of the performance by component of the
Earthquake Reconstruction Project, with estimated costs quantified at 100% in Colones of the
amounts by component
The data presented derive from the objectives established in the Loan Agreement up to the records
maintained on the closing date of the subprojects. (See Part III, Appendix I).
IV.   IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
The objectives which were set at the beginning were achieved and exceeded in most components.
Sustainability of works is more than 90% and subprojects are ensured and committed to continue to
generate social benefits. As in the case of infrastructure, training, education, commerce and health
care programs have already been planned.
In economic terms, the controlled management of the loan amount coupled with other good
practices such as: competitive bidding; superior technical and financial methods; allowed the
negative effect of inflation rates to be absorbed in part. Further, the project management made it
possible for the subprojects to be kept within acceptable ranges without greatly reducing quality.
However, the lack of adequate consulting and poor project preparation caused some works to be
underestimated, which adversely affected other components (see Appendix II). The involvement of
too many monitoring agencies also caused undesirable delays. Nevertheless, the amount set aside
for contingencies absorbed the cost over-runs to a certain extent, and the rest of the marginal works
were paid with funds from GOES (public buildings and roads).
At the benefit level, despite large scope and coverage and the Governments divided attention to
other projects, the results achieved largely exceed the expectations. The assistance program was
effective, with medium and long term benefits for the population and is considered as highly
satisfactory.
V.   SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, OPERATIONS OR FUTURE PROJECT S AS WELL AS KEY
LESSONS LEARNED.
- Technical: Studies and Consultant services should be carried out with a high sense of
responsibility and commitment in order to overcome the hidden defects. The designers should be
held responsible for errors and gaps made, which should not be blamed on the technical teams or
contractors. Contractual conditions should be strengthened in this regard.
- Administrative: Control of project's indirect and operating costs should be monitored and
projected during the Plan's effectiveness, so as valuable time is saved during implementation.



52
- Financial/economic: The speed of collection, payment, and transfer processes is personalized,
causing delays. It is important to delegate greater responsibilities to the Executing Units (EU), to
improve efficiency. Prior training would allow the elimination of possible errors.
- Political: At the macro level the program or any project to be executed, should be clearly
outlined at the time of its development. Loan 2873 achieved its objectives thanks to this factor, even
though there was not a matrix or methodology to gauge it
Due to their impact, the priorities within the components should be clearly planned. The case of the
Microenterprises program, which was greatly reduced, is a practical decision that can and should be
previously foreseen.
It should be apparent that the borrower will be able to cover any collateral expenses of a project so
that it remains in operation. A "Sustainability Action Plan" should be developed.
- Social: Rarely are the social costs or opportunity costs versus population to benefit are evaluated.
This should be included in the evaluation matrix. Mobility studies, impact evaluations, field
surveys, risk maps, EX - ANTE and EX - POST are recoverable elements.
- Legal A "model" cannot be applied to all cases and latitudes, thus it is necessary to study the
local market conditions and that of its jurisdictions, to learn its working modalities and the demands
of its population. The concepts of requirements such as: guarantees; retention percentages or
advances; types of repayment; expropriations; mandatory transfers and other, need not be
restricted.
- Bureaucrats in the Bank and in GOES: Too many steps to obtain non-relevant approvals is an
unnecessary waste of time and resources. Personalized decision-making at levels that are
unfamiliar with the project should be rejected. Execution Units and Coordinators should be made
responsible and re-engineering concepts fit within this review.
Future Operation and Maintenance. See Appendix I-A.
INDICATORS BY COMPONENT
Operational plans for the sustainability of investments have been developed according to the
different components, both for the type of works carried out as well as for the type of beneficiaries
assisted in each case.
Financing resources are not available for follow-up stage of the project (as from Loan 2873- ES). But
the resources from other sources are necessary to maintain and achieve growth of the benefits
attained.
- EDUCATION: (See MINED Evaluation, Part II: Statistical Tables.) It establishes that the
"Healthy Schools" Program to Modernize the Educational System by the year 2001, financed by the
Bank, has benefited from the works of Loan 2873 and will continue improving the facilities, the
quality of teachers, and the school equipment.



53
The increase of the overall enrollment by year of study is an indicator that to date has revealed
increases in almost all educational centers. Comparative data is being gathered by MINED.
- HOUSING: Recovery of loans and decrease in defaults to under 2.5% on average (FONAVIPO
and CHF) is a factual indicator. Unfortunately tiis indicator does not allow to see the collateral
effects derived from the creation of self-sustaining economic centers, new developments or the
supplement of those already created (Nuevo Amanecer and Distrito Italia).
- PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE: The 100% occupation rate and the consolidation of all services in
a single building, which before were scattered all over the city, are the performance parameters or
indicators that have resulted in speeding-up of services and responses.
Annex III shows the actions being performed by MINED (for instance) to maintain the
infrastructure in the Master Plan.
The construction of an area exceeding 42,300 square meters (Government Center, Judiciary Center,
DUA) and the rehabilitation of at least 18,900 square meters of space in reconstructed buildings
(Postal Office, Accounts Court), is an indicator of GOES's commitment to the outcome of the project
In GovernmentYs budget for 1997, a specific amount needs to be earmarked for facilities,
maintenance, equipment, painftng, cleaning, forestation, etc. Because in many cases the social
benefits can not be quantified, but the state is conmmitted to their sustainability as per the operational
plan (see Annexes).
- SERVICES: In view of the need, GOES has used its own funds to finance telephone system,
drinking water, treatment of wastewater, and supply of electricity. Specialized units within each
Ministry are responsible for ensuring that these systems and services do not deteriorate and that the
investments made last their lifetime (see Annex III).
In the case of ANDA, during the emergency, it carried out the installation of 2,500 drinking water
pipes in D -7, using the State funds for rehabilitation.
- HIGHWAYS AND CIVIL WORKS: The project, divided into 2 sections, was covered almost
entirely with IBRD funds, and its completion is expected within 2 months after Project closure. The
danger indices are now easily standardized and controlled with GOES involvement in the coverage
(signaling/protection) included in the action plans currently being developed and that will be
financed with IDB funds (see MOP Survey and Annex III).
Since this is one of the elements of greater concern for the development of the new focus areas, it is
being continued with a full comprehensive program which will be funded by the IDB and which is
being developed by the MOP (the call for bids is currently being prepared). This will ensure
preventive maintenance and improvement of the roads with respect to signaling and pedestrian
safety. (See Services and Annex II).
A "Sustainability PACC" should be included in the Outline so that it is not left out



54
- TRAINING: A magnifying effect is the best guarantee which has been proven since the
indicators were surpassed. Net courses have been planned and individuals are being trained. The
logistics for the development and the implementation of courses derived from those organized by
the Bank would ensure its operational sustainability. The Emiliani Institute, through its best
students, has implemented mini-courses in different urban areas of San Salvador, with promising
results (see PROCINCO Survey Data, Annex I).
- TELECOMMUNICATIONS: The achievements obtained by a well managed company did not
run into problems. The development of the subproject was in accordance with the needs. The
funds had even reprogrammable remnants and currently ANTEL has a broad maintenance
program consisting of ELS$75 million for the operating telephone exchanges. One hundred percent
of the three wagons are operating with full technical support.
Other Lessons
a) In similar reconstruction projects due to emergencies: limit what is actually the emergency work
and the response capability. Define real implementation times, to avoid making the PACC another
emergency. It should be remembered that DGR already had an experience with AID.
b) In infrastructure sector projects: consultancies and design responsibilities which are not
established in the Bank Guidelines have left to other agencies with the responsibility of solving
problems which do not fall under their jurisdiction because of the gap in the Operation Manuals.
c) It would be convenient that reports, studies, or publications undertaken under the Loan
Agreement or any other instrument, be monitored from the beginning and be subject to review by
the coordinating agency (in this case, DGR). Unfortunately, the records related to studies such as
FONAVIPO's Annual Recovery Plan (interest rates), the Evaluation of Public Buildings Damaged
by the Earthquake, and the Impact of Loans for Microenterprises, among others, are unknown at
the closing of the project
d) As already mentioned, a model may not be replicable everywhere. Familiarity with the
characteristics of the host country, local construction methods as well as the existing infrastructure
would be of great benefit for the execution of more realistic agreements. During implementation the
amendment clause may be used to overcome the deficiencies in the agreements, on any specific
conditionality or where a need of additional funds is the issue.
It is pertinent that the Bank's Board review its own interests as to the flexibility that this represents.
San Salvador, July 11, 1996
(3rd Revised Version)



55
Appendix I
COMPARATIVE TABLE OF MEASURABLE DATA BY COMPONENT
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT (LOAN 2873-ES)
As of uly-11, 1996
COMPONENT                  AMOUNT (US$)                           Objectives                      PERFORMANCE
AND/OR
OPERATIONAL
________   INDICATORS
INITIAL        FINAL OR          INITIAL W/O             FINAL
AGREEMENT        AMENDED           AGREEMENT           RESCHEDULING
HOUSING, Loans                                       4,000,000 houses and   3,500.00 Non Dona    Portfolio Recovery with less
1,11 and III           7,450,000.00    9,171,361.54  apartments, N.A.     1,436 CHF              than 2.5x of arrears
EDUCATION                              5,593,127,37  343 dasses           2,000.00 classrooms    Raising admissions.
Rec. Rehab, furn.                                   rescheduled. 2000     with special educat.   Decrease massive dropout.
and equipment                                        domestic dassrooms   2,512
.______________  19,500.000.00    19,949,092.17                                    _
PUBLIC                                               Tearing down 4 and    Tearing down 7 and    70,000 sq. In public service
BUILDING                                             rebuilding 4         building 6 new         area used up 100%
Const. Reconst. and                                                       buildings
equipment
HIGHWAYS                6,300,000.00    10,344,736.85  16.5 km widened to   11.5 km. SS -APOPA 5   Decreased accidents.
Tranches Apopa 1                                     2 and 4 lanes        krm. to S.Jose 2 cot   Enhanced service level.
and II
DRINKING                                      0.00  300 pipes and 2       1,500 (illegible)      Given the requirements and
WATER (ANDA)                                         wells with treatment                        bureaucracy ANDA did not
Emergency Facts        4,000,000.00                  plant                                       accept funds
4,000,00.00 4,276,174.42
TELECOM                                              3 mobile units (3,000   3 MU applied 2,300  ANTEL brngs into equity
(ANTEL)                                              lines ..illegible..)  lines                 ELS$75 million
MICRO-                 9,000,000.00    4,318,959.88   ELS$5 nilllion =    1,344 loans            Portfolio recovering and
ENTERPRISES                                          US$600 million loans                        arrears kept under 25%
(LOANS)                                             approx.
BAC/BCRI
TRAINING               2,400,000.00    1,499,906.52  6,040 individuals in   11,792 individuals   Objectives exceeded amply
(PROCINCO)                                          three year programs   trained in 4 years     with additional courses
STUDIES, TA                            2,673,127.36   6 studies and 5     4 reviews, 6           As MANUAL, illegible..
AND PROJECT                                          technical preferences  consultancies, 4 audits   Code is made effective
ADMIN                  2,650,000.00      199,183.69
GOODS                  1,950,000.00    2,242,177.54   Building equiprnent   Telephone equipment   Building with
..illegible..working
JAPAN                                                                     OGR Adm. Payments    Logistical Support to UE
CONSULTANCIES        1,500 MIL.YEN    16,500,335.21   Other consultants
TOTAL                  65,000,000.00                 See Appendix 11.
Original Closing Date: December 31,1993
GOES paid 3/4 of 1% per year of 78%
Initially ELS$11,250.00 for contingencies were rescheduled for goods and services.
There is a remnant for disbursement conrmitted.



56
RECONSTRUCTION GENERAL DIRECTORATE                                          APPENDD( 1- A
ADMIN. & FINANCIAL CONTROL DEPT.
IBRD LOAN 2873- ES
DISBURSEMENT CONTROL AND DISBURSEMENTS BY INVESTMENT CATEGORY - AS PER DGR RECORDS
(All amounts expressed in US$)
TOTAL DISBURSED
CURRENT            BY THE WORLD          BALANCE TO BE
INVESTMIENT CATEGORY               ALLOCATION (1)         BANK W/O DOR            DISBUTRSED
RECORD UP TO             3
SCOL.49 (2)(3  (-2
1    HOUSING PART -A                            9,177,455.00         9,171,361.54              6,093.46
2    CIVIL WORKS                               40,138,839.00          35,886,956.3          4,251,882.61
(i) PART A(2) HOUSING MOD.                       0.00                 0.00                   0.00
(ii) PART B(1) SCHOOLS                    6,450,000.00         5,593,127.37             856,872.63
(ii) PART B(2) PUBLIC                    21,624,881.00         19,949,092.1           1,675,788.83
BUILDINGS                                12,063,958.00                   7             1,719,221.15
(iii) PART C(1) HIGHWAYS                         0.00          10,344,736.8                  0.00
3    (iii) PART C(2) WATER                      8,325,986.00                  5              248,206.29
GOODS                                                                 0.00
8,077,779.71
A(9) PART C(1) HIGHWAY                            0.00                0.00                   0.00
A(ii) PART C (2) WATER                            0.00                0.00                   0.00
A(iii) TELEC. (DIRECT                      4,335,189.00        4,276,174.42              59,014.58
PAYMENTS)                                         0.00                 0.00                   0.00
B(i) PART (2) HOUJSING MOD.                2,298,978.00         2,298,977.56                 0.44
B(ii) PART B(1) SCHOOLS                     243,020.00            43,200.98             199,819.02
B(iii) PART B(2) PUBLIC                     107,563.00           104,640.82               2,922.18
BUILDINGS                                  1,341,236.00         1,354,785.93           (13,549,93)
4    B(iv) PART E, TRAINING                     4,322,650.00         4,318,959.08              3,690.92
B(v) PART F, STUDIES & TA
PART D, LOANS TO MICROENT.
5    PART E, TRAINING                           1,438,110.00         1,395,265.70             42,844.30
6    PART F(1) & (2) STUDIES & TA               1,370,960.00         1,318,341.40             52,618.60
7    PART F(3) PROJ. MGMT.                       226,000.00           199,183.69              26,816.31
TOTAL                    65,000,000.00         60,367,847.5           4,632,152.49
1
ADVANCE                                            662,263.11           (662,263.11)
TOTAL                    65,000,000.00         61,030,110.6           3,969,889.38
2
* RESCHEDULING APPROVED ACCORDING TO WORLD BANK TELEX DATED AUGUST 8,1995
NOTE: The "Balance to be Disbursed" corresponds to commnitments acquired up to June 30, 1996 and which are
pending payment. Closure of books on 10/31/96 will provide real figure.



57
RECONSTRUCTION GENERAL DIRECTORATE                                   APPENDIX 1-B
ADMIN. & FINANCIAL CONTROL DEPT.
LOAN 2873-ES AND GOES COUNTERPART FUNDS 22%
ACCORDING TO DGR RECORDS
(EXPRESSED IN US. DOLLARS AND ELS$)
INVESTMENT CATEGORY              LOAN 2873-ES (78%)   GOES COUNTERPART FUNDS
EXPRESSED IN US$         22% EXPRESSED IN ELS$
1    HOUSING PART A-1                             9,177,455,00                 46,900,290.84
2    CIVIL WORKS                                 40,138,839.00                111,077,836.05
(i) PART A(2) HOUSING MOD.                         0.00                          0.00
(ii) PART B(1) SCHOOLS                      6,450,000.00                 18,500,000,00
(ii) PART B(2) PUBLIC                      21,624,881.00                 56,924,142.88
BUILDINGS                                  12,063,958.00                 35,653,693.17
(iii) PART C(1) HIGHWAYS                           0.00                          0.00
3    (iii) PART C(2) WATER                        8,325,986.00                         0.00
GOODS
A(9) PART C(1) HIGHWAY                             0.00                          0.00
A(ii) PART C (2) WATER                             0.00                          0.00
A(iii) TELEC. (DIRECT                       4,335,189.00                         0.00
PAYMENTS)                                          0.00                          0.00
B(i) PART (2) HOUSING MOD.                  2,298,978.00                         0.00
B(ii) PART B(1) SCHOOLS                      243,020.00                          0.00
B(iii) PART B(2) PUBLIC                      107,563.00                          0,00
BUILDINGS                                   1,341,236.00                         0.00
4    B(iv) PART E TRAINING                        4,322,650.00                         0.00
B(v) PART F STUDIES & TA
PART D LOANS TO
MICROENTER.
5    PART E TRAINING                              1,438,110.00                  2,633,249.13
6    PART F(1) & (2) STUDIES & TA                 1,370,960.00                         0.00
7    PART F(3) PROJ. MGMT.                         226,000.00                          0.00
TOTAL                        65,000,000.00                160,611,376.02
ADVANCE                                                              0.00
TOTAL                        65,000,000.00                160,611,376.02
RESCHEDULING APPROVED ACCORDING TO WORLD BANK TELEX DATED AUGUST 8,1995



58
APPENDIX 1-C
MAINTENANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY PLAN FOR PROJECTS EXECUTED
WITH FUNDS FROM LOAN 2873-ES
(FUTURE OPERATIONS)
COMPONENT INVESTMENT TO            FINANCING SOURCE              REMARKS/PREFERENCES
BE COVERED
- Highway Construction          Own Resources 1997           126 million/year
DGC-MOP                        IBD Funds                     Under bidding
- Public Buildings (see Annex III)  1996 Current Budget      ELS$2.5 million
Master Plan                    Justice Item 012              ELS$1.5 million for 1996 Bidding
- Public Schools (MINED)        IBRD Program to 2001          Improvement of Basic Education
Healthy Schools, UN
- Telecommunications ANTEL      Operations and Maintenance    Modernization Plan has ELS$75
Plan (ANTEL)                 million
- Studies and Technical         GOES/ ASIMEI/ ASIA            They will be promoted as Manual
Assistance                                                    applicable to construction. Auditing
will modify FONAVIPO and MT
processes.
NOTE: The rest of components have no record of operational, working or maintenance plans given the
unique features of the subprojects. In the remaining cases, loan recovery or arrears reduction is the only
viable reference.



IBRD 20374
- -  METOPOLITAN SAN SALVADOR
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION
percentag  - - - - ndustral Zones
1-24            Steeets arnd Mhror Eloods
San>/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~54
T~~~~~~ zorra,,  -  Son Sdvadar  f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EwtininMt
~~               -~~~~                          diametert 2    3~~~~~~~5-7  -
Miles~~~~~~~~Itrnbia Budre
Kliarneters~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lt






I



I14L I rN
ReDort No:        16198
T V-e: ICR



