Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4629-0w
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt65.0 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
FOR AN EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
August 28, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Colon (C)
1 Colon = 0.20 US$
US$1    =  5.00 C
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANDA        Administraci6n Nacional de Acueductos y Alcantarillados
(National Water and Sewerage Authority)
ANTEL       Administracion Nacional de Telecomunicaciones
(National Telecommunications Administration)
BAC         Banco Agricola Comercial
(Agricultural and Commercial Bank)
CREM        Comite de Reconstrucci6n de Emergencia del Area Metropolitana
(Committee for Emergency Reconstruction of the Metropolitan Area)
FIGAPE      Fondo de Financiamiento y Garantia para la Pequefla Empresa
(Fund for the Financing and Guaranty of Small-Scale Enterprises)
FNV         Financiera Nacional de la Vivienda
(National Housing Finance Agency)
FUNDASAL    Fundaci6n Salvadoreas de Desarrollo y Vivienda Minima
(Salvadoran Foundation for Development and Low-Cost Housing)
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
MIPLAN      Ministry of Planning
PRONAVIPO   Programa Nacional de Vivienda Popular
(National Program for Low-Cost Housing)
RU          Reconstruction Unit
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
USAID       United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EL SALVADOR
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of El Salvador
Beneficiaries:     Financiera Nacional de la Vivienda (FNV), Programa
Nacional de Vivienda Popular (PRONAVIPO), Administracifn
Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (ANTEL). Administracion
Nacional de Acueductos y Alcantarillados (ANDA), and
selected financial intermediaries.
Amount:            US$65.0 million equivalent.
Terms:             Twenty years, including five years grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
On-Lending Terms:  US$7.0 million would be onlent (in Colones) by the
Government to Financiera Nacional de la Vivienda
and Programa Nacional de Vivienda Popular at an interest
rate acceptable to the Bank based on the results of a
Housing Finance Study to finance housing loans; US$9.0
million would be onlent (in Colones) to the Banco
Central de Reserva at 82 p.a. interest rate; BCR would
onlend the Bank funds to participating financial
intermediaries at 92 p.a.; US$3.3 millicn would be
onlent (in US dollars) at 82 p.a. interest rate to
Administraci6n Nacional de Telecomunicaciones; and
US$0.5 million would be granted by the Government to
ANDA.
Financing Plan:    Local resources      US$23.9 million
IBRD                US$65.0 million
Other Financing 1/  US$13.5 million
Total              US$102.4 million
Economic Rate of Return: N.A.
Staff Appraisal Report:  Technical Annex attached.
I/ Other financing sources to be arranged by the Government of El Salvador
include possible Japanese grant financing.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
FOR AN EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
1.       The following report and recommendation on a pro.,osed loan to
El Salvador for US$65 million equivalent is submitted for approval in
*         support of its earthquake reconstruction efforts.  The proposed Bank loan
would be made to the Government of El Salvador, and would have a term of 20
years, including five years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate   Cofinancing of US$13.5 million is proposed to be arranged by the
Government from other sources, including possible financing from the
Japanese Grant Facility administered by the Bank. Retroactive financing of
up to US$2.0 million (3Z of the loan amount) is proposed to cover start-up
expenditures made after May 15, 1987.
2.       Background.  On October 10, 1986, a powerful earthquake hit
metropolitan San Salvador leaving 1,500 persons dead, 10,000 injured and
300,000 homeless. Estimated total damage to physical assets of US$1,030
million is equivalent to one fourth of El Salvador's GDP in 1986.1   The
housing sector was most severely hit with about 24,000 units completely
destroyed, another 36,000 heavily damaged and total damage estimated at
US$273 million. Damage to hospitals, schools and historical and religious
buildings is estimated at US$185 million. Physical infrastructure--water
supply and sewarage, telecommunications, electricity and transport--also
suffered heavy damage, estimated at US$106 million. In addition, about 80Z
of Central Government buildings were left unusable, including the
Ministries of Justice, Finance, Public Works, Agriculture and Planning
(MIPLAN) with damage estimated at US$56 million. The damage to commercial
buildings (including banks) is estimated at US$247 million. Most of the
small shops and businesses in downtown San Salvador, which comprise the
informal sector, were also heavily hit while medium- and large-size
enterprises suffered relatively minor damage. Physical damage to the
informal sector is estimated at US$17 million.  Finally, emergency needs,
demolition and removal of rubble and other indirect costs such as loss of
income are estimated at US$146 million. In addition to heavy physical
damage, unemployment in San Salvador rose from 26Z to 35Z as 38,000 people
lost their jobs, and loss of output in 1986 was equivalent to between 1Z
and 21 of GDP. An analysis of the macro-economic impact of the earthquake
is contained in the Country Brief dated March 1987 (SecM87-301).
3.       The Government's reconstruction strategy calls for rebuilding the
damaged buildings in situ, to the standards of the new emergency building
code, if permitted by the seismic, geological and topographic conditions.
Given the scarcity of land that meets these conditions in the San Salvador
metropolitan area, the Government's strategy also encourages relocation to
the northern suburb of Apopa, starting with its District 7, away from the
main geological faults and high risk landslide zones. Considering physical
obstacles to the expansion of the city in other directions and the better
1/ The estimate of total damage is based on a report by the Ul Economic
Commission for Latin America (ECLA) dated November 14, 1986.



- 2 -
seismic conditions in the Apopa area, the Government's spatial strategy is
appropriate. In addition, the Government's implementation strategy calls
for encouraging private sector participation in the reconstruction effort
as much as possible with heavy emphasis placed on credit lines for
reconstruction and private sector contracts for design, construction and
project supervision.
4        A i.>construction Unit (RU) headed by a Director-General has beer
astablished in MIPLAN to manage the overall reconstruction effort,
including foreign assistance for reconstruction. The Bank has been
assisting MIPLAN in the preparation of a detailed reconstruction program,
which would call for a total public investment of about US$600 million,
including the proposed project with an estimated cost of US$102.4 million.
In addition, at least US$400 million are expected to be financed by the
private sector and by insurance claims to cover most of the estimated total
damages of US$1,030 million. MIPLAN plans to conclude ongoing negotiation
of specific pledges with bilateral and multilateral lenders and to identify
possible additional donors. Major pledges made or being considered to date
amount to about US$475 million, or 792 of the proposed reconstruction
program, including: (i) the proposed bank loan and cofinancing from other
sources for US$78.5 million, (ii) USAID - US$75 million grant; (iii) Italy
- US$60 million grant plus US$40 million loan; (iv) IDB - US$78 million in
soft and standard loans; (v) Federal Republic of Germany - US$27 million
grant; and (vi) France - US$15 million loan (see attachment to the
Technical Annex). Tentative plans provide for USAID and Italy to be
involved in financing a series of components of the reconstruction program;
the IDB, in the telecommunications, sites and services and the health
sectors and Germany and France, mainly in the heplth sector. The
Government (through the RU) is planning to call a donors' meeting later
this year that would agree on effective mechanisms to coordinate the
implementation of the reconstruction program and attempt to elicit
additional pledges for reconstruction assistance.
5.       Project Preparation.  Ten days after the earthquake, a Bank
reconnaissance mission visited the country to assess the damage.   It was
followed by an appraisal mission beginning November 24, 1986 which
identified and appraised a reconstruction project and recommended
reallocation of US$4.1 millior. out of an existing education project (Loan
1738-ES) financed by the Bank. To allow time for reviewing issues of
project scope and financing, further processing of the project was delayed
at the Government's request in January 1987, until March 25, 1987 when the
authorities presented a revised project proposal for Bank financing. It
was appraised from May 4 to 19, 1987.
6.       Proiect Objectives.  The objectives of the proposed project are to
help: (i) rehabilitate and reconstruct the San Salvador metropolitan area
through the provision of low-cost housing, public office and school
buildings, and essential public services including telephone exchanges;
(ii) support the expansion of the capital city towards the north (Apopa)
which is less vulnerable to earthquakes; (iii) rehabilitate the micro-
enterprise sector to restore its production and income generating capacity;
and (iv) strengthen the Government's capacity to plan and manage the



-3-
reconstruction efforts and enhance its preparedness to deal with national
emergencies in the future.
7.       Project Description and Costs.  The project consists of the
following components:
(a) Housing Lines of Credit for: (i) reconstruction of 3,000
units of low-cost apartLuents in situ; and (ii) construction
of 1,000 embryo units (a wat utility core and one unfinished
room), for families being relocated to Apopa's District 7.
This component covers about 12Z of the number of housing
units destroyed and would be largely financed by cofinancing
(US$12.0 million) and the Bank (US$8.6 million).2   The
balance of housing needs is expected to be covered by the
private sector and other donors including USAID and Italy.
(b) Schools and Public Buildings comprise: (i) reconstruction of
about 400 classrooms in San Salvador and Apopa (in addition
to about 160 classrooms being rebuilt in the same area
through reallocation of US$4.1 million under an existing
Bank-financed education project); and (ii) construction of
two- and three-storey office buildings for the Ministries of
Justice, Planning and Public Works. US$26.7 million of the
proposed Bank loan has been allocated for this component.
(c)  Roads and Public Services comprise:  (i) rehabilitation of
the urban corridor linking San Salvador to Apopa;
(ii) provision of water supply to District 7 of Apopa to meet
the needs of up to 2,500 families (including 1,500 families
already settled there); and (iii) provision of three mobile
telephone exchanges with an aggregate total of 4,000 lines.
Bank financing for this component is US.13.2 million.
(d)  Micro-Fnterprise Credits for fixed assets investments such as
equipment and machinery, and for working capital required to
rehabilitate the micro-enterprise sector in San Salvador and
develop micro-enterprises in Apopa. US$9.0 million of the
proposed Bank loan has been allocated for this component.
(e) Training including: (i) classroom and on-the-job training
for 6,000 skilled and semi-skilled laborers in the
construction trades; and (ii) training for two groups of
twenty community workers each to assist low-income families
in relocating a..d in applying for housing credits.   US$3.7
million has been allocated for training under the proposed
Bank loan.
(f) Studies and Technical Assistance provides financing for:
(i) improvement and application of the seismic resistant
building code; (ii) updating of the national emergency plan;
2/ The estimated Bank contribution to each componf.nt includes physical and
price contingencies and, thus, differs from the amounts in Schedule A.



- 4 -
(iii) determining appropriate cost recoveLy mechanisms for
housing credit; (iv) detailed designs for urban 4nvestments
in District 7 of Apopa; (v) consultant services to strengtnen
organizational and management capabilities of the
Reconstruction Unit at MIPLAN and other implementing
agencies; and (vi) strengthening of the financial
intermediaries and micro-enterprises participating in the
project. This component would be financed by expected
cofinancing from other sources (US$1.5 million) and by the
Bank (US$3.8 million).
8.       The total US$102.4 million estimated cost of the Bank-supported
project includes physical and price contingencies estimated at 29X of base
cost. The proposed Bank loan of US$65 million would finance about 67Z and,
together with the expected cofinancing, 812 of total project costs
(excluding taxes and duties). The Government plans to complete its
reconstruction program in three years. How-ver, considering the size and
complexity of the program, the appraisal mission has estimated a project
implementation period of about five years and has, therefore, included
appropriate contingencies in the total project costs.
9.       The project is designed to address the most urgent needs in key
sectors with the exclusion of the health sector (see paragraph 4).
Schedule A contains a breakdown of costs and the financing plan. Amounts
and methods of procurement and of disbursements, and the disbursement
schedule are shown in Schedule B. All procurement under the proposed
project would follow Bank guidelines (see Schedule B). A timetable of key
project processing events and the status of Bank Group Operations in El
Salvaaor are given in Schedules C and D, respectively. A map of the
project area is shown in Schedule E. Further information on the project is
provided in the attached Technical Annex.
10.      Rationale for Bank Involvement.  E1 Salvador has suffered a major
disaster which severely disrupted public administration and economic
activity and has compounded an existing difficult national situation caused
by seven years of civil strife. Bank support for the reconstruction effort
would help restore essential public services and economic activity,
particularly in the informal seotor. By providing required financing that
will help restore production and public administration, the project will
help strengthen El Salvador's creditworthiness. The Bank involvement would
help provide essential technical assistance to strengthen Government
capacity to plan and coordinate the reconstruction program; ensure adequate
attention to meeting the housing and employment needs of affected low
income families; and, through the Reconstruction Unit, help coordinate and
mobilize external assistance for the overall reconstruction effort.
11.      Agreements Reachel.  The following agreements have been reached
with the Government:
(i)   submission, prior to loan effectiveness, of the RU's
organizational and operational manual and appointment of a
senior technical advisor and professional staff acceptable
to the Bank;



-5-
(ii)   preparation, by October 31, 1987, of architectural designs
and standardized construction contracts, all acceptable to
the Bank, for housing low-income families in reconstructed
units on mesones sites;
(iii)   acquisition, by December 31, 1987, of suitable sites
required for: (a) public buildings and the road right-of-
way; and (b) schools to be built during the first year of
the program;
(iv)    completion, prior to loan effectiveness, of a Housing
Finance Study and a Housing Credit Repayment Scheme both
acceptable to the Bank;
(v)   the adoption of a permanent, anti-seismic building code,
acceptable to the Bank, within one year of the effective
date of the loan.
12.      Justification.  The proposed project would: (i) contribute to the
physical rehabilitation and reconstruction of the facilities damage( by the
earthquake thus helping to restore normal economic activities; (ii) nelp
create and strengthen the institutional framework for planning, managing
and coordinating the overall reconstruction effort; and (iii) serve as a
model and catalyst for the Government's overall reconstruction program and
assist in strengthening Government capacity to deal with similar
emergencies in the future.
13.      Risks.  The main risks are:  (a) possible delays in project
execution due to the large number, variety and complexity of reconstruction
activities to be carried out simultaneously, particularly since public
administratJon has been severely disrupted by the earthquake; (b) delays in
land acquisition; (c) very limited planning and implementation capacity of
the Government and concerned agencies; and (d) availability of local
counterpart funds. The risks of project delays and weak implementation
capacity would be minimized under the project by providing extensive
technical assistance to RU and executing agencies, both at planning and
implementation stages of reconstruction, and by close Bank supervision of
the project. Delays due to land acquisition problems are mitigated by
Government assurance to provide all land sites needed for the project. All
land required for the first year of implementation for eacb component would
be provided by December 31, 1987, to enable the project to start on
schedule. The high priority given by the Government to reconstruction plus
available financing of local costs by external donors would minimize the
risk of a shortage of counterpart funds.



14.      Recommendations.  I am satisfied that the proposed loan would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
August 28, 1987



Schedule A
Estimated Costs  /                                          Local        For"en       Total
= __(US8 =illion)-
Housing - Lines of Credit  /
Reconstruction win sit.u                                    11.            8.3        18.0
(3000 Low-cost Apts.)
Relocation (1000 embryo units)                             1.8 0.9                   2.2
Subtotal                                                    I"             B.9        0.2
Schools A Public Buildirtas
School Reconstruction and                                    8.S           3.5        11.8
Rehabilitation (394 Classrooms)
Reconstruction of Government Office Buildings                8.4           5.8        14.0
Subtotal                                                    16.7            9.1       25.8
Roads & Public Servoces
4              Roads (Northern Urban Growth)                                 6.7           3.1        8.8
Water                                                        0.3           0.2         0.5
Telecommnunications                                          0.7           3.3        4.0
Subtotal                                                     8.7           6.6        1.3I
Micro-Enterprise Credit                                      3.0           9.0        12.0
Training                                                     2.4           0.6         8.0
Studies A Technical Assistance $
Studies 4 -echnica Assistance                                3.4           0.8         4.2
Projoct Management                                           0.7           0.1         0.8
Subtotal                                                     4i                        g. 7
Base Cost                                                   46.2          33.1        79.3
Physical Contingencies                                       8.8           8.1        14.9
Price Contingencies                                          5.7           2.5         8.2
Total Project Costs                                         60.7          41.7       102.4
aj Includes taxes and duties amounting to US85.1 million.
21 Includes US812 million of Cofinancing.
ef Includes USS1.5 million of Cofinancing
Financing Plan:                                             Local      Foreign       Total
…  ----(UST-v 7on) -----
Government                                                  23.9                      23.9
IBRD                                                        28.8          38.2       65.0
Cofinancing                                                  8.0           5.5        13.5
Total                                  60.7          41.7      102.4



Schedule 8
Project Element                                      Procurement Method
comparative    Force                      Total
icS        LC8        Suotatlens      Account          Others   Cost
------------- ___ ------ (S  millon)       ----~-------------~~-------
Civil Works                  22.0       19.1           82.0           2.2                       76.3
(15.8)     (18.6)        (24.5)         (t.6)                      (56.5)
Goods                         4.9        2.2             --            --                        7.1
(4.6)      (1.9)           __             __                       (8.4)
Micro-Enterprise Credit             --            --                   --           12.0        12.0
(9.6)       (9.6)
Training                                                                             3.0         3.0
(2.f)       (2.8)
Studies and Technical
Assistance                   --         --             --                          4.2         4.2
(3.7)       (3.7)
Project Management             --                 --                                 0.8         0.8
(0.7)       (0.7)
TOTAL                        26.9       21.1           82.2           2.2           20.0       102.4
(20.3)     (15.5)        (24.5)          (1.6)        (16.6)       (78.5)  1/
1/ Includes USS13.6 million expected Cofinancing, of which US81.5 million is for technical assistance
and USS12.0 million for civil works.
Note: Cost figures include contingencies. Cost figures In parenthesis are the amounts financed by the
Bank, and expected cofinancing.
Disbursements
Amount
Category                 (USS million)                                 Percentape
Housing Credits               7.0              78% of 'mounts disbursements by housing Intermediaries
Civil Works                  28.8              78% of expenditure
Goods                         5.9             100% of foreign expenditures and 78% of local eApenditures
Micro-Enterprise Credits      9.0             100% of amounts disbursed by the financial intermediaries
T-aining                      2.4             100% of foreign expenditures and 78% of local expenditures
Consultant Services and
Studies                     1.9             100% of foreign expenditures and 78% of local expenditures
Project Management            0.8              78% of fixed term key personnel staff
Unallocated                  11.2
Estimated IBRD DiEbursements                      IBRD Fiscal Years
88           89           90         91       92
---------------(USS million -------=…------- ----
Annual                         1S           21            21         4        4
Cummulative                    15           6e            67        el       as



Schedule C
EL SALVADOR
EARTHgUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events*
(a)  Time taken to prepare:                        8 months 11
(b)  Prepared by:                                  IBRD/Government
(c)  First IBRD mission: 21                        October 20, 1986
(d)  First Appraisal mission departure             November 24, 1986
(e)  Second Appraisal mission departure:           May 4, 1987
(f)  Negotiations:                                 July 10-15, 1987
August 5-7, 1987
(g)  Board Presentation:                           September 15, 1987
(h)  Planned date of effectiveness:                December 31, 1987
(i)  List of relevant PCRs:  Loan 1465-ES/Credit 726-ES;
Loan 1050-ES/Credit 517-ES - August 11, 1986
(PCR No. 6681)
*   Implementation schedule of various project components is available in
the Project File.
1/ Project processing was interrupted at Government's request fro.n January
through March 1987, to allow time to resolve issues related to project
fucus and financing.
2/ The earthquake hit San Salvador on October 10, 1986.



SChedule D
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EL SALVADOR
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of June 80, 1987)
Amount In US* million
(loss cancellations)
Loan or           FTscsl
Number No.         Yefr     Borrower             Purpose              Bank       IDA     Undisbursed
18 loans and 4 credits fully disbursed                               188.10    28.00           -
1738-ES           1979      El Salvador          Education IV         10.20        -       9.20
TOTAL                                                                198.80    28.00        9.20
of which has been repaid                                              84.70      2.80          -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                       l13.60    26.20
Total undisbursed                                                                           9.20
B. STATEMENT OF IFC IVESTMENTS
(as of June 30, 1S87)
Investment        Fiscal                         Types of
Number           Year     Obligor              Business             Loan     EQitnY  Total
----(USUiWiiVIon)…----
20-ES             1959      Industries           Textiles              0.14        -       0.14
Textiles, S.A.
142-ES            1989      Hotele.  de          Tourism               0.60     0.23       0.83
America, S.A.
Total gross commitments                                                0.74     0.23       0.97
Less cancellotions, terminations,
repayments and sales                                                 0.74        -       0.74
Total commitments now hold by IFC                                       -    0.23        0.23
Total undisbursed



.vm   'N       *'
-                  7ib
_   f Vs -  X.  ; ,-                                                        c    vi ,2  
.~~~~)  N Zk o.1r.
_ I r.( i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A'S\/\ )ALAO   IV-
.               ,. Ct. *N~ *   '   '                      N  X TLX
,k/'*.- -..'
..... Kssv  I
,   Z  -AG¾                                            6
VW ~ ~~~~~~~~~~                                  T



IBRD 20447
#W7 ZerAN                                                     _   -  _t  _\p,ssi SAINTA DAIWA   -   -I  
rvo,X<J  >  \1 \  \ 't\                        \    ~~~~~~~~E L   S A L V A D O R
}/  _- "- .   ' '. --  ' v [<(                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTIS)N  PR  JCT
f >-< ,<, > ( ' < ' ; s ) ~~~~~Metropolitan San Salvador
0 > t > \ , ,, '- , '- < e; I W ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Project housing sites
<_ ,        <\,_>,           _<                         g        ;    '''-''IlZl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~imsof bw-it-o ama
__,)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.r old. Stnt*'
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P                                        ,lm'o    c  ,\\   ,' X 
43~~~~~~~~~~~~~V,
J   't4_.  g     X     r       _  ( ,                  t~t       ttr'            J llE JZ
/     -l.\ t' *,'bAA      o   
/     .\tTSl75bR1@ . 
ky;*          $_               9 9          ;     *                       _t<A[M/zo:ZRj
)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M                           h"    be p a fm t  M   rt onb U  
%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h WC BW,$                           eb\9''    tt t O=t.*  I,I I
YN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o rw _oWwC of gmli   \+   ,'
2    u    CA    TO ROO QE MOb ^ c    __;  t   _   tO ototut7^   _                              J uLrMd"  197la "mV*  8 ft 



TECHNICAL ANNEX
EL SALVADOR
EARTHQUAKE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
A. BACKGROUND
1.       The major earthquake that struck the metropolitan area of
San Salvador before noon on Friday, October 10, 1986, left over 1,500
persons dead, 10,000 injured and 300,000 homeless. Over one-third of San
Salvador's population of 1.5 million was directly affected by the
earthquake. Located at the foot of San Salvador volcano, the city had been
damaged by earthquakes frequently in the past and destroyed by earthquakes
in 1659 and 1917.  The epicenter of the recent earthquake was located 3 km
south of the city at a depth of 8 km. While the earthquake registered only
5.4 (Ms) on the Richter Scale, it had an explosive effect, especially along
the West-Northwest fault through the middle of the city, with the highest
incremental velocity and displacement recorded in the history of
earthquakes with comparable magnitudes. The most seriouis damage occurred
in the areas of: (i) housing; (ii) commercial and banking buildings; and
(iii) public sector administration and services. Basic urban
infrastructure -- water and sewerage, road and drainage, electricity, and
telephone systems -- also sustained heavy damage. Most of the small shops
and business comprising the informal sector, which are concentrated in
downtown San Salvador, were hit heavily while medium- and large-size
enterprises suffered only minor damage.
Physical Damage
2.       Total earthquake damage is estimated at about US$1,030 million.1
This estimate includes US$146 million for emergency needs, demolition and
removal of rubble, and other indirect costs associated with loss of income.
Of the total physical damage, it is anticipated that about US$200 million
would be covered by insurance. Total damage is equivalent to about one-
fourth of El Salvador's estimated 1986 GDP and over 402 of the country's
external debt. In addition, unemployment in San Salvador rose from 262 to
35Z as 38,000 people lost their jobs, and loss of output in 1986 was
equivalent to between 1Z and 22 of GDP. An analysis of the macroeconomic
impact of the earthquake is contained in the Country Brief dated March 1987
(SecM87-301).
3.       The housing sector was the most severely affected with damage
estimated at US$273 million. About 24,000 units were completely destroyed
and another 36,000 were heavily damaged. Of the 60,000 units affected,
shelter is most critical for about 20,000 families who lived in multi-
family rental units (mesones).2   Another 14,000 families living in
1/ The estimate of total damage is based on a report by the UN Economic
Commission for Latin America (ECLA) dated November 14, 1986.
2! Multi-family low-income tenants in dilapidated structures - generally
one family per room with common sanitary services.



squatter settlements (tugurios) throughout the urban area were also badly
affected. Many of these families had been displaced from the rural areas
by the war. The remaining 26,000 families lived in single-family units.
4.       The damage to hospitals, schools and historical and religious
buildings is estimated at US$185 million with over 90Z of hospital
facilities in San Salvador affected. Six public and four private hospitals
with a capacity of over 2,000 beds had to be evacuated. About 1,100
classrooms were severely damaged, and 621 classrooms were conmpletely
destxoyed. The National University lost two buildings and several others
were seriously damaged. Many historical buildings, the national library
and several churches suffered damage in varying degrees.
5.       In addition, physical infrastructure -- water supply and sewerage,
telecommunications, electricity and transport -- suffered damages estimated
at US$106 million. The old water distribution system that served one-third
of the capital city suffered major damages, and at least 50 kilometers of
the water supply system will need major repairs. Four telephone exchanges,
with a combined capacity of over 30,000 lines, were destroyed. Two
electrical sub-stations and associated distribution systems were damaged as
well as the administrative building of the electricity (CEL) and the
telecommunication (ANTEL) companies. Roads, drainage systems, bridges and
other works were also damaged by the earthquake or subsequent landslides in
various parts of the metropolitan area.
6.       Public administration was severely disrupted as about 802 of the
Central Government buildings and equipment was left unusable or seriously
damaged. The damage to these buildings is estimated at US$56 million. The
main building of the Ministry of Planning (MIPLAN) collapsed completely and
the buildings of the Ministries if Justice, Finance, Public Works and
Agriculture were among those which suffered the heaviest damage. Most of
the Government is now operating in temporary quarters spread all over the
city in rented houses, and temporary buildings or shelters in parks, and
parking lots.
7.       Commercial buildings and the headquarters of five nationalized
banks as well as the Central Bank suffered significant damage estimated at
US$247 million. Damage to small-scale industries of the informal sector is
estimated at US$17.0 million. Only a few large factories were lightly
damaged.
Government Response
8.       Reflecting the timing of the most important reconstruction needs,
the Government designed a three-phase response program. The first phase
concentrated on immediate post-disaster rescue and relief operations. The
second phase focused on temporary arrangements to meet urgent housing
needs, restore public services and public administration. The third phase
would be a three-year reconstruction program beginning in the second half
of 1987. A high level Committee for the Reconstruction of the Metropolitan
Area of San Salvador (CREM) was established to coordinate the emergency and
second phase efforts. The Government has established a Reconstruction Unit
(RU) in MIPLAN to manage the third phase of the reconstruction effort.



-3-
9.       The Government's strategy for the third phase is to use as much as
possible labor-intensive methods in the reconstruction works, as well as
seek active participation of the private sector and community groups in
these efforts. In addition, the Government is seeking to link the
reconstruction program with its ongoing economic recovery efforts.
Mobilization of External Resources and Aid Coordination
10.      MIPLAN is coordinating all aid for the earthquake reconstruction.
The Bank has been assisting MIPLAN in the preparation of a detailed
reconstruction program, which would call for a total investment of about
US$600 million. In comparison with the estimated damage of US$1,030
million, this leaves a financing gap of at least US$400 million to be
covered by the private sector and insurance claims. The RU will update the
cost estimates for each component of the reconstruction program. On this
basis, MIPLAN plans to firm up the specific participation of bilateral and
multilateral lenders. Major pledges made or being considered to date
amount to about US$475 million, or 792 of the proposed reconstruction
program, including: (i) proposed Bank loan and cofinancing for US$78.5
million, (ii) USAID - US$75 million grant; (iii) Italy - US$60 milli-on
grant plus US$40 million loan; (iv) IDB - US$78 million; (v) Federal
Republic of Germany - US$27 million grant; and (vi) France - US$15 million
loan. According to the tentative financing plan it is expected that USAID
and Italy would be involved in several aspects of the reconstruction
program, the IDB in telecommunications, sites and services and health
sectors and Germany and France mainly in the health sector.
11.      Soon after the earthquake, informal meetings between Bank staff,
USAID, IDB and UNDP were held in Washington at the Bank's initiative to
coordinate reconstruction assistance. The Bank has continued to meet
regularly with other donors to ensure coordination among the latter.   In
addition, the Government (through the RU) is planning to convene a meeting
later this year of donors that would agree on effective mechanism to
coordinate the implementation of the reconstruction program and elicit
additional pledges for reconstruction assistance.
Bank Response
12.      Ten days after the earthquake, a Bank damage assessment mission
visited San Salvador and following its recommendations, the Bank:
(a) reallocated US$4.1 million of an existing education loan (the only
ongoing operation), to facilitate urgent reconstruction of primary and
secondary schools; (b) recruited a short-term consultant (a seismic
engineer) to help the Government prepare an emergency building code; and
(c) began preparation of the proposed reconstruction project. A Bank
mission visitad El Salvador beginning November 24, 1986 and appraised a
reconstruction project wit;, an estimated total cost of US$110 million.
At Government's request, further processing of the project was delay>>
until the authorities presented the Bank on March 25, 1987 with a revised
project proposal. A Bank mission appraised this project between May 4-19,
1987.



*4-
13.      The Bank's strategy to assist the Government's reconstruction
efforts calls for a two-pronged approach. First, the Bank would assist the
Government in aid coordination and mobilization of donor contributions. To
facilitate this task, the Bank (i) is assisting the Government in setting
up an institutional framework for reconstruction, which would be
instrumental in making efficient use of external assistance, and (ii)
proposes to assist the RU in coordinating the implementation of the
reconstruction program. Second, the proposed project would assist the
predominantly low-income groups affected by the earthquake and restore
urban infrastructure, public administration and services. The project is
designed to assist low income families with family incomes equivalent to
three minimum salaries3 or less, in an integrated manner, by providing
funds to restore access to basic needs--shelter and education -- and to
income generating activities. In addition, the project would support the
Government's spatial strateg7 aimed at stimulating urban growth toward the
northern part of San Salvador metropolitan area which is considered to be
less vulnerable to earthquakes. The project would also provide technical
assistance to strengthen the reconstruction effort and studies designed to
mitigate the future impact of similar natural disasters. Due to the nature
of the proposed reconstruction program and the difficulty in assessing the
costs of the various components, flexibility in resource allocation would
be necessary. A detailed description of the project is provided in the
following paragraphs.
B. THE PROJECT
I. Housing
14.      This project component consists of the relocation, reconstruction
and rehabilitation, of low-cost housing in the heavily damaged area that
would benefit some 4,000 low-income families. The Vice-Ministry of Housing
and Urban Development, working with Housing Financial Intermediaries and
private contractors, would be the implementing agency for this component.
15.      Dwelling Reconstruction (US$18.0 million total cost).  This
subcomponent would provide lines of credit for the on-site reconstruction
of about 3,000 former rental dwelling units destroyed or damaged severely
enough to require demolition. The former low-income tenants
(meson renters) earning the equivalent of three minimum salaries or less
per family would be preferentially targeted. Since expropriation of land
occupied by these rental dwelling units is not deemed feasible, the project
would provide financing through lines of credit for the purchase of land
and construction of "apartamentos populares.n  All land acquisition costs
would be financed by the Government counterpart funds. Medium to high
density (two or three storey) condominium units would be provided with
about 30 square meters per dwelling (estimated at about US$6,000 per unit),4
3/ Currently one minimum salary is 450 colones or US$90 per month.
4/ A similar solution has been proved successful under the El Conacaste
project by FUNDASAL (under Loan 1465-ES/Cr. 726-ES).



-5-
with street-level shops of 20 to 40 square meters for small enterprises
roughly matching the pre-earthquake mix of income levels and work space.
While the project would finance only about 122 of the number of dwelling
units destroyed, it would serve as a demonstration for the rest of the
housing reconstruction to be financed by other donors and the private
sector. A revised zoning ordinance will be introduced by the Vice-Ministry
of Housing and Urban Development that conforms to the reconstruction
strategy to rehouse the lowy-income families and small enterprises in their
present location in the center of the city.
16.      Dwelling Relocation (US$2.2 million).  This subcomponent would
provide for the relocation of about 1.000 displaced families from San
Salvador to Apopa, in sites and services units with an embryo unit (a wet
utility core and one unfinished room), of about 24 square meters to be
expanded and completed through self-help, following well established
standards under previous Bank/IDA financed projects (Loan 1050-ES/Cr.517-ES
and 1465-ES/Cr. 726-ES). (The self-help labor would not be financed by the
project). This would respond to the need of permanently displaced
population in low-income-rental units (mesones) or in squatter settlements
(tugurios), located on geological fault or high risk lindslide zones. The
1,000 low-cost unfinished dwellings (estimated at about US$2,200 per unit)
would be made available to families with up to 2 minimum salaries.
17.      Financial Intermediaries and Cost Recovery.  Funds for housing
reconstruction and relocation, to be built by private developers, would be
channeled through the Financiera Nacional de la Vivienda (FNV) and Programa
Nacional de Vivienda Popular (PRONAVIPO). As a condition for loan
effectiveness, the Vice-Ministry of Housing and Urban Development would
complete a Housing Finance Study and Repayment Scheme to identify a
mortgage instrument acceptable to the Government and the Bank, which would
achieve 50Z recovery in real terms of the loan funds, while keeping monthly
mortgage payments affordable to the beneficiaries in the target group and
not exceed 25Z to 30Z of the household head's income. Cost recovery will
be based on the CPI index published monthly by the Ministry of Economy.
II. Schools and Public Buildings
18.      Schools (US$11.8 million).  The proposed component to be
implemented by the Ministry of Education would provide for: (i) the
demolition and reconstruction and provision of equipment and furniture for
29 schools, located in the metropolitan area of San Salvador, with the
equivalent of 339 classrooms to accommodate 31,700 students in two shifts;
and (ii) the construction and provision of equipment and furniture for two
schools, located in Apopa with the equivalent of 54 classrooms to
accommodate 4,370 students in two shifts. Total area of construction for
the 31 schools with 393 classrooms (and/or equivalent) is estimated at
30,260 square meters.
19.      Public Buildings (US$14 million).  The proposed component would
provide for: (i) the demolition and reconstruction on the same sites of
office buildings of the Ministry of Justice (main offices of the Ministry,
the courts and the Registry of Property for Land Titles which is of crucial
importance for the project implementation), Ministry of Planning and the
Directorate-General of Roads to house 1500 officials; and (ii) the
construction in a new site of one building of the Vice-Ministry of Housing
and Urban Development to house 420 officials. Total area of construction
is es.imated at 23,276 square meters.



III. Roads and Public Services
20.      Road ImprovSments (US$8.8 million) to be implemented by the
Ministry of Public Works comprise:
(a)  San Salvador-Apopa. 9.9 kms.
Given the scarcity of land in San Salvador, the Government
plans to encourage relocation to the northern suburb of
Apopa, a geologically safer area. This component would
finance the upgrading of the only arterial connection between
San Salvador and Apopa. Currently, this road carries over
12,000 vehicles per day of which 252 are trucks, and there is
severe congestion towards the San Salvador end. The proposed
improvements would increase the road capacity to about 18,000
vehicles, which would accommodate projected volumes for the
next 10 years. The 6.4 km section of 4 lanes would be
upgraded with storm, drainage, curbs and gutters and partial
resurfacing. The 3.5 km section nearest San Salvador would
be widened from 2 to 4 lanes (some land acquisition to be
financed by counterpart funds would be required), and public
street lighting would be extended over the entire route,
along with bus loading bays. The entrance to Apopa would be
improved to allow smoother through traffic movement. The
estimated cost of this subcomponent is US$6.2 million.
(b) Apopa-San Jose de Las Flores. 6.5 kms
Improvements of the two-lane road connection between Apopa
and District 7 would eliminate hazardous conditions at the
bridge over Rio Las CafLas and the railway. Selected paving
and draining works along with bus loading bays and public
street lighting would be included. The estimated cost is
US$2.6 million.
21.      Water Supply (US$0.5 million).  This component would provide water
supply for the immediate needs of up to 2,500 families living in District 7
of Apopa, including 1,000 families to be relocated from San Salvador.
It would include drilling two wells yielding about 5 lts/sec, and
construction of a 500 cubic meters storage tank with a chlorination plant
within District 7. The National Water and Sewerage Authority (ANDA) would
be the implementing agency.
22.      Telecommunication (US$4.0 million).  This component would provide
for the procurement and installation of three mobile telephone exchanges.
It would also include repairs to the damaged stations for hooking up the
three units. The three mobile telephone exchanges, one with 2,000 lines
and two with 1,000 lines each, would reinforce the existing network. The
telecommunication company (ANTEL) would be responsible for executing this
component.



- 7 -
IV. Micro-enterprise Credit and Training
23.      Micro-enterprise Credit (US$j2 million).  This component would
provide funds and technical assistance to meet the credit needs (machinery,
equipment and working capital) of micro-enterprises that have been mostly
affected by the earthquake, and are engaged in providing goods and services
in the project area. It is estimated that nearly 45,000 micro-enterprises
existed within the metropolitan area of San Salvador in 1986. Nearly 50%
lost a major portion or all of their business assets in the recent
earthquake. Taking into account other credit lines available for micro-
enterprises through the Central Bank and commercial banks, the proposed
Bank credit line would meet the needs of such enterprises during the next
three years. The fund would be channeled initially through two financial
institutions which have the infrastructure (appropriately located
facilities and trained staff) and experience to deal with business units in
the informal sector -- Fondo de Financiamiento y Garantia para la Pequeta
Empresa (FIGAPE) and Banco Agricola Comercial (BAC). Should other
financial institutions, acceptable to the Central Bank and the World Bank,
develop the capabilities for dealing adequately with such enterprises, they
could become participating financial intermediaries.
24.      The resources would be channeled through the Central Bank and, in
turn, through financial intermediaries. The Government would take the
foreign exchange risk and onlend Bank resources to the Central Bank at
8X p.a. which would, in turn, provide the funds to financial intermediaries
at 92 (the 12 spread would cover the Central Bank's costs of administering
the line). Financial intermediaries would onlend funds at 15Z p.a.,
retaining a 6% spread which would cover their costs of administration,
training and credit losses, and provide them with adequate return on their
capital. Enterprises with business assets up to US$10,000 equivalent would
be eligible. The Central Bank would discount up to lOOZ of subloans not
exceeding US$8,000 equivalent and up to 80Z of subproject cost to finance,
inventories, machinery and equipment for a period of 5 years with monthly
repayments of principal and interest. The 15% interest rate to
beneficiaries is two percent"ge points above the normal limits established
by the Monetary Board for loans tc micro-enterprises to allow for the cost
of technical assistance and training provided by the selected financial
intermediaries. With the domestic rate of inflation running at around 30X,
there is a significant subsidy element in the proposed interest rate as in
all regulated rates in El Salvador, and provisions will be made to review
the rates and spreads at least annually to gradually bring the interest
rates more in line with desirable positive real levels.
25.      Training (US$3 million).  The proposed component would strengthen
and expand the operations of the Centro de Formacion Profesional
(originally supported under Bank Loan No. 1571-ES) of the Ministry of Labor
in San Salvador, in order to provide short-term intensive training courses
for about 2,000 workers per year during three years in the building trades:
masonry, carpentry, electricity, plumbing, and reinforced concrete steel
work. The proposed training component is intended to meet partially the



- 8 -
demand for skilled labor that the construction industry will generate over
the next three years. In addition, 20 social workers would be trained in
methods for selecting and organizing about 3,000 families displaced by the
earthquake into cundominium groups and to be resettled in about 250 lots in
3 storey low-cost apartment buildings. An equal number of social workers
also would be trained to work with the 1,000 familiea to be relocated in
District 7 of Apopa.
C. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
26.      Organization.  A Reconstruction Unit (RU) has been establlshed in
the Ministry of Planning at the level of Directorate General. A Director
General acceptable to the Bank has also bee. appointed. The RU will be
responsible for coordinating and supervising implementation of the overall
reconstruction efforts, the proposed project and those components financed
by other donors.  The Director General of the RU will be  supported by a
senior technical advisor and by high level professionals (department heads
for: administration and finance, procurement and technical services) and a
small group of technical staff seconded from Government agencies or hired
fr. n the private sector on a fixed term basis. It would also be
responsible for contracting consulting firms, individual consultants and
NGO's for program development, project preparation and supervision, as
needed, for support to the sectoral agencies responsible for implementing
their respective project components. The RU will also be responsiblo? for
contracting and supervising technical assistance services for the project.
About 600 man-months of consultant time (equivalent to US$0.8 million) have
been included in the total cost for project management, program development
and project preparation. The average man-month cost of about US$1,300 is
reasonable considering the expected mixture of local and foreign
consultants to be engaged under the project. The RU will Li dissolved upon
project completion.
27.      Disbursements.  The Government expects to complete its overall
reconstruction program within a timeframe of three years. However, the
appraisal mission has estimated the project implementation to be about five
years and have, therefore, included in the total project costs adequate
contingencies for this period. Disbursements are expected to bs completed
within six months of project completion.
28.      In order to facilitate disbursement a special account would be
opened and maintained in US dollars in the Central Bank with an initial
deposit of US$8.0 million representing an estimated six months of Bank
financed expenditures.   Retroactive financing of up to US$2.0 million (3Z
of the loan amount) is proposed to cover start-up expenditures incurred
after May 15, 1987. Disbursement under the proposed loan would be fully
documented except for those eligible expenditures under contracts valued at
US$50,000 equivalent or less and civil works carried out by force account
which would be submitted under statement of expenditures (SOEs). The
documents for these expenditures would not be sent to the Bank but retained
by the borrower or the designated agency and be made available for periodic
inspection by Bank supervision missions.
29.      External Audits.  All the subproject accounts, including the
special account to be set up under the project, will be audited on an
annual basis by the RU as well as by independent external auditors
acceptable to the Bank. External annual audit reports would be submitted
to the Bank no later than six months after the end of the fiscal year.



- 9 -
30.      Reporting Reauirements.  The RU would require monthly progress
reports from each of the implementing agencies, and in turn, would prepare
bi-monthly reports for submission to the Bank.
31.      Project Supervision.  The RU would establish tracking systems for
monitoring physical and financial progress under each component, monitor
project implementation closely and keep records for Bank review of all
project accounts and expenditures. Bank supervision missions will review
periodically both physical and financial progress.
D. STUDIES AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Studies and Technical Assistance (US$5.0 million).
32.      This would be provided under the project to support the
reconstruction effort and reduce the potential loss in case of future
disasters as follows:
Ci) Studies: (a) revision of the existing building code5 to
incorporate seismic-resistant design standards and the
conclusions of the microzoning and seismological studies now
underway;6 (b) updating the National Emergency Plan to better
prepare the country for similar future disasters in order to
mitigate the damage and reduce loss due to natural disaster;
(c) to determine the mechanism of cost recovery for the
.iousing credits; (d) detailed urban design for District 7 of
Apopa; (e) studies to prepare subproject plans, including
detailed engineering, cost estimates and implementation
schedules; (f) evaluate structural conditions of damaged
buildings for the purpose of determining whether to demolish
or salvage them.
(ii) Technical Assistance (a) for community organization during
reconstructior. and relocation; (b) for financial planning and
architectural design for housing solutions; (cc for the
development of reconstruction programs and subproject
preparation to RU and, in turn, to each of the sectoral
agencies responsible for the implementation of the proposed
subcomponents; (d) for improving the earthquake monitoring
5/ An emergency building code was prepared by the Salvadorean Architects
and Engineers Association, with the support of a Bank Consultant. This
code will guide construction and location until a new building and
microzoning ordinance is enacted.
6/ The Observatore Geofisico Sperimentale de Trieste is delineating the
high risk zones through a US$1.9 million grant from the Italian
Government.



- 10 -
activities of the Geotechnical Investigation Center stations;
(e) for institutional strengthening of FIGAPE to improve it.
information system capacity and efficiency and to upgrade
local training modules, provide new teaching materials and
strengthen local training capacity; and (f) for
microenterprises of selected subsectors to improve their
production, management and quality control.
E. PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
33.      Schedule B provides the proposed procurement arrangements.
International Competitive Bidding would be required for civil works
contracts costing more than US$1.0 million and for goods contracts costing
US$100,000 and above. Local Competitive Bidding (with interested foreign
contractors and suppliers participating) would be used for smaller civil
works and goods contracts. Those unsuitable for contracting will be
carried out using force account procedures acceptable to the Bank. In
addition, given the large number of small housing reconstruction contracts
(for some 250 sites) over.the life of the project, it is proposed to use
comparative quotations from at least three pre-qualified bidders for all
contracts under US$250.000. The Bank would exercise prior review of all
ICB procurement and for the first LCB procurement of goods and works,
respectively. This review would cover about 281 of the proposed loan.
Consultants would be hired in accordance with Bank guidelines.
F. AGREEMENTS REACHED
34.      The following agreements have been reached with the Government:
(i)   submission, prior to loan effectiveness, of the RU's
organizational and operational manual and appointment of a
senior technical advisor and technical staff acceptable to
the Bank;
(ii)   preparation, by October 31, 1987, of architectural designs
and standardized construction contracts, all acceptable to
the Bank, for housing low-income families in recoaistructed
units on mesones sites; (para. 32);
(iii)   acquisition, by December 31, 1987, of suitable sites
required for: (a) public buildings and the road right-of-
way; and (b) schools to be built during the first year of
the program;
(iv)    completion, prior to loan effectiveness, of a Housing
Finance Study and a Repayment Scheme both acceptable to
the Bank. (paras. 17 and 32); and



- 11 -
(v)   the adoption of a permanent, anti-seimic building code,
acceptable to the Bank, within one year of the effective
date of the loan (para. 32).
;



VOLCANO
SAN SALVADOR                              -                             , -
TO                                         Son Salvador
1.(      F   'o   F   F   ,>L'  '  \  -  . - _ P 7   X
A                                                                     0   0                    !                        T



IBRD 20374
S 4  C  -   R Mr <Ca . v60 X                                ~~EL SALVADOR
>).tC            -       9'                     <                  METOPOLITAN SAN SALVADOR
i. At - : - g mc9Agyt)   AsEARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION
@_ / twi .N. Z - >'' >iF > ~~~~~~~ 2 / Percentage _-=-I~~~ndustrial Zones
\ -_ ' \- 'i't90t t-; {j X   >       > /  sa-2A4S-s      #  a           1  7 ' of  Limitot Built-up Ares
< g  <    t      '''0  ti>M'                                I)estructlon    _~~~~~~~1-2  Streets and Minor Roods
)    9 >    >    ,> , .; ,    , ~~~~~~~~~~t  T   ~ ~~  T  25 49         1 -- ~~~~~~Rallrocids
We                          ;                   jS    7itO0               63~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Natlondl Capital
W-11   >,  ................................. - .. 75-o0,
n   I  tsisrtsu\GeeDooFaGOtO                            ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sa AI.
mico ~ ~ JAWRY18



