Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6720-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL CAPITAL POWER SUPPLY
PROJECT - PHASE I
May 28, 1987
Energy Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              Rupees (Rs)
Rs 1.00                    Paise 100
US$1.00                    Rs 13.00
Rs 1t000,000               US$76,923
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 Kilometer (km)                   1,000 meters (m) = 0.6214 miles (mi)
1 Meter (m)                   =    39.37 inches (in)
1 Cubic Meter (m3)                 1.31 cubic yard (cu yd) = 35.35 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 Thousand Cubic Meter (MCM) -    1,000 cubic meters
1 Barrel (Bbl)                     0.159 cubic meter
1 Normal Cubic Meter          =    37.32 Standard Cubic Feet (SCF)
of Natural Gas (Nm3)
1 Ton (t)                          1,000 kilograms (kg) = 2,200 pounds (lbs)
1 Metric Ton (39 API)         =    7.60 barrels
1 Kilocalorie (kcal)               3.97 British Thermal units (BTU)
1 Kilovolt (kV)               =    1,000 volts (v)
1 Kilovolt ampere (kVa)       =    1,000 volt-amperes (VA)
1 Megawatt (MW)               =    1,000 kilowatts (kW) = 1 million watts
1 Kilowatt-hour (kWh)         =    1,000 watt-hours
1 Megawatt-hour (MWh)         =    1,000 kilowatt-hours
1 Gigawatt-hour (GWh)         =    1,000,000 kilowatt-hours
1 Ton of Oil Equivalent (toe)=    10 million kilocalories
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BTPS       -     Badarpur Thermal Power Station
CEA        -     Central Electricity Authority
CEMPDIL    -     Central Mining, Planning & Design Institute Ltd.
DESU       -     Delhi Electric Supply Undertaking
GOI        -     Government of India
HSEB       -     Haryana State Electricity Board
ICB        -     International Competitive Bidding
LCB        -     Local Competitive Bidding
LRMC       -     Long Run Marginal Cost
MCD        -     Municipal Corporation of Delhi
MES        -     Military Engineering Services
MMCMD      -     Million Cubic Meter per Day
MOU        -     Memorandum of Understanding
NDMC       -     New Delhi Municipal Corporation
NGL        -     Natural Gas Liquids
NHPC       -     National Hydro Electric Power Corporation, Ltd.
NPP        -     National Power Plan
NRED       -     Northern Region Electricity Board
NTPC       -     National Thermal Power Corporation, Ltd.
PIB        -     Public Investment Board
REB        -     Regional Electricity Board
REC        -     Rural Electrification Corporation
SEB        -     State Electricity Board
Beneficiaries' financial years end March 31



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
INDIA
NATIONAL CAPITAL POWER SUPPLY PROJECT - PHASE I
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY.
Borrower:              India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:        National Thermal Power Corporation, Ltd. (NTPC) and
Delhi Electric Supply Undertaking (DESU).
Amount:                US$485.0 million
Terms:                Repayment over 20 years, including 5 years grace,
at the applicable rate of interest.
Onlending Terms:       From the Government of India (GOI) to NTPC: US$425
million equivalent, with repayment over 20 years,
including 5 years grace, at an interest rate of not
less than 13.52 per annumS From GOI to DESU: US$60
million, with repayment over 20 years, including
5 years grace, at an interest rate of not less than
11.0% per annum.  GOI would bear the foreign exchange
and interest rate risks.
Project Description:  The main objective of the Project is to assist in
meeting electricity demand in the Capital area through
the addition of 840 KW of thermal capacity. The
project comprises the installation of four coal-fired
210 KW units at Dadri (Uttar Pradesh), as well as the
construction of about l10 km of 400-kV transmission
lines and four associated 400-kV and 220-kV substations
to complete the 400-kV transmission ring around Delhi.
The project also provides for the rehabilitation of an
existing 710 KW thermal power station at Badarpur, near
Delhi. In addition, the project will provide for
institutional strengthening of DESU through studies for
reorganization and the development of a distribution
master plan, and through the execution of a financial
recovery plan. Consultancy support will be provided
for these studies, as well as for studies for the
improvement of the quality of coal used in power
generation, for rehabilitation of existing plant at
Indraprastha, and for design and engineering of the
main plant. The project will introduce dry ash disposal
as a new technology in India.  There are no unusual
risks. The dual firing feature of the power plant
minimizes the risk of plant unavailability that could
result from the transportation of coal over a long
distance. NTPC is experienced in the design and
construction of generation and transmission facilities,
but will receive assistance from consultants on the
design of the dry ash disposal system.
This document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performae
of their ofcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorzon.



-ii-
Estimated Costs: 1/
Local      Foreign       Total
-------US$ Million---------
Preliminary Works                         24.8            -        24.8
Civil Works                              109.6          7.7       117.4
Main Plant Equipment                     176.0        171.4       347.4
Other Mechanical Equipment                60.9         61.0       121.9
Coal HUndling and Transportation          89.7         45.4       135.1
Hlectri^al Equipment                      15.2         41.3        56.5
Consulting Services for NTPC               5.0          2.1         7.1
Equipment and Materials for the
Badarpur Station                        12.7         10.5        23.2
Transmission Lines and Substations        63.7         38.8       102.5
Consulting Services for DESU               3.0          0.7         3.7
Engineering and Administration            49.2            -        49.2
Total Base Costs                         609.9        378.9       988.8
Physical Contingencies                  37*2         19.3        56.5
Price Contingencies                    217.7         90.1       307.8
Total Project Costs                      864.8        488.4     L353.2
Interest During
Construction                              68.4        120.5       188.9
Total Financing
Required                                 933.2        608.9     1,542.1
F3igures may not add due to rounding.
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign     Total
-…---US$ mil lion-- ----
(a)   FTPC   IBID                            -       425.0        425.0
GOI/UTPC                    841.3       123.9        965.2
Total                     841.3       548.9      1,390.2
(b)   DESU   IBRD                            -         60.0        60.0
- OI/DESU                    91.9          -          91.9
Total                      91.9        60.0        151.9
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED           933.2       608.9      1,542.1
1/ Includes taxes and duties of about US$43.1 million.



Estimated Disbursements;
Bank BY      FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   PY92   FY93   FY94   FY95
…                - ------ =--  Millio…-US$
1. NTPC
Annual      34.0   46.0   73.0   85.0   76.0   55.0   39.0   17.0
Cumulative  34.0   80.0  133.0  238.0  314.0  369.0  408.0  425.0
2. DESU
Annual       3.0    8.0   12.0   13.0   10.0    7.0    5.0    2.0
Cumulative   3.0   11.0   23.0   36.0   46.0   53.0   58.0   60.0
Rate of Return:  111



INDIA
NATIONAL CAPITAL POWER SUPPLY PROJECT - PHASE I
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No
Loan and Project Summary .....        ................... .. ........    i-iii
Is  SECTORAL CONTEXT         o..........................................  01
Commercial Energy Resources .......       .........................   01
Electricity Supply and Demand         ..............................  02
Organization of the Power Subsector .......      ..................   03
Finance and Pricing         ........................................  03
Power Subsector Planning .........        ..........................  05
Management and Operations              .......................        05
GOI's Strategy in the Power Subsector........................         06
Bank Group Strategy in the Power Subsector          .................  08
Bank Group Participation ..         .................................  09
II, THE BENEFICIARIES           ...................  ........................  10
A.  NATIONAL THERMAL POWER CORPORATION ......................          10
Existing Facilities and Development Program          .................  10
Organization and Management *000O0**000.....0.......                   11
Recruitment and Training ...0           .......    .....................  12
Performance .......... ..................*.***********++               12
B.  DELHI ELECTRIC SUPPLY UNDERTAKING ............. ..........         12
History and Organization          ....................................  12
Organization Structure          ......................................  14
Personnel and Staffing ....       ...*.....*.       ..........         15
Training    ....................................................       16
Planning and Development ................................              16
This report has been prepared by Messrs. Luiz Gazoni (Senior Power Engineer),
Wynne P. Jones (Senior Economist), Paul Hubbard (Financial Analyst),
P.C. Kapur (Consultant) and A. Posada (Consultant).



-ii-
Pase No.
III. THE PROJECT ........ ..................... ........           .   17
Project Setting .................                             .   17
Project Objectives e .....  ......ee-ecc ,,.a.*.****.   19
Project Description .............     ... .                   .  19
Project Costs                    ........... .            ee      20
Project Financing                            ........ ee....eeceeeOeec-c.-.eecec  21
Project Engineering and Consulting Services       ..................  22
Land Acquisition *.. .. . e..............-..............          23
Cooling Water Supply *eceeceececeeeoee*ee*   24
Fuel Supply                                          .........   24
Project Implementation *....- ....................-.-......... 25
Procurement   ....                                                25
Disbursement  ......* *................................ ....   28
Project Risks ......................         ...............      28
Project. Monitoring                                               28
IVo FINANCE                                                            29
A.  NATIONAL THERMAL POWER CORPORATION LIMITED ....... .          29
Accounting Organization and Systems...........................   29
Past Financial Performance ................... . .......... 29
Accounts Receivable g*..     .       .........................    30
Future Financial Performance  ....................... ..   31
Future Investment and Financing ..........................,..   33
Taxation                                    ..... . .             34
Audit                                                             34
NTPC's Tariffs/Bulk Supply Contracts            ....              34
On-Lending Arrangements for the Proposed Project                  35
B.  DELHI ELECTRIC SUPPLY UNDERTAKING ................... ..   35
Financial Organization                                            35
Accoimting System                                                 36
Audit ..................                                          37
Data Processing                                                   37
Insurance                                                         37
Taxes                                                             38
Billing and Collections eec.c..e.c...      .      ....e.   38
Past and Present Financial Performance                            38



-"i..
Page No.
Accounts Receivable *0 @..............................    40
Electricity Tariff .0...... a.ooe.oee.....o...............    41
DESU's Financial Recovery Plan ....................o.e...    41
Financial Projections                     ..................  *   43
Financing Plan ............... .          e     . .       e....   44
On-Lending ...............e..o.                                    45
V.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS  .X *...............   46
Least Cost Analysis  oeoe*.ovoeoeo,.o.eoo*..e    e e, *.        o  46
Internal Economic Rate of Return .oo.o.oo.o.o ,......o.ooo..oo..   46
Justification for Bank Involvement                                  47
VI.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIOINS ..........00.0.0.,....0..00...0  48
Agreements *o .o.          oo..o.o.eo0 0...o 0*o  48
Recommendation                                                     so.....***5



-iv-
ANNEXES
1.1 Electricity Generation, Sale and Pattern of Eniergy Consumption,
all India
1.2 Forecast of Regional Power Demand in India, FY'86-FY'95
1.3 Previous Loans and Credits to Indian Power Sector (April 22, 1987)
2.1 National Thermal Power Corporation Organizational Structure
2.2 Organization Chart of Delhi Electric Supply Undertaking
3.1 Technical Description of the Project
3.2 Master Network Schedule - NTPC
Implementation Schedule - DESU
3.3 Detailed Project Costs
3.4 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
4.1 Chapter IV Annexes - Table of Contents
4.2 NTPC's Financial Performance Indicators
4.3 NTPC's Consolidated Income Statement
4.4 NTPC's Balance Sheets
4.5 NTPC's Source and Application of Funds Statements
4.6 NTPC's Financing Plan
4.7 NTPC's Projected Regional Tariffs versus Long-Run Marginal Costs (LRMC)
4.8 NTPC's Rate of Return on Net Revalued Assets
4.9 NTPC's Investment Program
4.10 Assumptions for NTPC Financial Projections
4.11 DESU Suggested Terms of Reference of Consultants for:
A. Bringing Accounting Work Up to Date
B. Implementation of the Commercial Accounting System
C. Organization and Management Study
4.12 DESU's Income Statements
4.13 DESU's Balance Sheets
4.14 DESU's Sources and Application of Funds Statements
4.15 DESU's Assumptions for Financial Projections
5.1 Electricity Demand and Supply - Northern Region
5.2 Internal Economic Rate of Return
6.1 Related Documents in the Project File
MAP
IBRD 19611



INDIA
NATIONAL CAPITAL POWER SUPPLY PROJECT - PHASE I
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. SECTORAL CONTEXT
Commercial Energy Resources
1.01    India's principal commercial energy sources comprise coal, oil, gas,
hydro and nuc'ear energy. Of the nonrenewable resources, coal is the most
abundant. Reserves of thermal coal have been estimated at slightly more than
100 billion tons, of which 25 billion are proven. Although reserves are
ample, the quality of coal produced is generally low and is deteriorating.
The high ash content, up to 50X, increases power station capital and operat-
ing costs and has exacerbated problems of coal transport. GOI's emphasis on
concentrated development of pithead stations helps to address transport
problems but will not reduce the other costs associated with poor coal
quality. In any case pithead development will be constrained by pollution
and water availability. GOI appointed the Fasal Committee to examine the
problems of coal supply to thermal power stations. This committee, which
reported in October 1983, made a large number of recommendations, affecting
all aspects of supply from coal preparation to railway operations
(para 1.14); the great majority of these recommendations have been accepted
by GOI. The Bank is supporting GOI's efforts in this area through its
lending to the coal sector. The Dudhichua Coal Project includes studies to
examine coal linkages and identify potential improvements in handling and
transportation facilities. Coal quality is also being addressed, partic-
ularly through the inclusion of appropriate quality incentives in coal supply
contracts.
1.02    Proven and probable petroleum reserves comprise approximately 510
million tons of oil and 390 million toe of natural gas. Despite recent
increases in domestic production, India still imports about one third of its
oil requirements, which in PY84 cost the equivalent of 40X of its merchandise
exports. GOI has therefore given high priority to oil and gas exploration
and, at the same time, has implemented measures, including economic pricing,
to restrain the rapidly growing demand for oil products, particularly middle
distillates. In the past, GOI has generally limited natural gas to premium
markets such as petrochemicals and fertilizer; however, delays in the
construction of gas infrastructure have resulted in substantial volumes of
gas being flared. The Bank has encouraged GOI to develop the necessary
infrastructure and to allow other economic uses of gas including power gener-
ation. In response, GOI has begun to invest in pipelines and has recently
revised its policy on the use of gas for power generation (paras 1.14 and
1.15).



-2-
1.03    India's hydroelectric potential is equivalent to about 1009000 NW.
At present only 14,000 MW have been developed, 4,700 MS are under construc-
tion and a further 23,000 MW are being studied for future development. The
prominent role of hydro generation in regional least-cost power development
plans has led GOI to emphasize the need to accelerate hydro development;
however, progress has been slow owing to the lack of financial resources of
states with the greatest hydro potential, the time required to resolve water
rights and environmental issues, and the limited technical resources avail-
able for the simultaneous preparation of a large number of hydro schemes.
Attempts to address these issues through increased central sector involvement
have so far met with limited success (para 1.07).
1.04    The country's uranium reserves could support a modest nuclear program
(8,000 - 10,000 MW), and thorium reserves are enough for a large fast breeder
program. India's nuclear power generating capacity is currently 1,095 MW.
Electricity Supply and Demand
1.05    In 1984/85 utilities' gross power generation amounted to
approximately 157,000 GWh from an installed capacity of just over 42,000 MW.
Almost 60Z of generation was from coal, 34X from hydro, and the rest from
oil, nuclear energy, and natural gas. Electricity losses have risen slowly
but steadily over the last few years and now exceei 26% of gross generation.
The detericrating quality of coal has increased station-use and the large
expansion in very low load density rural electrification, together with
inadequate investment in other transmission and distribution, have increased
system losses. The Bank has stressed the importance of balanced investment
to reduce system losses and improve scrvice quality and will continue to
support transmission and distribution investments designed to achieve these
objectives.
1.06    Over the past two decades, the consumption of electricity has grown
approximately twice as fast as total commercial energy consumption and now
accounts for more than 302 of the latter. Even though the power subsector
receives 20-25% of total public investment, electricity supply has not kept
pace with demand and shortages have been prevalent throughout the country.
Total consumption has grown at an average annual rate of 8X although the
increasing severity of power shortages indicates that potential demand has
grown more rapidly. The Central Electricity Authority (CEA) has forecast
demand growth in the range 10-11X per year between 1984/85 and 1994/95
(Annex 1.2). However, actual growth will continue to be supply constrained.
The principal sectoral shares of total electricity consumption are:
industrial, 57%; agricultural, 182; and domestic, 131, (Annex 1.1).
Agriculture's share has grown steadily owing to increased electrical irriga-
tion pumping made possible by rural electrification and encouraged by heavy
subsidies.



-3-
Organization of the Power Subsector
1.07    Responsibility for the supply of electricity is shared between the
Central and State Governments. The state electricity boards (SEBs) and the
regional electricity boards tREBs) are controLled by states; CEA is
administered by the Department of Power within the Ministry of Energy and the
National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC), the National Hydro-Electric Power
Corporation (NHPC), and the Rural Electrification Corporation (REC) are
central sector corporations responsible to the Department of Power. SEBs
were instituted under the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 (the Act), to
promote the development of the power subsector and to regulate private licen-
sees such as the Tata Electric Companies. Although SEBs are supposed to be
autonomous in managing their day-to-day operations, in practice they are
under the control of St.te Governments in such matters as capital investment,
tariffs, borrowings, pay, and personnel policies. As a first step towards
national integration, the SEBs have been grouped into five regional systems,
each coordinated by an REB. Coordination responsibilities include overhaul
and maintenance programs, generation schedules, interstate power transfers
and concomitant tariffs. CEA was created in 1950 to develop national power
policy and to coordinate the various agencies involved in supplying elec-
tricity. It is formally responsible for vetting investment proposals,
providing consulting support to SEBs, assisting in the integration of supply
systems, training of personnel, and research and development. However, in
its execution of these responsibilities, CEA has been severely limited by
shortages of skilled staff and other resources. Without any direct respon-
sibility for the provision of finance it has been unable to assume a very
positive role in the development of the subsector. In view of this, GOI has
decided recently to form the Power Finance Corporation to complement CEA in
fostering development of the subsector (para 1.16). NTPC and NHPC were
formed in 1975 to construct and operate large power stations and associated
transmission facilities. They sell bulk power to the SEBs for distribution.
NTPC has had marked success and although it accounts only for about 5X of
installed capacity it is growing rapidly. In contrast, NHPC is still strug-
gling to establish a role for itself; the states control water rights and are
reluctant to relinquish hydro sites to the Center. This has prompted GOI to
explore joint ventures between the Center and states for the development of
hydro schemes. REC was established in 1969 to ceordinate rural electrifica-
tion and provide financial and technical expertise for SEB schemes.
Currently, REC finances more than 70% of total rural electrification invest-
ment. AL present there is no organization with responsibility for the
development of a national transmission grid, although GOI is contemplating
the formation of such a body (para 1.17).
Finance and Pricing
1.08    The SEBs as a whole are estimated to have made a combined loss in
1984/85 of approximately Rs 11,230 million (US$935 million) exclusive of
subsidies, corresponding to a return on historically valued net fixed assets



-4-
of 2.3Z before interest and -8.11 after interest. Internal cash generation,
which was equivalent to only about 2.7Z of capital expenditure in 1984/85,
has been correspondingly poor. Almost all SEB capital expenditure is
financed by debt, primarily loans from state governments. Recognizing the
unsatisfactory state of SEB finances GOI has, through an amendment to the Act
notified in April 1985, required SEBs to earn an annual return, after meeting
operating expenses, taxes, depreciation and interest, of at least 31 on their
historically valued net fixed assets (GOI does not accept the principle of
revaluation of assets). The Bank supports this initiative by GOI and has
changed the form of its financial covenant to reflect this. Although, in
terms of the Bank's conventional method of calculation, the return specified
in the Act generally corresponds to a modest return on revalued assets in the
range of 4 to 61, it, nevertheless, represents a very substantial improvement
on current performance. Many SEBs, particularly those of the poorer states,
are expected to experience considerable difficulty achieving this level of
performance. NTPC's tariffs are approximately equal to its long-run marginal
costs (LRMC); however, there are deficiencies in tariff structure and GOI
has agreed to undertake in close cooperation with the Bank such studies as
may be necessary to address these. As is to be expected from their current
financial performance, SEBs' tariffs do not adequately reflect their LRMCs.
An analysis of 1981 SEB tariffs indicated that they were on average only just
over 502 of LRMC. A preliminary analysis of 1986 tariffs suggests that they
are now 60-70% of LRMC and achievement of the stipulated rate of return would
improve the average ratio still further. However, the structure of tariffs
is still unsatisfactory. Tariffs are frequently excessively complex and very
little has been done through tariffs either to achieve load management or to
tap selectively consumers' willingness to pay, which in many cases substan-
tially exceeds existing tariff levels. At the instigation of the Bank, LRMC
tariff studies were carried out for almost all of the states in the late
1970's. However, these studies were generally of poor quality and the Bank
has since endeavoured to agree with GOI on a methodology for LRMC tariff
studies. Progress has been slow because, despite espousing energy prices
"which reflect true costs" its both the Sixth and Seventh Plans, GOI and the
states continue to oppose economic pricing of power for reasons associated
with social and agricultural objectives. In lending to individual SEB's the
Bank will continue to address state-specific programs to improve resource
mobilization, for example, by developing financial programs capable, as a
minimum, of achieving the rate of return specified in the Act. Where higher
returns are both feasible and desirable the Bank will press state governments
to use their discretion under the Act to notify a higher rate of return. So
far as tariff structure is concerned the Bank will continue to require SEBs
to carry out tariff studies wherever tariff structures appear to be badly
distorted, in order to impress on the relevant authorities the true costs of
cross-subsidization. This has been done under both the Chandrapur Thermal
Power Project (Loan 2455-IN) and the Kerala State Power Project
(Loan 2582-IN). However, resistance to economic pricing is such that
progress in pricing reform is likely to be slow (para 1.18).



-5-
Power Subsector Planning
1.09    The Bank has consistently encouraged GOI to pursue integrated
planning and coordinated operation of the country's electricity supply sys-
tems. In response, GO has prepared a set of regional least cost development
plans, published as the National Power Plan (NPP) in 1983. Although the NPP
represents a good first step towards integrated planning, it needs further
refinement and regular updating. In addition, such a plan can only lead to
effective improvements if complemented by measures to bring about coordinated
system operation. At present only the Northern Region is achieving this.
COI is encouraging states to reach the necessary agreements on operating
parameters but progress is likely to be slow so long as severe power
shortages exist. Even if coordinated intra-regional operation is achieved,
inter-regional transfers will be very difficult without the use of direct
current facilities to overcome problems of frequency control. The first such
facility, a link between Northern and Western Regions, is a component of the
Central Power Transmission Project (Loan 2283-IN). A second direct current
link has been included in the Rihand Power Transmission Project
(Loan 2535-IN). To facilitate further integration GOI has agreed, under the
latter project, to undertake a study of the long-term development of a
national transmission system and to examine related institutional and commer-
cial issues. Disparities between the long-term NPP, national five-year
plans, short-term budgets and actual performance have been substantial. Owing
to the lack of resources, fewer projects have been included in the five-year
plans than in the NPP and, as a result of inadequate allowance for escalation
and delays in project implementation, still fewer have been executed. The
resulting power deficit has undermined rational planning by necessitating
rapid expansion of supply rather than long-term least-cost development; for
example, shorter gestation thermal plant has been favored at the expense of
lower cost hydro. Furthermore, it has prompted overinvestment in captive
plant, a second best measure leading to excessive use of high value petroleum
products for power generation. In addition to supporting GOI's efforts to
increase the supply of power, the Bank will continue to stress to GOI the
role of pricing and load management in eliminating the deficit, and the
importance of integrating planning and pricing.
Management and Operations
1.10    In contrast to the good performance of NTPC, the SEBs' management and
operational capabilities have not kept pace with the expansion of supply. In
general, SEBs have adequately qualified engineering staff, but lack
experienced personnel in financial planning and control. The relatively low
status and pay of these personnel exacerbates the already significant pay
differential between the public and private sectors and makes it difficult to
recruit competent staff. Management practices are generally outmoded and
inadequate. Accounts have been maintained principally to track cash receipts
and expenditures, and there has been little use of accounting information for
managerial purposes. Consequently, the Bank has encouraged GOI to develop a



-6-
new uniform accounting system for SEBes. After initial delays, implementation
is now proceeding. In addition, the Bank will continue to support institu-
tional development programs through lending to individual SEBs.
1.11    The operations of many SEBs are hampered by the poor condition of
their plant and equipment. Factors that have contributed to the poor state
of thermal plant include inadequate maintenance (in part due to capacity
shortages), deficiencies in manufacture, lack of spares, and the poor quality
of coal; in general, these problems have been recognized by the relevant
authorities and corrective steps are being taken. Distribution systems have
suffered from inadequate maintenance and overloading owing to inadequate
investment. Rehabilitation, particularly of thermal plant and distribution
networks, appears to be a very cost-effective way to improve efficiency and
augment system capacity. GOI has recently started to implement a rehabilita-
tion program for thermal plant but is less able to effect improvements in
distribution. The Bank will continue, whenever appropriate, to include
rehabilitation components in its projects.
GOI's Strategy in the Power Subsector
1.12    In essence the Five Year Plan constitutes the only formal statement
of GOI's energy and power policies. Although formalization of power policy,
in particular, is made difficult by the constitutional arrangement in which
responsibility for power is shared between Center and states (para 1.07),
the Seventh Plan, nonetheless, reflects a broad consensus of the objectives
of energy and power policies. The principal objectives of GOI's energy
policy are to: (a) develop energy supplies economically at a rate commen-
surate with growth in the economy and social needs; (b) substitute indigenous
energy resources for imported petroleum wherever this is both technically and
economically feasible; and (c) encourage the rational and efficient use of
energy resources. Although power policy is governed by essentially the same
objectives, alleviation (or at least containment) of acute power shortages
suffered nationwide dominates GOI's short-term strategy. Over the longer
term, achievement of least-cost development assumes greater importance. In
addition to the initial steps of its long-term strategy, GOIs short-term
strategy provides for a number of specific measures to address power
shortages, including:
(a) rehabilitation of thermal plant - a program involving some 30 plants
is currently being implemented (para 1.11);
(b) accelerating the implementation of ongoing projects - a recent
reorganization of Government created a new ministry specifically to
monitor and improve implementation of public sector projects;
(c)  a more liberal attitude towards captive generation;



-7-
(d) permitting the construction of shorter gestation gas or oil-fired
plants (para 1.02); and
(e) improving the quality and reliability of coal supplies, through
implementation of the majority of the recommendations of the Fazal
Committee (para 1.01).
1.13    GOI's long-term strategy requires a blend of policies designed to
address investment, organizational institutional and financial issues. With
respect to investment, resource constraints severely limit the quantum of
investment available to the power subsector. The Seventh Plan allocation is
almost exactly half the sum sought by the Working Group on Power, a sum which
was itself inadequate to eliminate power shortages. Long-term investment
priorities are:
(a) accelerated hydro developmert (para 1.03);
(b) an increased proportion of investment in transmission and
distribution (para 1.05);
(c) the formation of a national grid (para 1.09);
(d) coal beneficiation to improve both quality and homogeneity
(Para 1.01);
(e) diversification of the modes in which coal for power generation is
transported, possible examples include the introduction of coastal
shipping or slurry pipelines;
(f) diversification of the fuels used for power generation, GOI now
recognizes that gas fired plant, especially combined cycle, has an
economic role to play in system development (para 1.02); and
(g) steady growth in the development of nuclear power (para 1.04).
1.14    Long-term organizational/institutional and financial issues are more
controversial and GOI still needs to identify clearly defined strategies in
these areas. GOI recognizes the institutional and financial weakness of many
of the SEBs but constitutional constraints limit the rate at which the Center
can bring about improvement. Measures which GOI is following include:
(a) increasing the role of efficient central sector institutions,
particularly NTPC (para 1.07);
(b) implementation of a uniform system of commercial accounting for all
SEBs (para 1.10);



-8-
(c) requiring, through recent amendment of the Act, that SEB1 earn a rate
of return of not less than 3X after all expenses and interest
(para 1.08), a significantly more stringent financial requirement
than hitherto; and
(d) a more receptive treatment of private sector proposals for power
generation, particularly when it can be demonstrated that such
developments are mobilizing resources which would not otherwise be
available to the public sector.
In addition, GOI has decided to form the Power Finance Corporation as a
financial intermediary serving the subsector (para 1.07). It is expected
that funds lent by the Corporation would be attractive to SEBs because, at
least in part, they would be additional to agreed plan outlays. However,
loans would be subject to conditionality designed to improve the efficiency
and financial strength of beneficiaries.
1.15    GOI recognizes that the development and operation of an integrated
national grid will be difficult to achieve with the present organization of
the subsector and GOI is contemplating the formation of a separate body with
responsibility for the grid (para 1.07). However, many commercial and
institutional problems remain and, as yet, GOI has no strategy for their
solution; although, under the Rihand Power Transmission Project, GOI has
accepted that these aspects of grid development need to be addressed
(para 1.09).
Bank Croup Strategy in the Power Subsector
1.16    The Bank supports the elements of GOI's strategy identified above but
feels that, while each of these elements is desirable, they do not address
all of the serious deficiencies in the subsector. In particular, additional
efforts are needed to address problems in the areas of planning, pricing/load
management, institutional development and finance. The prevalent nature of
these problems suggests that a sector-wide approach should be sought.
However, the comparative autonomy of the states/SEBs from the Center makes it
difficult to achieve progress in this way. With the exception of the intro-
duction of uniform commercial accounting in SBs, few improvements at the
state level have been realized through umbrella projects coordinated by CEA
or REC, primarily owing to the very weak control that these institutions are
able to exercise over SEBs. Consequently, the Bank is changintg the mix of
its lending away from such umbrella I.eojects towards a more direct involve-
ment with individual SEBs, where state-specific programs can be designed to
address areas of deficiency. Initial experience with individual SEBs
suggests that the prospects for improvement are encouraging. Pricing and
finance are the most problematic areas (para 1.08) and the Bank has indicated
that it will only work with those SEBs that are prepared to improve their
financial performance.



-9-
1.17    In parallel with lending to individual SEBs. the Bank proposes con-
tinued support for expansion of the central sector, because: (a) increased
reliance of the states on central sector generation appears to be the best
way to encourage decisions at the state level consistent with the national
interest; and (b) a higher proportion of total generation provided at
economic tariffs by the central sector will help to improve tariffs to final
consumers. The difficulties that GOI has experienced in bringing hydro
prcjects into the central sector mean that NTPC will continue to be the main
vehicle for the Bank's support of the central sector. NTPC's record to date
is impressive. However, it is still far from being a mature institution and,
owing to its rapid development, it will continue to face problems in which it
could benefit from Bank support. In the wider context, the Bank feels that
an institutional review of the power subsector is needed and it is desirable
that this should include a review of the organization and functions of CEA.
The Bank will also pursue with GOI the possibility of Bank-financed technical
assistance to improve CRA's capabilities.
1.18    In addition to addressing areas in which GOI's strategy appears
deficient, it is appropriate that the Bank should focus on aspects of the
strategy already adopted, where the Bank can do most to catalyze progress.
en this respect specific aspects identified include:
(a)  integration of power supply including the formation of the national
grid - the Bank will continue to support projects such as the Central
and Rihand Power Transmission Projects, the latter will afford the
Bank the opportunity for an active involvement in studies of
long-term transmission development (para 1.09);
(b)  accelerated hydro development - by broadening lending operations to
encompass individual SEBs the Bank is able to support hydro projects
and, where the additionality of the Bank's funds to plan outlays is
crucial, it is abie to bring about developments which might not
otherwise take place; and
(c)  elements of strategy that involve concerted action by organizations,
both inside and outside the power subsector - the Bank can coordinate
its own lending operations within the different subsectors in order
to improve intersectoral cooperation. Priority examples concern
improvements in coal quality and transportation, and the use of
natural gas for power generation.
Bank Group Participation
1.19    The Bank has made 22 loans (US$2,709 million) and 17 IDA credits
(US$2,409 million) for Indian power projects (Annex 1.3). Nineteen projects
have been completed: 13 generation, 5 transmission, and 2 rural electrifica-
tion. Projects currently under implementation include 12 generation, 3 of
which are hydro, 2 transmission, 1 rural electrification, and the Kerala



-10-
Power Project, which includes a broad spectrum of generation, transmission
and distribution. With respect to NTPC projects, the first-phase projects at
Singrauli, Korba, and Ramagundam were commissioned on or ahead of schedule.
The second-phase extension at these sites, the Farakka, Rihand Power
Transmission and Combined Cycle Power Projects are proceeding satisfactorily.
The Third Rural Electrification Project, which has suffered significant
procurement problems, is about three years behind schedule.
1.20    A performance audit conducted in 1980 for the Second Power
Transmission Project (Credit 242-IN) concluded that the project succeeded in
helping the nine beneficiary SEBs extend their transmission systems to meet
their growing power requirements. Utilization of generating capacity in
these SEBs exceeded the appraisal forecast. However, the audit highlighted
-the difficulties of effecting institutional improvements in the absence of a
close working relationship between the Bank and beneficiary 8SEs. Another
performance audit, conducted in 1985 for the First and Second Rural Elec-
rification Projects (Credits 572-IN and 911-IN), concluded that India's
rural electrification program, of which the projects were a part, has helped
the country to achieve food self-sufficiency, alleviate poverty, and trans-
form the rural economy. In common with the previous audit this also
emphasized that the Bank should devote resources to deal with the SEBs
individually.
II. THE BENEFICIARIES
A. NATIONAL THERMAL POWER CORPORATION
2.01    NTPC, a beneficiary of the proposed loan, was established in 1975 as
a publicly owned utility, under the general supervision of the Ministry of
Energy. It is responsible for designing, constructing, and operating large
thermal power stations and transmission lines, and for the sale of power
generated to the SEBs. NTPC has broad powers to carry out its operations
except for decisions on investment plans and financing which require Govern-
ment approval before implementation. NTPC is also subject to periodic
examination by the Committee on Public Undertakings, a body established by
GOI to monitor the performance of public sector enterprises.
Existing Facilities and Development Program
2.02    NTPC commenced generating electricity in 1982 and, by the end of
1985/86, operated 11 new 200 KW units (5 at Singrauli, 3 at Korba and 3 at
Ramagundam) and 2,130 km of 400-kV transmission lines. In addition, it has
under construction 7 power plants with a total capacity of 8100 MW and
11,000 km of transmission lines. NTPC also operates the 720 MW Badarpur
station near Delhi, and is responsible for construction of the 270 NW captive
power station being established at Korba for the Bharat Aluminium Company, on



-11-
a management-fee basis.  NTPC expects to commission some 6000-7000 MW during
the Seventh Plan and, on the basis of starts provided for under the Seventh
Plan, will commission a further 5000-6000 MW during the Eighth Plan.
Organization and Management
2.03    In response to the rapid increase in NTPC's operational and construc-
tion activities, a study to develop a decentralized organizational structure
was initiated in 1981, with assistance from power utilities/consultants in
the UK and the USA. On the basis of this study, NTPC adopted a regional
organizational structure in August 1982, with each Region under the charge of
an executive director responsible for the design, construction and operation
of generation and transmission facilities. Regional headquarters have now
been established for:
(a) the Northern Region, with responsibility for the power stations at
Singrauli and Rihand, together with the associated transmission
system;
(b) the National Capital Region, with responsibility for the power
station at Badarpur and the planned station at Dadri;
(c) the Western Region, with responsibility for the power stations at
Korba and Vindhyachal, together with the associated transmission
system;
(d)  the Southern Region, with responsibility for the power station at
Ramagundam and the Southern Regional Transmission System;
(e) the Eastern Region with responsibility for power stations at Farakka,
Kahalgaon and Talcher, together with the associated transmission
system.
Recently, NTPC has centralized design and procurement in order to utilze
trained manpower more efficiently. It has also created the post of Director
(Projects and Operations) to ensure that adequate attention is given to power
plant operations.
2.04    With decentralization, the corporate headquarters is progressively
concentrating its role on policy-making and the provision of functional
guidance to the Regions and operating divisions. The principal corporate
functions are finance, personnel and administration, planning and monitoring
design, procurement and comuercial.  The finance, personnel and design groups
are headed by Directors who are members of NTPC's Board. The procurement
group is responsible to the Executive Director (Corporate Contracts and
Materials). The planning and monitoring group reports to the Chairman and
Managing Director and the commercial group to Director Finance. The present
corporate organization structure is shown in Annex 2.1.



-12-
Recruitment and Training
2.05    Recruitment is progressing satisfactorily and is expected to meet
NTPC's expanding operational needs. In 1985, NTPC had about 14,200
employees. This number is expected to reach about 32,000 by 1990. Initially,
NTPC emphasized the recruitment and training of executives, engineers and
supervisors, who account at present for nearly 40Z of its staff. However,
with the increase in operating plant, the emphasis has been gradually shift-
ing toward the recruitment and training of skilled workmen and plant
operators, who will account for about 70X of staff by 1989/90. Training
centers have been established at NTPC's plant locations. These centers, with
workshops, training materials, and hostel facilities, are designed to train
young graduates, diploma holders and operating staff. NTPC also provides
specialized training in management and other aspects of the power sector at
the Centre for Education in Power Management in Delhi, the Central Institute
of Training at Badarpur and other academic institutions. In addition,
specific programs are organized in collaboration with power organizations of
international repute, e.g. the Central Electricity Generating Board (U.K.).
Performance
2.06    NTPC's construction performance has been satisfactory with most of
the generating units and transmission lines being completed within the
planned construction time. Such delays as have arisen in projects have been
primarily due to delays in placement of orders for the major equipment
(boiler and turbo-generators) and not in actual construction. Transition
from construction to operation is also being carried out successfully. NTPC
has, with the assistance of Central Electricity Generating Board (U.K.),
prepared detailed procedures for plant commissioning, operation and main-
tenance. Major emphasis has been placed on the introduction of maintenance
planning using computers and standard work procedures. Generating units under
operation have achieved satisfactory generation levels. A Research and
Development unit has been established to carry out applied research and to
assist in outage analysis.
B. DELHI ELECTRIC SUPPLY UNDERTAKING
History and Organization
2.07    The first license for the sale of electricity in Delhi was granted in
1905. A succession of private electric supply companies operated in the area
as licensees under the Indian Electricity Act (1910) until the Delhi
Electricity Board was formed in 1951. The Board was established pursuant to
the Electricity Supply Act (1948) which was introduced by GOI to expedite the
creation of state electricity boards and to regulate their operations. In
1957, GOI established the Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD) under the



-13-
Municipal Corporation Act to administer municipal services in the capital
area including electricity supply. The Delhi Electric Supply Undertaking
(DESU) was established as one of the three wings of MCD. It assumed control
of the assets of the Delhi Electricity Board. The other two wings of MCD are
responsible for the administration of water supply and sewerage disposal and
general services, including various municipal services such as road main-
tenance, garbage collection etc.
2.08    DESU is entrusted with the supply of electricity, through generation
or purchase from other sources, and the transmission and distribution of
power in the Union Territory of Delhi comprising approximately 1485 square
kilometers. However, the Undertaking was unable to maintain the needed
investment in generation capacity because of inadequate resource mobilization
caused by GOI's maintenance of electricity tariffs at levels which were below
the financial cost of supply, and the inadequacy of budgetary allocations.
Consequently, as demand for electricity increased within the Delhi area,
DESU's purchases of power, mainly from the government owned Badarpur power
station increased, reaching in 1985/86 about 3/4 of DESU's total energy
supply. DESU's investments have focused mostly on the distribution component
of its system but these have also been inadequate due to the shortage of
resources. As a result, system losses worsened from 151 in 1980/81 to an
estimated level of 22% in 1985/86 (para 4.30). DESU has been incurring
financial losses since 1973/74 and presently is in an insolvent position
(para 4.27).
2.09    The Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD), which is headed by a
Commissioner who reports to the Mayor of Delhi, is responsible for approving
DESU's annual revenue and capital budgets. DESU's budget and revenue
requirements for the Five Year Plans are prepared in consultation with CEA
and the Department of Power. After ratification by MCD they are submitted
through the Delhi Administration and Ministry of Home Affairs to the Planning
Commission of GOI for approval. The involvement of several agencies of the
government in the decision making process is time consuming and diverts
DESU's staff from the important task of operating and developing the utility.
With the objective of improving the existing arrangements for the supply of
power in the Delhi area, GOI has appointed a committee to identify areas of
deficiency and to recommend reorganization as necessary (para 2.12).
2.10    The Delhi Electric Supply Committee, which was also established under
the DMC Act consists of seven members, four of whom are elected municipal
counselors and three of whom are appointed by GOI on the basis of their
experience and knowledge in the field of electricity supply. The Committee
functions as a Board of Directors in setting the policy framework for DESU's
operations and meets weekly on administrative, procurement and budget
matters. Under the DMC Act, the General Manager (Electricity) DESU, is not a
member of the Committee. However he is vested with responsibility for super-
vising DESU's daily activities subject to the Committee's policy guidance and
he has sufficient independence in managing the day to day operations.



-14-
Organization Structure
2.11    DESU's organization structure is shown in Annex 2.2.  There are three
distinct functional departments in the Undertaking: Personnel and Administra-
tion, Technical, and Finance and Accounts. The first two are headed by
Additional General Managers and the third by the Financial Advisor and Chief
Accounts Officer (FA&CAO). Each department is further subdivided into
functional units as shown in the organization chart. For example, the
responsibilities of the Additional General Manager (Technical) include super-
vision of planning, distribution, construction, generation and commercial
functions such as billings and collections. DESU has decentralized the
provision of distribution and customer services to 20 district offices which
are grouped into five circles within the Union Territory of Delhi. Each
district is an independent unit headed by an Executive Engineer responsible
for connections, disconnections, maintenance as well as for billings, collec-
tions and accounting. The Executive Engineer for each District reports to
the Superintending Engineer for the circle who in turn is responsible to the
Chief Engineer (Distribution) in the Technical Department at headquarters.
One anomaly in the organization structure is that the commercial accounting
staff in the districts, who perform the billings and collections and prepare
the monthly accounts, report to the district Executive Engineer without line
responsibility to the FA & CAO who relies on their output.
2.12    DESU has responded to the demands of its substantial growth in
operations (i.e. approximately 120,000 new consumer connections and 11% p.a.
electricity sales growth since 1980/81) on an ad hoc basis by introducing
new functional units into its basic structure or expanding existing units.
To date DESU has not conducted a major review of either its organization
structure or its managerial procedures and practices, to determine whether
these are appropriate for its present and future needs. Consequently a
number of deficiencies in the organization structure and procedures have
arisen. For example, DESU's job descriptions and delegation of authority to
line and district managers have not been adequately established in many cases
and the tasks performed by managers and staff sometimes require better
qualifications than originally envisioned. A review of DESU's organization
structure, procedures and practices would be carried out under the proposed
Project (para 2.13). Similarly, GOI is aware of the need to review DESU's
overall role in the power sector and has recently established a Committee to
investigate the existing arrangements for the supply of electricity within
the capital area. The Committee is expected inter alia to assess DESU's
organization status as a wing of MCD with a view to determining whether DESU
should be separately constituted as an electricity board to operate in a
manner similar to that of state electricity boards. It was agreed during
negotiations that GOI would provide a copy of the committee's report to the
Bank by July 31, 1987 (para 6.02(a)).



-15-
2.13    In view of the existing deficiencies in DWSU's organization structure
an4 procedures there is a need to carry out a thorough study of the functions
and activities of DESU's departments. Such a study should be undertaken with
the assistance of consultants and would delineate a detailed organization
plan based on the proposals emanating from GOI's review of DESU, particularly
as regards the prospect of DESU being established as an electricity board
(para 2.12). Moreover, the proposed study would recommend a suitable and
effective organization and management structure and would propose policies
and practices that would enable DESU to perform its projected functions and
responsibilities for the next decade to ensure an efficient and reliable
supply of power to the Delhi area. Rules, regulations and reporting
relationships in both technical and financial areas would be reviewed with a
view to streamlining delegation of responsibilities and lines of communica-
tion and to developing a suitable management informatiou system. Therefore,
in view of the need for such a study DESU agreed during negotiations to:
(i) recruit management consultants by December 31, 1987 to carry out an
organization and management study in accordance with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) review the recommendations of the study with the
Bank by June 30, 1989; and (iii) commence implementation of the agreed recom-
mendations in accordance with an agreed timetable by September 1, 1989,
Annex 4.11(C), (para 6.04(g)(iv)).
Personnel and Staffing
2.14    Since June 1982 DESU has adhered to the government-wide hiring freeze
dictated by GOI. New personnel can be recruited only if there is a vacancy
and DESU can prove that no present employee possesses the requisite skills.
Otherwise vacancies must be filled through redeployment. As a result, DESU's
staff was reduced since 1982 by 3,068 from the sanctioned level of 28,857 to
25,789. This has been achieved by not filling vacancies at the lowest cleri-
cal and labourer levels in the organization, which DESU considered to be
overstaffed, and by promoting from within for higher level positions.
2.15    So far, the large number of vacancies has not been a serious con-
straint for DESU because of the excessive staff which it has traditionally
carried in comparison to the size of its operations. For vacated positions
requiring skills not available from within the organization DESU has in some
cases been able to hire key staff from outside. Mowever, in common with the
SEBs, DESU has not attracted sufficient numbers of adequately trained staff
despite its compensation packages being generally higher than those provided
to government employees. In order to upgrade the skills of its staff, DESU
has plans to improve and expand its training activities for both technical
and accounting employees (para 2.16). In many cases the activities of DESU's
employees are not specified in job descriptions and are not conducted accord-
ing to specified procedures and policies. The proposed Organization and
Management Study (para 2.13) would review the existing staffing arrangements
and procedures and recommend a staffing pattern and policies which would make
maximum use of DESU's existing staff.



-16-
Training
2.16    DELU has been unable to sustain an appropriate training program for
staff because of its chronically weak financial position. However, its
interest to expand training activities and upgrade the skills of staff is
supported by GOI and is evidenced by the establishment in 1984 of a training
institute which is temporarily located in the substation building at Okhla.
A permanent site with residence facilities is expected to be operational in
1988. The institute is expected to cover all training relevant to DESU's
activities in generation, construction, transmission and distribution,
planning, commercial, stores, administration and accounting. Considerable
planning and work remains to be done in the preparation of course syllabi and
training materials, recruitment of suitable training staff and in the
scheduling of courses. Training activities have already commenced at Okhla
but have been limited to technical trel-ing of new engineers, substation
operators, cable jointers and linemen, ate. In addition, on the job training
has also been provided to apprentice electricians, fitters, boiler attendants
etc. as per the Indian Apprenticeship Act, 1961. A review of the present
and planned training arrangements as well as recomMendations for improvements
would be one of the objectives of the proposed Organization and Management
Study (para 2.13). The proposed consulting assistance for the Implementation
of the Commercial Accounting System would provide training for accounting
staff (para 4.19).
Planning and Development
2.17    The expansion of the DESU's network has been primarily driven by the
immediate needs of the consumers with little attention to how this expansion
integrates with the long term least cost development plan. This shortcoming
is a consequence of the shortage of financial resources and inadequate
planning capabilities. DESU has set as one of its objectives the formulation
of a long term development plan involving the strengthening of its planning
capabilities and integrating the development plan with its financial require-
ments for the futlre. As a first step in achieving this objective, DESU
would need to outline a plan establishing the overall framework for the
development of the distribution system in Delhi over the next 15 years. The
development of the plan would encompass, inter alia: (i) the planning and
design concepts aimed at improving reliability of supply and optimization of
losses; (ii) a distribution development plan for the period 1988-2000; and
(iii) a plan to modernize DESU's operation and supervising control and load
dispatch. In order to outline this plan DESU agreed at negotiations to
recruit consultants satisfactory to the Bank by not later than December 31,
1987 to prepare a distribution least cost development plan for the city of
Delhi and its suburbs in accordance with terms of reference summarized in
Annex 3.1 (para 6.04(g)(i)).



-17-
2.18    DESU lacks a system of technical files to compile, store, and allow
for easy retrieval of up-to-date information on the distribution system and
power plants. To address this shortcoming, DESU agreed during negotiations
to recruit consultants by not later than December 31, 1987 to design and
implement a technical files management system. Implementation of the system
would be completed by December, 1988 (para 6.04(g)(ii)).
2.19    DESU is currently installing a 6x30 MW combustion turbine power
station adjacent to the Indraprastha power station. In view of the power
supply shortage in the Northern Region, these combustion turbines are
expected to operate in excess of 4000 hours per year. Therefore, there could
be economic merit in converting them to combined cycle to improve the
efficiency by which the fuel is used. Improvements of the order of 30% in
efficiency and the addition of about 90 MW of generating capacity to the
system can be expected with the retrofitting of these machines. Hence, DESU
agreed during negotiations to engage consultants not later than December 31,
1987 to study the feasibility of retrofitting the above turbines with waste
heat recovery boilers and steam turbogenerators and review the recommenda-
tions of the study with the Bank (para 6.04(g)(i)).
2.20    Some renovation works are currently being implemented by DESU at the
Indraprastha steam power station. However, additional work is still needed
in the area of coal handling facilities, which lack sufficient capacity to
handle the additional coal tonnage required by the boilers due to the lower
than designed quality of the supplied coal, and in the cooling water supply
which does not meet environmental standards. Therefore, DESU agreed during
negotiations to recruit consultants to prepare a renovation program for the
Indraprastha power station not later than December 31, 1987 and review the
program with the Bank by June 30, 1988 (para 6.04(g)(iii)).
III. THE PROJECT
Project Setting
3.01    In the 1950's and 1960's power development in India was focussed
almost entirely on the states with each state striving for self sufficient
development. Consequently, power stations were not necessarily located
optimally and, because they tended each to serve only one state, they
generally failed to capture economies of scale. In response, GOI changed the
thrust of power policy during the 1970's and focussed on the objective of
least cost regional development. This has led to emphasis being given to the
construction of power stations in close proximity to indigenous energy
resources. So far as the Northern Region is concerned, developments have
been concentrated on coal-fired plants close to the coal fields in the east
of Uttar Pradesh and on hydro schemes in the far north of the Region. Both



-18-
areas are remote from the very rapidly growing load center of the Capital,
Delhi.
3.02    While this regional focus has reduced the costs of generation and
has been actively supported by the Bank it has two limitations. Firstlyt
transmission development has not always kept pace with generation. A number
of Bank financed projects, e.g. the Rihand Power Transmission Project, are
aimed at strengthening interstate transmission ties. Secondly, even where
transmission capacity is adequate, the acute shortages of power mean that
areas with proportionately less generation are unable to maintain reasonable
power supplies. Under these circumstances the only feasible way to maintain
an adequate power supply to Delhi is to build more capacity in the area.
3.03    At the moment Delhi has to rely primarily on the Indraprastha and
Badarpur power stations. Both have suffered from inadequate maintenance,
at least in part due to shortages of power, and, although environmental
concerns were limited when they were built, both now represent unacceptable
sources of pollution. GOI's short term response to the critical power supply
position has been to sanction the installation of 6x30 NW combustion turbines
to be operated on middle distillates and to devise a program for rehabilita-
tion of Badapur. Although initial expectations were that the combustion
turbines would operate only for very short periods it now appears likely that
extended operation will be required and there is a strong a priori case for
retrofitting these combustion turbines with waste heat recovery boilers and
steam turbo generators. In the longer term least cost development requires
the establishment of a conventional coal fired plant. The station at Dadri
included in the proposed Project is designed to fulfill this role.
3.04    In addition to the above physical limitations on the supply of power,
the complex administration of the Union Territory of Delhi has restricted
DESU's autonomy and hindered its efficient operation. Concurrently, inade-
quate funding and excessive tariff restraint have constrained DESU's ability
to develop its transmission and distribution networks. System development
has been dictated by the availability of resources and the immediate needs of
consumers. Priority has consistently been given to expansion at the cost of
reinforcement and rehabilitation. As a result, system losses have increased
to 22Z, about twice the level experienced in similar but properly maintained
networks. A 40% tariff increase in April 1985 raised DESU's average tariff
above that of most State Electricity Boards. However, despite this increase,
DESU has not been able to cover its costs owing to: the high costs of power
station operation and power purchases; high system losses; and the burden of
interest on accumulated debt. Solution of the problems of power supply to
the Capital requires a restructuring of DESU's finances to £ree it from the
legacy of inappropriate past policies and a program to improve power supply
facilities coupled with comprehensive streamlining of DESU's operations.



-19-
Project Objectives
3.05    The principal objectives of the proposed Project are to:  (a) augment
power supplies to the capital; (b) improve the reliability of transmission
and reduce system losses; (c) reduce environmental pollution from power
generation; (d) move towards more efficient use of existing assets in the
power supply system; (e) identify economic opportunities for improving the
quality of coal used in power generation; and (f) effect a program of
administrative, financial and operational improvements in DESU.
Project Description
3.06    The proposed Project comprises:
(a) the construction of the first stage (4x210 MW) of a coal-fired power
station at Dadri comprising boilers, turbogenerators, electrical and
mechanical equipment, associated civil works and switchyard;
(b) equipment, materials and works required for the rehabilitation of
the power station at Badarpur to improve its efficiency and reduce
the impact of its future operations on the environment;
(c) the construction of about 110 km of double circuit 400-kY transmis-
sion line and related 400-kV and 220-kV substations at Karawalnagar,
Bawana, Bamnoli, and Ballabgharh;
(d) consulting services to assist NTPC in the review of the engineering
of the first stage of the power station at Dadri, in the design and
preparation of specifications for its ash disposal system, and a
study on improvement of the quality of coal used in power generation;
and
(e) consulting services to assist DESU in: (i) the preparation of a least
cost plan for the extension and reinforcement of the distribution
network in Delhi (pare 2.17); (ii) the design and implementation of a
system for the compilation, storage and retrieval of technical data
on the distribution network in Delhi (para 2.18); (iii) the assess-
ment of the economic viability of equipping the combustion turbines
adjacent to Indraprastha with waste heat recovery boilers and steam
turbogenerators (para 2.19); (iv) the preparation of a plan for the
rehabilitation of the power statior at Indraprastha (para 2.20);
(v) the finalization of its financial statements for 1983/84, 1984/85
and 1985/86 (para 4.20); (vi) the implementation of a new commercial
accounting system (para 4.19); and (vii) the completion of an
organization and management study (para 2.13).
A detailed description of the proposed Project is given in Annex 3.1.



-20-
Project Costs
3.07    The estimated cost of the proposed Project, including contingencies
but excluding duties and taxes, is US$1,310.1 million. Taxes and duties,
and interest during construction would amount to about US$43.1 million and
US$188.9 million, respectively. Thus, the total financing requirement would
be US$1,542.1 million, of which about US$609 million would be direct and
indirect foreign exchange. Details of the estimated costs of the Project
are set out in Annex 3.3 and summarized in Table 3.1.
Table 3.1: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS /a
Local   Foreign    Total       Local   Foreign   Total
Rs  Million -------           ------US$ Million------
Preliminary Works          322                 322       24.8         -     24.8
Civil Works              1,425      100      1,525      109.6       7.7    117.4
Main Plant Equipment    2,287    2,228       4,516       176.0    171.4    347.4
Other Mechanical
Equipment                791      793      1,584       60.9      61.0    121.9
Coal Handling and
Transportation         1,166      589      1,756       89.7      45.4    135.1
Electrical Equipment       197      536        734        15.2     41.3     56.5
Consulting Services
for NTPC                  65       27         92        5.0       2.1      7.1
Equipment and Materials
for the Badarpur
Station                  164      136        301       12.7      10.5     23.2
Transmission Lines
and Substations          828      504    .1,332        63.7      38.8    102.5
Consulting Services
for DESU                  39        9         48        3.0       0.7      3.7
Engineering and
Administration           640                 640       49.2         -     49.2
Total Base Costs         7,928    4,926    12,854       609.9    378.9    988.8
Physical Contingencies  483       251        735       37.2      19.3     56.5
Price Contingencies   2,829    1,171       4,001      217.7      90.1    307.8
Total Project Costs    11,242    6,349    17,591        864.8    488.4  1,353.2
Interest During
Construction               889    1566       2455        68.4    120.5    188.9
Total Financing
Required                12,131    7,915    20,046       933.2    608.9  1,542.1
a/ Figures may not add due to rounding.



-21-
Cost estimates for the proposed power plant at Dadri are based on indicative
proposals made by prospective bidders and are comparable with recent prices
for similar works in India. Cost estimates for other equipment and materials
are based on the most recent quotations received for similar projects. The
estimated cost for the consulting services is based on current experience
with other projects in India. Base prices were updated to March, 1987.
Physical contingencies of lO% on civil works and 5% on equipment were assumed
on the basis of experience with similar projects and amount to about 6X of
the base cost. Price contingencies, which amount to about 31X of the base
cost, are based on the following expected annual inflation rates: (a) local
costs - 1986/87 to 1995/96, 6%; and (b) foreign costs - 1987 to 1996, 4%.
Project Financing
3.08    A Bank loan of US$485.0 million would cover about 37% of the total
cost of the proposed Project, net of duties and taxes, and would amount to
79% of the estimated foreign exchange requirements. The balance of the
foreign exchange requirement, amounting to about US$124 million required
would be met from GOI foreign exchange resources. The Bank loan would be
divided between NTPC and DESU. An amount of US$425 million would be used by
NTPC to finance part of the foreign cost of the first stage of the power
station at Dadri and consulting services. The financing of local costs
amounting to about US$841 million would be met from NTPC's internal cash
generation, plus equity and loans from GOI. The balance of the Bank loan,
US$60 million, would be used by DESU to finance part of the foreign exchange
cost of equipment and material for the 400-kV transmission ring around Delhi
and consulting services. The financing of local costs amounting to about
US$92 million would be met by contributions from GOI and from DESU's internal
cash generation. Table 3.2 shows the proposed financing plan for NTPC and
DESU.



-22-
Table 3.2: PROJECT FINANCINC PLAN
(Us$ million equivalent)
Source                            Local     Foreig_    Total
(a)  NTPC
IBRD                                 -        425.0       425.0
GOI/NTPC                           841.3      123.9       965.2
Total                              841.3      548.9    1,390.2
(b)  DESU
IBRD                                 -         60.0        60.0
GOI/DESU                            91.9        -          91.9
Total                               91.9       60.0       151.9
TOTAL PROJECT                           933.2       608.9    1,542.1
:|::3=Z-==             =-_
GOI may consider suppliers or export credits for the major equipment, if a
successful bidder or other agency provides an acceptable financing proposal
for the lowest evaluated bidder in cash terms. In this event, GOI's con-
tribution would be reduced accordingly, and, if required, the Bank would
reallocate its contribution towards the financing of these items to other
items in the Project, as appropriate. The foreign exchange risk would be
borne by GOI. Cost of overruns would be covered by NTPC and DESU.
Project Engineering and Consulting Services
3.09    NTPC has considerable experience in the design and construction of
thermal power stations and associated high voltage transmission system.
Field investigations for the Dadri power station have been carried out by
NTPC to provide the information needed for the preparation of plant layout
and the civil works involved. The technic5l specification for the procure-
ment of the main plant equipment have already been prepared by NTPC and
cleared by the Bank.  Some assistance would be required by NTPC only for the
review of the deviations from earlier power stations' design and to assist as
necessary in the preparation of the specifications. However, in the case of
the dry ash disposal system, which involves new technology, NTPC would
require the services of experienced consultants to undertake the complete
design and preparation of specifications. The consulting services for the
review of the engineering of the power station and for the design of the ash
disposal syscem would require about 120 man-months which would be covered
under the proposed Project.



-23-
3.10    DESU has no experience in the design and construction of 400-kV
transmission networks. At present, the first segment of the 400-kV trans-
mission ring around Delhi is being constructed by NTPC, financed under the
Rihand Power Transmission Loan (Ln. 2555-IN). This was needed to transmit
power from NTPC's power plants to SEBs in the Northern region. When the rest
of the ring, to be owned by DESU, is completed, NTPC and DESU would be able
to provide a more reliable supply of power to the Capital area. The timely
completion of the ring would play a critical role in improving the quality of
electricity supply in the Capital area. However, as DESU has not had pre-
vious experience in the implementation of 400-kV lines, DESU has agreed to
engage NTPC to carry out the design, engineering and construction supervision
of the transmission lines and related substations as well as provide DESU
with assistance in procurement matters (para 6.04(a)).
3.11    The Badarpur power station near Delhi comprises 3 units of 100 MW
commissioned between 1973 and 1975 and 2 units of 210 MW each commissioned in
1978 and 1981. The power station is owned by GOI and operated on its behalf
by NTPC. The performance of these generating units has not been satisfactory
because of: (a) the inadequate design of boilers and turbines; (b) the supply
of coal of lower heat value than assumed when the boilers were designed;
(c) the insufficient supply of cooling water; and (d) an unacceptable level
of fly ash precipitation due to the failure of fly ash precipitators. NTPC
has completed the detailed engineering and specifications for a rehabilita-
tion program to upgrade the performance of generating units and remedy the
current environmental problems created by the operation of the power plant.
The program was reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory. Details of the
proposed rehabilitation program are shown in Annex 3.1.
3.12    Technical consulting services would be needed to assist DESU in:
(a) the development of a distribution least cost development plan (para
2.17); (b) the design and implementation of a technical files management
system (para 2.18); (c) the completion of a feasibility study for the
retrofitting of the turbines adjacent to the Indraprastha station
(para 2.19); (d) the design of a rehabilitation program for the Indraprastha
power station; and (e) the design, engineering and construction supervision
for the 400-kV transmission lines and related substations (para 3.10). A
total of the 600 man-months of consultants have beea included in the proposed
Project for the above assignments. In addition to the above technical ser-
vices DESU would also require about 200 man-months of consultancy to carry
out the organization and management studies (para 2.13), to assist in
bringing DESU's accounting work up to date and in implementing the new com-
mercial accounting system (para 4.19).
Land Acquisition
3.13    The land required by the power station at Dadri is estimated to be
about 1,000 ha, all of which is uninhabited and about 50% is government land.



-24-
Consequently, the construction of this station would not involve any reset-
tlement. NTPC and GOI confirmed during negotiations that all the land needed
for the power station is already in NTPC's possessiono DESU has confirmed
that the routing of the transmission lines has been finalized, and that it
has acquired the land needed for the substations. None of the land acquisi-
tion for the proposed Project requires any resettlement.
Cooling Water Supply
3.14    The cooling water for the proposed power station at Dadri would be
provided by a closed-circuit system with cooling towers. Water for the
cooling system would be supplied from the Mat Branch Canal. During the
annual maintenance of the canal, escimated to require about four weekst water
for the cooling system would be tapped from the nearby Hindon River in Uttar
Pradesh. Both sources have sufficient flow throughout the year to cover the
power station's water requirements.
Fuel Supply
3.15    Coal for the Dadri power station would be supplied from the Piparwar
block of the North Karanpura Coal field, in the State of Bihar. The block
has estimated reserves of about 194 million tons. The proven reserves would
be sufficient to operate the fully developed 1840 MW Dadri power station over
its estimated useful life of about 30 years. The Piparwar Block, with over-
burden varying in thickness between 3 and 14 meters, is suitable for
open-cast mining. The development of the coal mine to meet the phased coal
requirement of the power station should present no major difficulties.
Advance action has already been authorized by the Public Investment Board
(PIB), which gives the coal company the authorization to prepare for the
development activities such as land acquisition, infrastructure development,
mine design, etc. However, in view of the fact that timely development of
the mine is critical for the success of the proposed Project, GOI provided to
the Bank mine development program indicating major milestone, e.g. PIB
approval, completion of land ecquisition, bid invitation, contract award, and
delivery dates of equipment for the mine, as well as schedules for overburden
removal and coal production.
3.16    Coal would be transported about 1,200 km by rait-trains from the mine
to the Dadri railway station over the Northern Railway Main Line. The spur
line from Piparwar mine block to the main line is included in the mine
development plan. From the Dadri railway station, unit-trains would be moved
about 8 kms to the coal storage yard at the power station by NTPC-owned
locomotives. The unit-trains will be made up of automatic bottom discharge
wagons to speed up unloading. Indian Railways have been experimenting with
running 9,000 ton trains on the main railway line. The results have satis-
fied the Bank that the additional coal requirement of about 12,500 tons per
day for the proposed Dadri power station can be transported over the proposed
route. In order to guard against the possibility of interruptions in supply



-25-
and delivery of coal, the boilers would also be designed to burn fuel oil.
The proposed power station would have a fuel oil handling plant designed to
supply all the four units and with sufficient storage capacity for 10 days
operation. During negotiations, NTPC agreed to enter into a coal supply
contract at least one year before the operation of the first unit. The
contract would be subject to prior review and comment by the Bank (para
6.03(a)).
3.17    The power sector suffers from the deteriorating quality of coal due
mainly to exhaustion of better grades. Greater selectivity of mining,
improvement in coal handling and, possibly, beneficiation, could economically
improve coal quality. Preliminary studies by the Central Mining Planning &
Design Institute Ltd. (CEMPDIL) indicate that there is a prima-facie case for
beneficiation of coal for the proposed Project. To complement these studies
and help confirm whether beneficiation would be economic in this case, the
Project includes a detailed study of the benefits to be derived from improve-
ments in the quality and consistency of coal for power generation (para
3.06(d)).
Project Implementation
3.18    NTPC has extensive experience in successfully implementing large
power stations. As a result, no major difficulties are foreseen in the
construction of the proposed Dadri power station. The proposed power station
would be implemented over a period of eight years, starting October 1986.
The four units would be commissioned between October 1991 and April 1993.
The proposed construction schedule for the power station is shown in
Annex 3.2. The construction schedule can be considered realistic, given
NTPC's experience in this field. The construction of DESU's portion of the
ring would be done over a period of about five years starting in June 1986.
The construction schedule for the transmission ring and associated
substations is shown in Annex 3.2. The rehabilitation of the Badarpur power
station has already started and is expected to be completed by January 1988.
DESU has already hired consultants for the implementation of the commercial
accounting system. DESU has agreed to hire consultants for all other assign-
ments by December 31, 1987 (para 6.04(g)).
Procurement
3.19    The procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.3 below and
the major milestones of the procurement process are shown in Annex 3.2. The
major contracts for the mechanical and electrical equipment and works would
be procured on a supply-and-erect basis and some contracts would also include
civil works (e.g. coal handling, substation structure and transmission
lines). This would ensure contract coordination during implementation.
Procurement for equipment, material and works, estimated to cost about US$800
million, would be tendered on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding (ICB), in accordance with Bank's guidelines. NTPC has already invited



-26-
bids for the boilers and the turbogenerators which are now being evaluated.
Documents for individual NTPC contracts estimated to cost above US$3.5 mil-
lion equivalent and DESU contracts estimated to cost above US$1.0 million
equivalent would be subject to prior review by the Bank. This would cover
about 90% of the contracts. Local manufacturers would be expected to bid for
most categories of equipment. A domestic preference of 15X or the corre-
sponding import duty, whichever is less, would be applied in bid comparison
for equipment contracts. Consultants for project engineering and for DESU
studies will be selected and employed in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Table 3.3: Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million) /a
Project Elements                            PROCUREMENT METHOD /b
ICB     LCB     Other      Total
A.  NTPC
I.  Preliminary Works                                       33.0       33.0
II.  Civil Works                           2.0    169.8                171.8
(2.0)                        (2.0)
III. Mechanical Works
Steam Generator and Auxiliaries   272.3                           272.3
(208.9)                      (208.9)
Turbo Generator and Auxiliaries   200.2                           200*2
(92.0)                       (92.0)
Ash Handling System                  64.9                          64,9
(26.5)                       (26.5)
Control and Instrumentation          22.6                          22.6
(18.0)                       (18.0)
Circulating Water System             22.1                          22*1
(7.5)                        (7.5)
Coal Handling Plant                  47.3                          47*3
(25.0)                       (25.0)
Water Treatment Plant                 7.0                           7.0
(4.0)                        (4.0)
Other Mechanical Equipment           16.0     39.6                 55.6
(4.3)                        (4.3)
IV.  Coal Transportation                           135.9               135.9
V. Electrical Equipment
Power Transformers                    7.3                           7.3
(6.0)                        (6.0)
Bus Ducts                             3.0                           3.0
(1.3)                        (1.3)
Switchgear                           12,6                          12.6
(5.0)                        (5.0)
Power and Control Cables             14.5                          14.5
(6.0)                        (6.0)
Switchyard Equipment                 27.6                          27*6
(15.3)                       (15.3)
Other Electrical Equipment            3.0      6.5                  9.5



-27-
VI.  Consultancy Services                                     903       9.3
(3.2)     (3.2)
VII.  Badarpur Rehabilitation                       13.0      15.0      28.0
VIII.  Engineering and Administration                          67.7       67.7
Total (NTPC)                 722.4    364.8    125.0   17212 2
(421e8)              (3.2)   1425eO)
B. DESU
I.  400-kV Transmission Lines
Towers                               15.0                         15.0
(12.6)                       (12.6)
Conductors                          16.5                          16.5
(13.2)                       (13.2)
Insulators and Hardware              6.2                           6.2
(4.5)                        (4.5)
Erection (and works)                           13.6               13.6
II.  400-kV Substations
Transformers                         6.9                           6.9
(5.0)                        (5.0)
Other Equipment and Material        23.0                          23.0
(15.2)                       (15.2)
Civil Works and Erection                       11.1               11.1
II.  220-kV Substations
Transformers                         5.4                           5.4
(4.0)                        (4.0)
Other Equipment and Material         11.3                         11.3
(3.0)                        (3.0)
Civil Works and Erection                        6.1                6.1
IV.  Engineering and Administration                          21.3      21.3
V.  Consulting Services                                      4.6       4.6
(2.5)     (2.5)
Total (DESU)                    84.3       30.8    25.9      141.0
(57.5)              (2.5)    (60.0)
C.  TOTAL PROJECT                           806.7     395.6   150.9   1,353.2
(479.3)              (5.7)   (485.0)
/a Figures between brackets indicate Bank-financed portion.
T7 ICB : International Competitive Bidding.
LCB : Local Competitive Bidding.
Other: Direct negotiation or not subject to commercial procurement.



-28-
Disbursement
3.20    Disbursement from the proposed loan would be made against 100X of the
cost of consultants and 100% of the CIF (ex-factory if manufactured in India)
cost of equipment and materials procured under ICB. The Bank has authorized
retroactive financing of up to US$1,000,000 to cover DESU's expenditures
after May 1, 1987 and, prior to loan signing, on consultancy for assisting in
the implementation of the commercial accounting system and NTPC's consultancy
support for the design and engineering of the transmission lines and substa-
tions. The estimated disbursements for the NTPC and DESU components of the
proposed Project, shown in Annex 3.4, have been determined from the Bank's
standard disbursement profile for thermal power projects in India and the
Bank-wide profile for transmission projects, respectively. The closing date
for the loan would be June 30, 1995. Disbursements would be fully docu-
mented. To facilitate disbursements, a special account would be established
for the loan with an authorized allocation of US$25.0 million.
Ecology
3.21    Environmental clearance for the Dadri power station has been obtained
by NTPC from the Department of Environment of the Ministry of Environment,
Forests, and Wild Life (MEFWL). No environmental or forestry clearances are
necessary for the 400-kV ring around Delhi. Burning of high ash coal (about
40% ash) results in substantial quantities of bottom ash and fly ash. NTPC
plans to dispose of the ash by building a dry ash disposal system. Since
this technique is new to India NTPC will employ consultants familiar with the
subject to assist in the planning of this element of the Project (para 3.09).
More details about the pollution control measures for the project can be
found in Annex 3.1.
Project Risks
3.22    No unusual risks are foreseen in the execution of the Project.  Risk
of damage due to fire, explosion, etc., would be covered by the respective
contractors during the construction phase, and, after commissioning, by NTPC,
through its insurance policies, which are satisfactory. Technical risks
would be minimized by the use of consultants as needed.
Project Monitoring
3.23    NTPC and DESU will submit, starting with the quarter in which the
loan is declared effective, quarterly reports covering the work of consult-
ants, physical progress, costs, disbursements and administrative aspects of
the proposed project. In addition, there will be annual financial and
administrative reports from both NTPC and DESU. Completion reports will be
prepared by NTPC and DESU not later than six months after commissioning of
their respective parts of the Project.



-29-
IV. FINANCE
A. NATIONAL THERMAL POWER CORPORATION LIMITED
Accounting Organization and Systems
4.01    In 1979, NTPC, assisted by A.F. Ferguson Co. (India), designed and
subsequently implemented well conceived systems for financial and cost
accounting, project accounting, inventory control, billing, fixed assets
accounting, and payroll. The corporation has established decentralized
autonomous accounting units at the site of each plant in operation.
A.F. Ferguson Co. has monitored the implementation of these systems and has
assisted in the training of accounting staff. Well designed management
information and budgetary control systems were also introduced in 1979 and
these have been effective in providing the inputs needed for planning and
monitoring. An internal audit unit has been established with adequate sys-
tems and qualified staff. Training of accounting staff is well organized,
and recruitment of qualified staff is adequate to meet forecast requirements.
NTPC's accounting operations are functioning in a satisfactory manner,
Past Financial Performance
4.02    NTPC initiated its development program in 1977/78 and commercial
activities began in 1982/83. During 1983/84, 1984/85, and 1985/86 NTPC's
financial performance has been satisfactory and financial results compare
favourably with the forecasts prepared by NTPC and approved by the Bank.
NTPC's financial statements for 1982/83-85/86 are given in Annexes 4.2 to
4.5 and a summary of financial results is shown in Table 4.1.
Table 4.1 Highlights of NTPC's Operational
Results for 1982/83-85/86
(Rs. Million)
1982/83      1983/84       1984/85      1985/86
Electricity Sales (GWh)      1,034        3,835         8,316        12,839
Operating Revenues             334        1,398         3,326         5,233
Operating Expenses             214          723         1,954         2,782
Operating Income               120          675         1,372         2,405
Interest                        65          221           492           570
Net Income                      46          449           875         1,830
Average Revenue (P/kWh)       32.3         36.1          38.8          39.8
Operating Ratio                64%          52%           59%           54%
Debt/Debt+Equity Ratio       21/79        26/74         32/68         36/64
Current Ratio                  0.5          0.8           1.0            1.2
Rate of Return
on historical assets        6.6%        11.3%         12.5%          17.2%
on revalued assets         4.4%          9.3%         10.1%          13.5%
Self Financing Ratio          5.0%         3.0%         11.7%           10.7%



-30-
4.03    Electricity sales amounted to 3835 GWh in 1983/84 and more than
doubled to 8316 GWh in 1984/85 after the commissioning of the first three
units (3x200 MW) at Ramagundam. In 1985/86 sales increased by another 54% to
12,839 GWh as a result of an improvement in NTPC's plant load factor to 74%
from 581 in 1984/85, at the 200 NW units of the Ramagundam, Korba and
Singrauli power stations. This increase in plant load factor occurred due to
the stabilization of the Ramagundam units, increased availability of the
Singrauli unit due to tha completion of scheduled maintenance and because of
a sustained high level of performance by the Korba units.
4.04    In 1983/84, NTPC realized a net income of Rs 449 million and earned a
rate of return on historical net fixed assets in operation of 11.3% which
exceeded the covenanted requirement of 7X for 1984/85-89/90 agreed with the
Bank. In 1984/85, NTPC's sales revenues amounted to Rs 3t326 million and a
rate of return on historical net fixed assets in operation of 12.5% was
realized. As a result of the improved plant load factor, sales revenues
increased to Rs,12p839 million in 1985/86 and the rate of return was 17.2Z.
NTPC's returns in 1983/84, 1984/85, and 1985/86 correspond to rates of return
on revalued assets of approximately 9.3%, 10.11 and 13.5% respectively, which
are satisfactory. NTPC's cash generation as a percentage of investment was
3%, 12% and 111 in 1983/84, 1984/85 and 1985/86 respectively. Growth in
sales, combined with adequate tariffs, and control over operating expenses
have accounted for the overall sound financial performance of NTPC. The low
contribution to investment is temporary and is acceptable in view of the fact
that NTPC continues to have a small sales volume in its early years of
operation relative to the very large capital investment program under
implementation. Assets in operation at the end of 1985/86 amounted to Rs
16,047 million, representing only about 34Z of total fixed assets including
Rs 32,569 million of assets under construction. ITPC's debt equity ratio of
36/64, current ratio of 1.2 and debt service coverage of 5.0 times in 1985/86
were satisfactory.
Accounts Receivable
4.05    NTPC's collection of accounts receivable during its first two years
of oDperation was poor but significant improvements have occurred since then.
The outstanding receivables of 7.2 months sales equivalent at the end of
1983/84 declined to 5.2 months at the end of 1984/85 and have recently
dropped further to about 2.8 months in May 1987. Several initiatives were
implemented to achieve these reductions. NTPC has taken action to reduce
receivables through provisions in its bulk supply agreements which require
that each concerned SEB open an irrevocable letter of credit equivalent to
one months power purchases and remit payment for power purchases not covered
by letters of credit within 30 days of receiving bills from NTPC. Although
in some cases the amounts of these are less than the amounts required by the
terms of the bulk supply agreements the arrangement has proved effective



-31-
where implemented, and NTPC is pressing for all S8B customers to open letters
of credit in the required amounts. In addition, GOI has recently taken
action, through diversion of central issistance to the states, to settle 80Z
of the amounts owed by SEBs to NTPC, which are undisputed and more than two
months overdue. After the remaining amounts are paid to NTPC in 1987 under
this arrangement, the overall level of ac.:ounts receivable would be below the
equivalent of two months sales.  During negotiations NTPC agreed to maintain
its accounts receivable, arising from sales of electricity at a level not
exceeding the proceeds of its power sales for the two preceding months
(para 6e02(b)).
Future Financial Performance
4.06    NTPC's projected financial statements for 1986/87 through 1995/96
and related assumptions are presented in Annexes 4.2 to 4.W0. A summary of
projected financial ratios and financial indicators is given in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2: NTPC's Key Financial Indicators, 1985/86-1995/96
85/86   86/87   87/88   88/90   91/92   93/94   95/96
Electricity Sales (GMh)   12,839  12,628  16,395  39,907  59,489  71,318  87,695
Average Revenue (P/kWh)        40       51      57      64       74      83       94
Rate of Return
on historical assets %       17      15       12      13       17      18       17
on revalued assets X         14      11        8       9       11      10        9
Self Financing Ratio %         11      12        8      29       49      50       84
Operating Ratio Z              54      55       55      47       46      45       46
Debt/Debt + Equity          34/66   37/63   41/59   44/56   41/59   40/60   42/58
Current Ratio                 1.2       .6      .9     2.0      2.0     1.8      6.9
Debt Service (times)          5.0     3.2      2.8     2.7      2.9     2.4      2.4
4.07    The financial forecasts for NTPC indicate that electricity sales are
expected to increase from 12,839 GWh in 1985/86 to 87,695 GWh in 1995/96,
representing an average annual rate of growth of about 21%. During the same
period average revenue is expected to increase from 40 paise/kWh to 94
paise/kWh in accordance with the projected tariff increases outlined under
the bulk supply agreements with SEB's. These agreements allow for adjust-
ments in the basic tariff rate to reflect changes in fuel prices and other
costs (Annex 4.10(g)). The projected increase in average revenue represents
an average annual growth rate of about 8.91 which is higher than the expected
rate of inflation in India of about 6.0% up to 1996. As a result, average
revenue would be maintained at a level marginally above the estimated LRMC
(para 4.13). The forecast decline in electricity sales of 1.61 from 1985/86
to 1986/87 reflects the expectation that the high plant load factor achieved
during 1985/86 would decrease to a normal level and this effect would



-32-
dominate the increased sales from newly commissioned plants (para 4.03). The
forecast increase of 21X in average revenue from 40 paise/kWh in 1985/86 to
51 paise/kWh in 1986/87 is largely a result of an increase in the proportion
of sales made to SEB's that are charged higher tariff rates because of the
higher capacity costs associated with the plants which provide the power.
During 1986/87 increased sales are anticipated to SEB's in the Southern
Region and power would be sold to SEB's in the Eastern Region for the first
time. For SEB's in these two Regions the generation costs are higher and as
a result the applicable tariff rates would be more than for SEB's in the
Northern and Western Regions (Annex 4.7).
4.08    NTPC's operating revenues are projected to increase from Rs 5,233
million in 1985/86 to Rs 81,993 million in 1995/96. Operating expenses as a
percentage of operating revenues are expected to remLin at a satisfactory
level of 45% to 55% throughout the period, based on the projected regular
adjustment of NTPC's tariffs as per the bulk supply agreements. NTPC's
projected financial rates of return on historical net assets in operation
vary between 12% and 17% during the forecast period according to the timing
of work in progress being converted to assets in operation, and the con-
comitant build up in generation, tariff rates and sales revenues. The
forecast rates of return compare favourably with the covenanted rates.
The same rate of return requirement of 7% for 1984/85-89/90 and 9.5% for
1990/91-94/95, and thereafter annual rates of return at levels satisfactory
to ensure the financial viability of NTPC reiterated under the Combined Cycle
Power Project (Loan 2674-IN) would be repeated for the proposed Project
(para 6.02(f)). NTPC's rates of return on net revalued assets based on a pro
forma evaluation (Annex 4.8) are projected to Se between 8% and 11% in the
forecast period. NTPC's internal cash generation is projected to remain low
through 1989/90 as a result of rapid expansion of new investment relative to
existing commercial operations. By 1990/91 it will reach 43% of estimated
capital expenditures and remain at a satisfactory level thereafter. The
tariffs used in making NTPC's financial projections have been derived from
the terms of the bulk sales agreements with the SEB's. These tariffs are
higher than actually required to satisfy the agreed revenue covenant. While
there is no reason to expect lower tariffs, financial performance at the
covenanted rates of return has been analyzed. During 1984/85 to 1995/96 the
covenanted rate of return would still yield positive internal cash generation
and a small contribution to investment. After 1989/90 NTPC's self financing
ratio is projected to continue to rise above 30Z.
4.09    NTPC's projected balance sheet reflects the large investment program
and anticipated rapid growth in operations. Total capitalization is expected
to increase from Rs 52,526 million in 1985/86 to Rs 418,777 million in
1995/96 and corresponds with a rise in the debt/equity ratio from 36/64 to
42/58 for the same years. Projected debt/equity ratios and debt service
coverage are satisfactory. NTPC's net working capital position is expected
to remain satisfactory over the forecast period.



-33-
Future Investment and Financing
4.10    NTPC's financing plan for the period 1985/86 to 1992/93 is presented
in Table 4.3. NTPC would finance about 301 of its investment program (includ-
ing IDC) from internal cash generation. The proposed Bank loan would finance
about 2X and the balance of 68% would be financed from long term loans and
bonds (39X) and GOI's equity investment (29%). NTPC's financing plan hac
been assured by GOI's undertaking to provide any necessary additional funds
to finance the investment program. In February 1986, NTPC made its first
public bond issue. One million secured, redeemable bonds of Rs 1,000 each,
yielding 14% interest per annum, were issued and fully purchased. The amount
of funds raised through the bond issue, equivalent to about US$76.9 million
provides only about 0.4% of NTPC's financing requirements for 1986/87-92/93
but represents a new source of financing made possible by NTPC's sound finan-
cial perfirmance. Additional bond issues are planned for future years.
Total capital expenditures, including IDC, for the period are expected to
amount to just over Rs 250 billion of which the estimated cost of Rs 20,046
million (including IDC) for the proposed Project would represent 8%.
Dividends on equity are not anticipated and it has been assumed that surplus
funds during the period would be applied to the investment program.
Table 4.3 NTPC's Financing Plan 1985/86-92/93
Rs Million     US$ Million        Z
Sources of Funds
Net Income Before Depreciation & Interest  125,841              9,680          50
Less - Net Increase in Working Capital         5,952              458          -2
Less - Debt Service                           45,740            3,518          18
Net Cash Available for Investment             74,l49            5,704          30
Bank Loan for Proposed Project                 6,305              485           2
Other Loans                                   97,898            7,531          39
GOI Equity                                    74,336            5,718          29
Total                           252,688           19,438         100
Investment Program
(including IDC)
Proposed Project                              20,046            1,542           8
Other Capital Expenditures                   232,642           17,896          92
Total                           252,688           19,438         100



-34-
Taxation
4.11    NTPC is liable for income tax.  However, in view of its large capital
expenditure program, no income tax liability would arise during the period of
the financial projections. The investment and depreciation allowances
permitted by GOI are greater than NTPC's projected amount of taxable income.
A tax equalization reserve is, therefore, not necessary at this time.
Audit
4.12    NTPC's auditors are appointed by the Company Law Board, on the recom-
mendation of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India and are members of
the Indian Institute of Chartered Accountants. The auditors' report is
subject to review and comment by the Auditor General. For 1984/85 the
appointed auditors were P.K. Maheshwari & Co. and Coel, Carg & Co., both
firms of Chartered Accountants. The audited financial statements and
auditors' report for 1984/85 were submitted to the Bank on time and were
found to oe satisfactory. The auditors' reports contained no substantive
recommendations or adverse comments. As with previous Bank Group credits and
loans, NTPC agreed during negotiations to provide the Bank with audited
financial statements within seven months of the end of the financial year to
which they relate, together with a certified report by the auditors, and
comments of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (para 6.02(g)).
NTPC's Tariffs/Bulk Supply Contracts
4.13    A comparison of NTPC's projected regional tariffs with estimates of
the generation and bulk transmission long run marginal costs (LRMC) over the
period 1985/86-95/96 is provided in Annex 4.7. NTPC's average tariff for
each region is expected to remain reasonably close to 1OOZ of LRMC throughout
the period. NTPC's tariffs are generally lower than the projected costs of
generation for the SEBs. However, there are likely to be times when some
SEBs' short-run marginal costs would be lower than NTPC's full tariff. This
issue is addressed below.
4.14    Under previous loans and credits, GOI and NTPC agreed to sell power
from NTPC's power plants under contracts satisfactory to the Bank. These have
now been concluded with the Delhi Electric Supply Undertaking, the Damodar
Valley Corporation, the Electricity Department of the Union Territory of Coa,
and all SEBs designated to receive power from NTPC plants. The Electricity
Department of the Union Territory of Pondicherry is not expected to receive
power from NTPC until early 1988. A contract in respect of this entity is
therefore not yet requir6u but will be concluded at the appropriate time.
NTPC's role in the generation and transmission of electricity is forecast to
increase substantially. This will impose new requirements on the bulk supply
tariff structure and, in this context, issues which need to be addressed
include: (a) the potential multiplicity of tariffs - the existing regional
bulk supply tariff is set on a station specific basis, reflecting the fact



-35-
that NTPC is presently operating only one station in each region. This
approach would result in a multiplicity of tariffs with the comissioning of
additional plants in each region; (b) recovery of transmission costs - there
is no provision in the existing tariffs for recovering costs of transmission
facilities now under construction that are not associated with specific
generating stations; and (c) merit order operation - SEBs, which at times
have surplus generating capacity (e.g., at night during the monsoon), find it
cheaper to incur their own short-run marginal costs and avoid the "full" NTPC
tariff even though NTPC's short-run marginal costs may be lower than those of
the SEBs. This leads to operation of plant out of merit order, consequently
wasting resources. These potential deficiencies of NTPC's tariff structure
are currently being addressed under Loan 2674-IN.
On-Lending Arrangements for the Proposed Project
4.15    An amount of $485 million from the proposed Bank loan would be onlent
to NTPC by GOI in accordance with a Subsidiary Loan Agreement which will
provide for a maturity of 20 years, including a grace period of 5 years with
interest payable on outstanding balances at not less than 13.5X per year.
The Bank has in the past required a minimum on-lending rate based on GOI's
normal interest rate for assistance to NTPC and this would currently corre-
spond to a minimum on-lending rate of 14%. However, as DESU will indirectly
bear this interest rate burden and in view of DESU's financial circumstances,
OI has requested the slightly lower minimum on-lending rate of 13.52 per
year which is acceptable to the Bank. This rate still provides a sufficient
margin over the current Bank rate of 7.92Z to cover the foreign exchange,
interest rate and guarantee risks which are to be borne by GOI. The conclu-
sion of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan (para 6.01(a)).
B. DELHI ELECTRIC SUPPLY UNDERTAKING
Financial Organization
4.16    DESU's Finance and Accounts Department is headed by the Financial
Advisor and Chief Accounts Officer (FA&CAO) who is qualified for office
through his 20 years of experience and training as a member of the Indian
Audit and Accounts Service (IAMS). tie was appointed to DESU by MCD with the
concurrence of the Union Public Service Commission for a three year term,
which may be extended. The FA&CAO is assisted at headquarters by two Deputy
Finance Officers and three Deputy Chief Accountants who are responsible for
supervising the various accounting functions.
4.17    DESU maintains four accounting offices in the field for prescreening
and processing of expenditures for new works and for payments to staff. Each
is headed by an audit officer who supervises 25 to 30 staff. In addition,



-36-
the PA&CAO is responsible for 38 revenue collection offices which receive
payments from customers for electricity bills.
4.18    None of DESU's accounting staff is a chartered accoun mt.  Some of
the senior staff are members of the Central Accounts and Finance Service.
Many accounting staff have not received sufficient training to perform fully
according to their position and level. Consequently, the burden of finaliz-
ing accounts and preparing routine financial reports for MCD and GOI has
fallen on the FA&CAO and his deputies and has been a constraint in improving
the efficiency of the accounting operations. Accounting work has been
seriously in arrears, at least in part due to shortages of trained staff.
However, some improvements have been noted since the appointment of the
incumbent FA&CAO.
Accounting System
4.19    The method of accounts compilation has until recently been governed
by the Maintenance of Accounts Regulations, 1959. In March 1986 GOI
instructed DESU to introduce from the commencement of 1986/87 the new uniform
system of commercial accountiig that SEBs began implementing in 1985/86. The
proposed Project includes consultancy services to assist DESU to implement
the new commercial accounting system and provide extensive on-the-job and
classroom training for two years after implementation. Annex 4.11 contains
suggested terms of reference. In view of the urgency for these services,
the Bank has authorized retroactive financing to cover initial expenditures
on this consultancy (para 3.20). To bring about full consistency with the
accounting practices of the SEBs, GOI agreed, during negotiations, to require
DESU to capitalize interest during construction (para 6.02(c)).
4.20    As previously noted, DESU is seriously in arrears (i.e. about four
years behind) with its accounts preparation. DESU has recently taken steps
to accelerate clearance of its backlog of accounts and, during negotiations,
agreed to furnish the Bank with unaudited financial statements for: 1983/84
and 1984/85 by October 31, 1987; 1985/86 by March 31, 1988; 1986/87 by August
31, 1988; and 1987/88 by December 31, 1988 (para 6.04(e)). Furthermore, DESU
agreed to furnish audited financial statements for these years within three
months of the respective unaudited statements (para 6.04(e)). DESU hopes to
maintain this schedule without external assistance. However, DESU has agreed
that, should it be unable to meet this schedule given its own resources, it
would promptly engage consultants to assi£t in the preparation of accounts
(para 6.04(e)). The proposed Project includes a provision for such assis-
tance, should it prove necessary (for suggested terms of reference see Annex
4.11). DESU has agreed to furnish unaudited financial statements and audited
financial statements together with the auditor's report, for 1988/89 and each
subsequent financial year, within 6 and 9 months respectively of the finan-
cial year end (para 6.04(f)).



-37-
Audit
4.21    DESU's accounts are audited satisfactorily by the Municipal Chief
Auditor who belongs to the Controller and Auditor General's organization and
is appointed with the prior approval of GOI. The latest year for which the
audited accounts are available is 1980/81. Audit of 1981/82 and 1982/83
accounts is expected to be completed by July 1987. DESU plans to submit to
the Bank its unaudited and audited accounts from 1983/84 onwards according to
the schedule described in para 4.20. Although DESU currently employs audit
officers, staff shortages and the backlog of accounts have caused them to
function as accounts officers and their potential benefits have not been
realized. However, DESU recognizes the importance of the internal audit
function and the proposed Organization and Management Study (para 2.13) would
outline a structure for the internal audit unit, its staffing and a program
for staff training.
Data Processing
4.22    DESU's management recognizes the benefits of computerized data
handling and is presently automating the rapidly growing data base and infor-
mation flow within its system. As a first step, computerization of consumer
billing has been successfully introduced at seven of its district offices and
also for all bulk supply connections and industrial connections above 5 kW
The work is currently being handled by three private computer consulting
firms on a contract basis. In addition, DESU engaged the Electronics
Corporation of India Ltd. (ECIL) to carry out a study to assess its future
computing needs and suggest a computer system configuration. The study which
was completed in 1985 led to a decision by DESU to set up its own internal
computer centre to provide support for load despatch, consumer billing,
inventory management and personnel and payroll activities. It is anticipated
that a mainframe computer will be procured through ECIL and that the centre
will be staffed and operational by the end of 1987/88.
Insurance
4.23    DESU maintains a small Risk Insurance General Reserve fund as a form
of self insurance for fixed assets. A large fund is not required since
DESU's assets are spread throughout Delhi and the risk of a major loss is
minimal. Furthermore, GOI makes funds available to DESU to ensure the
provision of power supply in the Delhi area. This arrangement has proved to
be satisfactory. However, a review of DESU's insurance coverage would need
to be undertaken at such time as DESU's status may change to that of an
electricity board (para 2.12).



-38-
Taxes
4.24    As a wing of the Municipal Corporation of Delhi, DRSU is not liable
for payment of any income taxes. However, on behalf of MCD, DESU does col-
lect from its consumers an electricity tax which is presently levied at the
rate of 2.8 paise/kWh.
Billing and Collections
4.25    All electricity consumption is metered.  Meter reading and billing
is monthly for all non-domestic consumers above 5 kW and bimonthly for all
others. Bills are generally issued within 15 days of meter reading and
payment is due within another 15 days. DESU levies penalty charges for late
payments and, although most consumers pay on time, the overall collection
performance has been poor because of large uncollected amounts owing from
NDMC and MCD (para 4.31).
Past and Present Financial Performance
4.26    As previously stated DESU's accounting is in arrears and the finan-
cial analysis in the following paragraphs for 1982/83 through 1985/86 is
therefore based on provisional figures provided by DESU, which may undergo
change as the accounts are completed and audited. Although some changes are
likely, these are not expected to alter significantly the conclusions drawn.
4.27    DESU has been incurring losses since 1973/74 and is presently insol-
vent. Its accumulated losses to end of 1985/86 are estimated at Rs 3,671
million. Since DESU has minimal equity capital it has been showing its
a%cumulated losses improperly as "Assets" in its balance sheets. DESU's net
worth as of March 31, 1986 was minus Rs 3,431 million as shown in Table 4.4.



-39-
Table 4.4 DESU's Net Worth as of March 31, 1986
(Rs Million)
Total fixed assets                                                  4,938
Accounts receivable - electricity                                   1,709
Accounts receivable - others                                        2,185
Other current assets                                                  366
Sub total                        9,218
Less
Long term borrowing from GOI                                        4,898
Unpaid interest on 001 loans                                        1,581
Payable for Power purchases (of which                               4,576
Rs 3,775 million is owed to GOI for power
purchases from Badarpur Thermal Power
Station - BTPS)
Other accounts payable                                              1,317
Consumers' security deposits                                          277
Sub total                       12,649
Net worth                                                      (-)  3,431
4.28    DESU's actual and provisional financial statements (income statement,
sources and application of funds statement and balance sheets) for
1980/81-1985/86 are in Annexes 4.12-4.14. Table 4.5 shows the highlights of
DESU's operational results for the last 6 years.
&          Table 4.5:  Highlights of DESU's Operational
Results for 1980/81-1985/86
(Rs Million)
80/81   81/82   82/83   83/84   84/85   85/86
Electricity Sales (GWh)         2,372   2,567   2,841   3,043   3,418   3,960
Operating Revenues              1,066   1,250   1,451   1,596   1,904   3,011
Operating Expenses              1,098   1,537   1,868   2,270   2,710   2,944
Operating Income                 - 32    -287    -417    -674    -806       67
Interest                          129     138     163      170     208     287
Net Income                       -161    -425    -580    -844  -1,014    -220
Accumulated Loss                  588   1,013   1,593   2,437   3,451   3,671
Average Tariff(P/kWh)             38.0    41.3    44.2    45.5    50.0    70.9
Operating ratio  Z                103     123     129      142     142      97
Debt as X of Debt +               128     157     213      368   1,292     334
Equity 1/
Current ratio                     0.8     0.7     0.7     0.6      0.5     0.6
1/  For calculation of this ratio accumulAted losses are treated as negative
equity.



-40-
4.29    DESU's revenues fell far short of its operating expenses in all the
years through 1984/85. These losses climbed sharply between 1981/82 and
1984/85. In 1983/84 and 1984/85 DESU's revenues did not even cover the cost
of fuel and purchased power. A tariff increase of about 42%, permitted by
GOI in April 1985, helped DESU earn an operating income of Rs 67 million in
1985/86, but this was insufficient to cover the interest liability of Rs 287
million. As a result the net loss for the year was Rs 220 million raising
the total accumulated loss to end of 1985/86 to Rs 3,671 million. All per-
formance indicators, i.e. operating ratio, current ratio, debt/equity ratio
etc. for all the six years were unsatisfactory.
4.30    DESU's poor financial performance has been the result of a variety of
factors. All capital expenditures have been met from GOI's loans. At the
end of 1985/86 these loans amounted to Rs 4,898 million and interest accrued
thereon to Rs 1,581 miliion. DESU has been unable to make any payments of
principal or interest to GOI since 1974 primarily because GOI's regulation
has maintained chronically low tariffs. DESU's poor performance also
reflects excessive operating expenses resulting from the high cost of power
purchases, particularly from the old and inefficient GOI owned Badarpur
Thermal Power 6tation (BTPS) (para 3.11). DESU has not been paying for this
power in full since 1979 and its accounts payable to GOI in respect of pur-
chases from BTPS amounted to Rs 3,775 million at the end of 1985/86. This is
estimated to have increased to Rs $395 million by March 31, 1987. Its own
generation costs are also high because of its reliance on high cost thermal
plant and the low plant factor at Indraprastha. Moreover, DESU's system
losses in recent years have been in the range of 18%-221, which are excessive
for a utility primarily serving such a concentrated load center. DESU has
developed a program to reduce these losses and expects to bring them down to
16X by 1986/87. However, the financial projections (para 4.36) assume that
the system losses will be 19X in 1986/87 and 18% from 1987/88 through 1994/95
to guard against an unrealistically optimistic forecast.
Accounts Receivable
4.31    DESU's overall performance in the recovery of its receivables has
been unsatisfactory. At the end of 1985/86 the receivables for electricity
supply amounted to Rs 1,709 million, equal to over seven months' billing. Of
this, an amount of Rs 1,371 million (i.e. about 80X) is owed by three main
defaulters: (a) New Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) - Rs 868 million;
(b) Water Supply and Sewerage Disposal Wing of MCD - Rs 383 million; and
(c) MCD General Wing - Rs 120 million. Measures to address this problem are
detailed in para 4.35. Because of its accounting backlog, DESU is unable to
provide an age profile of its receivables. Control over accounts receivable
in respect of other electricity sales appears to be generally good, although
a disaggregation of receivables by category of consumption was also unavail-
able due to deficiencies in account preparation. During negotiations, DESU



-41-
agreed to take all action necessary to ensure that its accounts receivable
from electricity consumers does no exceed the equivalent of 4 months sales in
1987/88, 3 months in 1988/89 and 2 months thereafter (para 6.04(b)).
4.32     DESU's other receivables as of the end of 1985/86 aggregated Rs
2,185 million.  These include an amount of Rs 843 million due from the
Haryana State Electricity Board (HSEB) on account of its share of the costs
of Indraprastha (HSEB receives one-third of the total power produced at that
station). During negotiations, GOI agreed to establish satisfactory arrange-
ments for the recovery of HSEB's share of the costs of the Indraprastha power
station (para 6.04(c)). The balance of receivables is accounted for by
advances for purchase of materials (Rs 822 million), advances to staff (Rs 28
million) and other collectibles (Rs 492 million).
Electricity Tariff
4.33    The DMC Act empowers the Delhi Electric Supply Committee to fix and,
from time to time, revise charges for the supply of electricity. In prac-
tice, however, changes in the tariff require the approval of GOI. DESU's
electricity tariff remained almost unchanged for six years prior to April
1985 when COI permitted a major revision in rates (para 4.29) which raised
the average rate by about 42% to 71 paisa/kWh (approx US 5.5 cents/kWh). The
average marginal cost (strictly average incremental cost) for the Northern
Region as a whole has been estimated at 82 paisa/kWh in economic terms.
4.34    High voltage consumers including large industrial consumers pay a
monthly demand charge based on the recorded/contracted kVA load plus an
energy charge based on consumption. A fuel surcharge is applied only to the
high voltage consumers, large industrial consumers, and the two bulk
purchasers (NDNC & MES) which account for about 45% of consumption. The
remaining 55% of consumption is not subject to surcharge. However DESU htas
recently proposed to GOI that the fuel surcharge be applied to all categories
of consumers and this measure forms part of the proposed financial recovery
plan for DESU (para 4.35(g)).
DESU's Financial Recovery Plan
4.35    DESU's past losses, loans and liabilities are large and the pos-
sibility of their liquidation from internal cash generation is remote. Their
continuation in DESU's books would distort its future operating results. To
put DESU on a sound financial footing and to enable it to operate in accord-
ance with accepted commercial principles the implementation of a satisfactory
financial recovery plan is required. An appropriate plan would free DESU
from past problems by immediate measures to produce an acceptable, i.e.,
solvent, balance sheet and would include longer term measures to improve
DESU's future financial performance. GOI recognizes the need for such a plan
and wishes to have DESU gradually improve its financial perforiance to the
point where it is able to meet the criterion of a 3% rate of return after



-42-
interest, stipulated for SEBs under the amended Electricity (Supply) Act. It
appears feasible for DESU to do this by 1990/91. Measures to achieve this
which will shortly form the basis of a proposal to the Indian Cabinet, and
which are acceptable to the Bank, include:
(a) offsetting Rs 1556 million owed to DESU by various Government
organizations against an equivalent part of the Rs 5395 million owed
by DESU to GOI for purchases of powers from BTPS, together with
interest thereon;
(b) waiving of the balance of Rs 3841 million under (a), owed by DESU
to GOI;
(c) waiving cumulative interest owed by DESU to 001 as of March 31, 1986;
(d) waiving interest of Rs 1200 million due to GOI for the years 1986/87
and 1987/88;
(e) conversion of 50X of the outstanding principal of GOI loans as of
Marc#,31, 1986, amounting to Rs 4898 million, to equity (or perpetual
Loanif with the remaining 502 bearing the interest rate applicable to
OI's departmental undertakings;
(f)  financing of future investment by 50% loan/  and 50Z equity (or
perpetual loan);
(g) extension of DESU's fuel surcharge to:
ii) all consumers except domestic during 1987/88; and
(ii) all consumers including domestic during 1988/89; and
(h) such tariff increases as are necessary so as to progressively earn
by 1990/91 a rate of return after interest of 3X as required by the
Electricity Supply Act.
1/ Should conversion to equity within the timescale envisaged pose legal
difficulties for GOI, an alternative would be to convert the loans and
accrued interest to "perpetual" loans which are not callable and which
bear no interest.
2/ The proposal currently under consideration involves loans which would
bear interest but not be repayable. During negotiations the Bank indi-
cated that, although it supported the provision of a proportion of
finance as equity, it would still be desirable that the loans, which are
made, be repayable with a reasonable maturity, e.g. 20 or 25 years.



-43-
While the measures as finally approved by Cabinet may differ in detail from
those described above, GOI has agreed to furnish to the Bank by February 29,
1988, and thereafter implement a satisfactory financial recovery plan such
that DESU will earn 3X after interest from 1990/91 (para 6.02(b)). DESU, in
turn, has agreed to take all measures necessary, including adjustment of
tariffs, to ensure that, commencing with 1990/91, it achieves the 3% rate of
return after interest,
Financial Projections
4.36    DESU's projected financial statements for 1986/87 through 1994/95
are presented in Annex 4.12 to 4.14. The assumptions for the financial
projections, which reflect the implementation of the financial recovery plan,
are given in Annex 4.15. Table 4.6 summarizes the projected key indicators
for each year during the period.
Table 4.6:  DESU's Key Financial Indicators 1986/87   1994/95
86/87 87/88 88/89 89/90 90/91 91/92 92/93 93/94 94/95
Electricity Sales (CWh)   4475  4905  5378  5896  6464  7087  7769  8517  9338
Operating Revenues
(Rs million)              3787  4670  5780  6819  8112  9491 11034 13013 15021
Operating Expenses         4010  4748  5438  6286  7408  8664 10098 11801 13726
Operating Income           -223   -78   342   533   704   827   937  1212  1295
Net Income                 -239  -127   -44   112   235   305   364   414   458
Average Revenue
(excluding fuel
surcharge) P/kWh           72.5  76.9  81.5  85.5  86.7  88.4  89.5  91.3  92.4
Average Revenue
(including fuel
surcharge) P/kWh           79.5  90.1 102.4 110.6 120.4 128.8 136.9 147.7 155.7
Rate of return
(after interest
excluding IDC)
on net fixed assets 1/  -11.3  -3.9  -1.1   2.2   3.1   3.3   3.4   3.4   3.3
at beginning of year X
Rate of return
(before interest)
on average net
fixed assets x  I/        -8.3  -2.2   7.5   8.3   8.4   8.4   8.2   9.4   9.1
Operating ratio            1.06  1.02  0.94  0.92  0.92  0.91  0.92  0.91  0.91
Self financing ratio        -      -8    -5    15    16    19    24    26    39
Debt service coverage       -     0.4   1.0   1.3   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.4   1.4
(times)
Debt/Debt plus equity X      10    16    20    22    25    27    28    29    29
Current ratio               1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5
1/ Historically valued.



-44-
4.37    DESU's sales forecast shows an average annual growth rate of about
10% through 1994/95. Its revenues will increase from Rs 3,011 million in
1985/86 to Rs 15,021 million in 1994/95, an average annual increase of 19.6%.
DESU's operating expenses during the same period are projected to increase
at an average annual rate of 18.6% from Rs 2,944 in 1985/86 to Rs 13,726
million in 1994/95. DESU's operating ratio of 106% in 1986/87, which is
expected to decline to 91% in 1994/95, is high and results mainly from the
high cost of fuel (including the expensive diesel which will be used in
DESU's combustion turbines) and the heavy cost of purchased power supplied,
mostly from thermal sources. Fuel and purchased power account for about 80%
of DESU's operating expenses. DESU's electricity tariffs are higher than
most SEBs operating in India and the scope for further improving DESU's
operating ratio through large tariff increases is considered very limited.
4.38    DESU's fixed assets would increase from Rs 4,958 million at the end
of 1985/86 to Rs 16,334 million at the end of 1994/95. Most of the invest-
ment during the 9 year period is for transmission and distribution lines.
The only currently identified investment in generating capacity is estimated
to cost Rs 2,335 million and would be for the replacement of thermal units at
Rajghat power station, expected to be completed by 1989/90.
4.39    Implementation of the financial measures set out in para 4.35 would
enable DESU to transform itself from an organization suffering chronic losses
to a financially viable utility. The financial projections indicate that
DESU would meet the agreed 3% rate of return covenant commencing in 1990/91
with modest nominal increases in basic tariffs, exclusive of the fuel
surcharge, of between 1% and 6% per annum. Tariffs inclusive of the fuel
surcharge are expected to increase at an average annual rate of about 9% in
nominal terms over the period 1986/87 to 1994/95. Assuming a projected
average annual rate of inflation of about 6% for this period, the average
annual increase would amount to approximately 3% in real terms. DESU would
earn rates of return (before interest) of about -8% in 1987/88, -2% in
1988/89 and about 7-9% in 1990/91-1994/95 on average net fixed assets (his-
torically valued) in operation. DESU's self financing ratio would improve to
about 15% in 1989/90, 24% in 1992/93, and 39% in 1994/95. Because of the
proposed conversion of past loans into equity, its debt/equity ratio would be
low but would rise gradually from 16/84 in 1987/88 to 29/71 in 1994/95.
DESU's projected financial performance is considered satisfactory.
Financing Plan
4.40    DESU's financing plan for the period of execution of the proposed
Project i.e. 1987/88-1993/94 is presented in Table 4.7. DESU would finance
about 13% of its investment program (including interest during construction)
from internal cash generation. The proposed Bank loan would finance about 7%
and the balance of 80% would be financed from GOI's loans to DESU (43%) and
GOI's equity investment (37%). The proposed Project, including interest
during construction, is expected to comprise about 18% of DESU's investment
program for the period.



-45-
Table 4.7  DESU's Financing Plan 1987/88 - 1993/94
US$
Source of Funds                       Rs Million         Million           X
Internal sources                        6,308               485            59
Consumers contributions &
security deposits                       436                34            04
Less - Net increase in
working capital                          890                68           -8
Less - Debt service                     4,512                347          -42
Net - cash available for
investment                            1,342               103            13
Bank Loan For Proposed Project             781                60             7
GOI loans                                4,553               350           43
GOI Equity                               3,884               299           37
Total                          10,560               812           100
Investment Program
Niincluding IDC)
Proposed Project                         1,946               151            18
Other capital expenditures               8,614               661           82
Total investment Program            10,560               812           100
On-Lending
4.41    An amount of US$ 60.0 million from the proposed Bank loan would be
on-lent by GOI to DESU for a 20 year term including 5 years of grace period
and repayment of principal in equal semi-annual installments with interest
payable on outstanding balances. GOI's current rate of interest for loans
made to DESU is 1 and in the financial projections that rate has also been
assumed for the on-lent Bank loan. An on-lending rate of 11% would provide a
sufficient margin over the current Bank rate of 7.92% to cover the foreign
exchange and interest rate risks which are to be borne by GOI. The conclu-
sion of a financial arrangement satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan (para 6.01(b)).



-46-
V. PROECT JUSTIFICATION AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Least Cost Analysis
5.01    The two principal components of the proposed Project are the 4x210 MS
power station at Dadri and the 400-kV transmission line which will complement
existing NTPC lines to form a ring around Delhi. With regard to the power
station, CEA has, with the aid of the optimization model WASP-III, prepared a
least cost system expansion plan for the Northern Region, based on the load
forecast given in Annex 5.1. The earliest feasible implementation of the
power station forms an integral part of the least-cost plan meeting the
constraints outlined in para 3.2. The assumptions used, including the load
forecast, and the results of the optimizatio" modelling have been reviewed by
the Bank and found satisfactory. With regard to the transmission component,
a range of options were considered and the Bank is satisfied that the con-
figuration chosen (including voltage level) constitutes part of the least
cost development of power supply to the Capital.
Internal Economic Rate of Return
5.02    Benefits of the Dadri power station and the 400-kV transmission
component cannot readily be separated from those of other investments in
generation, transmission and distribution. Therefore, having established
that these form part of the least cost expansion plan for the Northern
Region, it is appropriate to carry out a cost-benefit analysis of the plan as
a whole in order to ensure that the expansion envisaged is desirable. For
this purpose, a "time-slice" of the Northern Region's investment program has
been analyzed. Capital costs of the investment program (covering generation,
transmission and distribution) together with incremental operating and fuel
costs are given in Annex 5.2. The benefits of the investment program relate
mainly to the incremental consumption which it makes possible.I/ A minimum
measure of benefit, ignoring consumer surplus, can be derived from incremen-
tal sales revenue. In the absence of adequate class specific consumption
conversion factors, the standard conversion factor (estimated to be 0.8) has
been applied to convert financial revenue into a measure of economic benefit.
On this basis the minimum internal economic rate of return achieved by the
Northern Region program is 1X.
1/ The program may also lead to benefits in terms of a reduction in the cost
of meeting existing demand, particularly through fuel savings. However,
the energy deficit is such that by far the greater part of the output
available from plants in this program will lead to increased sales. Fuel
savings resulting from this program are likely to be small and this ele-
ment of the benefits has therefore been ignored.



-47-
5.03    However, this estimate is more a reflection of the level of tariffs
than of the economic merit of the investment program.  The estimated minimum
economic rate of return, 14t is less than the established opportunity cost of
capital, and this is indicative of the fact that retail tariffs in the
Northern Region, particularly agricultural, are presently substantially less
than LRMC (para 1.08). However, this generalization does not apply to DESU,
the direct and indirect beneficiary of the proposed Project. DESU's tariffs
are much closer to LRMC and would be closer still with extension of the fuel
surcharge to all consumers (para 4.35 and Annex 4.12). In reality, the
program will confer benefits in excess of those described above. There will
be consumer surplus associated with the incremental consumption; consumers'
reactions to the severe shortages of power experienced at present, and
expected for the foreseeable future, suggest that willingness to pay substan-
tially exceeds present tariff levels. In addition there will typically be
other external benefits,
5.04    In order to derive a more realistic internal economic rate of return,
it is useful to estimate a measure of consumer surplus, at least for
industrial and agricultural consumers. Their willingness to pay will be
related to the costs of autogeneration and diesel pumping respectively. Many
consumers are presently observed to find these options economic when public
supply is not available. Annex 5.2 presents an estimate of diesel
autogeneration costs at Rs 1.12/kWh. It would, however, be unreasonable to
assume that all industrial consumers would be willing to pay this price for
the whole of their consumption from the public supply system. Therefore, as
a conservative measure, it has been assumed that the consumer surplus
attributable to incremental sales can be derived from an average of the cost
of autogeneration and the prevailing tariff. Similarly, for agricultural
consumers the equivalent cost of diesel pumping has been estimated at
Rs 2.21/kWh and average willingness to pay has been estimated at halfway
between the average agricultural tariff and this alternative cost. This more
realistic measure of the benefit of consumption results in an internal
economic rate of return of 11% for the Northern Region. However, it must
again be stressed that this represents a lower bound estimate as domestic
consumer surplus and other external benefits, have still not been included.
Justification for Bank Involvement
5.05    Through this Project, the Bank would be supporting GOI's efforts
(para 3.05) to:
(a) augment generating capacity and alleviate the chronic power shortages
in the Capital and the Northern Region;
(b) improve the capacity and reliability of power transmission in the
Capital area and reduce system losses by complementing other NTPC
lines to form a 400-kV ring around Delhi;



-48-
(c) make more efficient and fuller use of existing plant through
rehabilitation of Badarpur; and
(d) bring about environmental improvements by reducing pollution from
Badarpur.
In addition to supporting the above objectives, the Bank would, through its
involvement in this Project:
(a)  introduce DESU to state-of-the-art distribution planning through
consultancy services for preparation of a distribution master plan;
(b) help to stimulate rehabilitation and environmental improvements in
ri'ation to the Indra Prastha power station;
(c) cause DESU to investigate the feasibility and economics of
retrofitting waste heat recovery boilers/steam turbogenerators to the
combustion turbines adjacent to Indra Prastha;
(d) help to set DESU on a sound financial footing through execution of
a financial recovery program (para 4.35); and
(e)  ensure that a proper analysis is made of the benefits of improving
the quality coal used in power generation.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Agreements
6.01    During negotiations, the following conditions of effectiveness were
agreed:
(a) the conclusion of a subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOI and NTPC,
satisfactory to the Bank specifying (i) an interest rate of not less
than 13.5 per annum; and (ii) a repayment term of 20 years including
5 years grace (para 4.15); and
(b)  the conclusion of a Financial Arrangement between GOI and DESU,
satisfactory to the Bank specifying (i) an interest rate of not less
than 11% per annum; and (ii) a repayment term of 20 years including 5
years grace (para 4.41).
6.02    During negotiations, GOI agreed to:
(a) provide to the Bank the report of its Committee examining power
supply arrangements for the Capital by July 31, 1987 (para 2.12);



-49-
(b) furnish to the Bank by February 29f 1988, and thereafter implement, a
satisfactory financial recovery plan for DESU (para 4.35); and
(c) require DESU to capitalize interest during construction.
6.03    During negotiations NTPC agreed to:
(a)  enter into a coal supply contract at least one year prior to the
commissioning of the first unit of the proposed power station. The
contract would be furnished to the Bank for prior review and comment
(para 3.16);
(b)  maintain its accounts receivable at a level not exceeding the
proceeds of its power sales for the two preceding months (para 4.05);
(c)  achieve annual rates of return on unrevalued net assets in operations
of not less than 7% through 1989/90, 9.5% in 1990/91 through 1994/95,
and thereafter annual rates of return at levels satisfactory to
ensure the financial viability of NTPC (para 4.08); and
(d)  submit to the Bank audited financial statements within seven months
of the end of the financial year to which they relate, together with
a certified report by the auditors and comments of the Comptroller
and Auditor General of India (para 4.12).
6.04    During negotiations, DESU agreed to:
(a)  engage the services of NTPC for the design, engineering and construc-
tion supervision of the 400-kV transmission lines and associated
substations (para 3.10);
(b)  ensure that accounts receivable from electricity consumers do not
exceed the equivalent of 4 months electricity sales in 1987/88;
3 months in 1988/89 and 2.5 months thereafter (para 4.31);
(c)  establish satisfactory arrangements for recovery of the Haryana State
Electricity Board's share of the costs of operating the Indraprastha
power Wtation (para 4.32);
(d)  take ail measures necessary, including adjustments of tariffs, to
ensure that commencing with 1990/91 it achieves a minimum rate of
return of 3X after interest (para 4.35);
(e)  submit unaudited and audited financial statements with the auditor's
report for 1983/84 through 1987/88 according to a timetable accept-
able to the Bank and, if necessary to achieve this, promptly engage
consultants to assist in the preparation of accounts (para 4.20);



-50-
(f)  submit unaudited and audited financial statement together with the
auditor's report for 1988/89 and each subsequent financial year,
within 6 and 9 months respectively of the financial year end (para
4.20); and
(g) carry out the studies included in the proposed Project in accordance
with the following timetable:
(i) with the exception of the consultants that may be engaged to
assist in the preparation of accounts, all consultants not
already appointed should be appointed by December 31, 1987;
(ii) the technical files management system should be designed and
implemented by December 31, 1988 (para 2.18);
(iii) the renovation and modernization program for the Indraprastha
power station shall be provided for review by the Bank by
June 30, 1988 (para 2.20); and
(iv) the recommendations from the consultants carrying out the
organization and management study should be reviewed with the
Bank by June 30, 1989; and by September 1, 1989, the imple-
mentation of the agreed recommendations should commence in
accordance with an agreed timetable (para 2.13).
Recommendation
6.05    The proposed Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$485 million
equivalent.



WA51CXAL CAPITAL em SUU gamy FROJ? - mUASE I
Electricity Generation. Sel end Pattern of lnetm Consumption - All India
Doscrintion               FYs'      ns56    FY'61    FY066   FT'69   FY'74  -P'79    FYn80    Y181   -FV82   FY'83   FYn84   FY'85
(pruv.) (Yeonta- (Tents,-
Xs               Zs              is                         tive)   tive)
Inotalled Capacity (HI)   1.835    2.886   4.653    9.027   12.957   16.664  26.680   28.448  30.214   32.344  35.361   39.360  42.440
(Utilities)
Eectricity Generated      5.858   9.662   16.937   32.990   47.433   66.689  102.523  104.627  110.821  122 010  130.211  139.896  156.633
Electricity Consumption   4.793    7.959   13,9S3   26.735   37.352   50.246   77.293   78.124   82.473   90.237   95.917  102.684    VA
((b) (Utilitias only)
Per Capita Generation     20.80   30.90   43.90    73.81      97.82   126.26   159.60   160.00  166.20  182.00   183.00  192.70    211.38
(Wh)
Per Capit Conumpttion    12.30   20.70   31.90    53.70    70.80   87.15   120.48   119.40   123.70   132.00   135.00  141.48         RA
(Ik (Utilities only)
COaSuMtICK Pattern (1)
Donestic Liht 6           12.40    11.70    10.70     8.80      8.50    9.20    9.80     10.76   11.28     11.50    12.48  12.88      NA
Ull Fewer
Coemer¢all Light 6         6.90     6.80    6.10      6.20     5.70     6.00   5.60       5.96   5.95       5.98    6.29   5.89       NA
Small Poser
Industrial Power          63.70   66.90   69.40    70.60    69.30    64.60  61.35    58.86  58.75    58.75   55.80  56.68             NA
RWalxay/Traction           6.90    5.10    3.30       4.00     3.30    3.00   2.63        2.95    2.82      2.78    2.79   3.86       NA
A*ritclture Pumps          4.30    4.00    9.30       7.10      9.30    12.60  15.56    17.23  17.48    16.71   18.55  17.72          NA
Public Water Works.
Ieoa8 Pumping. Public
Lighting & Others        5.80    5.50       3.90    3.30    3.90    4.60   4.86         4.24    4.28    4.28    4.10    2.97    Nh
_ Total                100.00   100.00    100.00   100.00   100.00   100.00  100.00   100.00   100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00    NA
NA - Sot Available
8orces CMEL. Mrch 1986



INDIA
NATIONAL CAPITAL POWER SUPPLY PROJECT - PRlAB I
forecast of Resional Power Demand in India. FY'86 - FY'95
FY'86     FYn87      FY'88       FY'89         FYt90       FY'91       FY'92       FY'93        FY'94       FY'95
Northern                54.549    61,375      67.538      74.073       81.086      89.218      98.178      108.055       118.945     130.953
Western                 53.097    59.084      64.538      70.416       76.678       83.744      91.467      99.913       109.148     119.245
Southern                47.188    53.681     58.817       63.943       69.296      75.920       83.188     91.160         99,907     109.505
Eastern                 25.869    29.525     32.440       35.650       38.889      42.831       47.194     52.021         57,366      63.287
North-Eastern            1.991     2.407       2.712       3.038        3.389       3.744        4.135       4.563         5.035       5.550
And-m    and                23        26          30          33           37           41          46          52            58          65
Nicobar Islands
Lakshadweep                  3         3           3           4            4            5           6           6             7           8
All India (TOTAL)      182.720   206.101    226.078      247.157      269.379     295.503      324.214    355.i70        390.466     428.613
Peak Load
(C-)
Northern                10.643    11.975      13.179      14.455       15.825      17.415       19.167      21.098        23.227      25.576
Western                  9.184    10.220      11.245      12.273       13.459      14.701       16.058      17.542        19,165      20.938
Southern                 8.558     9.707     10.620       11.534       12.485      13.675       14.982      16.414        17.986      19.711
Eastern                  4.505     5.134      5.640        6.196        6.757       7.442        8.202       9.043         9.974      11.006
North-Eastern              432       536         599         667          740          814         895         983         1.080       1.185
Andaman and                  7         8           8           9           10          11           12          14            16          18
Nicobar Islands
Lakshadweep                  1         2           2           2            2            2           3           3             3           4
All India (TOTAL)       33.330    37.582      41.293      45.136       49.278      54.060       59.319      65.097        71.451      78.438
Source: CZA
I-a
N



ANNEX 1.3
,IDIA
NATIONAL CAPITAL POWER SUPPLY PROJECT - PELASE I
Previous Loans and Credits to Indian Power Sector (April.22, 1987)
Approval  Closing    Loan    Amount
Boroe    IBDRDLoans                              No.    Date-    Da..P~le  (Amont  Diksburse      status
ID aMillion Equiv.)
India      First DVC - B3karo - Konar               23    4/50       2/56     18.50      16.72      Complete
India      Second DVC - Maithon - Panchot           72    1/53       6/58     19.50      10.50     Complete
Tata       Trombay Power                           106   11/54       9/66     16.20      13.85      Complete
Tata       Second Trombay                          164    5/57       9/66      9.80       9.66      Complete
India      Third DVC - Purgapur                   203    7/58        6/65     25.00      22.00     Complete
India      Royna Power                             223    4/59       4/65     25.00      18.70     Complete
India      Pover Transmission                      416    6/65      12/70     70.00      50.00     Complete
India      Second Kothagudem Pover                417    6/65       12/70     14.00      13.97     Complete
Tata       Third Trombay Thermal Power            1549    4/78      12/84    105.00      42.04      Complete
India      Ramagundam Thermal Power (*)           1648    1/79      12/86     50.00      42.19
India      Farakka Thermal Power (*)             1887    6/80        3/87     25.00       0.00
India      Second Ramgundam Thermal Power (*) 2076   12/81          6/88    300.00    125.13
India      Third Rural Electrification            2165    6/82       6/86    304.00    216.09
India      Upper Indravati Bydro                 2278    5/83       6/91    156.40         .39
India      Central Power Transmission (')         2283    5/83       3/89    250.70       4.96
India      Indira Sarovar                        2416    5/84        6/92    157.40       4.27
India      Second Farakka Thermal Power (*)    2442    6/84         12/91    300.80       6.71
Tats       Fourth Trombay Thermal Power           2452    6/84       6/90    135.40      35.12
India      Chandrapur Thermal Power              2544    5/85       12/92    300.00      24.63
India      Rihatd Power Transmission (*)         2555    5/85       12/89    250.00      23.31
India      Kerala State Power                    2582    6/85        9/91    176.00       0.03
India      Combined Cycle (*)                    2674    4/85       12/91    485.00          -
Total                                                        3,194.20
(Total Loans for NTPC Projects)                             (1,711.50)
IDA Credits
India      Fourth DVC - Durgapur                    19    2/62      12/69     18.50      19.88      Complete
India      Second Royna Power                       24    8/62       9/70     17.50      21.10      Complete
India      Kothagudem Power                         34    5/63      12/68     20.00      24.13     Complete
India      Beas Equipment                           89    6/66       6/74     23.00      26.32      Complete
India      Second Power Transmission               242    4/71       3/77     75.00      72.93      Complete
India      Third Power Transmission                377    3/73       9/78     85.00      85.00      Complete
India      Rural Electrification                   572    7/75      12/80     57.00      57.00      Complete
India      Fourth Power Transmission              604    1/76        6/83    150.00    149.87       Complete
India      Singrauli Thermal Power (*)             685    3/77      12/83    150.00    150.00       Complete
India      Korba Thermal Power (*)                 793    4/78       3/85    200.00    194.83       Complete
India      Ramagundam Thermal Power (*)            874    1/79      12/86    200.00    200.00
India      Second Rural Electrification            911    5/79       3/84    175.00    171.75       Complete
India      Second Singrauli Thermal Power (*)  1027    5/80          3/88    300.00    260.81
India      Farakka Thermal Power (*)              1053    6/80       3/87    225.00    208.58
India      Second Korba Thermal Power (*)         1172    7/81      12/89    395.09    250.37
India      Upper Indravati Hydro                  1356    5/83       6/91    189.29      62.66
India      Indira 8arovar                        SF010    5/84       6/92    122.00       4.20
Indii      Indira Sarovar                         1613    5/85       6/92     15.05          -
Total                                                       2,425.43
(Total Credits for NTPC Projects)                          (1,475.00)
(*) NTPC Projects.



NAROL CArL POM UIltY FRlOJCT: E I
NtoniUYk_
II                                           I             -~~~~    C-
i.c.
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
LI
=__x



ANIIIX 2.2.
I .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
avoo   Ad& C  Ad%U  OwE                 "..                ONAW
&*3W-3  MO                             Imm    omou-I
P.~ ~~~~~OO
I                bow I   1    1  1  1  1
40 4   0S   bFaMbM  ew_  _     _      -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OU-;;1  3 
_f_ A_ ~~~~~~~~~~~&o u*                                         IMP"' 1  
T  k_       .m                                        l-
m Ir_ I Ir2 IrIr Ir Xr- Ir S| r; ;
LEll X11 - 111 11  11 -  111 'I I I-
l  ;   *   * *   * *   * ** *   * *   .       .         '      '  
I tresiSH3A RS1 X   t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wwlrw3



Annex 3.1
Page 1 of 7
INDIA
NATIONAL CAPITAL POWER SUPPLY PROJECT - PHASE I
Technical Description of the Project
National Capital Thermal Power Plant
1.      The National Capital Thermal Power Plant is to be established near
Dadri, Chaziabad District, Uttar Pradesh State. The steam power station will
have an ultimate capacity of 1800 MW and is to be built in two stages: a
first stage comprising four 210 KW units and a second stage with two 500 MW
units. Only the first stage is part of the proposed Project.
2.      The power plant will consist of generating units with boiler plant,
turbogenerator sets, ancillary electrical and mechanical equipment generated
at this power station over 220 kV/400 kV AC transmission system. The trans-
mission lines required for power evacuation have already been provided under
the Rihand power transmission project. In fact the proposed power station
adjoins the receiving HVDC/AC substation of this transmission scheme. From
the Rihand receiving substation two outgoing 400 kV transmission lines will
link the power station to the proposed 400 kV transmission ring around Delhi
described herein below.
3,      The 210 MW turbines will be three cylinder, tandem compound condens-
ing type on single reheat and regeIerative feed-water beating cycle. Initial
steam conditions will be 150 kg/cm and 535 degree centigrade. The gener-
ators will be hydrogen cooled rated 235,000 kVA. The boilers will be natural
circulation, multifuel (1001 pulverized coal-fired and 1001 oil-fired), dry
bottom, balance draft type using direct firing system. Each boiler will have
a continuous evaporation rate of 670 tons per hour with a superheater outlet
pressure of 156 kg/cm' and 540 degrees centigrade. The feed water tempera-
ture will be about 240 degrees centigrade. One 240 IVA three-phase trans-
former will be provided for each 210 NW unit to step up its generation to 220
kV. The power at 220 kV will be further stepped up to 400 kV by two 480 EVA,
400/200 kV three-phase autotransformers and then connected to the 400 kV
switchyard which is being constructed to receive power from the Rihand power
station through HVDC and to further evacuate it to the Delhi 400 kV ring.
Under the NTPC part of the proposed Project additional transformation
capacity will be provided at the Karval Nagar and Ballabhgarh substations by
means of two 315 MVA, 400/220 kV autotransformers at Karwal Nagar and one
autotransformer of same rating and characteristics at Ballabhgarh.



Annex 3.1
Page 2 of 7
4.      The proposed Dadri power station will utiLize coal from the Piparwar
Block of the North Karanpura Coalfield in Ranchi District, State of Bihar.
The coal will be brought to the power station over the Indian Railway network
up to Dedri (approximate distance: 1200 km) and then to the power station
over an 8 km railway siding to be constructed. An alternative fuel oil
supply is envisaged to cater to the requirement for 100% fuel oil firing
facility for all four units at full load. Fuel oil storage capacity will be
adequate for 10 days operation of the power station with 1002 fuel oil firing
in all four units. The fuel oil will arrive at the power station in railway
tank wagons.
5.      Sufficient water for a once through circulating cooling water system
is not available at Dadri throughout the year. A close cycle cooling water
system with cooling towers has been adopted therefore for the proposed power
station. Make-up water will be drawn from the Nat Branch Canal about 4 km
distance and during the periods of canal closure for maintenance (3 to 4
weeks per year) from the Hindon River about 25 km away from the plant area.
6.      The salient features of the proposed power generation development
are the following:
Boilers                -  Designed for full firing with either coal or fuel
oil.
Transfer of Coal       -  By means of "Unit Trains" with bottom-discharge
wagons.
Cooling Water System  -  Close circuit cooling water system with cooling
towers. Alternative make-up water supply from the
Nat Branch Cancal or the Hindon River. Make-up water
will be pumped through steel pipelines into an
auxiliary reservoir located at the plant area.
Ash Handling and       -  The total ash generated by the four boilers will be
Disposal                  conveyed to a disposal site about 1 km away from the
power station in a conditioned form to construct
an artificial dry-ash mound which will then be
landscaped. Bottom ash will be conveyed to the site
by belt conveyor while fly ash will be moved by
pneumatic means.



Annex 3.1
Page 3 of 7
Land Requirements     -  A total area of approximately 1000 ha is required
for the power plant, coal yard, switchyard, ash
disposal, and operators' housing facilities. A very
low percentage of the land at the selected power
plant site falls under semi-agriculture type; che
rest is classified as barren non-agricultural land.
Pollution Control     -  Coal Dust:  Fugitive dust from coal hauling area
will be controlled by spraying water at appropriate
locations.
-  Ash:  At the ash disposal area fugitive dust will
be controlled through water sprays. The compacted
ash mounds will be covered with a layer of fertile
soil and then seeded in stages.
-  Emission:  Ambient concentrations of S02 are to be
controlled by dispersal through a 225 m high four-flue
conduit stack. Additionally, space will be provided
for flue gas desulphurization equipment should that
become necessary in the future.
-  Electrostatic precipitators with an efficiency of
not less than 992 will limit particulate emission
from flue gases to comply with current emission
standards.
-  Water:  The power station will utilize a closed
circuit recirculating water cooling system with
cooling towers; therefore, no thermal pollution will
occur. Liquid discharges from the plant will be
treated as necessary. The demineralizer wastes,
boiler blown-down, cooling tower blow-down, and
boiler cleaning wastes will be neutralized. The
neutralized effluent along with coal storage area
runoff will be directed to a sedimentation basin.
After sedimentation, the effluent will be discharged
into the main plant drain.
Delhi 400 kV Transmission Ring
7.      Delhi's anticipated electric power demand is forecast to reach 4000
NU in fiscal year 2000/2001. To accommodate power demand of this order of
magnitude a 400 kV ring around the city is being established with 400/220 kV
substations at Karawal Nagar, Bawana, Bamnoli, and Ballabhgarh. These sub-
stations will feed into the existing 220 kV Delhi Transmission Ring. The



Annex 3.1
Page 4 of 7
400 kV transmission lines from Dadri to Karawal Nagar and to Ballabhgarh, as
well as the 400/220 kV substations at Karawal Nagar and Ballabhgarh, arsa
being constructed by the NTPC as part of the Rihand power transmitision
project, while the Karawal Nagar-to-Bawana, Bawana-to-Bamnoli, and
Bamnauli-to-Ballabhgarh transmission lines and the 400/220 kV substations
at Bawana and Bamnoli will be constructed by DESU as part of the proposed
Project.
8.      Given the severe right of way problems in the city area the 400 kV
ring is conceived to take care of power requirements beyond fiscal year
2000/2001 in the time frame of the transmission system useful life. Since
the Dadri-to-Karawal Nagar and Dadri-to-Ballabhgarh lines are being built
with quad-bundle configuration it was felt that provision of same configura-
tion in the remaining sections of the 400 kV ring should also be adopted.
9.      In order to inject power from the 220 kV Delhi transmission ring into
the city 66 kV subtransmission system at Karawal Nagar, Bamnoli, and Bawana,
DESU will install 220/66 kV substations as part of the proposed Project.
These substations are needed to take care of the expanding demand in these
areas of Delhi.
10.     The DESU portion of the 400 kV ring and the complementary 220/66 kV
substations will have the following characteristics:
Transmission Lines:
Karawal Nagar-Bawana                     34 kms
Bawana-Bamnoli                           35 kms
Bamnoli-Ballabhgarh                      42 kms
All these lines will be double circuit quadruple blundle BERSIMIS ACSR
conductor on self-supporting latticed bolted steel towers. Two 7/3.66 mm
galvanized steel ground wires will be used to protect the line against light-
ing strokes. Since the transmission ring will be built on the outskirts of
the city, anchor towers will be provided in larger numbers than for
cross-country lines. Maximum span will be limited to 300 m.
400/200 kV Substations:
Bawana                           2x315 NVA autotransformers
Bamnoli                          2x315 MVA autotransformers
220/66 kV Substations:
Karawal Nagar                    2xlO0 NVA transformers
Bamnoli (Bijwassan)              2xlO0 MVA transformers
Bawana                           2xlO0 NVA transformers



Annex 3.1
Page 5 of 7
Technical Studies
11.     The proposed Project includes the following studies:
(i)  preparation of a Distribution Master Plan for Delhi;
(ii) feasibility study for retrofitting the combustion turbogenerators
being installed at Rajghat with the addition of heat recovery
boilers and steam turbogenerators; and
(;ii) complementary studies to improve the availability of generating units
at the Indra Prastha power station and to upgrade the power
plant's pollution control facilities to meet environmental standards.
Distribution Master Plan
12.     The studies involved in preparing a distribution master plan are
directed at establishing the overall framework for the development of the
distribution system in the city of Delhi within a 15-year horizon. In
essence the studies will:
(i) review the existing planning and design concepts and develop
suitable criteria oriented towards improved reliability of supply
and optimization of energy losses;
(ii) evolve the distribution development plan up to the year 2000/2001
when the demand is expected to reach 4000 MW;
5iii) identify the distribution works and investment needed in a 5-year
initial time-slice;
(iv) develop a plan to modernize DESU's operation and supervisory control
and load dispatch centers in Delhi;
(v) review the existing training practices and prepare a plan to
improve training; and
(vi) review DESU's technical and commercial set ups and develop plans
to upgrade their effectiveness.
Retrofitting of Combustion Turbines
13.     DESU is installing six 30 MW combustion turbogenerators at the site
adjacent to the Indraprastha power plant. These units will be burning liquid
distillate fuel. Given the fact that the gas turbine units will be operating
in excess of 4000 hours per year and that the substantial power supply



Annex 3.1
page 6 of 7
shortages are foreseen in the Northern Region of India in the coming decade,
it seems desirable to study the feasibility of improving both the efficiency
and the capacity of this power station. This objective can be accomplished
by the installation of heat recovery boilers to use the gas turbines wasted
exhaust heat and steam turbogenerators. A study would establish the economic
and technical feasibility of the possible repowering scheme.
Complementary Studies for Indraprastha Rehabilitation
14.     DESU is presently carrying out a number of rehabilitation work at
Indrapastha; nevertheless additional work is required to fully rehabilitate
the power generating units. The complementary studies deal with: (a)
renovation of the cooling water system, particularly cooling towers to meet
environmental standards; and (b) the coal handling facilities. In addition
the studies will establish a detailed plan to carry out all rehabilitation
work.
Rehabilitation of the Badarpur Power Station
15.     The main facility supplying the Capital Region power supply require-
ments is the 720 KW Badarpur coal-fired power station near Delhi. This power
station is currently being operated by NTPC although the facilities were
established by the Central Electricity Authority over a span of eight years
(1973 to 1981). For different reasons, including inadequate design of major
components, insufficient supply of cooling water, and supply of coal well
below originally designed for heating value, the power station's performance
has deteriorated to the point that major rehabilitation works are needed.
NTPC has prepared a detailed rehabilitation plan of which some works have
been,started. In essence the rehabilitation involves:
(a) replacement of plate superheaters in the boilers of the three
100 MW units;
(b) provision of isolating dampers for PA fans in the boilers of
the two 210 NW units;
(c) replacement of the coal pulverizer mills bottom for unit
No. 5 (210 MU);
(d) installation of new no-flow coal alarms in raw coal feeders
for the 210 MU units;
(e) replacement of coal pulverizer mills discharge valves for the
210 MW units;
(f) installation of new coal pulverizer mill reject handling system
for the 210 MW units;



Anne: 3.1
Page 7 of 7
(g) provision of isolating gates before burner mouths for the
210 NW units;
(h) modification/replacement of electrostatic precipitators for the
100 MS units;
(i) installation of new control equipment for boilers of the 100 NW
units;
(j) replacement of steam control valves for the 210 NW units;
(k) installation of new instrumentation for the boilers of the
100 MW units;
(1) installation of new coal handling plant;
(im) modification of ash handling system for the new electrostatic
precipitators in the 100 MW units;
(n) modification of the high pressure ash water disposal system for
the 100 MW units; and
(o) replacement of the 220 kV circuit breakers.



2401of 2
It
i    s~* * 0..                  .  e  .                . *
jj~~~~'
*  ~~~~~~~~t.-,'                         4?II,   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  a,~~~~~1
I,  ,  S    I                                                           a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S



wce ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- vflM    - Co@
Om L*W                             3%
2 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      2-
A       - l "l        an  a
NW   $   0   U   p   - *
im   a        n   a   a
.~  ~ ~ __   *   .7  ,,  a
4    _                                         2  _                                          _:le                       F_ 4 1$                                                                 1
_ _ *  a   0   P- 
sow Xe 
_  ;s  t 
am            X 4 



A£331 3.3
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
NATIONAL CAPITAL POWER SUPPLY PROJECT - PHASE I
Detailed Project Costs
(in US$ thousand)
A. NTPC
Base           Foreign           Total
Costs          Component         Costs
PRELIMINARY WORKS
Survey and Soil Invest.                      326.2                -             380.6
Land and Infrast.                         13,331.5                -          18,138.4
Site Clearance - Leveling Roads            5,569.1                -           7,692.8
Permanent Siding                           59544.6                -           6,858.7
Sub-Total PRELIMINARY WORKS               24,771.4                -          33,070.6
CIVIL WORKS
Foundations                               15,753.2                -          21,817.1
Structural Steel Works                    22,412.7         10,107.7          30,910.5
Main Plant Works                          10,094.5                -          14t475.7
Ash Handling Works                         4,150.3                -           6,349.9
Chimney                                    3,677.4                -           5,554.8
Coal Handling System                      12,475.4                -          19,101.6
Admin. and Services Build                  2t258.6                -           3,321.3
Office site Building                       1,997.7                -           2,937.6
Fuel Oil Handling                          1,590.0                -           2,485.1
C.W. System                               16,413.7                -          15t630.1
Water Treatment Works                      3,286.0                -           4,899.7
Township                                  16:006.0                -          24,065.8
Temporary Construction                     7,256.9                -          10,243.8
Sub-Total CIVIL VORKS                    117,372.4         10,107.7         171,792.9
MAIN PLANT EQuIPMNT
Steam Generator and Aux.                 198,577.0        127,422.0        272,266.5
Turbo Generator and Aux.                 145,327.6         93,603.1        200t178.6
Equipment Cooling System                   3p488.1          2p256.8           4,830.8
Sub-Total MAIN PLANT EQUIPMEWT           347,392.6        223t281.9        477,275.9



ANNEX 3.3
Page 2 of 3
Base           Foreign           Total
Costs          Component         Costs
OTHER MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT
Control and Instrumentation               16,414.1        11,749.9          22,616.0
Water Treatment Plant                      4,909.1         3,239.6           6,966.3
Auxiliary Pumps                              516.7           322.1             682.8
C.W. Pumps                                17,343.4        10,519.9          22,152.7
Cooling Towers                             8,138.8         4,936.7          10,395.7
Station Piping                             3,383.1         2,267.2           4,893.7
Workshop and Laboratory                      993.1           655.1           1,408.6
Hydro Generator Plant                        694.4           457.3             983.0
Fuel Oil System                            3,972.5         2,475.9           5,248.2
Hoisting Equipment                         4,400.4         2,791.2           5,942.1
Air Compressor                             1,195.0            790.1          1,699.7
A/C and Ventilation                        2,850.2          1,906.1          4,112.0
Fire Fighting Equipment                    3,633.4         2,379.0           5,105.8
Ash Handling System                       45,805.0        30,227.4          64,999.3
Diesel Generator                             532.9           319.3             670.3
Tools and Plants                           7,105.3         4,429.1           9,389.4
Sub-Total OTHER MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT    121,887.4         79,466.0         167,265.2
COAL HANDLING AND TRANSPORTATION
Coal Handling                             34,997.8        14,937.6          47,311.6
Rail Tracks                                8,261.5         3,505.0          11,078.7
Locomotives                                6,479.6         2,776.5           8,805.3
Wagons                                    85,044.5       136,441.4         115,569.1
Signalling                                   324.0           133.7             418.8
Sub-Total COAL HANDLING AND
TRANSPORTATION                135,107.3        57,794.2         183,183.5



ANNEX 3.3
Page 3 of 3
Base           Foreign          Total
Costs          Component        Costs
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
Power Transformer                         5,665.7          5,202.7          7*278.4
Bus - Ducts                               2t250.2          2,150.1          3,022.6
H.T. Switchgear                           4*315.6          4,031.6          5,651.8
L.T. Switchgear                           5,416.6          5,051.1          7,079.5
D.C. Batteries                              594.7            562.0             789.0
Control and Relay Panels                     136.6           125.4            175.4
Power Cables                              10,969.8        10,327.6         14,491.6
Intercom                                    771.5            779.2          1t103.1
Switchyard                               20,734.1         19,678.4         27,641.8
Station Lighting                          1,486.7          1,405.1          19972.5
E.D.P.                                    2,957.4          2,708.7          3t787.7
Electrical Laboratory                     1,165.3         1,075.69          1,505.6
Sub-Total ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT           56,464.2         53,097.5         74,499.0
CONSULTANCY                               7,134.8          2,599.3          9,285.8
BADARPUR REHABILITATION                  23,199.4         12,338.5         28,011.7
ENGINEERING AND ADMINISTRATION           49,232.9                -         67,695.4
Total NTPC                              882,562.4        438,685.1      1,212t080.0
B. DESU
CONSULTANCY - DESU                        3,736.6            863.1          4,577.4
TRANSMISSION LINES AND SUBSTATIONS
400 KV Transmission Lines                38t752.6         21,747.7         51,285.5
400 KV Substations                       31,034.4         17,416.3         41,071.1
220 KV Substations                       17t246.7          9,678.7         22p824.4
Engineering and Administration           15,476.0                -         219329.1
Sub-Total TRANSMISSION LINES AND
SUBSTATIONS                 102,509.8         48p842.7        136,510.1
Total DESU                              106,246.4         49,705.8        141,087.5
C.  TOTAL PROJECT                       988,808.8        488t390.9      1,353,167.4
Z==8:uuUZu   mZ==:wumm:3:



AMNEX 3.4
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
VATIOVAL CAPITAL POWER SUPPLY PROJECT - PHASE I
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ Million)
A. NTPC
IBRD Fiscal Year            Percent            Amount
and Half Year             Disbursed          Disbursed          Cumulative
FY87
June 1987                       0                  -                   -
FY88
December 1987                   4                17.0
June 1988                       8                17.0                34.0
FY89
December 1988                  13                21.0                55.0
June 1989                      19                25.0                80.0
FY90
December 1989                  27                34.0               114.0
June 1990                      30                39.0               153.0
FY91
December 1990                  46                42.0               195.0
June 1991                      56                43.0               238.0
FY92
December 1991                  65                38.0               276.0
June 1992                      74                38.0               314.0
FY93
December 1992                  81                30.0               344.0
June 1993                      87                25.0               369.0
PY94
December 1993                  92                22.0               391.0
June 1994                      96                17.0               408.0
FY95
December 1994                  99                12.0               420.0
June 1995                     100                 5.0              425.0



-2-
ANNEX 3.4
Page 2 of 2
B. DESU
IBRD Fiscal Year            Percent              Amount
and Half Year             Disbursed           Disbursed           Cumulative
FY87
June 1987                        0
FY88
December 1987                    1                  .6                  .6
June 1988                        5                 2.4                 3.0
FY89
December 1988                   11                 3.0                 6.0
June 1989                       19                 5.0                11.0
FY90
December 1989                   29                 6.0                17.0
June 1990                       39                 6.0                23.0
FY91
December 1990                   50                 7.0                30.0
June 1991                       60                 6.0                36.0
FY92
December 1991                   69                 5.0                41.0
June 1992                       77                 5.0                46.0
FY93
December 1992                   84                 4.0                50.0
June 1993                       89                 3.0                53.0
FY94
December 1993                   93                 3.0                56.0
June 1994                       97                 2.0                58.0
FY95
December 1994                  100                 2.0                60.0



AUNEX 4.01
INDIA
NATIONAL THERMAL POWER CORPORATION
NATIONAL CAPITAL POWER SUPPLY PROJECT - PHASE I
Chapter IV Annexes
Table of Contents
Title                                       Annex No.
NTPC's Financial Performance Indicators                        4*02
NTPC's Consolidated Income Statements                          4.03
NTPC's Balance Sheets                                          4.04
NTPC's Statement of Sources and Application of Funds           4.05
NTPC's Financing Plan                                          4.06
NTPC's Projected Regional Tariffs versus
Long-Run Marginal Costs (LRMC)                         4.07
NTPC's Rate of Return on Net Revalued Assets                   4.08
STPC's Investment Program                                      4.09
Assumptions for NTPC Financial Projections                     4.10
DESU suggested Terms of Reference of
Consultants For:                                             4.11
A. Bringing Accounting Work Up to Date
B. Implementation of the Commercial Accounting System
C. Organization and Management Study
DESU's Income Statements                                       4.12
DESU's Balance Sheets                                          4.13
DESU's Sources and Application of Funds Statements             4.14
Assumptions for DESU's Financial Projections                   4.15



NATIUIAiL I0hL PE   CWIOTII LIIHTE
NATIUS CWITAL PEER 911Y M T N     I
FIMIAL F_IIE INUICAT1
£090ER1   FEL AM r  1193         FT 1996
ACTUL  ACUL  KITUL ---llJEI
FISi IR ENDI  IWII 31ST                        193    1914    11       191      1       19      1919    19      19      1992    19      1M       199     £99
RATE Of RETIX-ON HISTERICAL CM09  f Et ASSETS   6.6    11.3    12.51   17.22   14.91   11.6?   11.61   13.01    5.4      6.7n    1               17.11   16.9u
-N EVAUE COST OF IEt ASSTS         4.41    9.41   10.1    13.42   11.2    7.51    7.12       .n    9.u    10.22   10.5    10.2       9.42    9.22
iiANs RATI IItom.EPS. S  1 oF ae. my.)   6i.12   51.7S    ..n    54.s    5.22   55.2              .     46.52    5.11     .5       .     4.3      5.51   4.
WERTINIB IllN   AS 2 OF 11TTtl  SALES lREVEl    35.9    43.32   41.32   46.01   46.31   44.92   50.41   53.51   54.92   5.5    s.        54.n    m.52   54.4
NEI EAUIUS AS  OF I    119 SALES RE            13.I2   32.11   2.31   35.02   27.32   25.5?   27.51   29.92   32.32   33.22   32.6U   32.9    33.51   33.41
2 CAMl 9101*1  COIIUTIIIO tO IlNEStElT          5.02    3.2   11.n      o.7    11.9      7.9n   14.91     5    43.02   4.32   51.63   49.62   3.62   13.61
DEIT SERVICE COVe                               2.9     3.5     3.5     5.0      3.2     2.8     2.6     2.7     2.9     2.9     2.6      2.4     2.5     2.4
RTIO OF 118T TO DEBT PLUS E8ITt               21179   26174   32/61   34166   37163   41/5    41/59   44/5    4/5    415    415    40/60   42/5    4215
CWIT RATIO                                      0.5     0.9     1.0     1.2     0.6      0.9     1.5     2.0     2.5     2.0      1.9     1.8     3.2     6.9
BUICK RATIO                                     0.4     0.6     0.8     1.0     0.4      0.6     1.0     1.5     1.9     1.5      1.4     1.4     2.7     6.3
ACCTS RECEIVI-EIIE OF IUOTIS'SALES              7.9     7.2     5.9     5.2      2.0     2.0     2.0     2.0     2.0     2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0     2.0
AVE   TAMIFFS AS A? OF LUIC                     0.02    0.0t   91.02   94      102.42  105.2  103.6  1oo0    "9.2   101. 1  10o.n   10.IX  01s.51   01.912
I INC1AE 1N TRIFFS                                -     1.7n    7.S2    2.n    29.51   11.02    6.       5.61    7.n     7.6     s.3     6.42    6.U      6.32
2 lNCEASE in MR        Ti                         -   2a4.s2  £16.72   53.31   -1.02   2.1x   66.2   4.9    265    17.n 72        1.42    7.6    10.41   11.1
2 ItSE  1 11tl7   SNES REVEI                      -   318.62  137.91   57.32   23.42   44.1t   80.22   52.0?    MM    26.9    17.2    14.    17.61   1.21
I INCREASE SII OETISEIIENIES                      -   237.9?  £70.32   44.      26.22   44.0    U.91   42.4    31.92   27.f1   17.U6   13.92   19.1?   10.V4
t INICRESE 11 OPEPATI ItCOIM                      -   462.51   103.3?   75.3?   20.2?   4.31  i2.n   61.42   39.12   26.1         .n9   IS.22   17.22   19.0
I INCASE IN Et  EAM S                             -   6.1x  "9.    109.12   -3.n    34.71   94.41    5.         49.523 a5    15.1   15.42   ft.9%    3.n
2 INESE IN CSH SEI£ERAO1 CDNTRIDUJ.TO INVEST.    -   -13.01  454.02   41.22  145.n  -37.02   90.52   9.5x    46.11   43.O        9.12   I.2   13.9t   10.4
t INCREASE IN BT SERVICE                          -   240.01  122.62   15.92  102.3t   65.6   113.2n  56.       26.92   25.4    30.41   21.02   16.22   20.31
2 INREASE IN CAPITAL EIPEDITURE                   -       -    40.22   55.12   120.21   -5.02   -3.3?   -i.n    -2.92   24.61    3.41   1.32   -3.U   -22.62
ICREASE IN  SS FIlED ASSTS IN ORTION             -   202.9?   45.31   20.12   60.52   %.9   102.12   I1.01   21.91   1s.42    *.n    1t.92   24.n    1.9?
I INCREASE IN M-1-PROGRESS                        -     7.92   42.2   65.72   75.       13.42  -31.1t   26.11    6.92   24.82   25.2?    8.2   -11.92  -15.4
2 INCRESE IN AVEAE NET FIIED ASSETS-HISTORICAL COST -   232.3?   82.71   27.91   39.n    63.31  102.22   44.6    17.9%   16.21   11.01   14.12   21.n    19.4?
Z IEASE IN AVERAE NET FIXE  ASSEJS-REVAI  COST  -   160.22   84.9?   33.n    39.6?   85.12  105.1?   50.1?   24.91   21.62   14.7    16.n   23.52   22.3



IU1A
NITIIS. THERIMU   FIER CINRPRTIIN LUNTED
viGTwUIS         pM! SilPPL PRWE  HaSEw I
C15LI9a ISKIl STAE
CEU2S  TINS fm                  3 9719
(MME NiUION)
ACITUAl   t A CTU   UAL   ATM   - - -- -----------ECTED-------------------- - --                       ----    TUtU.
FISCA  VWA 910115 NW"CI 3157                        39833    I   1994 395      1`996    397      ts w~tw                     w 19921"  O l    399     399       3995     1996  1923-96
PMM   EINRATION                                    1.109    4,267    9,248   14,174   14,031  18,120   30,136   43,065  54,484   64,142   71,439   76,800  04,79   4,302  390,274
LESShAMILL I C         TN9tIIN                        75      432       2     1,335    1,403    1,725   2,413    5,159    5,919    4.652   5,207    S5t2   6.012    6,607   43,46
tTUT FllE SPlow S (Sol                             1,034    3,835   9,316   12,9   12,62    16,3    27,723   39,907   50,56   59,499   66,231   71,31B   78,37   1,69   536.913
~~~~~-    -- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~              a_a         t ga   Ilall sagas   _ag  gaa.t Ian.,  g_e 111 r1 gee  lsll_                              _ 51 215*53 1 53#_51    22.
oiI SiUPLY TOI"  (PASISE E  K)                     32.30    34.09    3.79    39.2   5s.3    s6.79    *0.51    6.9    69.4b    73.3           7.2       2.72   37.9    93.50
O ATII1 SALES EE                                     33    1,3I9     3,326    5,233    6,460    9,311  26,774   25,495   34,618   43,92    51,475  59,992   69,369  8,993  408,699
~~------ ~     ~         ~         nn ----. amenw-         nuns.. an.  mama ga.. su.,  nan..S al*                                                                 r_ 5*lS  t _ntnn  nnan.
IFETIUTS 1U1E15  EsDRTllE
FlEE.:                  T3~~~~~on    lESIN    135      365      707      set      844    3,102    3,767    2,376    3,356    4,511   5,448    5,999    6,623    7,33    43,537
Mpg aJO1N                  0      12       316     313       39      412    1 142    p,9i       ' 2    2 ,9     3,169    3,377   3,99      4,99    25,17
S DITES AIS               0        12     229      63       574      615      s51    2,335    3,757    2,329    2,2s0    2,415   2,820    3,402   19,97
ESTMERN IEIEN              0       0        0        0      2         419     476      512      93s   1,614    2,451    3,1S9   4,323   5,149   19,724
TOTAL  U                 14      5       1,252    1,92    2,       2,748    4,236    6,094    e,541   11,314   I3,551   15,29   17,760   20,96  106,306
OPE*3TIONS I  E1137CE:   '1fi MlWI      III  RSG66            II7      210      220      112      308     645      696      921    1.M       115      1,3144    .513    1,702   10,04
5511  Mgt"I                0       27     1n       139       93      279      527      731      750       750      750     90      1,267    1,648    7,995
SOUTI  EUIESI             0        2       SI      32       336      236      237      310      331      331      331      547      757      759    4,236
vEoa      eI               0        0       0        0       In      l3s       194     1S5      486       73    1,024    1,15      3,32     ,3,24   6,974
136 6 Lb aWR.           6        1 346   425      43       46        0      1,5    3,9        2,53    2,963    3,311    3,925    4,357   s5,3   29,269
EFECIATIUN:                 mE IE        N 3          2       42     107      128      153      15s       "    1,06    3,127    1,441    1,660    1          2,4    2,s        12,59
BRUl ES e1302VA                                     IS 0 3        ISO  30    m 2       7           1,332     3,339    1,139    1   1,412    2,043    9,6ss
US1B1BIS 1MS             0        12       1t     107      lot       "I 1m             367     46       62e      619      619              I 3,m   S,
EASTUNERMIR                0       0        0        0       145     217      25t9       B      253      716    1,132    1,6       1,340    2,124   3,s55
MAL DEMECl ATIIN          2       67      243      344      6es      69    1,374    2,472    2,993    3,9i      4,550    5,132    6,25    7.837   36,447
nLn  EEM          Piti1     Elt3_  223                       718    1,925    2,732    3,159    4,35     7,203   10,4    14,072   19,195   21,419   24,33   23,822   34,336  172,022
PPEMINIlS a 1I11111  CEI                               1        3        s       I3     Is       290      362      414      473      546      63       736      821       900   5,40
DEFIECITIU                                             0        2       16      33      219      495       753     943    lo0       1,229    1,419    1,658    1,934    2,1335  I33,8
TOTAL      -31ss1 IITII   EIPIOES                      I       5       29       46      409      7tt    1,33     1,355    3,550    1,7      2,057    2,394    2,735    3,035   17,291
TAL  OPrATIS E                                       214     72      1t954    2,823    3,561    s,J1    8,313   11,843   15,622   19,970   23,476  26,730   31,557   37,371  109,331
…-- -…---   --                                  _n       ___ _.MMS  _......  _men. -.s**          _t               r m m_  a_"      _a  ran. .. Ca r  aM          ,       _g    ran
PiRTi iNS iNCU       F     I TES                     120     65    1,372    2,45    2,92    4,12   3,456  U1,652   16,96   23,911   27,999   32,262   37,812   44,622  219,336
LESttIN    ES ON 15                                  454      459      758    1412    2,1L6    3,836   5,695    7,663   9,64    11,009   12,539   14,376   36,42   20.460  107,419
ECT   NTEIEST CUPWTALIED                        380 233           266     82    1,043    2,042    I,356    2,646    1,9M3    1,629    1,318    1,478    2,341    3,264   20,53
UET INTERES  0N       TO OPERATIONS              65      223      492      570    1,125    1,79     3,839    6,017    7,656    9,330   11,221  12,898   14,603   37,196   87,075
OfEU El' EEWITTEN OFF                             9   5 5553544   0  00  000003  38
__ ._i         _ ___    ____-   _  __   --     ---_ --- --                  ---   __ __ _ -- -- -   -- -- -   --   -----   ---___ _____
NET    1                                              46      4       I75    1,330    3,76     2,373    4,613    7,635   11,340   14,571   16,779    39.360   23,211   27,426  132,273
__ ____ _ _ _ e_ _ _ _ _~n*-XM aasls _0WM  rAIaa  Mssrwx                                                                   s varrars  =I-nu   e = %=*sMV* rar   _s
IIEIIETFIIEI AISSETS INlS 131 -NISMTDICAL CUST    1,305   5,998   10,957   14,016   19,533   35,902   72,s9   104,945  123,692  143,719  159,513  131I998  221,539  264604
PEAM  COST          2,723    7,094   13,09t  17,132  24,206  44,524   90,716  135,035  1t66,934 202,570  235,181  279,140  350,118  433,906
RATIOS CF aPIRTIlS PEIFIF_CE:
PERRIh     TIS (eR.EIS. S I F W1 1 EV.)    64.1    537               5372    sss    s5.52       55.2z   49.6    46.52    45.13    45.5!    45.6    45.32    45.5    45.61    46.32
ATIE eF RETUN  ON NISMTICAL COSt  I £T ASETS         .4    193.22 3    12.52    17.2    14.     31.6    11.62    13.02    15.41    36.12    I7.92    17.72      S2    16.z          -
IN 319.31  Cu? If MT manST           4.4!    9.42    10.12    13.52    11.4t     7.72     7.32     9.22    10.21    10.82    t0.92    10.42     9.42     9.0?        -
PITII            4   IF P1t *712.. S        RE       5.n92   48.32    41.3    46.02    44.92    44.81    50.42    53.5    54.91   54.5t   54.41   54.75    54.5?    s4.4!    53.7
It E6III9S    2 P 33313*113 SIIES WM   1E11         13.81    32.11    26.3?    35.02    27.32    25.5?    27.52    29.9!    32.0t   3.2      32.6!   32.92    35.5!    35.4n    32.4!



liNDIA
NATIDONL THERMIL PIIER CORPORATION LIMITED
NTIONAiL CAPITAL POER SUWPPY PROECT PHASE I
NE SlEEtS
COERIN8 FISCL YEARS FTI983 TIOJ   FY 1996
IRUEES MILLION)
ACTUAL  ACtIM  CUAL  ACT     IMLUK         -----        n          -------------OJ-TE ------------ -  ----------- - ------- -
FISCAL YEAR ENDING MA    31ST                     1983    1984      18      1986    293       19      1999    199       1991    1992    19_3    1994    1995    1996
ASSETS
61WSS FIIED ASSETS 1  PETION                     3,036   9,197  13,363  16,047  25,753  50,704  102,464  120,941  147,440  170,211  190,142  227,939  284,133  332,160
LESS:DEPRECIATON                                    6       170     476      903   1,731    2,924    5,051    9,464   12,53M   17,679  23,6"   30,439   3,557   48,529
WET FIED ASSETS IN ORTION                        2,968    9,027   12,687   15,144  24,022  47,782  97,413  112,477  134,906 152,532  166,44  197,501  245,576 283,61
UR-IN-PRESS                                     12,753  13,767  19,t56  32,569   57,211   64,990  44,67   57,243  61,16O  76,302  95,564  103,366  91,142   77,150
TOTAL FlIED ASSETS                              15,726  22,794  32,543  47,713  91,233  112,672  142,110  169,720  1%6,06. 228,634  262,058 300,867 336,718  360,791
WIENT ASSETS:
CAN                                                 S0      211      84      446       75      106     170      231      316     406      480      546      642     751
RECEMIYAES                                         219      842   1,626   2,254    1,077   1,552   2,796   4,249   5,770   7,320   0,579   9,832  1,562  13, 6
INWMTORIES                                         155      424     7O       940      517     664    I,3      1,718   2,27    2,683    3,050    3,575   4,315    4,965
Lou&AWRAI     S                                    268      220      V2A     472       94      114      191     200      373      460     54       623      729     857
gImT-TE   IIDEPOSITS/I(LIAI6)                        0        0      395     637       (0)      I0)      (0)     (0)      (0)     (0)      (0)      (O  12.33 3t7,72l
O1REREo1mTm A4E1S                                    8        0       I6      13       1O       1O      10       1O       1O      tO       10       10       10       1O
tOTAL CURRENT ASSET3S    2,793    3,151    4,                                       1,7?t    2,t64    4,5tS   6,41    6716 l0,97T   12,673   14,59    29,594  57,99O
OEFENRDEIPISES                                      26       21      19       19       14        9       5        5        5       5        5        5       5        5
tOtAL ATS                                       16,491  24,598  35,713  52,526  93,010 115,32   146,680  176,213  204,W7  239,726  274,736  315,458  366,317  418,777
EhT! t  LIABILITIES
MlITY:
an! C1ITAL ISSOED                               11,365   15,66    20,62   26,635  45,641   59,416  73,172   70,004  01,SSI  93,404  95,140  103,724  103,724  103,724
gmE DEPOITS                                        445      346      235     990
RETRIED EllINIS                                     46      495   1,370   3,231    4,993   7,366   11,979  19,614  30,954  45,525  62,303  81,667  104,879  132,304
PRI O ER S AWUSTIENtS                                                 31
TOTAL EUITY                                    --21,SSb   16,50    22,268   30,906  X,634   66,712   85,151   97,6t1  112,636  138,929  157,452  159,391  206,602  236,021
LItILITIES:
1M                                               3,14   5,947   10,364   17,729   29,353  45,515  56,426   75,430  09,461   95,396  110,633  121,942  18,486  174,285
CUlW     LIABILITIES                            1,441   2,142   3,031   3,99       3,023   3,032   3,104   3,165    3,491    5,401   6,651    8,125    9,229   8,464
TOTAL LIAILITIES                                 4,635   6,069   13,445  21,620  32,376  48,547  6l,530  71,595   91,952  100,797  117,34  130,067  157,715  192,749
tOTAL E6JIUTY I LIABILITIES                     16,491   24,598   35,713  52,526  63,010  115,329  146,60  176,213  204,78   239,726 274,736 315,459  36,317  41B,777
~~~~~~~32U2 E1u2t  UazU                                        28      _       gg,z       #     2e2        = # ZZ:             *       m  := s~
FtlALP MITItN RATIOS
RATIO WF DEBT TO EBT PLUS EIT?                  21179   26174   3168   36164   37163   41/59   41/59   44/5    44156   4159    41/59   40160   42/58   42159
IUSiT PATIO                                        0.5      0.B     1.0      1.2      0.6     0.9      1.5      2.0      2.5     2.0      1.9      1.0      3.2     6.9
BlK RATIIO                                         0.4      0.6     0.6      1.0      0.4     0.6      1.0      1.5      1.9      1.5     1.4      1.4      2.?     6.3
1CUT I        MEEIYAILE-IR OF IMOHSSALtES          7.9      7.2     5.9      5.2      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0



NATIONAL THERMAL POVER CORPORATION LIMITED
NATIOAL CAPITAL POR SUPPLY PROJECT PME I
STATEMENT OF SOURCE AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS
COVERIN6 OPtRATIONS FY1983 THROW  FY1996
IRlPEES NILLION)
TOTAL   1     3ACTUAL  ACTUA   ACTU    ACTUAL -   -------R POJECTE                 - ---            ---- -  -----------
FISC& YEAR ENIDINS MACH 31ST           1977-96  1977-03    1964    198      1986    1I87    1988    1989    199         1991    192    1993    1994    1995    1996
SORCE OF FUDS:
IITINC IE IEFORE INIST)               219,386      120      675   1,372   2,405   2,B92   4,172   8,456  13,6i2  18,996  23,951  27,99   32,262   37,812   44,622
PRIOR YEARSASTMETS                       31        0               31
DPIEIATON                              48,529       61      102     30       427       2    1,193   2,127    3,413   4,070   5,145   5,969   6,790   8,119   9,972
MTAL INTENL  CAS SEJATIOM             267,946     "l    J77   1,7t9    2,832   3,720   5,365   10,583   17,065  23,066  29,096  33,968  39,052  45,931   54,594
LOWNS                                 190,498   3,19      2,753   4,417   7,365   11,62   16,277  13,152   17,363  13,463   7,694  17,237  14,412  30,543  30,976
EWITY SHA  CAPITAL                     103,724   11,810   4,204   4,53   6,808   17,966   13,716   13,755    4,833   3,877   11,522    1,745   8,576         0        0
TOTAL SOURCE OF FUIDS                 562,166   15,192   7,734   10,979   17,005  33,338  35,418  37,4"   39,261  40,406  48,313   52,949  62,040  76,474  85,570
APPLICATION OF FIEDS
CWPITAL EJPENITUE  ti DllC   IO)    409,310  15,794   7,170  10,055  15,597  34,3"   32,633  31,5    31,023  30,416  37,M13  39,193  45,5m   43,970  34,035
LOem INTERET
CARlEULE TO REVEUE                     97,075       65      221     492      570   1,125   1,794   3,839   6,017   7,656   9,380   11,221   12,898  14,601   17,196
LOA AINIORTHATION                       16,213       0        0       0        0       29      115     241      359     432      759    1,9"    3,103   4,000   5,177
TMTAL   T SERVICE                     103,288       65      221     42       570   1,153    1,909   4,084    6,376   9,088  10,139  13,220  16,001  18,601   22,373
PELIMIRY OMEFERR£0 EIPENSE                 43       35       0        3        5        0       0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0
SHORT-TERN 9EPOSITSIILO )S)            37,721        0        0     395      242    (637)       0        0        0       0        0        0       0   12,336  25,386
DOBt  OwlCIs CAPITAL
-INCREASE/IWCREASE)                    11,805    (702)    t43        34      591   11,526)    876   1,845   1,862    1,902       261      536     439   1,568    3,776
TOTAL APPLICATION OR FUS              562,168  13,192   7,734  10,979   17,005  33,338  35,418  37,490  39,261  40,406  48,313  52,949  62,040  76,474  85,570
_====lSsaXtll            =llS__a_ ~~~~20=2SSS= =             SS5S S=SS         _x =#:SS    SS=====  S=2=S=S===S=SS= =#SI = S=S=Vr=S=S=S:= =--S=Sm==
MEJT SERVICE COVDRA6E                     2.6      2.9      3.5     3.5      5.0      3.2     2.8      2.6      2.7      2.9     2.9      2.6      2.4     2.5      2.4
0



INDIA
NATIDONL THERNAL PWER CORPOATION LINITED
NIONAL CAPI TAL PONER SPLY PROECT PHAE I
FINAICIN  PLAN
COV0EINS FISCAL YEnRS FY  197 TOM  FY 16
IRWEES ILLION)
TOTAL 1977-96    C               ACTUAL  ACTUAL--------------------------------
FICALYEAR ENPIN rA    31ST            US$ NIL R.WIL  1977-63       194    1995    1996      1        1989    199    19O    IW 1        1992             1994    1         996
SOUCE OF FUNDSs
INIETIA  CMI IE10TIM                   20,60  267,915      188     m      1,678   2,832   3,720   5,363   10,583  17,065  23,064  29,"6  33,98  39,052  45,931  54,594
MD113 YESIAHUB1NE1 S                      2      31        0       0       31
ORKIN CAPITAL-IECEASElNRASE)             (06) 111,805)    702    1343)    134)   1591)  1,526    1E76) (1,845)  11,862)  (1,902        (261)   (5361    1439) (1,566)  (3,76)
LESSN  DPT SERWIME                     (7,945)(103,2N)     165)   (221)   (492)    (O)  (1,153)  (1,90)  4,080)  16,376)  (8,68) (10,139) (13,220) (16,001) 119,601) (22,3731
PNEIRtNIR  KFEED EV       S         (3)    (43)  I$S)         10)      (3)  I 5)        (0l     (0)      (0)     10)      (0)     (0)      (0)     10)      (0)     (0)
CONITRIUUTIE BTO INVESTN               11,755 152,810      7M      213   1,160   1,6b    4,093   2,30   4,68   8,127  13,076  18,696   20,212  22,612  25,76   29,4
SMCAITAL                             7,97   103,724  11,810   4,204   4,053   6,33    17,964  13,776  13j755   4,833   3,871  l1,52         1,745   6,576       0        0
LInIET  LE Il                          14,654  190,496   3,19"   2,5      4,417   7,365   11,6    16,277  13,152   17,363  13,463   7,694   17,237  14,412  30,543  30,976
UIIUT-1E   LowN                           49      637        0       0        0       0      637       0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0
LESNT-TEN  DEPMSItS                    (2,9511 (38,33)       0       0     (395)   (242)       0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0  (12,336) (25,39)
TOtML MIUE U FUNES                     31,486 409,310  15,794   7,170   10,055  15,597  34,348  32,633  31,565   31,023  30,416  37,913  39,193  45,599  43,970  34,035
IIIESIEIT REUIEIIEUT
TOTAL INESlIEINT R EDIIEEIIS
CAPITAL IEST£iENT PIREI
liotl.ntfenst durirg coustrKctioa)    31,486 409,310  15,794   7,170  10,055  15,597  34,348  32,633  31,563  31,023  30,416  37,913  39,193  45,599   43,970  34,035
~~~~XS=  sana=                       9=c=           al 228&*           88UM  aua=    -m            ====  #===a SUC=2
2 CtRIDUTIE TO IWESTNus
(coatrilotion to investont as the 2
of mre 3 yar capital epwdituw)                37.3      5.02     3.02   1t.72   to1.     11.9      7.91    14.82   2.5    43.O    49.32   51.62   49.u    58.62    a.6
C%



IIIDIA
IOM. THIRL Pi CR URPORATION LItTED
NTIOt CPIITAL POlSR SPLY PRWECT PIIE I
PRIWECTED PiESIAlL TARIFFS VlESUS LO-II RI WRSINAL COSTS (LR211)
COVERINU FISCAL YiES F11987 THROSN FT I99
(PAISE PIM 9Ih)
FISCAL VW                                         19       1       1935    1996    1w        199      199      199     191      12       193     1"4    1M        19
3.K SWRY TUlIF                                                                      46.99    56."    62.20   65.30   70.30    71.00   12.10   87.20   92.50   97.70
LEE-EICALAIED FP   FPI95                                                           52.26   56.70   61.52   66.75   72.42   16.77   31.38   96.26   91.44          6.93
109IFF AS I OF LUC                                                                   *8.22   100.41   201.1    97.91   97.32   101.62   100.92  101.12  100.92   100.9?
VAU R_Y TAIPIF                                                                      46.90    52.50   57.10   61.30   66.30   71.0    75.00   79.40   t4.30   99.40
LMR-OCLII FM s11995                                                                 46.15   50.07   54.33   59.9    43.        67.90    71.891    MIs   80.75    5.60
T1mFF as I OF LKC                                                                   101.42  104.92  105.2   1024.9   103.71  104.    104.42   104.22   104.42  204.4
MU  $IMLY TUIPF                                                                     60.23   61.37   64.54   67.03   6.17   70.61    75.50   79.90   96.S0   99
LUI-EICMLT0 FPU  P935                                                               50.15    54.41   59.03    64.05   69.4    73.66    78.09   B2.76    87.73   92."
T19IFF AS 1 IJ LIC                                                                  120.21   112.92   109.32   104.72    95.      .92   9  I4.1t   96.42    99.6t  201.0
EASTERG IlElilm
NU SaU . T33F                                                                       57.54    S.45    59.42   59.97   674    71.90   76.30   91.40    97.00    92.60
LE-ESMtED IFU  P                                                                    49.44    s3.64   59.20   63.15    68.s5   72.63   76.99    91.61    96.51    9O2.O
1091FF aS IF a    E                                                                 116.42  109.02   102.11   95.0    97.4    99.02   99.12   99.    100.62  101.02
MIAL UK9
IMU  MiFL! TulIF                                 32.30    3.09    38.19    39.92   51.16   56.7    60.51    63.99    68.4    73.9    77.7    5.72   97.99    93.so
LEE-EICAT  Pno P199                                               42.      4.07   4R.4   5B.99    58.39   63.30    8.61    72.79   77.20   92.35    96.71   91.o
101Ff AS I ii UK                                                   91.02   96.42   102.42   105.22   103.62   10.9    99.92   101.42   MM.7   101.12  101.52   101.9
wIET i MFsh   2  W   INI 0131   L12g   339
10TIMI 93t2
urni mim                   "1194-9                 514l
Un OnoE                   M1199-9                LOt
IIICDUN               P1199-96                3.51



Into
NATIll. THERNK P3122 CR4T1011 LINITED
NATIW1 CAPITAL POiR SUPPLY PROJECT PASSE I
RATE OF RETUR  ONS ET EVAED ASTS
INDVE9IIIAlTIIS FYIM93 THRDGOIN FYIS96
(RIWUEES ILLION)
FISCAL TEAS                              1977    1978    1979    190    1911    1982    1983          19      1995    196      18       19       1969    29       19      192    1M99      19       3        196
EOMTIII FACTI (9GM3 PRIO  EA)             1.s5    1.5S    O.N    i4.1    io.9    10.?    4.4          4.9?    7.0N     6.1?    6.0?    6.0?      6.0?    6.01     6.0?    6.0?      6.0     6.0?    6.01      6.01
A9SETS-M-IPEUATION5
STATICS
EWITiL E2)'ENITItE:tE                       7      213     631    1.50    2,199    3,94    5,619   6,279    9,433  11,366  23,736  22,695  24,34   25,799  24,543  30,619  29,997   35,70   35,484   26,160
sCI.ATIVE                7      220      952   2,357   4,55      9,499   14,1 2ie   Wm6   29,929   40,195  63,931  16,623 110,97   136,771  161,314  191,933 221,930 257,679  29,162  319,322
CWITI. EIIIT1EzCUIlTE-          UED         7      222     957   2,47      5,122   9,932  16,405  23,2   33,690  47,624  74,959  102,832  134,090  6984697 204,0"   247,8B1 293,651 349,01  405,525  456,901
1$   -lu 9ESSta:lCSE                       7      220     951    2357    4555       0      1156    12t60   17669   260   457          49501   41263   51959   49950   62255   75437   90360   69227   5
2 CIL.CAP.Ev .    100.0?  100.01  100.01   00.0?  1OO.             91.2?   9.9?   6..n    61.3?   72.9?    70.9?   56.02    37.2?    39.0?   33.0N   32.42   34.0?   31.2    23.65    17.7?
STATIUS-IN-WE!lA?12DS:IEYAIJED              0        0       0        0       0    ,91,9    2,n4    9,m    13,034   12,954  21,813  45,246  94,202  104,592  140,92   167,56   193,910 239,47 30,821  375,947
1ITAL EWiltITUEKsV                          O       12      (A      150      334     497      625     m      1622   4,231   10,612   9,939   7,217   5,225   5,973   7,294    9,196   9,051   9,496    7,67
SEUU.ATIVE               0       22       90     230      564   1,063    1674   2,568   4,190   0,421   39,033  29,972  36,199   41,423  47,296  54,590   63,774  73,627   92,113   MM99
tWITAL EI 1TIUEC       UTEEVUED             0       12      90      242     62    3,207   2,7    2,950   4,76    9,480  20,997   32,482  41,64  40,759  58,793  69,933  X3,49   96,651  113,311  32,221
Ux-ll-FPs9llWIC                            0       12      IO      230      364     9S3   1192    3318      I 27   3309   1139 14 369    3,434    5 25   11 210  14 047   20 27  23 006  21 915  20 525
S aNIL.W.EIPESS.                00.0?  100.0?  100.0?  100.0?   94.51   31.12   53.91    27.4?   h.31   r2.4    56.6?    9.52    12.9?   3.37n           h   37   1.61   51.21      4.n    32.2K
TUUISSIUIIiU-OFllF TlIlEVALfl              0       0        0        0       0       66      563   1,363   2,523   5,754   7,091   14,097  37,097   43,309  44,959  51,086  57,111   67,972   93,057  90,997
Ms EiAr TIU
sTalmi                           3.52      0        0       0        0       0       65        3      72      275     354      743   1,594   2,947   3,661    4,929   5,65   6,793   9,382   0,844   13,158
TRMUISSE                          2.6?      0       0        0        0       0        2       0        9       40     116      205      347     995   1,12B   1,166   1,349    1,495   1,765   2,159   2,574
TOTAL                                       0       0        0        0       0       47        3      et      315     471      9be   1,951   3,32    4,799    6,095    7,214   0,268  10,147  13,003   15.732
IIET SEVISIED   SIT9-N-             0        0       0        0        0     957   2,723   7,064   13,096   17,132  24,206  44,524  90,716  135,035  144,834  202,570  235,197 279,140  350,118 433,96
FISCA YEN                    1993    19"       1995    1996    1907    1l9       19919    1990   I19I    1992    3993   I?4    1995    29%
IWERA   U  tEVi     ASET-I-ERATIE             2,723   7,064   13,096  17,132  24,206  44,524  90,716  135,035  166,934  202,570  2J5,197 279,140  350,118  433,906
Z11MRATINS III-ISTmIU. ISSETS                   120      675   2,3      2,405   2,892    4,172   9,456   13,652   9,99S6   23,?51   27,99  32,262   37,012  44,622
tIAOEIEUEtIATI9IllISTIDICAL ASSETS                2       69     264      377     926   1,293   2,127   3,413   4,070    3:14.   5,69   6,790   89119   9S972
2tESSs9EPREC3A7T10I-_UED ASSETS                  (3)    (81)   (315)   1471)   (O82  t1,9511  43,932)  (4,:76)  (6,0S1  (7,214)  (t,2681 (10,1471 (13,003  (t5:7321)
IOERATIS INUE2N-REPE  ASSETS                    119      663   1,321    2,31t   2,752    3,414   6,651  12,276   18,971  21,992   25,700  28,905   32,928   31,62   3
IRATE OF KEill       EIlEl    ASSETS            4.4?    9.41   IO.11    13.5S    11.4?    7.n       7.3?    9.I1   10.21   1O.9?   1O.    t20.4?    9.4?    9.ot   .
29TE1 IIF    J     18illUNIUL  ETS              41    21.3 2    12.52   17.n    14.91    2.6U    12.4    13.0t   15.4?   14.n 7?     174      17.7?   17.1?   14.9?
:~~~~~~m .  _sa   gai  _m *nii   m8_   mum   mom  33m     32m    _is  mom   _n                                                                   m



NrlUTIII IIII   POER C     llIE UN LtNIT
511252. tWITiL PIIER IWPLT PUIT PHS    IUS
TOTAL CUWPURTII2N
M INSPTI  PRIMEIW                FI"
_~ _
1TS  Nlu2I        I     1
SOW   CWITAL          ITIJE          W  1977-96     1977    IM       1979    IM        191      £992    1983    1994    1905        1996    1937    19IS       193     199      199I     192     193      1994    I£95      296
TOT.2        RE 3;15STATIU      100-210 27,302         7      197     296      746      a        7         21      516      345      332   2,106    3,947    559       5,95     4,45      75         0        0        0        0
STATION          50e 67,9S6         8       0        0        0        0      454    1,106    1,093    2,377    5,47    4,327    3,125    2,747        n    2,O      7,034    6,422   10,736   11,677    7,I8
l9ASISSIUN                29,915       0        12      a8      115      137       42      234      510      562    1,422    3,903    4,316    2,94     1,924    1,59     ,2       ,3       ,3       ,0       ,3
I1N              6,667        0        0        0        0       21       50       33      1I       55      306      716    1 067      753      595      783      501      200      332    8  24,636
TOTAL             133,2         7      20       364               992    1,341    1,69     2,139    3,339    7,547   11,122   12,555   12,03    9,137    g,661    9,921    9,054   £4,001   15,701   9114
th.MsT St   WIIEDIISTATIO       100-210  14,529       0        lb     231      303      615    1,114    1,009      643    1,094    1,4      2,052    I,9I    1,        1,427     536         0       0        0        0        0
ST311U11         so  68,39         0         0       0        0        0        0      33       717    1,219    3,603    3,036    ,900    1,634    2,229    3,697    7,804   10,761   13,626   10,130    7,653
STATII           SAS4,             0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0       23      m 7   1,72   1,24S         656      219       0        0        0        0        0
TRUIIIUSS                24,9          0        0        0       32      157      177      121       70      396    1,219    2,224    1,624    1,612    1,135    1,874    2,334    3,336    3,401    2,603    2,064
13                365         0        0        0        0        0       34       es       46        0        I      216     661      550      199        0        0        0      145      720    1,002
TOTL              116,239       0       16      261      335      79     1,325    i,593    2,48i    2,69     6,29o    9,307    7,98    7,05    s,646    6,326   10,690   14,og7  1i,172   13,533   10,719
Wt.SWTIU   IUIRIIISTatl9            200   5,360        0        0      so      363      345    2,006    1,729      935        9      274      267        0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0        0
STATIlS          50s  29,176       0        0        0        0        0        0        0      m        756    1,261    3,013   2,631    2,543    1,331    2,404    5,107    3,626    3,13      I,954      75
lI_ISSI I                 13,094        0       0        0        3       39      255      167      162    5S0    1,392    2'169    1,5311    1,103       313   1,261    1,145    1,304      817       175       0
122              2,719        0        S        0        0        0        0       23       61       a3        5      24      23       410      235       69       35      379      741      39         0
TOTAL             50,351        0        0       50      366      334    1,23    1,919    1,315    1,843    2,932    5,473    4,424    4,056    2,929    3,754    6,287   5,511    4,746    2,526        75
TEAST.s UInTIOf                 2001210 20,010         0        0        4       4      363      496      619      B21    1,444    1,5I2    2,00     3,195    2,914    2,33     2,326    1,561        0        0       0         0
STATIN           S00 65,3m          0       0        0        0        0        0        0        2       33      424   2,126    2,692    4,486    3,677    6,426    7,117    0,266    6,953    9,9      8,226
T1931UlB                  19,631       0        0        0        0        1        6       es      113       96      153   2,231    2,977    1,'03    1,324    1,007    1,445    1,727    2,439    2,2      2,477
Inc              4,39         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        4       41       1?      32       143     617    1,116    1,09       739      210        0      374
TOTAL             106,916       0        0        4       n       364               704      9U     1,352   2,212   6,462    7,0S6    0,641   13,511   10,875   12,215   10,732    9,601   12,210   11,277
1,964
OTA. UPK CAlTlIUtS4TATII         00-210  72,309        7      213      63     1,506   2,1T7    3,413    3,877    2,320    3,372    3,65    7,29    10,915   11,740   10,935    7,526    2,320         0        0       0        0
StATIOB     S00 230,932        0        0        0        0        0      454    1,490   2,551    4,339   i,7t    12,532   10,34B   11,410   13,64   15,341  27,064   29,077   34,503   33,716   23,642
TU231191             96,639        0       12       a8      150      334      46       607      975    1,604    4,;196ei   10,52  9,523    4,759    5,096    5,734    7,103    9,999    9,540    7,911    7,129
INC         19,430        0        0        0        0       21       so      141      125       97            1,       2 0420 2 I156  146         193    71'626       316   1,478   2,341   3,264
U0tuEU   To 2977-36 IIt.                  (0)       0        9      22       29       11       32       26      79       53   (3,389    2,         1200@    1200)    12001    200)    20        1200)      79        0       10)
VW  TTAL           409,320       7      234      721    1,685    2,543    4,463   4,141    7,17    10,055   15,597   342       32,633   31,55 1  3023  30,416  37,9t3  39,193   45,59   43,970   34,035
C_jTJW ISTo DATE                 409,310        7      241      942   2,647    5,29     9,653   25,794   22,964   33,019   4,616   92,    115,596  147,161  171,4  206,600  246,513  2,706  331,305  375,275  49,310
-----------------I



ANNEX 4.10
Page 1 of 7
INDIA
NATIONAL THERMAL POWRE CORPORATION
NATIONAL CAPITAL POWER SUPPLY PROJECT - PHASE I
Assumptions for NTPC Financial Projections
1.      The financial statements in this report reflect NTPCts financial
position and operations for the period FY77 through FY96, and consist of:
(a) income statement (Annex 4.3) with supporting statements
and schedules of tariffs compared to Long-Run Karginal
Costs (Annex 4.7), rates of return on net revalued assets,
(Annex 4.6), and scheduled commissioning of power plants
(Annex 2.2);
(b) statement of source and application of funds (Annex 4.5) with
supporting financing plan (Annez 4.2), and investment program
(Annex 4.1); and
(c) summarized balance sheets as at March 31st of each year
(Annex 4.4).
2.      PY83 through FY86 data reflect actual operating results, while the
financial projections for FY87 through FY96 are based on the following
assumptions:



ANNEX 4.10
Page 2 of 7
(a) Stabilization of Power Generation:
Operating      GWhs/MW       GWhs/Unit
Hours/year     per year      per year
200 NW UNITS:  - First 6 months :         2500           2.5           500
- Next 6 months  :        4000            4.0          800
- Second year    :        5500            5.5          1100
210 NW Units:  - First 6 months :         2500           2.5           525
- Next 6 months  :        4000            4.0          840
- Second Year    :        5500            5.5          1155
500 KW Units:  - First unit commissioned at each station
- First year     :        2500            2.5         1250
- Second year    :        4000            4.0         2000
- Third year              5000            5.0         2500
- Fourth year             5500            5.5         2750
500 NW Units:  - Subsequent units of each station
- First year              2500            2.5          1250
- Second year    :        4000            4.0         2000
- Third year     :        5500            5.5         2750
CTG 100 NW     - From comissioning        5500           5.5           550
Combined Cycle
(CTG + STG)    - First Year      :        4000           4.0           400
300 NV         - Second Year    :         5500           5.5           550



ANNEX 4.10
Page 3 of 7
(b) Fuel Costs:
Northern Region
Singrauli     Rihand       Muradnagar
Coal: 200 & 210 KW Units
- Calorific Value (Kcal/Kg)                 4900        N/A           3200
- Heat Rate (Kcal/KWh)                      2131        N/A           2043
- Boiler Efficiency Z                     87.49%        N/A         87.521
- Kgs per KWh                             0.4971        N/A         0.7295
- Price per ton-Re                        231.40        N/A         312.15
- Cost per GWhs  Base Cost 1985           0.1150        N/A         0.2277
Coal: 500 NW Units
- Calorific Value (Kcal/Kg)                 4900       4000            N/A
- Heat Rate ([cal/KWh)                      2016       2027            N/A
- Boiler Efficiency Z                     86.63Z     87.00X            N/A
- Kgs per KWh                             0.4749     0.5825            N/A
- Price per ton-Rs                        231.40     147.78            N/A
- Cost per GWh:  Base Cost 1984           0.1099     0.0861            N/A
Fuel Cost Factor to include Oil               120.0X    .120.0%         130.01
Southern
Western Region            Region
Korba      Vindhyach       Ramagundam
Coal: 200 & 210 MW Units
- Calorific Value (Kcal/Kg)             3200           4350             4500
- Heat Rate (Kcal/KWh)                  2043           2150             2014
- Boiler Efficiency 1                87.521          86.491           88.602
- Kgs per KWh                        0.7295          0.5715           0.5051
- Price per ton-Rs                    112.84         147.78           258.07
- Cost per GWh:  Base Cost 1985      0.0823          0.0844           0.1304
Coal: 500 NW Units
- Calorific Value ([cal/Kg)             3200            N/A             4500
- Heat Rate ([cal/KWh)                  2016            N/A             2033
- Boiler Efficiency Z                86.69%             N/A           87.28Z
- Kgs per KWh                        0.7267             N/A           0.5176
- Price per ton-Rs                    112.84            N/A           258.07
- Cost per GWh:  Base Cost 1984      0.0820             NIA           0.1336
Fuel Cost Factor to include Oil          130.0%          120.01           120.01



AU  4.10
Page 4 of 7
Eastern Region
Far4kka    Xahalgeon          Talcher
Coal: 200 & 210 MW Units
- Calorific Value (Kcal/Kg)             3200          3200            N/A
- Heat Rate (Kcal/KWh)                  2020          2150            N/A
- Boiler Efficiency 1                 87.16Z        86.49Z            N/A
- Kgs per KWh                         0.7242        0.7768            N/A
- Price per ton-Re                    120.05        120.50            N/A
- Cost per GWh:  Base Cost 1984       0.0869        0.0933            N/A
Coal: 500 MW Units
- Calorific Value (Kcal/Kg)             3200           N/A             2800
- Heat Rate (Kcal/KWh)                  2027           N/A             2060
- Boiler Efficiency Z                 86.69X           N/A          87.00X
- Kgs per KWh                         0.7307           N/A          0.8456
- Price per ton-Re                    120.05           N/A           78.00
- Cost per GWhs  Base Cost 1984       0.0877           N/A          0.0660
Fuel Cost Factor to include Oil           130.01        130.0           130.01
Northern & Western Regions
Gas Based Stations         All Reaions
Combined C cle           Coal-Fired
cTC      (CG   STG)    New Projects
Coal: 200 & 210 MW Units
Combined Cycle Units
- Calorific Value (kcal/kg &             -             -            3800
kcal/Ni)            8800          8800            -
- Heat Rate (Kcal/ICh)                   920           920          2043
- Boiler Efficiency 1                 33.402        46.53%        86.691
- Kgs per KWh                         0.3130        0.2247        0.6202
- Price per ton-Re &
1000 Nmr-Rs         1800.00       1800.00        201.86
- Cost per GWh:  Base Cost 1985       0.5634        0.4044        0.1252
Coal: 500 KW Units
- Calorific Value (Kcal/Kg)             -             -             4520
- Heat Rate (Kcal/KWh)                  -                           2027
- Boiler Efficiency Z                   -             -           87.002
- Kgs per KWh                           -             -           0.5155
- Price per ton-Rs                      -             -           201.86
- Cost per GWh:  Base Cost 1985         -             -           0.1041
Fuel Cost Factor to include Oil             -             -            130.0%



ANMEU 4.10
Page 5 of 7
The escalation rates applied to the above base 1985 fuel costs for
calculating cost increases and tariff fuel surchaiges were are set out in
(c) below.
(c) Escalation Factors
The financial projections and project costs are based on 1986 prices
escalated at the Bank's price escallation factors for the foreign and loal
components. The turbo-generators and boilers are, however, subject to the
following maximum price escalation from the date of order:
Singrauli 200 NW units - 252
Korba, Ramagundam, Parakka, and other 200/210 MS units - 20X
(In the case of Vindhyachal (210 KW units) fixed-price contracts
apply)
500 MW units for all projects - 152 Turbo-generators
- 2O0 Steam-generators
Physical contingencies
Civil works                    - 10  of construction costs
Equipment                      -  52 of equipment costs
(d) Operations & Maintenance Expenses
Power stations                 - 2.52 on original cost of 200 MW plant
- 2.02 on original cost of 500 MS plant
Transmission & satellite
communication network       - l.O  on original cost
(e) Depreciation
Power stations                 - 3.52 on original cost of plant
Transmission & satellite
communication network       - 2.62 on original cost
(f) AuxilliaEZ Consumtion
Auxilliery power consumption for station use has been assumed at 1O0
for 200/210 KW units and combined cycle ges/stem units 2.52, and 82 for
500 NW units.
(g) Tariffs
Tariffs have been determined from the formulae of the Regional bulk
supply contracts which provide for:



ANNEX 4.10
Page 6 of 7
(i) fuel costs with an automatic fuel price adjustment clause;
(ii) depreciation applied to capital costs escalated to current
costs;
(iii) operations and maintenance costs based on capital costs for
power plants and transmission facilities, escalated to current
costs;
(iv) loan interest at the prevailing GOI interest rate (currently
14X) on estimated balance of loan principal outstanding;
and
(v) return on equity at 10X.
(h)  Capital Reguirements
(i) Other capital requirements would met by NTPC's internal cash
generation combined with GOI advances in the form of equity and
share capital subject Fo the condition that unpaid loans, at
the end of each year, does not exceed share capital and
retained earnings. Equity capital advances would precede GOI
loan funding, except for Bank Loans 2555-IN and 2674-IN, and
the Bank loan for the proposed Project.
(ii) QO! loans (including the onlending of the proposed Bank loan
and previously approved credits and loans) are assumed to
finance projects included in NTPC's investment program.
Interest on loans up to the date of commissioning of each unit
would be capitalized, while subsequent interest would be
charged to Revenue. Repayment of principal is assumed in 30
semi-annual installments commencing on the first anniversary
following the end of the five-year grace period. The total
loan drawdown for each year, and for each project, is assumed
as a separate GOI loan for purposes of loan repayments.
(i)  Balance Sheet
(i) Cash is assumed at 10 days operating expenses less depreciation.
(ii) Accounts receivable are assumed at a level of equivalent to
two months total operating revenue for FY87 and for each year
thereafter.



ANNEX 4.10
Page 7 of 7
(iii) Inventories are assumed at a level equivalent to 15 days coal
costs (including fuel surcharge), 60 days oil costs, 1.5 years
costs of spares requirements, and 6 months costs of chemicals
and lubricants.
(iv)  Loans and advances are assumed at 1S of annual revenue,
Rs 15 million, an added Rs 2 million per year to provide for
loans to officers.
(v) Other current assets are assumed to be a constant figure of 4
million each year.
(vi) Current liabilities are assumed at 1X of annual fuel costs,
15 days of salaries, 21 of annual operations and maintenance
costs, loan principal repayments projected for the subsequent
subsequent year, and one month's average yearly capital
expenditure.



AINEX 4.11
Page 1 of 6
NATIONAL CAPITAL POWER SUPPLY PROJECT - PHASE I
DELHI ELECTRIC SUPPLY UNDERTAKING
Suggested Terms of Reference of Consultants for:
A. Bringing Accounting work up to date
B.  Implementation of the Commercial Accounting System
C. Organization and Management Study
A. BRINGING THE ACCOUNTING WORK UP-TO-DATE
Background
DESU's accounting work is in arrears. Audited financial accounts are avail-
able only for the years up to FY'81. Accounts for FY'82 and FY'83 have been
submitted to the Chief Municipal Auditor. It is proposed to hire consultants
as may be necessary to assist in bringing the accounting work up-to-date.
dbjective
The objective of the consultants assistance is to accelerate the process of
compilation/finalization of DESU's accounts for FY'84, FY'85 and FY'86. The
consultants will, in consultation with the FA and CAO of DESU identify the
"arrears of work" in respect of accounts for each of the three years in the
field offices and at headquarters and prepare a program of work with a view
to completing the accounts according to a timetable agreed with the Bank.
Scope of Work
The consultants will form Teams or Task Forces on which DESU will also
appoint its accounting staff to work in such districts/revenue office or
headquarters of other offices as may be necessary. The number and composi-
tion of such teams, their scope of work and time tables for completion of
various items of work will be decided by DESU's PA & CAO.



ANNEX 4.11
Page 2 of 6
B. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE COMMERCIAL ACCOUNTING SYSTEM
Objective
The objective of the study would be to assist DESU in implementing a Commer-
cial Accounting system (CAS) by:
(i)     training of Finance and Accounts Staff, at all Accounting Units
including Head Office, for the CAS;
(ii)    post implementation assistance, supervision and review of the CAS;
and;
(iii)   assistance in closing the books of accounts and compiling annual
accounts for the first two years after the System is fully
implemented.
Scope of Work
The scope of work for introduction of Commercial Accounting System, training
and post implementation review would include:
(a)     formal classroom training for existing staff at Head Office and
other accounting units;
(b)     preparation and supply of the materials needed for training;
(c)     visits by the Consultant's staff to accounting units at periodic
intervals to review the progress in implementation of the system
and to give guidance as needed;
(d)     recommend amendments in the procedure as a result of experience
gained during training an initial implementation period.
Terms of Reference
(i)     Prepare with DESU a detailed program for implementation of the CAS,
including a training schedule;
(ii)    Review and adjust, if necessary, the organization and staffing of
the Accounting Wing of DESU. This part should be carried out in
close coordination with the Management and Organization consultants;
(iii)   Design and discuss with the FA & CAD of DESU the procedures,
formats, forms, etc. to be implemented. To the degree possible,
the Consultants should make use of the existing forms and



AM=EX 4.11
Page 3 of 6
procedures, or simplification thereof, which are satisfactory
and meet with the requirements of the CAS;
(iv)    Provide formal classroom training to the DESU Finance and Account
Staff on the proposed CAS;
(v)     Make periodic visits as needed and as agreed with DESU to the
Accounting Units during CAS implementation to review the progress
and to give on-the-spot guidance and advice;
(vi)    Ensure that forms and registers recommended for use are properly
completed and that procedures laid down in the areas of financial
accounting and information systems are properly followed;
(vii)   Assist DESU Accounting Staff in closing of Accounts for the
financial years ended March 31, 1987 and 1988;
(viii)  Prepare quarterly progress reports on the implementation of CAS and
help in preparing special reports, as required by DESU;
(ix)    Furnish reports discussing implementation as well as further steps
to be taken where progress is tardy or unsatisfactory;
(x)     At the end of the training and implementation assignment, furnish
a report describing matters that require continuing attention; and
(xii)   Maintain at all times a proper liasion with whatever Consultants
are appointed by DESU for (a) computerization of Accounting and
other records, and (b) the Organization and Management study.
C. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT STUDY
Objective
The objective of the Study would be to:
(i)     Recommend suitable and effective organization and management
structure, policies and practices to enable DESU to perform its
functions based on DESU's current responsibilities and growth
projected for the period FY'87 to FY'95;
(ii)    Recommend a staffing pattern and training program based on
considerations of optimized staff size and on making maximum
use of DESU's existing staff for the period FY'87 to FY'95;



ANNEX 4.11
Page 4 of 6
(iii)   Review the existing internal systems and procedures, rules and
regulations, and reporting, both technical and financial, with a
view to streamlining delegation of responsibilities, lines of
coDmunications,.and flow of information;
(iv)    Develop a suitable Management Information System (MIS) aimed at
eliminating unneceisary data gathering while producing reports which
provide necessary information; and
(v)     Assist DESU in the implementation of the proposed recommendations.
Scope of Study
(i)     Review the existing organization and management structures of DESU
and recommend changes where necessary keeping in view the future
growth requirements of DESU for next ten years;
(ii)    Analyse the structure of all major functional units taking into
account their tasks and their inter-organizational relationships;
(iii)   Assess the staffing pattern, training requirements and recruitment
schedule in order to determine and classify the various posts
required for DESU as a whole and for the functional units
individually;
(iv)    Review the structure and activities of DESU's commercial and
financial departments to assure their appropriateness and efficient
operation;
(v)     Propose the organization structure, staffing and procedures for an
internal audit unit;
(vi)    Prepare reporting systems for operation management, planning, and
project monitoring; and assist the Project Office in establishing an
adequate monitoring and reporting system during project execution;
(vii)   Prepare a program for implementing those changes and
recommendations that are agreeable to DESU and assist DISU
in carrying out the program
(viii) Design a Management Information System$ and
(ix)    Coordinate with concerned staff and electronic data processing
consultants for computerizing the Managoment Information System
procedures.



AUNU 4.11
Pag 5- of 6
Terms of Reference
The Consultants will in particular:
(a)     Analyze the weaknesses in the present organization structure, if
any, and would suggest alternative organization proposals, keeping
in view:
(i)    the purposes and objectives of the organization;
(ii)   functional areas to be covered;
(iii) specialization and division of work;
(iv)   line and staff functions and span of control; and
(v)    extent of centralization and decentralization needed.
(b)     Prepare a staffing proposal based on the recommended organization
structure, and assess the extent to which the existing staff can
fulfill the required functions and duties, identifying the staffing
requirements on yearly basis.
(c)     Review the present training arrangements and make recommendations
for improvements in DESU's training program to make it more
compatible with DRSU's current and future needs.
(d)     Prepare complete job specifications and job manuals setting out
suitable qualifications and experiences for various categories of
employees.
(e)     Analyze the current information systems and recommend MIS which will
inculde inter alias:
(i)    Information to be collected, where, when and by whom;
(ii)   Design of various reporting formats for different functional
departments including construction, generation, transmission,
distribution, financial, com_rcial, personnel, statistical
and administrative;
(iii) Flow of reports;
(iv)   Procedure for synthesis and analysis of reports;
(v)    Procedure for follow-up actions;



AMNEX 4.11
Page 6 of 6
(vi)   Suitable structure for the Internal Audit; and
(vii) Comprehensive review of organization, practices and
procedures used by DESU's commerciaLband financial
departments.
(f)     The report shall recommend procedures as needed for assessment of
demand; purchase of stores - both capital and maintenance
indicating the stages (indenting, calling of tenders, awarding of
contracts etc.) scope and feasibility of centralized and
decentralized purchases; inventory control procedures; and fixation
of maximum, minimum and reorder levels.
(g)     Review the administrative procedures and internal control systems,
rules and regulations in effect at DESU and suggest improvements.
The areas to be covered by the review would include, but be limited
to, establishment procedures, adequacy and direction of
commmunication flow and gaps therein, inter-departmental
relationships, duplication of actions and prepare the
Implementation Schedule for various recommendations and
assistance required during implementation.
(h)     Assist DESU in the implementation of the recommendations.



INDIA
NATIONL CAPITAL PowR SWi'Ly PROJECT PAS  I
DELNI ELECTRIC SUPPLY UERTAINE                         A           12
ACTUAL AN  FORECAST INC1    STATENTS                      ---
(Rs. HILLION)
FY81   FY82   FY93   FY84   FY95   FY96   FY87   FY89   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   Fy9i
ENERSY AVAIL.FOR SALE(GNH)    2797   3162   3481   3908   4400   5077   5525   5Y32   6559   7190   7883    642   9474  10387  11388
SALES OF ELECTRICITY fB6W)     2372   2567   2841   3043   M418   3960   4475   4905   5378   5896   6464   7087   7769   9517   9338
SYSTEN LDSSES (2)                15      19    1      22      22     22      19     18     18      18     19     18      18    1      18
AVS.REV./KMH SOLDIPAISA)
(EXCL. FUEL SURCHAR6E)  35.79  37.59  39.77  39.83  43.94  70.45  72.50  76.85  81.46  85.53  86.73  88.38  89.53  91.32  92.41
AVG. TARIFF INCREASE                                                60.31   2.91   6.02   6.0X   5.02   1.42   1. 91   1.32   2.0Z   1.22
AVS.REV.IKIH SOLDtPAISA)
(INCL. FUEL SURCHARGE)  38.03  41.33  44.17  45.45  49.97  70.88  79.54  90,10 102.30 110.55 120.38 128.81 136.90 147.65 155.12
EFFECtYE'TARRIFF INCREASE
(INCL. FUEL SURCHARGE)            8.72   6.92   2.92   9.91  41.92  12.22  13.31  13.61   8.02   8.92   7.02   6.32    .91   5.52
OPERATING REVENUES
SALES OF ELECTRICTY             849    965   1130   1212   1502   2790   3244   3770   4381   5043   5LO   6263   6956   7778   8629
FUEL SURCHARGE                   53      96    125    171    206      17    315    650   1125   1475   2175   2865   3680   4798   5911
OTHER OPERATING REVENUES         43     57      54     60      61     92    101    111    122    135    146    163    179    197    217
CENtRL EXCISE DUTY               47     52      57     61      35      0      0       0      0      0       0      0       0      0      0
ELECTRICTY TAX                   74     90      95     92    100    112    126    139    152    166    182    200    219    240    263
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES       1066   1250   1451   1596   1904   3011   3787   4670   5760   6819   8112   9491  11034  13013  15021
OPERATING EXPENSES
PURCHASE OF POWER               430    770    965   1306   1555   1694   2053   2420   2743   3096   3820   4717   592   7083   8622
FUEL COST                       244    291    329    343    455    468   lOaO   1266   149    1795   1903   2015   2122   2258   2376
STAFF COSTS                     169    198    290    309    358    400    440    484    532    596    644    709   179    857    943
OPERATIONS & NAINNTAINCE         67     79      79     92    103    106    138    199    237    311    436    529    619    715    803
OTHER EXPENSES                   54     59      57     62     73    100    110    121    133    146    161    177   195    214    236
DEPRECIATION                     39     43      46     51      56     64     83    119    142    196    262    317    371    429    482
CENTRAL EXCISE DUTY              21      17     17     16      10      0      0       0      0      0       0      0       0      0      0
ELECTRICTY TAX                   74      80     85     92    100    112    126    138    152    166    182    200    219    240    263
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES       1098   1537  168   2270   2710   2944   4010   4748   5438   6286   7408   8664  1009?  11796  13726
NET OPERATIMN  INCONE           -32   -287   -417   -674   -806       67   -223    -78    342    533    704    827    937   1217   1295
NON OPERATING EXPENSES
INTEREST                        129    138    163    170    208    287       39    117    486    543    610    681    744    799    849
LESS IOC                                                                   23      68    100    122    141    158    172        0      0
INTEREST CH6D.TO OPERATIONS    129    130    163    170    208    287        16     49    386    421    469    523    572    799    949
MET PROFIT                     -161   -425   -580  -944  -1014   -220   -239   -121    -44    112    234    305    364    418    446
RATE OF REtURN
R.O.R.(AFTER INT./BE6IN.YR)                                               -11.32  -3.9Z  -1.12   2.21   3.11   3.32   3.42   3.41   3.32
R.O.R.(BEFORE INT./AVG.YR)                                                 -8.3t  -2.22   7.51   9.3t   8.42   8.42   8.22   9.51   9.1%



*  NATIONAL CAITAL       ST                     I
M    DI ELEW IC 9L1 WINatN4.13
ACTUL A FPErAT -MU MT
lbu. NILLION)
FYSI    m   FY83   FY        FY85   FY86   FW    FYN    FM9        "    FY9    FY92   FY93   FY4   FY95
ASSETS                                                                          -- 
FIIED ASETS
GROSS FIXED ASETS              1294   1523   168    1879   2178   2761   3978   4737   6210   6720  10574  12372  14M   160    17969
LESSACCURULATED DEPREC.         384    427    473    524    50    644    727    846    988   1175   1436   1753   2125   2553   3035
- --- -                                                                                   - -
NET FlIED ASSETS IN             910   1096   1213   1355   1596   2117   3251   3891   5222   7545   9138  10619  12167  13513  14934
OPERATION
bORK IN PR06RESS               1347   1529   1709   1938   2053   2041   3041   3812   3500   2326   2147   2031   1816   160S   1402
_       _     _          -   -                           . .       _.   _ _-_ _        -_
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS            2257   2625   2922   3293   3651   496   6b292   103   8722   9871  11265  12650  13983  15118  16336
CURRENT ASSETS
CASH                             15     24     28     80      66     66    327    386    441    508    596    696    811    94  1104
INVENTORIES                     245    164    222    213    314    300    315    385    436    494    564    632    69    756    817
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLES
ACC. REC. (ELEC. SALES)                                         1709    970   1105  1285   1356   161   1902   2216   2620   3029
ACC. REC. (OTHERS)                                              2165   1476   1550   1627   J*O4   179    184   IM    2077   2181
TOTAL ACC. REC.           1702   2122   2528   M9    3414   3894   2446   205   2912   3067   3415   M785   494   4697   5210
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS           196    2310 76   322 3m         4   42     3      342    37G 9   4      4      5113   5703   60    7130
TOTAL ASSETS                   4219   4935   5700   6545   7445   9210   9380  11128  12511  1394  1560  17763  1967  21518 23466
EQUITY & LIABILITIES
EQUITY
RESERVES                         17      4      4      4       4      4      4      4       4      4      4      4       4      4      4
CONSUMER CONTRIBUTIONS          113    131    151    174    204    236    260    286    314    346    380    418    460    506        5
ACCUMULATED LOSSES  .          -588  -1013  -1593  -2437  -3451  -3671       0       0      0      0      0      0       0      0      0
601 EQUITY/PERPETUAL LOM                                                  64     7344   794   8447   9031   9550   99  10348  10678
RETAINED EARNINGS                                                         -239   -367   -411   -298    -64    241    605   1022   1469
TOTAL EWUITY                  -49   -7V  -1438  -2259  -3243  -3W1   648   726?   7901   84"    935   10212  11068  1138   12707
LIABILITIES
LONG TERM DEBT                 2119   2420   2714   3101   3515   4898    709   1427   1915   2461   3143   3742   4303   4742   5201
CONSUMER SEC. DEPOSITS          101    129    157    182    222    277    306    336    370    07    440    492    542    596    655
CURRENT LIABILITIES
ACCTS. PYBLE.-POMER PUR.        359    862   1655   2732   4058   4576    428    504    571    645    796    983   1207   1476   1796
OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES      2099   2402   2612   2789   2893   2898   1449   1594   1753   1929   2121   2334   2567   2824   3106
(INCLUD.INTEREST PYBLE.W                                         1581
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES     2450   3264   426    5521   695I   7474   1677   209    2325   2574   2917   3316   3774   4299   4902
TOTAL LIABILITIES              4677   5813   7138   8804  10600  12649   2891   3U61   4609   5441   6508  7M5O   8619   9637  10758
TOTAL EQUITY & LIABILITIES    4219   4935   5700   6545   7445   9218   9380  11120  12511  13939  15059  17763  19686  21517  23466
DEBT AS 2 OF (DEBT+EDUITY)      1282   15sn    2132   3682  12922   3342    102    162    202    222    252    2n    292    292    292
CURRENT RATIO                   0.8    0.7    0.7    0.6    0.5    0.6    1.6    1.6    1.6    1.6    1.6    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5



InDIA
NTISL CAPITAL FOM   u        Y PiM.  T PMw   I
nElHI ELECRIC SIY  NDERT(AlI                             AM       4.14
ACTII    l. FORECST RE I    ALICATION OFW  FM   STATNS
(Ro. MILLION)
FY91   FY02   FM     FY84   FY8    FY06   FY07   FY8   F9 F       90   FY91   FY92  FY3   FY94   F
SOURC£6
_. .
INTERA  SOUES
NET OFERATINS INM               -32   -297   -411   -674   -806      67  -223    -78    342    533    70       827    937   1217   1295
DEPRECIATION                     39     43     46     51      56     64     83    119    142    186    262    317    371    429  )42
TOTAL INTERN   SOURCES            7   -244   -371   -623   -750    131   -10       41    404    119    965   1145   1309   1646   1777
COmmSUN  CONTRI8tIONS            16     18     20     23     30      32     24     26     29      31     35     38     42      46     51
COm         SECURITY KPSITS      11     28     28     25      40     55     29     31     34      37     41     45     49      54     60
901 EUIITYIEo)                                                             601    980    650    453    585    510    449    349    330
901 ERUITY(CONVERSION)                                                    564
J11185
PRIPOSED 1in  LN                                                             8     78    140    164    1"      117     70      56
soI LOAN                       207    302   294        7   4       14 3    701       7  440   50          9    724          7268   0
TOTAL _IIIINIS                 207    302    294  37    414  133    709    765    501Ml                 638    841    853      2     850
TOTAL SUES                      241    104   -29   -188   -26    1601   7065   1743   1776   1909   2462   2587   2701   2076   3061
APWLICA71I
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE PRORM
PROPOSE  PROlECT                                                            14    172    291    344    334    274    183       63
TRANS9M. DISTRI1.              327    411    343    422    414    616    550    680    670    830   1200   1250   1350   1500   1700
BENERATION                                                          755    830    610    10       40
IOC CAPITALIZED                                                             23     68    100    122    141    156    172
TOTAL CAPITAL EXPENDITORES     327    411    343    422    414   1371   1417   1530   1161   1336   1675   1682 . 1705   1563   1700
DEBT SERVICE
INTEREST                       129    138    163    170    206    287       16    4N    386    421    469    523    572    799    84
PRINCIPAL REPAYMET                                                           0     47     93    122    155    242    291    343    391
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE              129    130    163    170    208    287      16      6    471    543    625    765    83   1142   1240
CONVERS.DEBT TO EQUITY                                                    489
NRITE OFF ACCUl.LOSSES                                                   -3671
VARIATION IN #ORKING CAITAL
CAS  IINCREASE                           9      4     52        -14   0    261     58     56      67     87   100    115    137    156
OtNER THAN CSH INREASE         -223   -467   -539   -832   -874    -57   4164      58     82    -37      76     39      18     34   -29
NET INCREASE                   -215   -458   -535   -700  -8        -57   4425    117    137      30    163    139    133    171    127
TOTAL APPLICATIOND              241     91    -29   -10   -266   1601   1085   1743   1776   1909   2462   2597   2701   2876   3067
mamma mama  mm... mamma mamma ma  ama.  aMe"  mam"  mamma mama. mama  mm                          mma  =mam
DE1T SRVICE COV                 0.1   -1.8   -2.3   -3.7   -3.6    0.5  -8.8    0.4    1.0    1.3    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.4    1.4
SEUF FIN CIK RATIO (1)           49     34     13      9       0     -1  -315      -B      -5     15     16      19     24     26     39
AVE. 3-YR. INVESTMET            246    360    3?2    393    736   1067   1439   1369   1342   1391   1564   1687   1650   1656   1326



AUNV 4.15
Page 1 of 4
NATIONAL CAPITAL POWER SUPPLY PROJECT - PEASE I
DELHI ELECTRIC SUPPLY UNDERTAKING
Assumptions for Financial Projections
1.      The financial projections are based on the electricity sales forecast
for DESU as estimated by the Twelfth Power Survey completed by GOI in 1985.
The forecast was adjusted during appraisal in consultation with DESU to take
into account the most recent sales data. The sales forecast shows that a 101
-er annum average growth rate is anticipated for FY'86 to FY'95. System
losses are assumed to decline to 191 in FY'87 from 22X in FY'86 and to remain
constant at 18% in the forecast period.
2.      The financial projections reflect the financial strengthening
measures for DESU to be undertaken by GOI and DESU. Detailed assumptions for
the various projections are given below.
(a) Income Statement
(1)     Sales of Electricity reflect the revenue earned from GWh sales at
tariff rates adequate to earn at least 3% surplus beginning with FY'91 as
stipulated in the Financial Recovery Plan.
(2)     Fuel Surcharge is the revenue earned by DESU to compensate for
increases in fuel prices and purchased power during the projection period.
It is assumed that GOI would approve DESU's proposal that the fuel surcharge
would apply to all categories of consumption and this would be implemented
gradually from FY'88 through FY'90. Presently, this surcharge is applicable
to large industrial consumers, non-domestic HT consumers, NDMC and MRS which
account for about 45% of consumption.
(3)     Central Excise Duty was abolished by GOI as of October 1, 1984.
(4)     Purchase of Power is based on DESU's power requirement in _zcess of
its own generation. The purchase cost is based on the price per kWh from
each source. The cost of power obtained from Bairasuil Hydro is escalated at
2.5% per annum and the cost from thermal sources (including Badarpur,
Singrauli and other thermal stations) at 8% per annum. These escalation
figures were adopted by DESU in consultation with CEA and the mission.



AM=EX 4.15
Page 2 of 4
(5)     Fuel costs are based on DESU's actual fuel prices in first quarter
FY'87 and on the quantity of eachl fuel consumed by DESU's generation plants.
The large increase in fuel costs in FY'87 over FY'86 reflects the cost of
high speed diesel fuel for gas turbines which became operational in April
1986. The escalation rates adopted by DESU given below were prepared in
consultation with CEA and are considered reasonable.
Assumed escalation
per annum
Cost              in forecast period
coal                       Rs 525 per M.T.                81
furnace oil                Rs 3,411 per kilolitre        2.5X
gas (high speed            Rs 3,461 per kilolitre        2.5%
diesel fuel)
(6)     Staff costs and other expenses are assumed to escalate at 10  per
annum.
(7)     Operation and Maintenance costs are estimated to be SS of gross fixed
assets at the beginning of the fiscal year.
(8)     Depreciation is assumed to be 3X of gross fixed assets at the begin-
ning of the fiscal year.
(9)     Interest expenses are related to new borrowings (i.e. 112 for all GOI
loans including the on-lent Bank loan). It is assumed that all outstanding
debt at March 31 1986 is converted to perpetual loan and that D8SU pays
interest of 11X on half of the amount converted. Interest is assumed capi-
talized in respect of the Bank project and new generation investment but not
for subtransmission and distribution schemes which are assumed to be com-
pleted in less than one year.



ANNEX 4.15
Page 3 of 4
(b) Balance Sheet
(1)     Gross fixed assets and work in progresa are based on historical costs
and DESU's investment program.
(2)     Cash is assumed at one month's operating expensee less depreciation.
(3)     Inventories are estimated at 51 of total fixed assets.
(4)     Accounts Receivable for electricity sales are assumed to ba the
equivalent of three months sales revenues in FY'87 and FY'88; 2.8 months in
FY'89 and 2.5 months thereafter. It is assumed that the outstanding amounts
due from N.D.N.C. and MCD are settled in FY'87.
(5)     Accounts Receivable (others) are assumed to increase at 10X per annum
from FY'87 onwards. It is assumed that the outstanding amount owed by HSEB
to DESU is settled in FY'87.
(6)     Accumulated Losses are assumed to be cleared in FY'87.
(7) GOI Equity/Perpetual Loan in FY'87 represents adjustments made in accord-
ance with the planned financial strengthening of DESU. The outstanding
amount of GOI loan and accrued interest thereon is converted into equity and
adjustments are made for waiving of accounts payable to Badarpur power sta-
tion, clearing of accumulated losses, sentlement of accounts receivable and
other changes in working capital in FY'87. It is assumed that further
investments will be financed 501 by debt and 502 by internal sources and new
equity injection from GOI.
(8)     Long Term Debt as of March 31, 1986 is assumed to be converted to
equity/perpetual loan. It is assumed that further investments would be
financed as stated in para 7.
(9)     Accounts Payable-Power Purchase are assumed to be maintained at a
level of 2.5 months of power purchase costs from FY'87 onwards. It is
assumed that accounts payable for power purchases from Badarpur power station
as of March 31, 1986 are waived in FY'87. Plan.
(10)    Other Current Liabilitie' Are assumed to increase at A `' -or annum
from FY'87 onwards.  It is assumed that the outstanding amounu of interest
payable &s of 31 Narch 1986 is converted to equity/perpetual loan.
(c) Sources and Application of Funds
(1)     The proposed IBRD Loan is assumed to be on-lent from GOI to DESU with
a repayment term of 20 years including a 5 year grace period at an interest
rate of 11X per annum.



ANNEX 4.15
Page 4 of 4
(2)     The GOI Loans are assumed to be lent to DESU with a repayment period
of 15 years at an interest rate of 11.
(3)     The Capital Expenditure program prepared by DESU and reviewed by the
mission is based on 1986 cost estimates and incorporates the Bank's price
escalation factors for the foreign and local cost componants.
(4)     The debt service obligations of DESU reflect the expectation under
the financial strengthening plan that the outstanding amount of loans and
interest payable at March 31, 1986 would be converted to perpetual loan.



ANNEX 5.1
INDIA
NATIONAL CAPITAL POWER SUPPLY PROJECT-PHASE I
Blectricitr Demand end Supply - Northern Region
85/86   86/87  B7/88   88189   89/90   90191   91/92   92/93   93/84   94/95
1. Installed Capacity as on
31.3.85 is 11841 NU 1/
2. Capacity additions frna
eantioued/ongoing
schemess                           520    1847    1984    1197    1101    1420       840      732     990    1110
3. Capacity additions during
the year from new schemes:
Hydro (NW)                         -        -       -       -        -       -      40      194     790      840
Thermal (W)                        -        -       -     700      100     440    1050      420     120        -
Totals                    _                         -     700      100     440    1090      614     910      840
4. Overall Installed Capacity
at the end of year:
iydro (NO)                      5199    5583    5692    5944    6625    7125    7295    8221   10001   11951
Thermal (NV)                    6722    8185    9825   11235   11755   13115   14875   15295   15415   15415
Nuclear (NW)                     440      440     675     910      910     910     910      910     910      910
Totals                         12361   14208   16192   18089   19320   21150   23080   24426   26326   28276
Peak Demand (W)                      9210   11975   13179   14455   15825   17415   19167   21098   23227   25576
Peaking Shortage (MM)               (1610)  (3348)  (3511)  (3338)  (3451)  (3987)  (4672)  (5285)  (6149)  (7280)
Energy Requirement (Cub)            48135   61375   67538   74073   81086   89218   98178  108055  118945  130953
Energy Availability (Gwh)           43192   50670   57771   68546   79502   76534   84333  102819  110768  118172
Energy Shortage (Cuh)               (4943) (10705)  (9767)  (5527)  (1584)  (2684)  (3845)  (5236)  (8177) (12781)
i/ - Hydrot 4999 WVs Thermalt 6402$ and Nuclear: 440 MW



ANNEX 5.2
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
NATIONAL CAPITAL POWER SUPPLY PROJECT - PHASE I
Internal Economic Rate of Return
1.      As described in Chapter 5, the proposed Project forms an integral
part of the expansion program for the Northern Region and, therefore,
cost-benefit analysis needs to be carried out on the program as a whole
rather than on the Project in isolation. A time-slice of the Northern
Region's investment program has, therefore, been analyzed. Capital cost,
incremental operation and maintenance, incremental fuel cost and benefit
streams for the Northern Region are shown in Table 1. Assumptions underlying
these figures are detailed below.
Capital Costs
2.      Anticipated capital expenditure on generation at financial prices has
been converted to economic prices by (i) expressing the imported content at
cif prices; (ii) valuing unskilled local labor at 0.75 of the market wage
rate; and (iii) applying the estimated standard conversion factor, 0.8, to
local costs. Transmission and distribution capital expenditures have been
estimated at 5QX of generation expenditure.
Operation and Maintenance Costs
3.      Incremental annual operating and maintenance costs have been
estimated as the following percentages of capital value: coal-fired gener-
ating plant 2.5%; combined cycle and gas turbine 2Z; hydroelectric 1.13%; and
transmission and distribution 1.0X.
Fuel Costs
4.      Average fuel consumption of new coal-fired plant has been estimated
at 0.61 kg/kWh. The economic cost of coal at the pit head has been estimated
at Rs 164/ton. The economic cost of delivering coal to load center stations
has been estimated at Rs 0.54/ton mile. The economic cost of gas has been
estimated at Rs 1,800/MCM and specific consumption at 0.225 CM/kWh.
Case 1. Benefits
5.      Case 1. benefits are based solely on incremental revenue at existing
tariff levels. These allow for system losses which are assumed to remain
constant at 20% of net generation in the Northern Region. The average tariff
in financial terms is Rs 0.60/kWh. After application of the standard conver-
sion factor (0.8), this represents Rs 0.48/kWh in economic terms.



ANNEX 5.2
Page 2 of 3
Case 2. Benefits
6.      In Case 2, the benefits of incremental consumption include elements
of consumers' surplus for both industrial and agricultural consumers,
Surplus has been imputed at half of the difference between the average tariff
for each category and the alternative costs of autogeneration for industrial
consumers and diesel pumping for agricultural.
7.      The cost of industrial autogeneration has been estimated as follows:
Purchase price (incl. installation)        Rs 4,300/kW
Life of set                                15 years
Average utilization                        302
Discount rate                              122
Operation and maintenance cost             Rs 215/kW per annum
Fuel and lubricant                         Rs 0.80/kWh
Average cost                               Rs 1.12/kWh
8.      The cost of electricity which would equate the cost of electrical
pumping with that of diesel is calculated as follows:
Electric         Diesel
Motor/engine size                         5.0 HP           7.0 HP
Life Years                                15.0             10.0
Investment Cost                           Rs 4,000         Rs 10,250
Cost of diesel/hr                                          Rs 4.82
Annual Costs
Annual Charges                            Rs 526           Rs 1,668
O&M                                       Rs 890           Rs 2,500
Electricity/diesel
(800 hrs/year)
Electricity costing
X /kWh                                    Rs 2,984 X       Rs 3,853
Total annual cost                         Rs 1,416 +       Rs 8,021
2,984 X
Marginal cost of electricity              X = (8,021 - 19416)/2,984
at which diesel and electricity
are equivalent                              = Rs 2.21/kWh



ANNX 35.2
Page 3 of 3
INDIA
NATIONAL CAPITAL POWER SUPPLY PROJECT - PHASE I
Northern Region Invostment Program
Economic Rate of Return
------------------------------------------------------------___
(Rs million)
Fin. Capital              Fuel     Total    Incr.       Net     Net
Year     Exp.     O&M     Cost      Cost    Sales Benefitl Benefit2
1986       84                         84                -84      -84
1987     1736                       1736              -1736    -1736
1988     5394                       5394              -5394    -5394
1989    6506        96      877     7479      1540    -6740    -6297
1990    10176      120     1754    12050     3080   -10572    -9686
1991    10563      226     1879    12668     3300   -11.084   -10136
1992     8069      568     2690    11327     5222    -8820    -7320
1993     4932      750     4007     9689     8880    -5441    -2898
1994    2769       896     4788     8453    12542    -2433      1171
1996     1501      992     5172     7665    16319       168     4858
1996      469      998     5246     6713    17931      1894     7047
1997               998     5255     6253    17986     2380      7549
1998               998     5255     6253    17986     2380      7549
1999               998     5255     6253    17986     2380      7S49
2000               998     5255     6253    17986      2380     7549
2001               998     5255     6253    17986      2380     7549
2002               998     5255     6253    17986      2380     7549
2003               998     5255     6253    17986      2380     7549
2004               998     5255     6253    17986      2380     7549
2005               998     5255     6253    17986      2380     7549
2006               998     5255     6253    17986      2380     7549
2007               998     5255     6253    17986      2380     7549
2008               998     5255     6253    17986      2380     7549
2009               998     5255     6253    17986      2380     7549
2010               998     5255     62S3    17986      2380     7549
2011               998     5255     6253    17986      2380     7549
2012               998     5255     6253    17986      2380     7549
2013               998     5255     6253    17986      2380     7549
2014               998     5255     6253    17986      2380     7549
2015               998     5255     6253    17986      2380     7549
2016               998     S255     6253    17986      2380     7549
2017               998     5255     6253    17986      2380     7549
2018               998     5255     6253    17986      2380     7549
2019               998     5255     6253    17986      2380     7549
2020               998     5255     6253    17986      2380     7549
2021               998     5255     f253    17986      2380     7549
Internal Economic Rate Of Return -          1X      11X



ANNEX 6.1
INDIA
NATIONAL CAPITAL POWER SUPPLY PROJEtT - PHASE I
Related Documents in the Project File
1. Feasibility Report for the National Capital Thermal Power Project,
National Thermal Power Corporation Ltd., New Delhi, March 1986.
2. Report on the Renovation and Modernization Scheme for Badarpur Thermal
Power Station, National Thermal Power Corporation Ltd., New Delhi.
3.  Project Feasibility Report for the 400-kV Ring, Delhi Electric Supply
Undertaking, New Delhi, November 1985.
4. Draft Environmental Impact Assessment for the National Capital Thermal
Power Project, National Thermal Power Corporation Ltd., New Delhi, March
1985.
5.  Report of the Committee set up by the Planning Commission to study the
aspect of rail transport of coal to Muradnagar Thermal Power Station,
Planning Commission, Government of India, New Delhi, February 1986.
6. Techno-Economic Justification Studies for the National Capital Power
Project, Central Electricity Authority* New Delhi, April 1866.
7. Sectoral Data for World Bank Appraisal, Central Electricity Authority,
New Delhi, March 1986.
8. Project Detailed Cost Estimate - COMPASS, May 19, 1987.



IBRD 19611
PAJOSTN'J *1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~                      INDIA                                                                                                         77'401
s      *Dent[:hi.                              NATIONAL CAPITAL POWER                                                                                                          7
ProjeCt Aea                 -28-4928'40'
SUPPLY PROJECT
B&NNGDIESH                                PHASE I
PROPOSED:                                                       .      0        1         2        3         4        5
INDIA                      EZZII  ~~~~~~~~~~Power Plant Site                                                                    I        I  
-    Permanent Approach Road                                                                 KILOMETERS
;-+-11-I    Railrood
Sr.' i ri4, st'.£- ..... ;4; UNDER CONSTRUCTION, NON-PROJECT:
Transmission Line Corridors:
___  400 kV A/C                                 ~
SRI L*K? HVDC                                                                                                               Q
D.L.I                                              EXISTING:
DELHI                                                Roads
PROPOSED 400/220   IcV SYSTEM                      -* -- t Northern Railroad Main Line
Unde, Constructiono,                                         Canals
ProjecLt  (Non-Project)
400 kV Transmission Lines
(i)        (i)    400/220 kV Substahons
0                220/66 kV Substations
Power Station
State Boujndaries
-__International Boundaories
BAWANA                                                                                                                         \            
28
28-4,
t           aDELHI                    <                     sf           " _<ELHI
Me .  o- poA 00
s  X  ' /                     f   ""                      \X+,                             /72                            v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_*__ - m
Df                   Dadti                         aX                          /y Dad
0  5 10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   b'
-                                        I                \                        a\                nS/f  4t                                 bZ I~~~~~~~K  - 
-WAV -1 e6
To AJIga7th                                                                 77140' 
JUNE 1986



