7'- 1?1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1288 ES
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Ahuachap9n Expansion Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
COMISION EJECUTIVA HIDROELECTRICA
DEL RIO LEMPA
Dated July 28, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 28, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and COMISION EJECUTIVA HIDROELECTRICA DEL RIO LEKPA (hereinafter
called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter
provided;
(B) The Republic of El Salvador (hereinafter called the Guar-
antor) has also requested the Bank to provide additional assis-
tance towards the financing of the Project under the Interest Sub-
sidy Fund for the Third Window established by Resolution No. 75-111
of the Executive Directors of the Bank and by an agreement of even
date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank (hereinafter called
the Intermediate Term Loan Agreement) the Bank is agreeing to pro-
vide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent
to nine million dollars ($9,000,000) (hereinafter called the In-
termediate Term Loan);
(C) By a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into be-
tween the Guarantor and the Borrower, the Guarantor will make the
proceeds of the Intermediate Term Loan available to the Borrower
as provided in the Intermediate Term Loan Agreement;


﻿2
(D) The Borrower and the Bank intend that the proceeds of
this Loan and of the Intermediate Term Loan be disbursed pro rata
on the basis of 10:3 ratio;
(E) Concurrently with this Loan, the Borrower intends to
sell part of an issue of its bonds in the principal amount of
025,000,000 (hereinafter called the Bonds) to assist in the fi-
nancing of the local costs of its investments, including, inter
alia, those of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gene-
ral Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the re-
spective meanings therein set forth avAa the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Ley Constitutiva" means the LL Constitutiva of the
Borrover set forth in Decreto No. 137, of September 18, 1948, of
the Asamblea Legislativa of the Guarantor, establishing and orga-
nizing the Borrower, as amended from time to time.
(b) "Colones" and "0" mean colones in currency of the Guar-
antor.
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Guarantor and the Borrower pursuant to
Section 3.02 of the Intermediate Term Loan Agreement.


﻿14
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty million
dollars ($30,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, for expen-
ditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in re-
spect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and in respect of interest and other charges on the Loan.
(b) On each of the semi-annual interest payment dates specified
in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself
the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and other
charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the date set
forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment, as such schedule may be amended from time to time.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree- the
goods and works for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and eighty-five hundredths per cent (8.85%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, engineering, financial and public utilities
practices.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in preparing
the detailed engineering for Parts A, B and C (except for the 46 kV
line from Guajoyo to Metapan included in the said Part B), of the
Project and in carrying out Part D of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ engineering consultants acceptable to the Bank upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) Before awarding contracts for the generating
unit forming Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall determine
in consultation with the Bank the optimum capacity of such unit
that can be installed at the Ahuachap6n plant without prejudicing
the present exploitation plan for the geothermal field.
(b) The Borrower shall award the contract for a unit of
the optimum capacity determined pursuant to paragraph (a) of this
Section.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures,
satisfactory to the Bank, to ensure that the Ahuachap9n plant is
operated with due regard to ecological and environmental factors
particularly with regard to disposal of geothermal effluents.


﻿7
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures
satisfactory to the Bank to ensure that any development and exploita-
tion of the geothermal fields at Berlin, Chinameca and San Vicente
are carr4ed out with due regard to ecological and environmental
factors.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
() The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to re-
cord the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods, works and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph


﻿-8-
(c) of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan and the goods, works and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, prop-
erty and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall
be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land, and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for the construction
and operation of the facilities included in the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not take or concur in any ac-
tion which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assign-
ing or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.


﻿-9
- 9 -
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times manage its af-
fairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion
and carry on its operations, all in accordance with sound business,
financial and public utility practices and under the supervision
of experienced and qualified management.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall at all times maiiitain its
existence and right to carry on operations and shall, except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, take all steps necessary to main-
tain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which
are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 4.04. Except in 'he normal course of business, the
Borrower shall not, without prior consultation with the Bank, sell,
transfer, distribute or otherwise dispose of any of its property
or assets which shall be required for the efficient conduct of its
operations.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall operate and maintain its
plants, equipment and property, and from time to time make all
necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance with


﻿- 10 -
sound engineering standards; and shall at all times operate its
plants and equipment and maintain its financial position in accor-
dance with sound public utility and business practices.
Section 4.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall: (i) at intervals of not less than every twelve
months prepare and promptly furnish to the Bank a report on the
Borrower's management of the Ahuachapin geothermal field; (ii)
have such report reviewed by consultants acceptable to the Bank;
and (iii) promptly upon its completion, furnish such review to the
Bank.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate ac-
counting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets. statements of income and ex-
penses and related statements) for each fiscai year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its finan-
cial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. In addition to the provisions of Section 5.02
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, not
later than three months after the end of each fiscal year, its
unaudited accounts and financial statements for such fiscal year.
Section 5.04. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.


﻿- 12 -
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Lcan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant,
at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank
to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing provi-
sions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien created
on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for the payment of the purchase price of such property; or (B) any
lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt mturing not more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall from time to time effect such adjustments in
its rates for the sale of electricity as shall be necessary to pro-
vide sufficient revenues to yield an annual rate of return on
assets which shall be:
(i) not less than 9% until such time as the Borrower
shall have revalued its fixed assets in operation
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
(b) (iv) of this Section; and


﻿- 13 -
(ii) not less than 8% thereafter.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated in
respect of each fiscal year by relating net income
from operations for that year to the average of
the net value of fixed assets in operation at the
beginning and at the end of that year;
(ii) the term "net income from operations" means gross
operating revenueb from electric power, less all
operating expenses, depreciation and taxes;
(iii) the term "operating expenses, depreciation and
taxes" includes: direct costs of operation;
administrative, overhead and adequate maintenance
expenses; straight-line depreciation based on
the useful life of major categories of assets; taxes
(if any); but does not include interest and other
charges on debt; and
(iv) the term "net value of fixed assets in operation"
means the gross value of such assets, determined
in accordance with methods of valuation or reval-
uation acceptable to the Bank, less accumulated
depreciation.


﻿Section 5.06. Without any limitation or restriction on the
provisions of Section 5.05 of this A ,reement, the Borrower under-
takes to take all steps within its power to maintain the overall
average of its rates for the sale of electricity in the territory
of the Guarantor at a level not lower than that in force at the
date of this Agreement until the Closing Date.
Section 5.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any debt if its net revenues for the
fiscal year next preceding such incurrence or for a later twelve-
month period ended prior to such incurrence, whichever amount is
the greater, shall be less than 1.5 times the maximum debt service
requirements on all debt (including the debt to be incurred) in
any succeeding fiscal year. For the purposes of this Section:
(i) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date
of execution and delivery of a loan agreement
providing for such debt or, in the case of a
guarantee of debt, on the date of execution and
delivery of the agreement providing for such
guarantee but only to the extent that the
guaranteed debt shall be outstanding;
(ii) the term "net revenues" means gross revenues
from operations adjusted to take account of
rates for the sale of electricity in effect at
the time of incurrence of the debt even though
they were not in effect during the twelve
consecutive months to which such revenues relate,
less operating, administrative and overhead


﻿- 15 -
expenses, including adequate maintenance expenses
and provisions for taxes, if any, but before
provision for depreciation, interest and other
charges on debt;
(iii) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking
fund payments, if any), interest and other charges
on debt; and
(iv) whenever it shall be necessary to value in the
currency of the Guarantor debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis
of the rate of exchange at which such other
currency is obtainable by the Borrower, at the
time such valuation is made, for the purposes of
servicing such debt or, if such other currency
is not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange that
will be reasonably determined by the Bank.
Section 5.08. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall, until the Project has been completed, retain
its net internal cash generation in the business for reinvestment
in the Project, in power facilities not included therein, or in
activities related thereto.
(b) For the purposes of this Section, the term "net internal
cash generation" means gross revenues from operations less all
expenses, including: direct costs of operation; administrative,


﻿- 16 -
overhead and adequate maintenance expenses; taxes (if any); amor-
tization, interest and other charges on debt; but excluding pro-
vision for depreciation.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) The Ley Constitutiva, or any provision thereof, shall
have been amended, suspended or abrogated so as to materially
and adversely affect the management or operation of the Borrower.
(b) the Bonds shall have become due and payable prior to
the agreed maturity thereof.
(c) A default shall have occurred in the performance by the
Borrower of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) The Bonds or any other debt of the Borrower with an
original maturity of one year or more shall have become due and
payable before its agreed maturity in accordance with the terms
thereof.
(b) Any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 18 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) The Borrower shall have duly issued the Bonds, sold an
amount thereof of not less than 015,000,000 and received payment
therefor.
(b) All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Intermediate Term Loan Agreement have been fulfilled subject only
to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
(c) The Asamblea Legislativa of the Guarantor shall have ap-
proved an extraordinary budget for the Borrower to carry out the
Project.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Con-
ditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Bank, that the Asamblea Legislativa of the Guarantor has
approved an extraordinary budget for the Borrower to carry out
the Project.
Section 7.03. The date October 28, 1976, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 19 -
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
84145 (wUI)
For the Borrower:
Comisi6n Ejecutiva Hidroel6ctrica
del Rlo Lempa
Edificio CEL
9a Calle Poniente
Entre 15 y 17 Ave. Norte
San Salvador, El Salvador, Centroam4rica
Cable address:                Telex:
CEL                           20069 CELSAL
San Salvador


﻿- 20-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Enrique Lerdau
Director
Country Programs Department
Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office
COMISION EJECUTIVA HIDROELECTRICA
DEL RIO LEMPA
By Is/ Benjamin Valiente
Authorized Representative


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of this Loan
and of the Intermediate Term Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items
to be financed out of the proceeds of this Loan and of the Inter-
mediate Term Loan, the allocation of amounts of the Loan and of
the Intermediate Term Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures to be financed out of each Category:
Amount of this
Loan and of the
Intermediate Term
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment and ma-         22,400,000         100% of foreign
terials                                      expenditures or
95% of local ex-
penditures (ex-
factory)
(2) Installation and            4,500,000        100% of foreign
erection of works                           expenditures
(3) Consultants' ser-          2,300,000         100% of foreign
vices                                        expenditures
(4) (a) Interest and            3,800,000        Amounts due
other charges on
the Loan accrued
on or before
July 31, 1980


﻿- 22 -
Amount of this
Loan and of the
Intermediate Term
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(b) Interest and
other charges
on the Inter-
mediate term
Loan accrued on
or before
July 114, 1980
(5) Unallocated                 6,000,000
TOTAL      39,000,000


﻿- 23 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The di6bursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan and
the Intermediate Term Loan or the disbursement percentages set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 above, if the Bank has reason-


﻿- 24-
ably estimated that the amount of the Loan and the Intermediate
Term Loar then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance all expenditures in that Category, the Bank may, by notice
to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required
to meet such estimated shortfall, proceeds of the
Loan and of the Intermediate Term Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in
the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet
other expenditures; and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the esti-
mated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
6.   Except for Category (4), the proceeds of the Loan and of the
Intermediate Term Loan shall be disbursed pro rata on the basis of
a 10:3 ratio.
7.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procure-
ment of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the proce-
dures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
or of the Intermediate Term Loan and the Bank may, without in any
way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Bank under the Loan Agreement or the Intermediate Term Loan


﻿I
- 25 -
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan and of the Intermediate Term Loan as, in the Bank's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and the Intermediate Term Loan.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A)   Installation of a third turbo-generator at the geothermal
plant at Ahuachap9n.
B)   (i) Construction of about 39 circuit-km of new 115 kV trans-
mission lines and about 20 circuit-km of 46 kV subtrans-
mission lines;
(ii) Conversion of about 83 circuit-km of 69 kV transmission
lines to 115 kV; and
(iii) Construction or improvement of about 10 substations, in-
cluding the addition of about 150 mega volt-amperes in
new transformer capacity to the system.
C)   The improvement and expansion of the Borrower's communication
and control system, including:
(i) improvement of the dispatch, communication, automatic
load frequency control, data recording and supervisory
control systems of the Borrower's hydroelectric power
plants;
(ii) extension of its microwave system; and


﻿- 27 -
(iii) supervisory control of the San Rafael Cedros, Santa
Ana, Nuevo Cuscatlan and Sonsonate substations,
and such other substations as the Bank shall agree.
D)   (i) Feasibility studies of geothermal plants at Berlin, Chi-
nameca and San Vicente, including recommendations for
the safe disposal of any effluents during field develop-
ment and exploitation;
(ii) A study of electricity tariffs.
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 1980.


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
February 1, 1981                                    270,000
August 1, 1981                                      280,000
February 1, 1982                                    295,000
August 1, 1982                                      310,000
February 1, 1983                                    320,000
August 1, 1983                                       335,000
February 1, 1984                                    355,000
August 1, 1984                                       365,000
February 1, 1985                                    385,000
August 1, 1985                                      4oo,000
February 1, 1986                                    415,000
August 1, 1986                                      435,000
February 1, 1987                                    455,000
August 1, 1987                                      475,000
February 1, 1988                                    500,000
August 1, 1988                                       515,000
February 1, 1989                                    540,000
August 1, 1989                                       565,000
February 1, 1990                                    590,000
August 1, 1990                                      620,000
February 1, 1991                                    640,000
August 1, 1991                                       675.,000
February 1, 1992                                    700,000
August 1, 1992                                       735,000
February 1, 1993                                    765,000
August 1, 1993                                       800,000
February 1, 1994                                    835,000
August 1, 1994                                       870,000
February 1, 1995                                     910,000
August 1, 1995                                       950,000


﻿- 29 -
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
February 1, 1996                                    990,000
August 1, 1996                                     1,0Mo,00o
February 1, 1997                                  1,080,000
August 1, 1997                                    1,130,000
February 1, 1998                                  1,180,000
August 1, 1998                                    1,230,000
February 1, 1999                                  1,290,000
August 1, 1999                                     1,340,000
February 1, 2000                                  1,405,000
August 1, 2000                                    1,465,000
February 1, 2001                                  1,545,000
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 30 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years                    1.05%
before maturity
More than three years but not                2.10%
more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                  3.90%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                   5.65%
not more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but not              7.45%
more than twenty-one years
before maturity
More than twenty-one years                   8.15%
but not more than twenty-three
years before maturity
More than twenty-three years                 8.85%
before maturity


﻿- 31 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   The goods and works shall be procured under contracts to be
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
B.   Supplemental Rule on Bid Evaluation and Comparison
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on locally supplied goods, shall be excluded, except
to the extent hereinafter provided. Bidders shall be required to
state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for locally manufactured goods.
The cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures
incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their distribu-
tion, use or installation shall be taken into account in the eval-
uation of bids in accordance with paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines
for Procurement.
2.   For the purpose of evaluating bids for goods included in
Category I of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, price shall be determined and compared in accor-
dance with the following rules:


﻿- 32-
(a) the term "Central American Bid" means a bid submitted by
a manufacturer established in the territories of the member countries
of the Central American Common Market for goods manufactured or
processed to a substantial extent (as reasonably determined by the
Bank) in such territories; any other bid shall be deemed to be a
"Non-Central American Bid";
(b) the price under a Central American Bid shall be the sum
of the following amounts:
(i) the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii) freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods to the place of their distribution, use
or installation;
(c) for the purpose of comparing any Non-Central American Bid
with any Central American Bid, the price under a Non-Central Amer-
ican Bid shall be the sum of the following amounts:
(i) the c.i.f. (port of entry) price of such goods;
(ii) half the amount of any taxes on the importation
of such goods into the territories of the Borrower
which generally apply to non-exempt importers, or
15% of the amount specified in (i) above, whichever
shall be the lower; and
(iii) freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods from their port of entry to the place
of their use or installation.


﻿- 33 -
3.   The invitations to bid shall clearly indicate the margin of
preference to be granted.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   With respect to all contracts for civil works and equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its
review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in
Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award
of the said consultants and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.


﻿-34-
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and before the first ap-
plication for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract is furnished to the Bank.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and before the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract is furnished to the
Bank, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.


