CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1288 ES
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
(Ahuachapatn Expansion Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 28, 1976


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 28, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF EL SALVA-
DOR (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Comisi6n Ejecutiva Hidroel4ctrica del Rfo Lenpa (here-
inafter called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the
Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to thirty
million dollars ($30,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guar-
antor agrees to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect
of such loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guar-
antee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements, being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in
the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specif-
ically undertakes to provide or to cause to be provided to the
Borrower promptly as required such funds as shall be needed by the
Borrower to meet Project expenditures which are not being financed
from other sources, either: (i) by making contributions or loans
to the Borrower; or (ii) by underwriting or guaranteeing bonds
issued by the Borrower.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans
to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal
circumstances, specific security from the member concerned but to
ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over its
loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member.
To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as
hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt, which will
or might result in a priority for the benefit of the creditor of
such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall other-
wise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and
ratably secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on,
the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or permitting the creation
of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets
of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, the Guar-
antor shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿-5-
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall, promptly as required, take
all steps necessary on its part to enable the Borrower to set and
maintain its rates for the sale of electricity at the levels
specified in Sections 5.05 and 5.06 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.03. With regard to the tariff study forming Part D
(ii) of the Project, the Guarantor shall:
(a) cause the Borrower to include in such study the
determination of the incremental cost of providing service to
various customer classes and proposals for an alternative rate
structure to reflect marginal costs in the event that such study
determines that the present rate structure does not adequately
reflect such marginal costs; and


﻿-6-
(b) cause the Borrower to: (i) complete such study not later
than December 31, 1977 or such other date as the Bank shall agree;
(ii) promptly after such completion, review the conclusions of
such study with the Guarantor's Ministerio de Economia and the
Bank; and (iii) adjust the Borrower's rate structure on the basis
of such study and within the context of the Guarantor's develop-
ment strategy, so as to adequately reflect marginal costs.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Ministro de Hacienda of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministro de Hacienda
Ministerio de Hacienda
San Salvador, El Salvador
Centroamerica
Cable address:
MINHACIENDA
San Salvador
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
By /s/ Francisco Bertrand Galindo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Enrique Lerdau
Director
Country Programs Department
Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office


