Document of
The World Bank
F;OR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10040-IN
VAIN!D:PL'  fO~          / oJ 0ui/A;'.A
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA FORESTRY PROJECT
DECEMBER 19, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted dishibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I  f.- N
(as of July 1, 1991)
Currency Unit = Rupees (Rs)
US$ 1 = Rs. 26.0
WETH AND MEASURS
The metric system is used throughout the report
a~~y.A~'ONS aN  ACRONS
FD      -   Forest Department
FDC     -   Foresi: Development Corporation
DSF     -   Direccorate of Social Forestry
GOI     -   Government of India
GOM     -   Government of Maharashtra
tP'AS    -   Integrated Protected Area System
LCB     -    Local Competitive Bidding
MOEF    -   Ministry of Environment and Forests
NWFP    -   Non-wood Forest Products
PA      -   Protected Area
PIV     -   Project Implementation Volume
PCU     -   Project Coordinating Unit
PMIU    -   Planning and Marketing Intelligence Unit
SOE     -    Statement of Expenditures
EISCAL YEAR
GOI, GOM - April 1 to March 31
The report is based on the findiags of a Bank Appraisal Mission which visited
India in June/July 1991. The mission consisted of Messrs./Mmes. B. van de
Poll (Task Manager), S. Ahmed, A. Contreras, G. Morgan, P. Guhathakurta,
D'Silva (Bank), and K. Kadiresan, B. Poole, K. Shah (consultants). Assistance
was also provided by A. Molnar, S. Shen (ASTEN); H. Wagner and N. Jones
(ASTAG) and by Peer Reviewers Messrs. R. Slade and W. Magrath (Economics 7nd
Policies), R. Rowe (Forestry), and C. Rees (Biodiversity and Conservation) and
M. Guimaraes (Secretary). The report is endorsed by Mr. H. Vergin (Director)
and Mr. J. Wijnand (Division Chief).



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TBZ
MAHARASHTRA FORESTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAT SAL REPORT
Table of Contants
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMAR  ...................... 
I.  t2HE FORESTRY SECTOR ......................,                   1
Forestry in the National Economy ..................    1
Forestry Development in Maharashtra State.                   2
Lesson from Past Bank Lending.                               6
II. THE PROJECT.                                                   6
Rationale for Bank Involvement and Origin.                   6
Project Area.                                                7
Project Objectives, Design and Description.                  7
Detailed Features.                                           8
Project Costs and Financing .....................   13
Procurement    .................................            14
Disbursement .................................   15
Accounts and Audit .............................   16
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ....................                 ......   16
Organization and Management ......................   16
Training, Publicity and Extension .................   18
Project Benefits and Justification ................   22
Institutional and Environmental Impact .............   24
Impact of the Project on Women ...................   25
Project Risks ................................   25
IV.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .............   25
Annex 1: Proposed Sector Reform
Annex 2: Project Cost Tables
Annex 3: Financial and Economic Analysis
Annex 4: Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
Annex 5: Supervision Plan
Annex 6: Contents of Project Implementation Volume
Annex 7: Documents Available in Project File
MAP : IBRD 23295
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MAHARASHTR  FORESTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAS OL EPORT
CaEDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                India, Acting by its President
Executing Agency:        The Forest Administration of the Government of
Maharasntra (GOM)
AmoUnt:                  IDA Credit of SDR 88.9 million (US$ 124.OM
equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard, with 35 years maturity
Qn-lending_Terms:        Government of India (GOI) would onlend funds to GOM
under prevailing terms and conditions. GOI would
assume the foreign exchange risk.
Beneficiaries:           About 800,000 households comprising forest dwellers,
tribals and smallholders.
Project Description:    The main goal of the project would be to achieve
institutional, economic and environmental improvements
in the forestry sector of Maharashtra. The project
will therefore undertake a number of sector reforms
through: (a) reorganization of the public forest
administration and seeking a more active r3le of the
NGOs, village panchayats, cooperatives and the private
sector in the development of the sector; (b)
improvement of the state's technical capability
particularly in the field of seed production, genetic
planting material, nursery and planting practices and
planning, management, including monitoring of the
forest resource base and training; and (c)
rationalization of the policies and regulations
constraining the sector. The project would also
support five discrete investment activities related to
land treatment: (a) village eco-development and joint
management; (b) rehabilitation of wasteland and
degraded lands; (c) production forestry; (d) bio-
diversity and conservation; and (e) pasture and fodder
development.
The main project risks would be related to GOM's
willingness to go ahead with the implementation of all
the appropriate institutional and policy reforms, and
that people's participation would not be effective in
the sustained management of common and public lands
developed under the project.



- ii -
Estimated  roetCQata:1
- US$ Million --
Local    Foreign    Total
A.  Land Treatments
Plantation Development                          83.9         4.4       88.3
Eco and Tribal Development                       7.5         0.5        8.0
Biodiversity Conservation                        6.8         0.4        7.2
B.  Technology and Project Impl. Support
Technology Improvements                          2.6         0.3        2.9
Project Implementation Support
1. Project organization                        7.3        0.5        7.8
2. Restructuring Forest Adm.                   0.3         0.0       0.3
3. Specialized Support Services               Za         0*2 ,Q
Total Base Cost                                     113.2        6.3      117.5
Physical Contingencies                                6.0        0.3        6.3
Price Contingencies                                 1L.Q         1*        1.
Total Project Costs                                134.2         7.8      142.0
Financing :-lan:
Local      Foreign   Total
…    (US$) million---
Maharashtra Government                              18.0           0       18.0
IDA                                                116.2         7.8     124.0
TOTAL                                            134.2         7.8     142.0
Estimated Disbursements:
'US$ million)
FY93 FY94 F9 Exi1   x   Zx             EX2     r
Annual                            2.0  6.7  10.6  18.0  24.7   27.7    32.9    1.4
Cumulative                        2.0  8.7  19.3  37.3  62.0   89.7   122.6  124.0
124.0
EcDnomic Rate of Retura: 15%
EX&: IBRD 233295
1 Including taxes and duties of about US$4.5 million.
Sub-totals do not always match due to rounding.



I. THE EORESTRX SECTOR
£ortiy tjn th ?'at{gnal EconoMy.
1.1   Forestry is very important for village economies and pressure on forest
lands is high. India's forest resources cover 64 million ha or about 19% of
the country's land area. Due to their considerable geographical extension and
the large number of people depanding on them, forest resources play an
important role in the conservation of environmental quality, the welfare of
the rural poor and the productivity of agricultucal lands. Forests are the
main source of household energy in India and by xar the main depositories of
genetic diversity. Forest resources protect water and soils and provide a
number of industrial materials. Although the contribution of the forestry
sector to GNP often has been estimated at less than 2 percent, this figure
does not take into account its numerous non-market and external benefits or
the vast amounts of fuelwood and timber that are harvested illegally and are
therefore unrecorded. The country's forest resources consist of tropical
moist and dry deciduous forests. Only about one half of the forests have a
crown density of over 40%. The average growing stock is about 65 m3/lha ahd the
annual production of wood 0.5 m3/ha, compared to world averages of 110 m3/ha
and 2.1 m3/ha, respectively.
1.2   While India's forests are relatively rich in flora and fauna, these
resources are rapidly declining due to pressure from local populations, cattle
and theft. Deforestation is believed to be in excess of one million ha/year.
Wood demand was 264 million m3 in 1988, of which 90% was for fuelwood (46% of
India's household energy). Between 1980-88 forest product exports decreased
from US$ 26 to 16 million, while imports increased from US$ 204 to 300
million. Forests are also a main source of fodder and non-wood forest
products (NWFP), such as oils, medicinal plants, resins, dyes, fibers and
leaves. About 75% of India's population live in rural areas, and many
particularly women are employed in forestry or collection of NWFP.
Deforestation and degradation is a subject of growing concern, with far--
reaching environmental, social and economic consequences. Less than 1% of
total public sector Plan outlay during 1951-90 was for forestry development.
1.3   The Government is addressing deforestation through legislation and
afforestation. The Forest Conservation Act of 1980 restricts diversion of
forest land for non-forestry purposes. During the 1980s country-wide
wasteland afforestation and social forestry programs were launched covering
about 1.5 million ha/year (40-50% farm forestry). The National Forest Policy
was revised in 1988 to improve environmental stability and maintenance of
ecological balance. The Policy advocates increasing the forest or tree cover
(to 33% of the land area) and allows use of forest areas to meet requirements
of rural and tribal populations for fuelwood, fodder, and NWFP, while
industries as far as possible are to arrange for raw materials from farm
forestry. In an attempt to force forest departments to pay attention to
social concerns, the policy focusses heavily on such issues. With the
intention of emphasizing social goals this policy resulted in neglect.ing the
economic considerations. The draft Eighth Five Year Plan (1992-97) emphasizes
investments for rehabilitation of degraded forests (10 million ha), including
farm forestry and the promotion of NWFP, fuelwood and fodder. It also
supports forest and wildlife management, research, extension and training.
1.4   GOI and state governments face major challenges in the sector.  The
Maharashtra government has recognized that major changes in the forest sector
administration are needed to meet these challenges. Existing forestry
departments can no longer protect public forests in the traditional way.



-2-
Instead, they must encourage local participation in forest management (joint
management). Forest departments need to improve their efficiency, develop
more specialized manpower streams, and allow the private sector, NGOs and user
groups to move soon in forest development. Better technology is needed for
soil and moisture conservation, seed production, nursery development and
better extension is needed to raise India's low level of growing stock and
fodder production. Some legal restrictions and rights governing access to
forest land and the handling of produce needs revision to promote forestry
development. Benefit sharing arrangements need to be reformulated to encourage
joint management of forests with local populations.
Eorestry Deeo nt, inMhr tra State
1.5   Resource assessment.   Apart from being the most industrialized state in
the country, Maharashtra has the second largest recorded forest area in India,
estimated at about 6.4M ha or 20 % of the state's geographical area. But in
terms of actual forest cover Maharashtra is fifth among India's states. (Annex
1 of Project Implementation Volume (PIV)). Increasint. iommercial and domestic
demands, including those of livestock, have left their toll in the form of
forest and land degradation. It has been estimated that the area under
wastelands in Maharashtra amounts to about 7M ha or about 23% of the total
geographical area.
1.6   Economic Dimensions. Revenue in 1989-1990 from sales of timber,
fuelwood, bamboo and a variety of NWFP has been estimated at Rs 1520 million,
or about 2.4% of the state's total revenue.  Forest revenue has, however,
declined as the exploitation of the two main commercial species, jectona
gAndija (teak) and bamboo has been sharply curtailed, following the 1987 ban
by GOI on clear-felling in natural forests. Bamboo production has come down
from about 500,000 mt in 1985 to 180,000 mt. in 1990. while annual commercial
and fuel wood demand for Maharashtra has been estimated at about 22M m3,
current recorded supply has come down from about 3M m3 in 1984-85 to 0.8M m3
in 1990. Forest operations provide substantial employment, particularly for
the rural population and tribals living in and near the forest estate. It has
been estimated that about 33 million mandays mainly relating to forest
planting, maintenance and harvesting, were generated by the Forest Department
in 1988-89. In addition processing of NWFP generates substantial employment,
at least four times as much as collection. Annual revenue from NWFP is
difficult to assess, but has been estimated at about Rs 200M. Forest based
industries (Annex 4 of PIV) are yet another major source of employment. It
has been estimated that about 190,000 people are engaged in small to medium
scale enterprises, sucn as saw mill units of which there are about 4,600; or
furniture making which employs about 28,000 carpenters. The larger wood based
industries in Maharashtra are mainly concerned with paper and pulp production,
manufacture of veneer, particle board and pre-fabrication of door and window
frames. The current supply of raw materials for pulp and paper is mainly
derived from bamboo, veneer and particle board from teak, while doors and
window frames are mainly made from lower grade boards. The pulp, paper and
saw milling industries in Maharashtra are supplied from the state's natural
resources, while other wood industries obtain supplies from outside the state
or from abroad. While the growth of forest based industries has to a large
extent been dependent on government forests and the state's commitment to
supply material at concessional prices, particularly teak and bamboo, most
industries are now affected by supply shortages. Since no wood based industry
in Maharashtra grows its own raw material, new policies and attitudes will
have to be adopted by both the government and the industries to overcome the
limited availability of wood supplies.



-3 -
1.7   While crop residues from private lands are one important source of
fodder, forest, revenue and village lands supply 60% of all fodder, through
browsing and lopping of trees and shrubs and from grazing of some rangeland
grass species and legumes. However, due to the unplanned nature of grazing
pressures and excessive stocking rates on forest lands, grazing is one of the
most serious causes of forest degradation in Maharashtra. Unfortunately
neither the Agriculture/Livestock department nor the Forest Department have
done any comprehensive investigations for the improvement of fodder resources
in Maharashtra, as fodder development has never been delegated as a specific
responsibility to any of the existing technical departments.
1.8   Policy J2mgnniqn=.  The policy framework affecting the forestry sector
is inadequate and includes individual policies and legislation that lead to
undesirable environmental, economic and equity impacts. The main policy
restrictions relate to: i) the use of species, harvesting of trees on private
lands and transit of forest produce; ii) price controls on seedlings and
primary forestry produce; iii) access of private enterprise to ownership or
usufruct of land; iv) clear-felling of trees; v) absence of well defined
working mechanisms for joint management of forestry development undertakings
with ±ocal communities and NGOs. The environmental, economic and equity
consequences of these policies, including quantitative estimates of their
impacts have not been adequately assessed. Some examples are: i) Government
supply of seedlings at subsidized prices, which provides a disincentive to
seedling production and employment by private nurseries and leads to poor
quality and waste in utilization; ii) underpricing of industrial raw materials
which discourages their production by the private sector, substantially
diminishes Government income and encourages waste; iii) restrictions on the
species of trees that can be felled on private lands -- mainly applied to the
most valuable species -- which generate a negative incentive to plant those
species of trees; iv) restr3.ctions of the free transportation of certain
species of wood, which hinder planting of these species, divert government
resources from potentially more productive uses to policing and artificially
increase transportation costs. An enhanced analytical base is needed in the
process of designing structural and policy changes, including a more thorough
study of policy linkages and the potential impacts of such changes on multiple
dimensions of development including economic, environmental and equity
aspects.
1.9   Social Dimension. Most of the rural population relies on the forest
lands for a variety of goods and services, but sustainable arrangements for
this are not in place. Legally the public Forest Estate in Maharashtra
consists of about 67% reserved forests, the remainder being protected and
unclassified forests. In most public forest areas, rights and privileges of
the local people with respect to firewood, small timber, bamboo and grazing,
are recognized. These arrangements have not been revised to reflect changing
circumstances, nor do they provide incentives for local people to assume
responsibility for improving resource management. A combination of illicit
felling, overgrazing, intentional forest fires and agricultural encroachment
is degrading the forests rapidly. The protected and unclassified forests are
more degraded than reserved forests. Agricultural use of forest lands is
increasing, at a rate of about 20,000 ha per annum. About 9% of the
population in Maharashtra is tribal, of which 44% are agricultural laborers or
urban dwellers. The remainder and bulk of the tribals live near forest areas
relying on the use of forests for their livelihood. If government focusses on
better approaches to augmenting the income of tribal households through
forestry and forestry based vocations, particularly by involving tribal
communities in forest protection and management, the current destruction of
forests in tribal parts of the state can be reduced.



- 4 -
1.10  Environmental  limensionsa. The role of forests in stabilizing and
protecting the state's land and water resources has been much diminished by
forest degradation. There is a need to introduce more conscious attention to
environmental services in forest planning and management. Maharashtra has a
rich and diverse flora (about 3500 flowering plant species) and fauna (about
85 mammal and 460 bird species), the bulk of which occurs in the forest areas.
At present about 2.3% of the state's geographical area is protected for nature
conservation (5 parks and 24 sanctuaries). These protected areas (PA) often
lack the appropriate legal status. Only one area is fully notified and the
lack of notification has been a major impediment to effective conservation and
management of existing PAS. In addition, many of the protected areas were
selected on an ad hoc basis, without an integrated conservation strategy, so
that many gaps in biogeographic coverage exist (e.g. coastal habitats, dry
grassland, moist teak forest are lacking). C)nsequently many of the PAs are
questionable in terms of size, conservation value andc management viability.
Management of PAs is presently weak. An integrated protected area system
(IPAS) is needed which allows for the active participation of local people in
planning and management, including a strengthened wildlife wing to implement
the IPAS.
1.11   nAtitutional  imansio=n. The public forest estate is managed by a
forest administration, consisting of three units i) the Eorast Departmelt
IlD.; ii) The Fogggt Developrent CQrporation of Maharashtra Ltd.(FDC); and the
DirectQrate of Sgcial Forgstry(DSFL  Presently a system is in place whereby
senior staff rotate across all three forestry units with little room for
specialized career development.
1.12  The FD is mainly responsible for protection, conservation, management
and development of the forest estate, including the national parks wildlife
sanctuaries and game reserves in the state. Over the 7th Plan the FD also
implemented a yearly afforestation program of about 23,000 ha and a plantation
program under the rural employment scheme of about 40,000 ha. In addition it
was concerned with extraction and sale of timber and other forest produce.
Policy and resource assessment, strategic planning and monitoring and
evaluation of the forestry sector are ill directed and weak. While there are
some overlapping functions with other units, some critical links with other
ministries (livestock, agriculture, industry) and private organizations are
poorly developed or absent.
1.13 The E£, a wholly government owned company was registered under the
Indian Companies' Act in 1974. The FDC was mainly established to convert
mixed natural forest of low economic value into highly valuable teak forests
to help to meet industrial wood demand. With the ban on clear felling FDC'
production oriented mandate has now turned to enrichment plantings and
wasteland development. As a result, the present duties and responsibilities
of FDC overlap to a considerable extent with the other forest units, requiring
an immediate rationalization of FDC's functions.
1.14 To assist in meeting the needs of local communities in terms of
fuelwood, fodder, small timber etc, and the creation of employment for rural
poor, the Forest Administration strengthened its Social Forestry Program in
1981 by setting up an independent  =. In 1982 a USAID assisted social
forestry project was started, to develop degraded public/communal land areas
in non-forest public lands and to encourage farm forestry on private land. The
project closed in 1990. Subsequent review has brought out two basically
unresolved issues: a) whether there is a need for a separate and independent
social forestry wing in the Department of Forestry to foster the level of



-.5-.
participation and sharing of benefits by individuals and village communities
that is now believed to be central to all forest development activity in
India, b) the appropriateness of the institutional support structure for farm
forestry. In Maharashtra as elsewhere in India, extension or appropriate land
use advice is extremely poor, except for mainstream agricultural extension
(food crops and a few srecialized crops e.g. cotton and sugar cane). Though
forestry extension was anticipated to be a key function of the social forestry
wing, it never got off the ground. Public and private institutions
responsible for forest development should reassess what type of institutional
framework is desirable to meet this need.
1.15 Lack of specialization within the forest service and the limited role of
rural institutions, NGOs and the private sector, in the development of the
forestry sector are key institutional problems. While staffing levels in the
forest administration are generally adequate, there is little room for
specialization in the current structure e.g. planning, research, extension,
wildlife and protection.
1.16  Other Institutions.  There are a number of other institutions outside
tise state government technical agencies who could play a significant role in
the protection of forests and development of tree cover on public and private
lands.   The main ones are: i) villages, as functional, local social entities;
ii) the village panchayats, the lowest level of local self government set up
in 1962 to execute and maintain development works in rural areas, in 1990
Maharashtra had 25,182 village panchayats, covering 41,654 villages; iii)
cooperatives, such as the Forest Laborer's Cooperative Societies, Adivasi
Cooperative Societies and Tree Growers Cooperatives; and iv) a variety of
private or voluntary Non-Government Organizations (NGOs). While Village
Panchayats have not so far been effective in carrying out social forestry
programs, they are the only formal village level institutions covering the
entire state. There is a need therefore to find other acceptable institutional
arrangements for village involvement in forestry and environmental programs.
While Maharashtra has been one of the leading states in the propagation of the
cooperative movement, the Tree Growers Cooperatives organized for private
planting and harvesting, are weak, except in a few areas. They must become
better organized and gain expertise in marketing and processing before they
can play a significant role in overall forest development. There are a number
of NGOs involved in tree planting and associated activities in the state,
about 25 of which have been given financial assistance by the National
Wasteland Development Board. While it appears that the majority of NGOs are
too small to replace government as implementing agency, a number of them can
undertake motivation and extension activities, and test some innovative
approaches, particularly those related to integrated village development and
joint management of forest areas.
1.17  TechnologLoal Dimenaina.  The provision of better planting stock is the
key technical need in Maharashtra forestry. (Annex 3 of PIV) Despite the
identified variation in agro-climatic conditions across Maharashtra, forest
tree planting practices have a uniform pattern. The stock being planted in all
forestry enterprises is remarkably uneven, of generally poor quality and
having poor survival. Many of the silvicultural practices in Maharashtra have
not been reviewed or revised in decades. Improved recommendations are needed
for site preparation (land preparation, fertilizer application, weed control,
thinning and vegetative soil conservation practices) and improved teak
breeding program and breeding investigations on other species are needed,
including exotics to better suit the various land types in Maharashtra.
Forestry research also falls under the Department is widely dispersed between
the Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education, the FD's own forestry's



-G 
researchl set-up and the four agricultutal universities arnd other private
research programs in the state. Hence, research is uncoordinated and lacks
any special development focus. In addition seed collection, certification,
storage and plant material distribution are treated as research activities
rather than as operational, management activities, despite the fact that the
forest administration has a large annual planting program (75-100,000 ha).
1.10a      Eorestry has accounted for US$ 350 million of the total. US$ 9.9
billion of Bank lending for agriculture development in India. In all eight
forestry projects have been supported.  The Bankc has taken stock of experience
gained through PCRs and special reviews including a recent OED review of Bank
experience in forestry development. Problems of a general nature include:
delays in project rmobilization: institutional weaknesses; and inadequate local
funding. The major lesson from forestry projects in India is that it is time
to move to a more comprehensive approach to the sector, based on in-depth
country and state specific sector arnalysis. Other important lessons include a
need for: improved seed and extension services, more emphasis on the planning,
environmental and management dimensions of plantations and existing natural
forests; solutions to deal with the problems of common property rights through
a better local participatory process; and inter-agency coordination in the
execution of the various project components.   Experience from the Maharashtra
Social Forestry Project (USAID) was discussed in para 1.14. Building on the
State Forest Department's growing coimnitment to address these issues, the
project preparation process has entailed a comprehensive analysis of the
sector, includin~j a review of needed institutional, technical and policy
reforms.
BauIonale for 'arJk Invyolement and Origin
2.1   The strategy for Bank assistance to the agricultural sector 3n India is
to support policies and investments that promote economic growth and social
development in the context of macro-economic res.-ucturing. The emphasis i-e
on efficient resource allocation, increased efficiency in the public sector
and appropriate targeting and delivery of support systems to the poor. The
proposed project fits well within this framework. It also fits well with the
Bank's Forest Policy Paper and with the objectives of the Bank's new approach
to forestry lending in the Asia Region, which emphasizes an ongoing policy
dialogue with our borrowers concerning key forestry issues coupled with major
investments in afforestation.   There are significant  opportunities in India
to enhance people's participation, introduce appropriate technologies to
permit better land use, redefine the role of government and revise the
restrictive regulatory and pricing policies to pave the way for private and
public investments in the forestry sector.
2.2   The project was identified in JTune 1989.  A project preparation task
force was created by Government in September 1990, which was assisted by
consultants, mainly financed by Japanese trust funds. The final Bank
preparation mission took place in April 1991, followed by appraisal in
July 1991.



2.3   The project area (see map) would cover all of Maharashtra State.  About
4.7M ha or 70% of Maharashtra's forest area is under tree cover, but the
amount of private forest is only 0.1M ha. Maharashtra consists of nAne
distinct agro-ecological regions (Annex 1 of PIV). Broadly speaking there are
three rainfall zones. The Western Ghats, with a relatively high yearly
rainfall of between 1.000-3000 mm, run parallel to the coast and serve as a
barrier within the state to the advancing SW monsoon. East of the Ghats is
the rain shadow region where precipitation drops below 500 mm and which is
chronically drought prone. Further to the East, the rain shadowing effect
decreases and rainfall increases from 1000 to 2500 mm. About 63% of the
forest estate is classified as tropical dry de ,duous forests while 16% is
tropical moist deciduous forests. The average -. wing stock is low and
declining and has been estimated at 50m3/ha, wh.   is less than half the world
average. Increasing commercial and fuelwood demands (estimated at 27M m3
p.a.) on a fixed biomass area, grazing on 85% of the forest area thereby
greatly reducing natural generation over most of the estate, is rapidly
increasing. It has been estimated that about 1.8M ha of wastelands are areas
within the existir.g forest estate.
oDeetsin and Descripin,
2.4   The overall objectives of the project are: (a) slowing environmental
degradation; (b) maintaining and/or improving bio-diversity conservation; (c)
increasing the productivity of forest 3-nds; (d) development of wastelands;
(e) raising biomass self-sufficiency; and (f) generating rural income and
improving equity in rural areas through increased community participation. To
support these objectives and increase the effectiveness of project investments
some fundamental institutional, technical and policy changes in the management
of the sector are needed. The project is designed to restructure and
rationalize the organization of the forest administration. Many services and
activities now undertaken solely by the Forest Department can be shared or
carried out by other institutions, such as NGOs, village panchayats,
cooperatives and the private sector. Another priority is to develop
sustainable management systems that foster appropriate participation and
benefit sl'>ring by individuals and village communities, particularly in forest
areas that support tribal groups. Existing research, training and extension
activities also need modification to provide more specialization and be more
responsive to the varied demands on the sector.    The Forest Department's
technical capability must be increased by improving the tree planting
practices, and the genetic planting material, particularly nursery .ractices,
and the planning process and management strategies for plantations and natural
forests, including the monitoring of the forest estate. Finally, the project
will also seek to rationalize key policies and regulations constraining the
sector. The proposed forest sector reforms are detailed in Annex 1.
2.5 These proposed sector reforms will constitute the operational frameworkc
for the implementation of the project. Essentially, these reforms aim at
introducing viable institutional arrangements, technology improvements and
eliminating policy constraints to the development of the forestry sector.
These reforms were discussed and agreed with Government and a===w. xeDR
Qittin    .. Al  AgitiQn.s. that GOM will carry out the reforms as outlined in
Annex 1. Some of the changes can be made quickly, and independently of one
another, others require detailed planning and evaluation of alternative
arrangements and resolution of competing political priorities. The project is
therefore designed so that the first phase will serve as a learning and



-8-
demonstration phase to assure that government *an make the agreed and
necessary institutional and technioal corrections and that the operational
fine tuning of some of the most iAnovative development processes, such as
village eco-development and joint management has taken place. Investment
activities will take place throughout the six-year period, but some of the
major investment operations, such as plantation development on degraded forest
land, and production forestry will only start full development in the PY3 to
PY6 of the project contingent upon a favorable MTR (para 3.12).  &aaUr==
-ne Qhl A      LJ    tiaLilna that progress in implementation of both the
project and the sector reforms will be reviewed by Government and IDA on an
annual basis and during MTR. The MTR will include a thorough evaluation of
the first phase performance and propose adjustments in strategy, as necessary,
for the implementation of the second phase (para 3.2). A TOR of the MTR is
included in the Implementation Volume.
2.6   The project will have 3 distinct investment activities relatdd to land
treatments, and activities for technology improvement and forest institutional
development, both to support investment activities as well as long-term needs
of the sector. Land use treatment menus have been developed for public forest
lands, marginal lands and wastelands for each of the ecological zones. The
lAptLr,e&tamgx& activities are: i) plantation development consisting of: (a)
production forestry through pl.ntation development on public forest lands and
private lands, and enrichment planting and management of natural forests; (b)
wasteland development of degraded public and private lands, including
catchment protection, horticulture and pastoral development options; and (c)
fodder and pasture development; (ii) village eco and tribal development, a
strategy for people's participation in the development of degraded public,
communal and private land adjacent to villages, including tribal areas; and
(iii) bio-diversity conservation and protected areas management. &chanoQ.g
aDALJdQB¢!-2a$ELana-suRor  activities are: (i) technology improvement
in seed production and in nursery and fodder development; (ii) project
implementation support, including restructuring of the forest administration;
and (iii) development of specialized support services, including extension,
research, training, strategic planning, personnel management and resource
monitoring and marketing intelligence capabilities.
(a) LaD A_tments
2.7   PlLntstion  DevexQtt (US$88.3M; 75.1% of total base costs).  The
project would support investments to treat about 360,000 ha of degraded public
forest and waste lands and 9,000 ha of private lands. The main treatments
would be for a) production forestry and enrichment plantings; b)
rehabilitation of degraded areas or wastelands; and c) pasture development.
Treatments (technologies which address the various local specific field
problems) used would be selected from an eligible list of about 15 models.
These are described in Annex 12 of PIV which include forestry, agro-forestry,
horticulture, sylvi pasture and soil and moisture conservation technologies.
In the eco-development models and joint management areas 9,000 ha of private
lands will be afforested. To promote private plantings, nurseries for Tree
Grovwers Cooperative Societies will be supported by the Project. Four
nurseries with a total productive capacity of 12 million seedlings will be
established by the end of the project, and this may translate to another
50,000 ha of farm forestry development. Most forestry s-ecies are indigenous
and only a few, short rotation, exotic species have been included in the
rnodels because of their superior qlalities e.g. eucalyptus.  While certain
treatment rmodels are ready for implementation, others will require fine tuning



- 9- 
or further development (pasture).  at    atgatsona rsurances wexN DhtAjn.A
from 5OM that the treatment models mentioned above would be used in the
project's plantation development program and that seedlings required for the
implementation of these treatment models before the planting stock and nursery
improvements have talcen place will he suitably culled from existing nurseries.
Further &% naQ we= ghtaing  from GOM  L_2t.iaLtQna that plantation
development after March 31, 1995 would follow the tested forest plantation and
management models (see above) and would be carried out under suitable
procedures satisfactory to IDA for planning, land preparation and managerment
and with improved planting stock.
2.8    rdtno                 aro-e                         lan . (165,000
ha) would be established on better sites in the public degraded forest reserve
and protected forest lands or on private lands. Some of the main species used
would be teak, Dalbergia sissoc (sissoo) and Gmelina arborea (shiwan).
However, extensive plantings of bamboo and the introduction of short rotation
species, such as 2AsiA  spp. and Albiaiga spp. are also proposed.  The
plantings on private lands would be mainly directed at small farmers and
would iiiclude promotion of boundary plantings, agro-forestry and horticulture.
2.9   Treatentfo1 rehabilitation of  gradedforests and waste2nna would
cover 195,000 ha on sites which are generally associated with marginal lands
or lands with shallow soils or with excessive slopes and rocky outcrops. In
these areas the project will promote the treatment of the natural drainage
lines and associated gullies and plantings will therefore be accompanied by
vegetative soil and moisture conservation practices. The rehabilitation of
degraded lands would be carried out mainly on public forest, particularly
unclassed forest areas and revenue lands. In these areas the project would
initiate large scale demonstrations with JatT_Qp_2ha nuar~ to test its
suitability for rehabilitation of degraded soils and its potential as a source
for rural energy.
2.10   he pasture development component will support fodder research and
development by the Forest Department in conjunction with the Livestock
Department with particular focus on range de.velopment and management
improvements for public degraded forest and revenue lands (10,000 ha).
Important topics for applied research are the selection of suitable tree and
shrub legumes and herbaceous legumes, pasture seed production, and
establishment and management of sylvi pastures.  Aa5iuznr   were 2bAian.a Aft.
nea5oi&tjions that Government will select a suitable international consultant
by March 31, 1993 to assist the Forest and Livestock departments to
restructure the pasture development unit which would develop fodder and
pasture treatment models, carry out pasture demonstrations and enhancement of
sylvi pasture management and development of seed production. Overall
coordination of this development program will be the responsibility of the
Forestry Department. Certain operations e.g. seed production, may be
contracted to NGOs or private companies.
2.11  Village Eco-dever(US$8.0M; 6.8% of total
base costs). Rehabilitation and sustainable management of the degraded
private and public lands used by the village comnmunity will only occur when
rural people gain control over their own natural resource base and when
rehabilitation activities are tailored to the needs and options of specific
sites. This component will provide aseistance to selected villages to enable
them to draw up and implement village plans for the rehabilitation of village
and surrounding lands.  The main act .vities undertaken under this cormponent
would be land rehabilitation, water harvesting and biomass production to
contribute to the village fuel, fodder and tirber self-sufficiency.  In tii



10 -
tribal areas of the state the project wi.ll focus on joint management of
degraded natural forest lands (mainly government owned) through agreements
between the Forest Department and village forest protection and management
coYmmittees. Some eco-development plans will also be implemented in tribal
villages adjacent to wildlife protected areas to improve the tribal economy
while reducing pressures on areas of unique bio-diversity. The initial
methodology for plan development and content will follow a participatory
process and will build on the experience gained from the rapid rural appraisal
and participatory rapid appraisal methodologies mainly established by and in
use by the NGOs. A micro-planning methodology designed by a local NGO which
will be adapted to identify several models for testing and refinement in 45
villages in five districts. Replicable eco-development models will be
developed on the basis of this experience. A specialized unit in the forest
administratioxn will coordinate. It is envisaged that NGOs will take a lead
role in the planning and village organization process.   It has been estimated
that land in some 210 villages will be treated under the project, 165 in the
second half of the project of which 60 will be in the periphery of Wildlife
PAs. The initial development of plans will go quite slowly, with an intensive
effort to learn as much as possible from each experience and improve the
content and process, particularly through workshops, before replicating them
over wider village areas.  at ne              asurEa_nce were obtained that GOM
would implement the eco-development component with the participation of NGOs
and local institutions acceptable to IDA. A list of appropriate NGOs and
local institutions which will be involved in the implementation of the
project's eco-development component was discussed and agreed at negotiations.
Project funds would be provided for NGOs, the FD and other entities to carry
out functions such as planning, management, training and extension. Micro
watersheds will be used to the extent possible, to establish the boundaries of
village plans. Treatment menus for degraded areas around villages have been
prepared for wasteland rehabilitation, horticulture, tree farming, fodder,
soil and water conservation. (Annex 12 of PIV)
2.12 Many watershed and village sites provide opportunities for installing
water harvesting structures and other water bodies for purposes of soil
conservation, groundwater recharge and social amenities. While these allied
koji1ka are optional from a sectoral point of view, the need to maximize
employment opportunities and provide alternative livelihoods for people
is an important element in overall forestry protection. Such works can serve
as important incentives for mobilizing community efforts. Since all areas do
not provide similar resource development opportunities, provision has also
been included for drinking water supplies, pond excavation and related
cormmunity works, including wood savJ,.g devices.  Alausanc   xe= pbtained a
.ntUaUQt±,n& that the draw-down of funds for soil moisture conservation
measures will be limited to 25% of the costs of land rehabilitation and 10% of
the combined cost of the rehabilitation and soil and moisture conservation
activities for other development activities.
2.13  Bao rtn and Proteted Aas Manaaement (US$7.2M; 6.1%
of total base costs). This component will establish an integrated development
strategy to enhance the conservation and management of protected areas in
Maharashtra (for details see annex 8 of the PIV). over the project period an
integrated protected area system will be established, covering the major
ecosystems in the State and representing a wide range of habitats and uses.
The project will rationalize the existing PA network, review and update the
management plans of existing PAs, and also propose and develop clearly defined
management plans for new areas. While the IPAS will take many years to
implement, project investments are set aside to develop the state-wide IPAS,
including improving the management of about 10 priority PAs. In addition,



since human and livestock pressures are a major cons.traint to successful PA
management, the project will link eco-development activities with existing PAs
in selected districts through the coordinated efforts of the State wildlife
wing, the FD's eco-development unit and local NGOs. The project will also
develop procedures to facilitate notification and legal settlement for the
priority PAs. The development of the IPAS depends upon a concomitant
investment to strengthen wildlife wing, including some functional support
activities for the IPAS, such as research and training.  The strengthening of
the wildlife wing will therefore be an essential part of this conponent as
further outlined in Annex 8 of PIV. To improve the management of the PAs,
assurances mg= .Qkb!AeA &r, aœsgLia5izal that the transfer of control of all
the ecologically-important PAs from the territorial staff of the FD to the
Wildlife wing would be completed before September 30, 1997. In addition,
Aassuanceswa     DgatAiai-ad &t nggLLŽna that the Head of the Wildlife wing
would not have other duties at any time.
(b)     5tLQZBS=  is  RlmlsLinSgt
2.14  Tehnoav IrnQyme s  (US$2.8M; 2.5% of total base costs). Support
will address deficiencies in seed sources harvesting and handling, plant
propagation, nursery practices and development, research and silviculture
management (Annex 3 of PIV). One of the main project priorities in
Maharashtra would be to enhance the production of better-quality plantirng
stock from nurseries, especially teak stumps and containerized plants. To
support the proposed state-wide planting program a seed unit will be
established in the forest administration having the sole responsibility for
selecting and developing suitable seed sources, organizing harvesting, storing
and distributing adequate quantities of seed. In addition, nursery practices
would be overhauled and nurseries would be gradually upgraded by installing
overhead irrigation and the development of root trainers. At negotiation
assaurane  y= QkbtAinmsd that GOM would establish a seed unit by March 31,
1993 and that initially some five selected nurseries with overhead irrigation
would be developed for improved teak stump and containerized planting stock to
become fully operat;onal by PY3.                wearean  As wn   also QL.aled At
that th.- seed unit and selected nurseries would be set up and
upgraded with assistance from international and local consultants to be
employed by March 31, 1993. The latter would introduce improved seed
harvesting, handling procedures and a suitable production system for
containerized planting stock and upgrade the quality of teak stump plants and
install the overhead irrigation systems. In view of the anticipated changes
in seed and stock quality, silvioultural changes need investigating. The
objective is to promote greater productivity and keep costs of production
down. A forestry research paper will be undertaken by PY2 reviewing the
current research program and identifying research priorities for the near and
long term as well as funding requirements.  The paper will also outline the
research responsibilities of GOI, the Forest Department and the four
agricultural universities in Maharashtra.  Operational research funding is
included in the project, but except for some high priority topics to be agreed
with IDA during supervision, release of these funds would be subject to an
agreement between IDA and GOM on the research carried out based on the revie:
of forestry research noted above.                uQ=  bjAj wie      a
that the research paper would be completed by March 31, 1994 and based on tlw
recommendations on suclh paper a research program, including a time table for
implementation will be carried out with agreement between GOM and IDA. Most
of the research would be done outside the FD and on a contract basis.



- 12 -
2.15 Project IEmElmentatign Support (US$10.9M; 9.3% of total base costs). To
improve project administration and implementation, offices, incremental staff,
vehicles, equipment and operating expenses would be made available to the
state level agencies/departments responsible for project execution.
Incremental staff would be kept to a minimum as the main task under the
project would be to reorient and develov the forest administration into
specialized operational units in an integrated manner, which can to a large
extent be carried out through staff transfer, specialized career development
and training. Particular attention would thereby be given to the introduction
of specialized units for strategic planning/MIS/GIS and monitoring, research
and extension, training, publicity, biodiversity and protection, village eco-
development, pasture development and production forestry. For further details
see para 3.2 and Annex 11 of PIV.
2.16  A number of studies will '   financed under the project to support
institutional, policy, and strategy changes being recommended and implemented
under the project. The key study to be financed is the fore*t adMinistration
*retructuring study described in para 3.2. In addition, studies will be
financed to: a) assess the capacity in existing training institutions and
future needs; b) analyze seedling pricing and demand; c) identify
interventions on timber forest products; d) evaluate the current research
structure; e) analyze the policy and incentives framework; and f) carry vat
bio-diversity conservation studies for IPAS design. These studies are
described in more detail in the relevant components and draft TORs are
included in the respective implementation volume annexes.
2.17 Training and Technigal Assistance. Because the institutional and
technical changes required for the project's success are far reaching, the
need for training to enable staff to achieve these changes is important.
Provisions have been made for strengthening in-service training for forestry
staff; for specialized training within and outside the state; and for
workshops for forestry staff, NGOs, village leaders, and others. The training
program that has been designed is expected to benefit over 1,700 persons by
the end of the project period. Training will cover all levels of forestry
staff, particularly the lower level staff (forest guards), in technical,
management, and social aspects of forestry. For the NGOs, training will focus
on some of the technical aspects of forestry and on forestry laws and FD
procedures for village eco-development.
2.18 Technical assistance will be used to establish a small core staff in
each of the following units: (a) a publicity unit within FD to disseminate
information to various audiences regarding nature conservation, alternatives
to fuelwood ecodevelopment, and so forth; (b) a training unit to encourage
specialization, assess the training needs of FD, evaluate training programs,
design curriculum, and help in the process of selecting candidates for
external training. Regarding (a) that most of the publicity work would be
contracted out to private agencies. Regarding (b), a detailed evaluation
would be conducted into the working of the four forestry training
institutions -- including physical facilities, administration, teaching
methodology, syllabus, teaching aids, relevance of training, etc -- to
determine their effectiveness in meeting the current and future needs of the
Forest Department.
2.19  At, negUqiaZina a assurancs wz  2bta&n=d that local and international
consultants would be recruited for assisting the project in carrying out
training, workshops, and studies; evaluating the functioning of training
institutions; and reviewing the need for a personnel unit. See Annex 10 of PIV
for details.



- 13 -
ProiAgt Crosts and Finarucdno
2.20  Projot Casts.  Total project costs  including physical and price
contingencies are estimated at RS 4315.1 million (US$142.OM) of which US$7.8M
would be in foreign exchange. Estimated duties and taxes amount to US$4.5M
and total project cost net of taxes is therefore US$137.5 M. The breakdown of
costs by component is shown below and in Annex 2. Base costs have been
calculated with unit prices prevailing in July 1991. Physical contingencies of
5% have been allowed for plantation works, 10% for civil works, equipment,
materials and operating costs. Price contingencies are based on projected
annual Indian CY inflation rates for local costs of 7% in 1992; 6.5% in 1993,
6% in 1994; 5.5% for the remaining project years; and for foreign costs 3.9%
in 1992-9.
PROJECT COST SUMMARY a/
US$ million      '. Foreign  '. Total
_           ~~~~Local  Foreign  Total    Exohanos Base Costs
A. Land Treatments
Plantation Development
1. Production Forestry,              41.0    2.i   43.1          5.0      37.3
Agro-Forestry and Enrichment
Plantings
2. Rehab. of Degraded Forest         31.4    1.6   33.0          5.0      28.0
3. Wasteland Afforestation            9.7    0.6   10.3          5.0       8.1
4. Pasture Development                1.8    0.1    1.9          5.0       1.7
Eco and Tribal Development              7.5    0.5    8.0          5.8       6.9
Biodiversity Conservation               6.8    0.4    7.2          5.2       6.1
D. Technology and Project Implementation
Support
Technology Improvements
1. Seed Unit                        0.5    0.0    0.5          2.8       0.5
2. Nursery Unit                     1.6    0.2    1.8         12.2       1.6
3. Pasture Development Unit         0.4    0.1    0.5         22.7       0.5
Project Implementation Support
1. Project Organization             7.3    0.5    7.8          6.2       6.6
2. Restructuring Forest Admin.      0.3    0.0    0.3          5.0       0.3
3. Specialized Support Services     2.8    0.2    3.0          7.7       2.6
(training and TA)
TOT"AL max LINW  COST                    111.2    6.3  117.5         5.4      100.0
Physical Contingencies                    6.0    0.3    6.3           5.3      5.4
Price Contingencies                       17.0    1.1   18.1          6.3      15.5
TOTAL PAOfJlCT COST                      134.2    7.8  142.0         5.5      120.9
a/ sub-total* do not always mtah due to rounding.
2.21 Einancing. The proposed IDA credit of SDR 88.9 million (US$124.0
million equivalent) would finance about 90% of total project costs net of
taxes or 87% of total costs including taxes and be made available to GOI on
standard terms and conditions and on-lent by GOI to the state of Maharashtra
under standard terms and arrangements. The Credit would be on standard terms
with 35 years' maturity.  BS nngotiaticoa  aRturaflea wara gbtA±ned from GOM
that it would make available to its implementing entities, including NGOs and
local institutions all funds for project expenditures in a timely manner, in
accordance with the project requirements, satisfactory to IDA.



- 14 -
2.22  The project supports  1ntatlo  wrks valued at US$110.9M  These works
would be carried out in small areas and scattered over the entire state and
over the project period. Plantation works are normally carried out with labor
drawn from local communities not only to improve the economic well being of
the local people but also to facilitate greater participation. These works
would therefore be carried out under supervision of the forest administration
using labor from local communities.  oxrk_Isia, comprising mainly of office
4uilding and housing, valued at US$11.7M are small and distributed over the
entire state and project period and would not attract foreign bidders. These
works would be procured following local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures
or force account procedures as follows: (a) LCB civil works would be grouped
into appropriate packages for bidding and necessary land would be acquired
prior to bidding. All works contracts would be let using a standard LCB
document acceptable to IDA and following procedures, satisfactory to IDA;
(b) Force Account for all small civil works located in remote areas valued at
US$ 10,000 equivalent or less, would be undertaken by the line agencies.
2.23 Most of the yahiglaa valued at US$1.2M would be used in rural areas
where ready availability of spare parts and maintenance is a necessity.
Hence, operational efficiency, dictates vehicle types that are locally
available and in use by the implementing agencies and therefore all vehicles
would be procured by LCB procedures acceptable to IDA. E9il n  a material
valued at US$4.lM would be suitably bulked and packages costing more than
US$200,000 equivalent would be procured by international competitive bidding
(ICB). However, due to the variety of goods to be procured most goods may be
too small to attract international bidders, therefore they may be procured by
LCB procedures acceptable to IDA. For small items that cannot be conveniently
packaged under LCB in amounts exceeding US$20,000 and up to an aggregate of
US$ 1.0 million, local shopping procedures satisfactory to IDA would be used.
Seed and planting material (US$O.1M) not available in India would be procured
through international shopping.  Consult._v services (US$5.7M) would be
contracted on terms and conditions in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
for Use of Consultants. All bidding documents, evaluation reports and related
documents would be retained by the implementing units for possible inspection
by annual IDA review missions.
2.24 The balance of project costs (US$8.4M would consist of incremental staff
aalaiLi= (US$4.7M) and th:er operating costs (US$3.7M) and except for staff
salaries would be procured under local government procedures satisfactory to
IDA. About 5% of the value of project procurement would be subject to prior
review. Since most of project procurement is related to plantation
development (annual planting targets are reviewed by Bank missions prior to
implementation), prior IDA review would be low. The only prior review taking
place would be concerning the civil work contracts valued at US$100,000 and
above, contract for equipment valued at US$200,000 and above and consultant
contracts which would include the studies.  At f       tiatlona assurancea wie
obtained that these procurement arrangements will be followed. The
procurement arrangements are summarized below; figures in parentheses indicate
amounts to be financed by IDA.



- 15 -
Summgry of Proposed Prgaments
(USS million equivalent)
PRuour      Mthod         Total
Project Element                     ICB   LCB    Other        Cost
1. Plantation Works                              110.9       110.9
(99.6)     (99.6)
2. Civil Works                            4.6      7.1        11.7
(4.1)   (6.4)      (10.5)
3. Goods
3.1 Vehicles                           1.2                  1.2
(1.0)                (1.0)
3.2. Equipment                  2.0   1.3       0.8         4.1
(1.8)  (0.9)    (0.5)      (3.2)
3.3. Seeds                                      0.1          0.1
(0.1)       (0.1)
4. Consultancies
4.1  Technical Assist2nce                        1.3         1.3
(1.3)       (1.3)
4.2. Studies                                     2.1         2.1
(2.1)       (2.1)
5. Miscellaneous
5.1 Training                                   2.3          2.3
(2.3)        (2.3)
5.2 Incr. Salaries &                           8.4          8.4
Operating Costs                           (3.9)        (3.9)
Total                              2.0    7.1    132.9         142.0
(1.8)  (6.0)  (116.2)       (124.0)
Note: "Other" methods include force account, including labor contracts with
local communities, and local and international shopping.
Disbursements
2.25  The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed against:
(a)   90% of expenditures on plantation costs;
(b)   90% of expenditures on civil works;
(c)   100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local ex-factory costs or
80% for locally procured equipment, vehicles, seeds and planting
materials;
(d)   100% of expenditures on consultant services, training, and
studies; and
(e)   expenditures on incremental staff salaries and other
incremental recurrent costs (operation and maintenance of
vehicles and offices) on a declining basis as follows: 50% unztil
March 31,1994, 40% until March 31, 1996 and 30% thereafter.
2.26 Disbursements against civil works and equipment exceeding US$100,000
equivalent would be fully documented as would disbursements for all vehicles,
consultants' services, overseas training and study tours. Disbursements for
other expenditure3, including all force account works would be made against
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).



- 16 -
Supporting documentation for SOEs would not be submitted to IDA, but would be
retained by GOM and be made available to IDA staff during supervision.
Plantation costs to be disbursed by IDA include: (i) cost of nurseries, land
preparation, including labor, inputs for tree plantations, maintenance and
protection; and (ii) direct supervision cost related thereto varying between
5% to 10% of the total costs under (i) depending upon the treatment models
applied. Expenditures incurred from July 1, 1991 to the date of Credit
signing for project activities would be eligible for retroactive financing not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR 3.6 million. The task force staff who became
part of the project coordination unit are already initiating work on studies
and workshops (para 2.16) and the setting up of the necessary infrastructure.
All contracts and items to be financed retroactively will have been procured
in a manner consistent with above arrangements and acceptable to IDA. The
proceeds of the Credit are expected to be disbursed over six years, which is
less than the disbursement profile for previous agricultural projects in India
(Annex 4). However, project activities are expected to gain momentum quickly
since the project's preparation task force has already begun with the
project's start-up activitiss and that FD has already shown over the last
years that it is capable to implement a large annual planting program larger
even than is envisaged under the proposed project. No disbursements would be
made against plantation costs after March 31, 1995 until the conditions
specified in para 3.2 are met. A Special Account in US dollars would be
established in the Reserve Bank of India with an initial deposit of up to
US$6.0 million. The project Completion Date would be March 31, 1998 and the
Closing Date of the Credit would be September 30, 1998.
accounts and-AudIt
2.27 The participating entities would establish separate accounts for the
project. These accounts, together with supporting documentation, including
contributions from the State Government, and the Credit, would provide a
comprehensive record of project financing and expenditures. Agaprangas XQer
g tained t negotiat;ions from GOM and GOI that: (a) these accounts would be
maintained and audited annually in accordance with sound auditing standards
consistently applied by independent and qualified auditors acceptable to IDA;
(b) certified copies of the annual financial statements and SOEs, together
with the auditor's report, which would comment separately on the SOEs, would
be submitted to IDA no later than nine months after the close of each fiscal
year; and (c) the Special Account would be audited annually and an audited
statement of the account and the auditor's report would be submitted to IDA no
later than nine months after the close of each fiscal year.
III.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
oraanization and Manafement (see Annex 11 of PIV)
3.1   [anneral hutline.  One of the main project objectives is to reorient the
forest administration and to enhance the private sector, local government
agencies and NGOs to make forest development and management more responsive to
the needs of the local people and the increasingly complex forest environment.
Unless local governments, villagers, NGOs and private industries are
integrated in the forest development process, FD will be unable to arrest the
massive biotic pressures on the forest estate. While there are many areas
where institutional reforms should or may take place, the main areas in which
this project will seek institutional reforms will be with respect to:



- 17 -
a) The Forest administration:
* the functional overlap within the Forest administration and
between different agencies;
* the lack of specialization in the administration and the
noncommercial orientation of FDC in their plantation operations.
b) The role of local institutions and the private sector:
* increased involvement of NGOs in the design and implementation of
forest programs, particularly those related to village eco-
development; and
* increased use of local institutions (e.g. Panchayats, informal
village groups, cooperatives) for improving and sustaining the joint
management and eco-development process; and
c) Contracting the private sector, for:
* organizing a publicity campaign to help revise the negative
perception of FD and to help to educate the general public on
corservation;
o imparting specialized training to forestry staff, NGOs, village
leaders etc; and
* doing special studies as outlined in this SAR.
3.2    rsed institutignal roforrisa.  Because of the complicated and
sensitive nature of these institutional reforms, the project proposes that the
reorganization be undertaken in a number of steps. The first step in the
reform process is to draft a TOR for a comprehensive study of forest
institutions to identify public restructuring options within realistic
political, financial, and administrative parameters and identify the future
role of the private sector. The draft TOR which was prepared by GOM has been
discussed and agreed with IDA at negotiations. The second step in the process
will be a formal workshop to discuss the agreed TOR with GOM and private
sector representatives. The third step will be the actual carrying out of the
overall study. The fourth step will be a series of workshops to discuss
interim findings and identify potential actions, including TORs if necessary,
in the areas of career development, specialization within the Forest
Administration, linkages between the forest administration and the rest of
GOM, and policy measures required to remove constraints on private sector
participation. The final step will be the formulation of an action program
based on the recommendations of these workshops and the discussions thereto,
including taking all necessary actions to implement the action plan, including
a timetable for implementation. A&suZange. were obtained at negotiations that
the final step would be completed by March 31, 1995 and that the action plan
and timetable would be satisfactory to IDA and with the action plan
implemented in accordance with such timetable. It was further agreed that the
condition QL disburamenl against further implementation of plantation
development from March 31, 1995 onward, would be based on evidence
satisfactory to IDA that the action plan has been formulated and that
satisfactory progress has been made in implementing such plan.
3.3   Prior to the implementation of the reforms the project will have an
interim management structure. A project coordinating unit(PCU) has already
been established and has evolved from the project preparation task force. The
PCU will report directly to the Secretary of Forestry. A number of actions
will need to be undertaken by the PCU prior to the commencement of the
project. Activities related to office establishment, commissioning of special
consultant reports, development of year 1 operational plans, and staff
recruitment, among other activities, should commence at least six months prior
to the start of the project. During project implementation the major
functional tasks of the PCU will relate to both operational and strategic
planning. The PCU, in collaboration with heads of specialized units, will be



- 18 -
responsible for formulating annual operational plans including target setting,
allocation of staff and financial resources, and program assessment. Special
emphasis will be given to new work program areas such as village
eco-development, seed/nursery development, staff training, database
development, publicity and extension, and pasture improvement. The PCU will
have a particularly important role to play in new program areas, including
planning and market intelligence (para 3.11). GOM will explore opportunities
for providing special pay or other financial incentives to attract and retain
the heads of newly established units. During the first phase of the project
the PCU will also oversee the carrying out of planned studies and coordinate
implementation of findings. At the time of the mid-term review, the future
role of the PCU will be reviewed and recommendations for its appropriate long-
term functions will be made.
3.4   Before the reorganization  each branch of the current administration
(para 1.11) will appoint a small working team (of 2-3 professionals) to
oversee, under a team leader the introduction and development of specialized
operating units. These units can begin to function before the reorganization,
as they are critical to the success of the project. These operating units will
include i) village eco-development; ii) technology improvement (nursery and
seed); iii) biodiversity conservation; iv) pasture development; v) resource
assessment and management; and vi) forestry planning and market intelligence.
These units will be helped by the creation of support units for i) training;
ii) publicity and iii) personnel. The operating units will also play a
pivotal role in the reorganization process in each branch and closely liaise
with the coordinating unit in introducing the proposed organizational changes.
In addition, the specialized units will finalize their annual programs in
collaboration with the coordinating unit.  Aggurances wege paLLiaa: A
neagotiatins that specialized units will be filled by suitably qualified Heads
and that GOM will take all possible measures to maintain such personnel in
such positions during the implementation of the project. The personnel unit is
particularly important in helping manage human resources and promote career
development in light of expected restructural changes. During implementation
of the organizational changes, both the coordinating and the specialized
units, will be gradually integrated into the new organization.
Training, Publicity and Extension
3.5 2Z§i.a.ing. This component has three elements:
a. The creation of a small training unit which will develop an
operational plan for implementing the findings of the training study
regarding specialization, staff training plans and curriculum
development. In addition, the unit will select candidates for
external training.
b. Upgrading the five training institutions. However before the
upgrading of these institutions can take place, it is important that
these institutions be evaluated to determine their effectiveness in
meeting the current and future needs of FD.  AganUZA=          were gbtaingd
at negotiations that such evaluation will be completed before March
31, 1993 and that such study will be carried out under contract by
local consultants.
c. Project-related training program. This program will focus on: (i)
management seminars for senior and middle-level managers to help them
deal with strategic planning issues in forestry, public
administration, reform etc.; (ii) technical courses to promote
specialization in seed technology, remote sensing, and other fields;
and (iii) social aspects of forestry to cover newer areas, such as



- 19 -
ecodevelopment and joint management, to enable FD staff to work
closely with villagers, NGOs, and others. It is important that those
who have undergone specialized training are not transferred for at
least three years after training.  daaguaga  to this effect werg
Q    M;e at^
3.6   P1jbJJiJt.  For the project to succeed, it is important that FD's poor
image be rebuilt, its successes publicized, and the public informed about the
project. Most of the publicity work will be entrusted to a private agency
under contract but a small Publicity Unit would be established in FD. The
publicity program should cover the internal audience (FD staff) as well as the
external one (outside public, private companies, etc.) and include the
production of newsletters, information booklets and vic.eos, advertising,
promotional activities, and outreach. The publicity unit should: (i) make
FD's work known to schools, companies, farmers, women's groups, and other
selected audiences; (ii) inform potential beneficiaries in the project area on
ecodevelopment, joint management, etc.; and (iii) educate the rural public on
the alternatives to fuelwood, conservation practices, and other important
elements of the project. A variety of media (radio, TV, newspapers, etc.) and
a variety of tools (news releases, press tours, posters, etc.) will be used
for this purpose (see Annex 10 of PIV). To give the unit a clear mission, a
"public awareness" study will be commissioned to determine the public's
perception of FD, its functions, and programs, and to recommend steps to
improve the image of FD, including its role to disseminate technology to
farmers. This study should be followed by a "media strategy paper" to develop
a longer-term strategy on the medium that should be used and the messages that
should be put out to various audiences.
3.7   EYSSDQnJ.  No separate staff are proposed in the project for this
purpose; instead, the project would rely on staff training, publicity work,
and the outreach program tc reach important audiences, such as farmers.
However, if these efforts are found inadequate during mid-term evaluation of
the project, and if suitable technical packages have been developed by then
for farm forestry, the need for specialized forestry extension staff could be
reconsidered.
3.8   Natural resource assessmets and maagement.  Within the forest
administration there currently exists limited capacity for planning,
implementing and monitoring of large scale forestry investment programs. The
State requires incremental inputs with respect to equipment, physical
facilities and trained staff to carry out basic surveys and to develop timely
and relevant working plans and other investment strategies. This is
especially true with respect to planning of large scale commercial
plantations, management of natural forest areas, and the rehabilitation of
wasteland areas. The project intends to strengthen the current forest
administration with respect to planning and monitoring new program initiatives
(Annex 9 of PIV). This capacity will be developed through an investment
component which aims at improving the underlying knowledge base regarding the
availability and condition of Maharashtra's forest estate, its suitability for
conservation and production purposes, the demand for forest resources, and the
potential for rehabilitation of wasteland areas. The project will provide
financial and technical assistance for improving physical facilities for data
collection, management and analysis. The project will take important steps
towards developing basic competencies in computer data processing and in the
use of aerial photography and satellite imagery for survey and mapping to
support the development of divisional working plans. In addition, the project
will provide funds for special surveys related to forest production on non-
forest areas, plantation surveys which will include the newly developed



- 20 -
Australia system of climate/site/species matching, and wildlife and protected
areas surveys. The forest resource assessment and management functions will
be closely linked to a new Forest Planning and Market Intelligence Unit (para
3.12) which will be established to track and forecast commercial and domestic
demands for wood and NWFP throughout the state as well as to carry out long-
range strategic sector studies on a periodic basis. Strategic and annual
planning carried out by this unit will be formulated, in part, upon analysis
of information generated directly by the various resource assessment teams.
The project will promote improved forest administration through the
introduction of up to date management information services to assist in
program implementation, supervision and evaluation. The project will support
the development and testing of methodologies to promote village level
participatory planning under the eco-development component. The project will
provide materials, field logistical support and training to address local
planning requirements. The initial coordination of this component will be
carried out by the PCU (para. 3.3). A Project MIS will be established to
facilitate budgetary tracking, planning and project evaluation.
3.9   Poliies..   The project will support measures aimed at reducing negative
policy influences (para 1.8) in the operation of markets by fostering a more
compr3hensive approach to policy making and increasing the efficiency of
resource allocation. Policy reforms to be supported by the project are
described in Annex 1 of the SAR and Annex 2 of PIV.   Although the project
does not contemplate substantial use of exotic species, as=uran=A  were
ohtaianad &t npgotiations that GOM will issue by March 31, 1995 guidelines
consistent with the National Forest Policy, 1988 and satisfactory to IDA,
relating to the use of exotic species in forest plantations. In the meantime
to initiate species/provenance trials of identified species under the project,
detailed designs will be prepared with mutual agreement between GOM and IDA.
In these designs specific emphasis will be given to intensive literature
reviews to avoid unnecessary cost and time.  A s rances w        l= nhta4nid
that by MTR, GOM will have identified those species, satisfactory to IDA, with
respect to which felling restrictions in non-state lands and transit
restrictions for timber and other forest produce shall be eliminated and adopt
a timetable, satisfactory to IDA, for eliminating such restrictions for those
species identified. In addition, it was agreed to implement the eliminating
of such restrictions in accordance with such timetable. In view of the
limitations on private ownership of land, assurannes Ng= 2bt&An2d at
nagotiations from GOI with respect to the possibility of FDCM raising captive
plantations on forest lands other than reserve forests for industrial
utilization to assure forest raw material supplies on a sustainable way and
also take advantage of economies of scale in forest plantations and management
schemes. GOI will review and discuss with IDA such possibilities by March 31,
1995. This review will be based on a study of both the implications of the
ban on captive plantations on the attraction of private capital to increase
the availability of raw material for forest based industries and the effect
which rescinding the restrictions on captive plantations would have on raw
material supply. After the results of these studies have been reviewed and
discussed with IDA they will be implemented by GOM. Government policies also
restrict the clear-felling of trees. Since, in certain circumstances, clear-
felling is the right economic and environmental method of forest management,
aaaau=n      wae   nhtaingd at neogotiations, that Government will process clear-
felling of limited areas under the project in the utmost expeditious manner.
It was agreed that FD would submit such proposals to the Ministry of
Environment and Forest (MOEF) not later than September 30, preceding the year
of plantation and that MOEF will process such proposals not later than 90 days
of receipt. With respect to private forestry activities supported by the
project, asaaannes xRAM obtained at nggotiationa that GOM will adopt all



- 21 -
appropriate measures to ensure that private plantations supported under the
project will be exempt from vesting to the state under relevant laws and
regulations.  AgrecAnt was ala  Obtine  from GOI to provide all required
clearances and approvals to enable GOM to carry out its activities under the
project.
3.10  _ricAs and Iarkgt ng. In Maharashtra the Government exerts a
determining influence on forest markets (Annex 6 of PIV). Seedlings from
government nurseries are allocated to farmers at preferential prices. Bamboo
is sold at much lower than market rates to the paper industry. Wood from
Government plantations is also sold under contract at lower than market rates.
Illegal harvesting of timber and fuelwood combines with this situation to
severely undercut private farmer's attempts to grow wood and other forest
products for commercial markets at profitable margins. Marketing issues are
thus important for both private and public plantations and are linked to a
complex set of policies and supply and demand flows. The project will tackle
these issues in a comprehensive manner by improving market information,
reallocating resources for Government planting operations and introducing the
pertinent legal and policy reforms, particularly regarding pricing. To assist
in improving these interventions a special unit will be set up, tentatively
within the PCU.
3.11  This will be the Forest Planning and Marketing Intelligence Unit (PMIU).
The PMIU will have two separate but interlinked functions. On one hand, PMIU
will undertake some strategic studies of key issues affecting long-range
forest planning and policy making. These include: (i) analysis of policy and
market failures leading to resource misallocation; (ii) impact of government
subsidies to public forest product sales from public lands; (iii) cost-sharing
arrangements for forest development on private, communal and state-forest
lands, including seedling pricing; (iv) the current and potential role of NWFP
in the economy and plantation technology (Annex 5 of PIv); and (v) the impact
of the project on price structures and profitability from the public and
private perspective. On the other hand, the PMIU will prepare annual
forecasts of plantation and forest management needs based on annual price
forecasts, demand projections, and supply information from the resource
assessment unit. Drawing upon both the strategic and annual studies, the PMIU
will prepare an annual strategy paper that will be used to shape the annual
investment and plantation budget of the forest administration.  AaurAanea
were obtafigd     nggXtiatiana that these annual budgets will take into
consideration PMIU's strategy recommendations.   &ASAnC= Were alas  obtained
Al ne got.iatina that GOM will set the administered price of public forest
produce, including seedling pricing, for a given year with due weight of the
calculation by PMIU of such prices which would be within 10% of the weighted
average market price for that year.
3.12 RA*orring RBq4rQrmfnts. The forest administration will maintain records
of tihe project's progress regarding implementation of physical and financial
targats to meet IDA reporting requirements. Annual progress reports would be
submitted to IDA within 90 days of the end of the financial year and would
draw on information generated by the M&E cell in order to elaborate on the
constraints and problem solving aspects of the project. The detailed
reporting requirements would be finalized during the project start-up mission.
A mid-term review would be carried out after the end of three years of project
implementation (March 31, 1995) to evaluate the experiences so far
particularly with respect to treatment technology, eco-development, data base
development and project monitoring, pasture development, wildlife and
protection and the results of the forest sector reforms. GOM would carry out
the agreed recommendations of such a review in a manner acceptable to IDA. A



- 22 -
project completion report would be prepared by the M&E unit on the basis of
IDA guidelines within six months of the closii date of the Credit.
suaneas to this effect werg obtained at negotiation..
Project Be efits and Justificatjon
3.13 Project benefits relate to increased production, productivity and
environmental quality, enhanced public administration efficiency and
development opportunities for local participation, employment and income.
Technological improvements and expanded investments are expected to increase
both the quantity and quality of forest raw materials, while enhancing key
environmental aspects such as soil and moisture conservation. Such increases
in total output will reduce the rapidly increasing pressure on imports. The
project is also expected to have an effect on slowing down the pace of
environmental degradation through wasteland rehabilitation, pasture
development and afforestation activities in general, which will cover more
than 300,000 ha. It will also contribute to the protection of bio-diversity
resources through the creation of an IPAS. Moreover, project components are
also aimed at achieving a greater degree of participation and self reliance
for the local population, including tribals, in the creation and management of
forest resources, as well as improving the marzeting of forestry products,
thus expanding opportunities for local employment and income. Some 80 million
man-days of direct employment will be generated by the project. Local income
per person induced by the project is estimated to be about Rs 5000 per year,
full-time employment equivalent. The project will encourage the participation
of women in planning and implementing forest:y-related activities. By
revamping the public administration, through the introduction of policy and
administrative reforms, the project will contribute to increased efficiency
in, and modernization of, the management of the forestry-based sector as a
whole.
3.14    naal and Economic               The overall economic rate of return for
the project has been estimated at about 15% (Annex 3). This rate is
satisfactory, particularly given the strong environmental bias of the project
and the fact that this estimate does not include indirect benefits nor the
positive impacts derived from policy and administrative reforms. In addition
to total project profitability, estimates of financial and economic benefits
and costs were derived for representative models developed for each one of
the plantation components in forest production, rehabilitation of degraded
forest land, and wasteland afforestation. Moreover, plantation models for
horticulture, farm forestry and forage development were used as a basis for
profitability calculations of the village ecodevelopment program. Results are
displayed in the table below.
3.15 Financial rates of return for the different components are mostly in
excess of 18%. This indicates that the project will generate adequate
incentives to local participation. Furthermore, in all cases the ERR of
project components exceed 12%, the opportunity cost of capital. The economic
rate of return of some of the most important components such as the root stock
development plantation program, which covers 100,000 hectares, is high,
reaching 18.6%. Similarly, the wasteland afforestation program is expected to
generate economic rates of return fluctuating between 17 and 37% and it is
anticipated that the ecodevelopment program will yield 32%. Some of the
components of the production forestry program (FP components below) are
expected to yield lower economic returns due mainly to the higher opportunity
cost of land, but even in this case projected rates of return exceed 12%.



- 23 -
3.16 Economic returns are lower than financial returns because economic
profitability estimates include opportunity costs for public lands used in the
project. In contrast, the financial analysis has assumed that these lands have
no financial value as their sale is effectively negated by government policy.
The detailed assumptions underlying the economic analysis are given in
Annex 3.
FATES QF RETUF?ET
AEn            ERR         Economig NPv
(Rs in Million)
E_ duotion ForstLQr
Model FP1                      17.3            15.0               153
Model FP2                      18.4            15.7                32
Model FP3                      19.3            16.8                52
Model FP4                      16.1            13.4                73
Rehail4rtation of Degraded
Model RDF1                     21.6             18.6               556
Model RDF2                     20.0             17.1                35
Model RDF3                     33.0             12.4                 3
Model RDF4                     17.6             16.8                54
WastelandAfosatn
model WAI                      18.5             17.0                 41
Model WA2                      22.3             20.9                45
Model WA3                      38.5             36.9               167
Forest and WqAsLelAnd_
F&W1                           20.5             15.3                 6
3.17   engitivity Analyia.  The project economic viability is quite robust
and relatively insensitive to changes in assumptions of costs and benefits.
The sensitivity analysis tested the strength of the project by assuming -- in
three areas of uncertainty -- the following less favorable conditions: (i)
the substantial increases in productivity expected under the project will not
be achieved fully; (ii) given the size of the project, output prices will fall
in the future and (iii) plantation and forest management costs will be higher
than those assumed. Results show that if productivity gains were 50% below
those assumed in the most probable scenario above, the project's ERR would be
12.9%. If this unfavorable situation were compounded by a simultaneous 20%
increase in forest plantation and management costs, the ERR would be 12.2%,
still higher than the opportunity cost of capital of 12%. And if prices of
outputs generated by the project were 20 percent below those initially
assumed, the ERR would fall to 14.5%. Total economic costs would have to
increase by 148% or benefits decrease by about 60% for the ERR to drop to 12%.
Changes of this magnitude are unlikely and, in any case, steps have been taken
to minimize the possibility of their occurrence.



- 24 -
3.18 9=JxQ=Bi D noaS.  In addition to specific proposals for
bio-diversity conservation and PA management, the project is strongly oriented
toward environmental improvement. Fundamental to this cause is the need for
protection.  Community investment iA protection is seen as the only realistic
strategy, and treatment options are, accordingly, geared heavily toward
factors that would foster a strong community stake in forest protection. These
must override other objectives, and the practical scope for full protection of
any forest land, whether for wildlife, bio-diversity or as cover for
protecting erosion prone areas, will depend much more on a contented fringe
population than it will on legal prescriptions. Within the treatment areas,
however, judgments on treatment options have been reviewed from differing
standpoints silvicultural, socic- economic, soil and moisture conservation,
livestock and fodder, and wildlife and bio-diversity and a strong convergence
of viewpoints has emerged.   A summary of the main features incorporated into
the treatment models are as follows:
<…- Beneficial Impacts from Alternative Standpoints - >
Silvi-     Socio-    Soil/Moisture Livestock  Wildlife &
KEY TREATMENT SPECIFICATIONS  culture     Economic   Conservation  & Fodder   Biodiversity
Recommended spacing between pla,:ted  Less  More NWFP  More ground  More fodder Improved
seedlings has been increased  competition  Less Cost  vegetation          habitats
Greater variety of species, multi-   Better use   More NWFP  More ground  More fodder Improved
tier mixtures of tree, shrub and    of light and Less Cost  vegetation    habitats
ground story vegetation       nutrients
Contour cultivation with installa-   Better growth Fuelwood & Reduced soil  Fodder from Improved
tion of vegetative contour bunds    from moisture NWIFP from  erosion, low vetiver and habitats
conservation shrub lines maintenance  browse spp.
3.19  X                        Building on the foundation already established in
certain parts of Maharashtra, the project will foster a major change in
conventional forest policy, from one of policing and enforced protection, to
orie of cooperation and joint venture with local communities. This is a major
change to which the State is committed, and which is attracting major interest
from elsewhere, within and outside of the country. This change is not without
difficulty, for it requires a major reorientation of long established
procedures, and the application of skills that have not been a conventional
part of the forester's portfolio. Moves toward a major re-structuring of
service organization and training are already underway, and will be further
developed during the course of the project.
3.20 An added institutional feature, of potentially great importance, is that
the proj ct is supporting a coordinated programme of two departments, namely
Forestry and Animal Resources Development. This is essentially a new venture
addressing one of the more intractable problems in forest development. The
strongly positive attitude of the concerned departments, is grounds for
confidence that these ventures will have a successful outcome, and although
locali2ed in terms of planned coverage during the project, the 1.onger-term
potential for expansion and spin-off is very high and would be of direct
relev;Ance to many other areas in India.



- 25 -
Impact of th  p   eDM_fl
3.21 The project would have a positive impact on women. Local village
organizations that would be created or strengthened for management of forest
and pasture resources would include village women as committee members,
entitled to direct representation in decision-making and benefit distribution.
Rehabilitation of degraded forest lands would increase the supply of
subsistence and saleable non-timber forest products, reducing women's existing
work burden in fuel and fodder collection and increasing women's potential for
income-generation. In areas where village eco-development is undertaken,
women would be represented in village organizations. In these village,
revenue enhancing activities involving women to improve marketing and
processing of NWFP will also be undertaken. Village women's groups would be
allocated government wastelands for development on an experimental basis and a
variety of models for organizing forest and pasture development on private
lands through women's groups would be tested under the program, with the
support of NGOs. Forest training courses for male and female staff and
farmers would include currioula regarding women's present and potentala roles
in forestry.
Proiect Rizks
3.22 The main risks facing the project are related to the willingness of the
government to make the appropriate institutional and policy changes reflected
in Chapter 1. However, during the extended preparation process of this
project governments favorable reaction and commitment is an indication that
these risks would be overcome. Another risk is related to the fact that
sustained management of common and public lands depends on enhancing people's
participation in forest management and development. However, with the
emergence of successful strategies relating to village eco-development and
joint management in other states and the presence of suitable NGOs in
Maharashtra, it is felt that sustained management can be ensured. Given the
innovative nature of the project and the strategic changes being to be
introduced, it is felt that risks can be substantially reduced by allocating
double the supervision staff weeks, including a wider range of technical
expertise than is normally made available (see Annex 5).
IV.              AHR                NA
4.1   At negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a)   GOM will implement the reforms outlined in the matrix of sector
reforms, its progress will be reviewed annually and by MTR by GOM
and IDA (para 2.5);
(b)   satisfactory treatment models would be used in plantation
development programs as outlined in para 2.7, and seedlings to be
used in such treatment models would have been suitably culled
from existing nurseries; and plantation development on public
land carried out after March 31, 1995 would follow procedures and
arrangements satisfactory to IDA as outlined in para 2.7 and
Annex 1 B (ii);
(c)   suitable consultants qill lbe selected before March 31, 1993 to
assist in restructuring of the pasture development unit (para
2.10);



- 26 -
(d)   Implement the eco-development component with the participation of
NGos and local institutions acceptable to IDA (para 2.11, Annex 1
A 2 (i)):
(e)   the provision of funds for allied works for village eco-
development would be limited as outlined in para 2.12;
(f)   the transfer of control of all ecologically important PAs from
territorial staff to the wildlife wing will be completed before
September 30, 1997 and that the Head of Wildlife will not have
other duties (para 2.13);
(g)   local and foreign consultants would be recruited before March 31,
1993 for establishing-seed unit and upgrading selected nurseries
(para 2.14, Annex 1 B (i));
(h)   a research review and agreed research program will be carried out
by March 31, 1994 as outlined in para 2.14 and Annex 1 B (iii).
(i)   suitable local and international consultants be recruited to
assist in training, workshops and studies (para 2.19);
(j)   GOM would provide adequate funds to project entities as outlined
in para 2.21;
(k)   GOM would follow the procurement arrangements outlined in para
2.22 - 2.24;
(1)   GOM would establish acceptable accounting and auditing
arrangements as outlined in para 2.27;
(m)   GOM would carry out the reorganization study according to agreed
TOR and that the final step would be completed before March 31,
1995 (para 3.2, Annex 1 A (i-v)).
(n)   specialized project units to be filled with qualified Heads for
the duration of the project (para 3.4, Annex 1 B (i));
(o)   evaluation of training institutes to be completed before March
31, 1993 as outlined in para 3.5b and GOM agrees that FD staff
sent for specialized training would not be transferred out of
their jobs for at least three years after zeturn from training
(para 3.5 c);
(p)   policies such as those relating to exotic species, wood
harvesting and transit, clear-felling etc. will be adjusted by
GOM as outlined in para 3.9 and Annex 1 C (i-vii); furthermore,
GOI to provide all required clearances and approvals to enable
GOM to carry out its activities under the project;
(q)   annual investment plan and plantation budget will reflect PMIU
strategy recommendations and sales of public forest produce,
including seedlings, will be adjusted by GOM as outlined in para
3.11 and Annex 1 C (ii); and



- 27 -
(r)   GOM would follow agreed reporting requirements and carry out MTR
by March 31, 1995. In addition a project completion report would
be prepared (para 3.12).
4.2 As condition of Credit disbursements it was agreed that further
implementation of plantation development as from March 31, 1995 would be
subject to an satisfactory evidence to IDA that the action plan has been
formulated and that satisfactory progress has been made in implementing such
plan. (para 3.2, Annex 1 A (v)).
4.3 With the above agreements and assurances, the project is suitable for an
IDA Credit of SDR 88.9 million (US$124 million equivalent) to India on
standard IDA terms with 35 years maturity.



- 28 -
Anne
Page 1 of 8
SAAAHTRA FORSTRY PROJECT
PROPOSED SECTOR REFORMS
Projeet Strategy
1. Several institutional, technological and policy failures exist in the
forestry sector that limit the state's ability to meet the challenges of
environmental degradation and the growing population's demand for subsistence
and commercial products.   Project preparation has identified areas of key
reforms, both those that can be addressed immediately and those more
complicated areas which require further study to pose effective solutions.
These are summarized in the attached Matrix.
Areas of reform
(a) Institutio&al
2. The public forestry administration was created when both development
priorities/strategies and forest resources were markedly different and a
reorganization of units and responsibilities is timely. There is too much
overlap of responsibility and authority within the administration, too little
coordination with relevant outside government and non-governmental agencies,
and no rational linkages to the private sector.  Because of the more varied
demands placed on the public forest estate and the expansion of forest
resources into the private sector, the administration needs new development
strategies and staff with more specialized skills to carry them out. The
project will attempt a major overhaul of the State public forestry sector.
The first step in modernizing the forestry administration will be an ovraell
ealuati2a of the structure and procedures of the public administration,
followed by studies for the formulation of a reorganizatign plan which will be
completed by the end of the project year 3 and implemented during the
subsequent years of the project. These actions are described in more detail in
Annex 2, Forest Policies and Legislat         and Annex 11, Organization and
Manaagent of the Implementation Volume.
(b) Tmihnologg  rmrvement
3. Technology available, the focus and structure of research and technology
dissemination is not adequate to current demand and changing environmental
needs. As a result, seedlings and nursery practices are of poor quality.
Existing silvicultural techniques and site management practices do not lead to
the desired level of productivity or generate the range of forest products
needed by a changing society.   Research support is inadequate to guide
technological decisions for the wide range of ecological and socio-economic
condition on the public and private lands suitable for forestry.
4.   The pro-ect  will  give priority to the introduction  of technical
improvements, particularly in the areas of (i) seed selection and production;
(ii) nursery practices; (iii) plantation establishment and management; and
(iv) research. These are described in detail in Annex 3, Technolngy. Reaaarch
and Extension of the Implementation Volume.



- 29 -
Ax 1
Page 2 of 8
(c) PoiQg
5. Government policies affecting the forestry sector have commonly been
designed according to a narrow set of sector-specific objectives, disregarding
their impacts outside tthat sector. Distortions have arisen which (i) inhibit
private investment in reforestation and forest management activities;
(ii) limit the scope for local participation in forestry programs; (iii)
create inconsistencies between local demand and supply; (iv) restrict market
competition and thus foster protected, monopolic and inefficient enterprises;
(v) generate wrong price signals; (vi) promote misallocation of scarce
resources, and (vii) often lead to negative equity and environmental results.
6.   The main policy reforms will focus on the following aspects:
(a) Use of Species. The project will aim at liberalizing harvesting and
transit of forestry produce. It will prepare the operational norms for
regulating the implementation of the Forestry Policy prescriptions on
the use of exotic species.
(b) Prlvate Enternrise and the Use of Land. The project will study and
recommend innovative ways to secure an adequate supply of industrial
forest raw materials, for example by entrusting industry with the full
responsibility for creating and managing their sources of supply
outside the Government's forest lands; promoting closer links between
industries and private forest producers; creating captive plantations
under the responsibility of the FDCM; or setting up joint ventures
involving the FDCM, local people and the major industrial concerns.
(c) PrAce Controls. The project will promote a phased price liberalization
of both forestry produce and forest inputs such as seedlings. A market
Intelligence Unit will be created to facilitate the transition from
administered to market prices as well as to determine market
potentials for timber and non-timber products. Additional details are
provided in Annex 6, Marketing Arrangements of the Implementation
Volume.
(d) Clear-fellinc of Trees. Actions will be undertaken to realistically
implement prescriptions contained in the Forestry Policy by
determining areas and silvicultural conditions under which
clearfelling is environmentally sound and can, therefore, be allowed.



MAARASHTRA FORESTRY PROJECT
PROPOSED FOREST SECTOR REFORMS
Area of Reform    |           Issue            |       Objective                 Action needed            Responsible               Timinglcovenant
II                                                           party
A. INSTflUTIOWAL MECHAN15HS OP TEE FOREST SECTOR
1. Reform of the Forestry Administration
Publie                 Public Forestry             Administrative            Car.y out analysis of the           GOM         (i) Draft TOR of the study to
Forestry               Adminlstratlon needs        reform to increase        Public Forestry                                 be agreed between GOM and IDA
AdmLnistration         to be modernized            efficiency                Administration including                        at negotiations; progress to be
through restructuring                                analysis of the role of                         reviewed annually between GOM
NGO's, private sector and                       and IDA and at MTR; Complete
other institutions.                             study by March 31, 1995.                     0
Identify areas for
further analysis in
addition to those listed
below.
Some functlons are         Reduce or eliminate       Carry out study of                  GOM          (ii) Based on agreed TOR and
conducted                  unnecessary overlap       organizational overlap.                         after series of discussion
simultaneously by FD,    between different                                                           workshops, formulate plan of
FDCM, DSF and              agencies                                                                   action before March 31, 1995.
Departments of
Horticulture and
Animal Resources
leading to inefficient
allocation of scarce
resources
Noncommercial              Improve efficiency        Carry out study of FDCM's           GOM          (iii) Based on agreed TGR and
orientation of FDCM        of establishment and   performance and                                    after series of discussion                    0Q P
leads to low               maintenance of high    opportunities for                                  workshops, formulate plan of
productivity and poor    value plantations.          improving efficiency                            actlon before March 31, 1995.                 t
financial results          Improve quality of                                                                                                      0
planting stock                                                                                                          Pe
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O



Area of Refonm              Issue                   Objective               Action needed           Responsible             Timinglcovenant
Lack of speclalized       Develop staff           Development of manpower         GOM/GOI       Civ) Based on agreed TOR and
staff in the              expertise in areas      policy which will allow                       after series of discussion
management of the         requiring high          specialized career                            workshops, formul.ate plan of
forest estate.            levels of training      development.                                  action before March 31, 1995.
and specialization,
i.e. strategic
planning, manaement
of wildlife and
biodiversity
resources, GIS, M+E,
research, extension
and operation of
commercial
plantations
Rationalize             Based on the above              GOMIGOI       Cv) COM to review and agree
structure of the        studies, draft                               with IDA, the details of the
Forest                  reorganization action                         reorganization action program
Administration to       program. Implement action                     prepared by GOM, including a
resolve above issues   program.                                       satisfactory timetable for
implementation.  Disbursements
against plantation development
after March 31, 1995 will be
subject to COM having prepared               I
the plan of action for these
refoms and has made progress
satisfactory to IDA in
implementing such plan-
PMIU to be established by
Create PMIU.                                 September 30, 1992. Annual
investment and plantation
budget of the forest
administration to reflect
strategic priorities identified
by the PMIU.
1D X
co 



Area of Reform               Issue                   Objective               Action needed            Responsible             Timingleovenant
I                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~party
2. Role of local Institations and the private aector in forestry
Linkages              Insufficient use of        Establish mechanisms   Based on agreed criteria            GOM         (i) By negotiations.
between the           NGOs and local             to involve NGOs and    and mechanisms for                              Implement eco-development with
Public                communities. Lack of       local instltutions       involvement, prepare list                     participation of NGOs and local
Forestry              officlal mechanisms to   and individuals in        of NGOs and local                              institutions acceptable to IDA.
Administration        ensure their               the design and           lnstitutions with
and the non-          involvement                implementation of       potential for planning
public sector.                                   forestry sector         and managing forestry
Peoples'                                         prosrams, including    development schemes
participation.                                   ecodevelopment and
Joint management
schemes
Taking into account             GOMIGOI       (i1) By mid term review. At the
results of the study of                       start-up workshops in PFY, GOM
the reorganization of the                     will finalize funding
Public Forest                                 arrangements to participating
Administration and                            NG05 and local institutions.
ecodevelopment
experience, design
working mechanisms for
involving NGOs and local
institutions and
individuals in plannlng
and manasing forestry
development schemes.
x
Ln
0
CD1



area of Reform               Issue                  ObJective                Action needed           Responsible              Timing/covenant
I                        ~~~~~~~party
B.  -EaH.mV D.R.vvf.T
Technology            Low quality of inputs,   Improve seed stock        Establish Seed Unit.               GOM         (1) Qualified heads of
inadequate                and nursery             Establish Nursery Unit                         Specialized
technological             practices               encompassing at least                          Units to be in position in year
knowledge and                                      five nurseries for                            PY1 and to remain in position
inadequate application                             improved teak seedling                        at least for the duration of
of forest management                               production. Restructure                       the project. Employ consultants
technology leading to                              pasture unit.                                 to establish seed and nursery
low productivity and                                                                             improvements, restructure
narrow range of                                                                                  pasture unit starting by March
benefits                                                                                         31, 1993. GOM agreed to the use
of national and international
consultants. Five selected
nurseries to become fully
operational by PY3-
Improve process of      Preparation of forest              GOM         (ii) Seedlings used in models
designing and           plantation/management                          to be suitably culled before
applying proper         models including                              improved nurseries are
technical models for   procedures for planning                         established: application of
forest plantation       and implementation.                            agreed models for plantation
and management                                                         development including use of
improved planting stock and
procedures for planning and
implementation after mid-term
review.
Research              Inadequate research        Organize research       Develop state-level              GOM/GOI       (iii) Preparation of research
hampers productivity      effort to orient         research strategy.                            paper by March 31, 1994.
and total production      research to                                                            Research program and time-table
innovation and                                                         for implementation to be agreed
location-specific                                                     between GOM and IDA. Most
solution of                                                            research to be done by
operational problems                                                   contractors outside FD.
CDO
x
I-A
0o



Area of Reform               Issue                   Objective               Action needed           Responsible              Timingicovenant
I        I                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~party
.POLICIES
Restrictions          Negative economic          Clear interpretation   Norm providing                    GOMIGOI       Ui) Para 4.33 of National
to the                impact if exotics are    of the rule               operational procedures                         Forest Policy Paper 1988 lays
introduction          more productive than       including definition   and criteria to apply the                      down in general terms policies
of exotic             native species             of what constitutes    policy                                          in introducing exotic species
species                                          a negative impact on                                                   and details can be issued by
native vegetation                                                      the State.  GOM to provide by
and environment                                                       March 31, 1995 guidelines
relating to use of exotic
species in forestry
plantations. In the meantime,
trials (speciestprovenance)
will be carried out under
project satisfactory to IDA and
such designs will be based on
intensive literature reviewed
ta avoid unnecessary cost and
tine.-
Supply of             Loss of Governmen-         Government supply       Establish Planning and             GOM         (ii)  Annual assessment of
forest raw            income. Waste of           systems shouLd avoid   Market Intelligence Unit                       market prices to be carried out
materials at          forest raw material.       selling forest raw       (PMIU). Assess market                         by the PMIJ according to a
lower than            Reduction of              material below           prices annually and adopt                      methodology to be agreed
market prices         incentives for             market prices           policy changes aimed at                        between GOM and IDA.
afforestation and                                 deregulating prices.                           Administered prices of public
forest magement                                                                                  forest produce for given year
will be given due weight to the
calculation of PMIU of such
prices which would be within
10Z of the weighted average
market price for that year.
All forests           Disincentive to            Allow non-state         Amendlabolish Maharashtra        GOMIGOI       (iii) Private forestry
are property          a:forestation. Loss of   ownership of trees        Private Forests                                supported under the project
of the state          employment                 and forests             Acquisition Act, 1975.                         shall be exempt from vesting to
opportunities and                                 Alternatively GOM should                       the State under relevant laws
negative environmental                            provide a policy                               and regulations.
impact                                            statement exempting
plantations under the
project from provisions                                                                 I'D
of the Act.                                                                     l       0
(DCD



Area of Reform                Issue                  Objective                Action needed            Responsible              Timingcovenant
Limits to             Potential economies of   Design alternative         Seek clarification from           G(OMIGOI      (iv) GOI by March 31  1995 to
private                scale of large            arrangements for         GOI as to whether captive                       review and discuss with IDA the
ownership of           industrial block          access to large           industrial plantations                        possibility of permitting FDCM
land                  plantations are lost.    scale supplies for         could be raised by FDCM                        to raise captive plantations
Foregone opportunities   industry                                                                  for industrial utillization on
for land                                                                                          forest lands other than reserve
rehabilitation.                                                                                   forests.
Clear-felling          Loss of economic          Develop sustainable    Permission from GOIIGOM             GOIIGOM       (v) FD to submlt proposals for
restriction           output when clear-         systems of forest        to clear fell limited                          limited areas for clear-felling
felling is the right      mnagement                areas of project                               to MOEF not later than
silvicultural                                      plantations in accordance                      September 30 preceeding year of
treatment- Restriction-                            with sound management-                         plantation.  MOEF to process
of industrial supply                               practices. Clarify                             such proposals no later than 90
environmentally sound                          days from date of receipt of
operational procedures                         proposal.
and guidelines for
approval of clear felling
in these areas
Restrictions          Disincentive for           Liberalize tree          Identify a limited number           GOM         (vi) By MTR agreement with IDA
to felling of         planting trees of the    felling decisions in   of species for which                               on the species with respect to
trees ln               species affected by       non-state  lands as    restriction will be                              which felling restrictions for
private lands          regulation. Incentive    well as transit of        retained.                                      timber and other forest produce                t
and to free            for indiscriminate        timber rules                                                            shall be eliminated and adopt    l
transit of            planting of  exotic                                                                                timetable for eliminating such
timber                species. High                                                                                      restrictions: implement
enforcement costs                                                                                 elimination of such
restrictions according to
timetable.
Government            Disincentive to the        Gradually reduce or    Reduce seedling                       GOM         (vii) As per covenant in C
supply of             production of              eliminate Government   production subsidy with a                        (ii>.
seesdllngs            seedlings by private       Intervention In          view to complete
nurseries. Poor           market                   elimination by PY6
quality of planting
material
I                                                                                                                   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
00
e 0
Ph



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA FORESTRY PROJECT
SUMMARY ACCOUNTS COST SUMMARY
Rs                                       u   S                                 X Total
...... .       -. ----.. -..--------.       ...........................   X Foreign                    Base
Local    Foreign          Total            Local   Foreign         Total        Exchange         Costs
................ ..............              ......................_._...... __--------------------. ____ .......... ___ . ___  
1. IUVSTIEII COSTS
A. Civil Vorke                                  233.4          12.3        245.7             9.0         0.5         9.5               5.0          8.1
3. Eqiulmnts aNd  Mterials                       79.5           8.8         88.3             3.1         0.3         3.4             10.0           2.9
C. Vehicle                                       23.7           5.9         29.6             0.9         0.2          1.1            20.0           1.0
0. Csouultay
1. Locat Consultany                          22.5           1.2         23.7             0.9         0.0         0.9              5.0           0.8
2.   ernas Cotltancy                          0.0           6.4          6.4             0.0         0.2         0.2            100.0           0.2
....... ............... . .. ,.            ................    ..... .......
Stu-Totel                                        22.5           7.6         30.1             0.9         0.3          1.2            25.1           1.0
E. Training & Tech Assist.                       ".5            5.2         51.7              1.8        0.2         2.0              10.0          1.7
F. Plantation fstabishmnt                     2247.4         118.3       2365.7             86.4         4.5        91.0              5.0         77.9
G. Stidies                                       41.3           2.2         43.5              1.6        0.1         1.7              5.0           1.4
..... ... . .. .......... . .. .;; .         ........  .......... ...........    ---------------
Total IWES         T  COSTS                    2694.4        168.2       2854.6            103.6         6.2       109.8              5.6         93.9
...... ........... .... .... .....           .... ................... .. ..    ... .... .. .. ........
1. REWItEST COSTS
................... ..................... 
A. Saltris  wd Alllow ces                       107.5           0.0        107.5             4.1         0.0         4.1              0.0          3.5
3. Incrmentat Opert. Cost                        72.5           3.8         76.4             2.8         0.1         2.9              5.0          2.5
...... iw.......... . ................. .... ......... ....................    -------------
Total REURiENT  COSTS                           10.0            3.8       183.9              6.9         0.1         7.1              2.1          6.1
.. .. ......... .............................. .. . .............. .................    -------------------
Total  ASELINE COSTS                          2874.4         164.0       3038.4            110.6         6.3      116.9               5.4        100.0
Physical ContingreNs                        155.0           8.6-       163.7             6.0         0.3         6.3              5.3          5.4
Price Contingenies                         1048.9         64.1       1113.0             17.0         1.1        18.1              6.3         15.5
... ... . ..... ... . .... .... ......    ------------------ ............--------------............ 
Total PROJECTS COSTS                          4078.4         236.7       4315.1            133.5         7.8      141.3               5.5        120.9
................. ..................................... ---._....... -_-....__._--._---_------------'-------...........
H as



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA FORESTRY PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Rs                                  US S                             X Total
..............................         ...........................        X   Foreign      Base
Local   Foreign        Tota5         Local  Foreign    Totat         Exchange       Costs
. ..... .... ................... ..  _. ........ ....................  . ..................................   ........................._
A. Project Organization                   188.7        12.5       Z01;1           7.3       0.5        7.7            6.2        6.6
9. Plantation Development
S. Forest Production                  1072.2       56.4    1¶28.5            41.2        2.2      43.4            5.0        37.7
2. Reheb. of Degraded Forest           807.4        42.5      849.9          31.1        1.6      32.7             5.0       28.0
3. Vastetand Afforestation             233.2        12.3      245.4           9.0        0.5       9.4            5.0         8.1
4. Pasture Development                  47.8         2.5       50.3            1.8       0.1        1.9            5.0        1.7
5. Agro-Forestry                         5.1         0.3         5.4          0.2        0.0       0.2             5.0        C.2:-
............ ....................... ................ ..... ........  .... X.............. .......   ... .
Sub-Total                                2165.7       114.0    2279.7            83.3       4.4       87.7            5.0        75.0
C. Eco and Tribat Develop.                 196.1       12.1       208.2           7.5       0.5        8.0            5.8         6.9
D. Technology inprovewent
1. Seed Unit                            13.7         0.4       14.1           0.5        0.0       0.5            2.8         0.5
2. Nursery Unit                         41.9         5.8       47.7            1.6       0.2        1.8          12.2         1.6
3. Pasture Development Unit             10.9         3.2        14.0           0.4       0.1       0.5           22.7         0.5
.… -                         -             .-                             ----------------- --
Sub-Total                                   66.4        9.4        75.8           2.6       0.4        2.9           12.4         2.5
E. Restructuring Forest Ada.                 8.3        0.4         8.8           0.3       0.0        0.3            5.0         0.3
F. Siodiversity Conservation              177.0         9.7       186.7           6.8       0.4        7.2            5.2         6.1
C. Support Services
1. Research                             26.0         1.5       27.5            1.0       0.1       1.1            5.3         0.9
2. Data Base                            18.3         2.1       20.3            0.7       0.1       0.8            10.2        0.7
3. Publicity & Extension                10.7         1.0        11.6           0.4       0.0       0.4             8.2        0.4
4. Trainina                             17.2         1.5       18.7           0.?        0.1       0.7             B.3        0.6
----------------                       .. ..... . ............ ... ...   ........ _. *. .... ...
Stb-Total                                   72.2        6.0        78.2           2.8       0.2        3.0            7.7         2.6
.....  ............    . ... ...... .......... .....   -----------
Total BASELINE COSTS                     2874.4       164.0    3038.4           110.6       6.3.    116.9,            5.4       100.0
Physical Contingencies                 155.0         8.6      163.7           6.0.       0.3       6.3             5.3        5.4
Price Contingencies                   1048.9        64.1     1113.0           17.0       1.1      18.1             6.3       15.5
.- . _-                                              .    .               .
Totat PROJECTS COSTS                     4078.4       236.7    4315.1           133.5       7.8      141.3            5.5      120.9                          F
_._,....._______._._...................................___________.___.-___________--....--...-........--.....-...-------.......---...-..--..---....-..-..---.....-  _ _---_--- 
( D
( m



INDIA
MAHARASETRA FORESTRY PROJECT
SUMMARY ACCOUNTS COST SUMMARY
Rs                               US S                            X Total
..............................       ...........................     X   Foreign      Base
Local   Foreign      Total         Local  Foreign    Total       Exchange      Costs
1. IWESTRN  COSTS
A. CIvil torks                         233.4       12.3      245.7          9.0       0.5       9.5           5.0        8.1
B. Equipments and Materials             79.5        8.8       88.3          3.1       0.3      3.4           10.0        2.9
C. Vehicles                             23.7        5.9       29.6          0.9       0.2       1.1          20.0        1.0
D. Consultancy
1. LocaL Consultancy                22.5         1.2      23.7           0.9      0.0       0.9           5.0        0.8
2. Overseas Consultancy               0.0        6.4        6.4          0.0       0.2      0.2         100.0        0.2
.......... ;................. ;W .... ............ ..... ......... .... ...... .. .   .. ..... .... ........ . ......
SubrTotal                               22.5        7.6       30.1          0.9       0.3       1.2          25.1        1.0
E. Training & Tech Assist.              46.5        5.2       51.7          1.8       0.2      2.0           10.0        1.7
F. Plantation Establishment           2247.4      118.3    2365.7          86.4       4.5     91.0            5.0      77.9
G. Studies                              41.3        2.2       43.5          1.6       0.1       1.7           5.0        1.4
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                2694.4      160.2    2854.6         103.6       6.2    109.8            5.6      93.9                             1
.... ..... . .... ...... _ ...---------------------------             ..... ......... .....
It. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Salaries and Allouances             107.5        0.0      107.5          4.1       0.0      4.1            0.0       3.5
B. Increoental Opert. Cost              72.5        3.8       76.4          2.8       0.1      2.9            5.0       2.5
Total RECURRENT COSTS                  180.0        3.8      183.9          6.9       0.1      7.1            2.1       6.1
_ .. . ..........__.. _. ..... .. .... .... ....... ---------------   ............. ...... ...........   -----------
Total BASELINE COSTS                  2874.4      164.0    3038.4         110.6       6.3    116.9            5.4     100.0
Physical Contingencies              155.0        8.6      163.7          6.0      0.3       6.3           5.3        5.4
Price Contingencies                1048.9       64.1    1113.0          17.0      1.1      18.1           6.3       15.5
TotalROJECS--OSS---.23.7   3.1         . ................ ..........   .. ..... ....... ......
Totat PROJECTS COSTS                  4078.4      236.7    4315.1         133.5       7.8    141.3            5.5     120.9
==_= ====     =s= --- ----- - I--=   =__ = = s:5_,_=====             ==--- = = = = = =
.    . ... .. ... .. ... .. ... .. ... .. .. --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- -    - -- --- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- --
H f
:D 



INDIA
MAHAXASHTRA FORESTRY PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Rs                             uS S                         X Total
------------------------------    ---------------------------  X Foreign       Base
Locat  Foreign      Total       Local  Foreign    Total     Exchange    Costs
A. Project Organization              188.7      12.5    201.1           7.3      0.5      7.7          6.2       6.6
B. Plantation DeveLopment
1. forest Production             1072.2      56.4    1128.6        41.2       2.2     43.4          5.0      37.1
2. Rehab. of Degraded Fore        807.4      42.5     849.9        31.1       1.6    32.7           5.0      28.0
3. Wasteland Afforestation,       233.2      12.3     245.4          9.0      0.5      9.4          5.0       8.1
4. Pasture Development             47.8       2.5      50.3          1.8      0.1      1.9          5.0       1.7
5. Agro-Forestry                    5.1       0.3       5.4          0.2      0.0      0.2          5.0       0.2
Sub-Total                           2165.7     114.0   2279.7          83.3      4.4     87.7          5.0      75.0
C. Eco and Tribal Develop.           196.1      12.1     208.2          7.5      0.5      8.0          5.8       6.9
D. Technology Iuprovement
1. Seed Unit                       13.7       0.4      14.1         0.5       0.0      0.5          2.8       0.5                         5
2. Nursery Unit                    41.9       5.8      47.7          1.6      0.2      1.8         12.2       1.6
3. Pasture Development Unit        10.9       3.2       14.0         0.4      0.1      0.5         22.7       0.5
Sub-Total                             66.4       9.4      75.8          2.6      0.4      2.9         12.4       2.5
E. Restructuring Forest Adm.           8.3       0.4       8.8          0.3      0.0      0.3          5.0       0.3
F. Diodiversity Conservation         177.0       9.7     186.7          6.8      0.4      7.2          5.2       6.1
G. Support Services
1. Research                        26.0       1.5      27.5          1.0     0.1       1.1          5.3       0.9
2. Data Base                       18.3       2.1      20.3          0.7      0.1      0.8         10.2       0.7
3. Pubticity & Extension           10.7       1.0       11.6         0.4      0.0      0.4          8.2       0.4
4. Training                        17.2       1.5      158.7         0.7      0.1      0.7          &.3       0.6
Sub-Total                             72.2       6.0      78.2          2.8      0.2      3.0          7.7       2.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                2874.4    164.0   3038.4          110.6      6.3.   116.9,         5.4    100.0
Physical Contingencies            155.0       8.6     163.7          6.0.    0.3       6.3          5.3       5.4
Price ContingencIes              1048.9      64.1    1113.0         17.0      1.1     18.1          6.3      15.5
Total PROJECTS COSTS                4078.4    236.7   4315.1          133.5      7.8   141.3 -         5.5     120.9
.... .... .... ... .... .... ...==.._2=. .... ... .... ..._..22..=.  2==2__... .. i. . .. . .. . . .. . .. . .
,,,,.,,,_._ ______________.__ __.__ ____ __ __--;---   -----.--'-._---    ====.                             -
(D



- 40 -
Anne3a
Page I of 4
M&HARASHTRA FORESTE  PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
NTRODUCT ION
1.    Profitability estimates were based on the project's direct impacts,
including expanded availability of timber, poles, bamboo, fuelwood, fodder and
other non-timber forest products. In addition, the project will generate a
number of intangible and indirect impacts, such as increases in the future
productivity of land, improvements in processing activities resulting from
increased availability of and better forest raw materials, superior soil and
water conservation practices, enhanced capabilities in the public
administration, more effective local participation, research, extension and
training. These were not included in profitability calculations, with the
exception of the opportunity cost of land. Thus, total project net benefits
are probably underestimated by a substantial amount. Benefit underestimation
provides a margin of safety against possible projection errors.
Jagntifyincr an   esui Bnefits and Costs
2.    Direct quantifiable benefits are from both plantation investments and
the village ecodevelopment afforestation program. Estimates of financial and
economic benefits and costs from plantations investrments were derived from
models developed for 12 representative types of plantations each one
corresponding to project components in forest production, rehabilitation of
degraded forest land, and wasteland afforestation. In the case of the village
ecodevelopment afforestation program, plantation models for horticulture,
farm forestry and forage development were used as a basis for calculations.
Shared costs such as extension, research and expenses related to the
strengthening of the public administration were not apportioned to component
models but instead included in the estimates of total project profitability.
The planning horizon was 40 years. The technical details of the models are
described in Annex 12 of PIV. Financial cost and benefit streams used as a
basis for the economic analysis can be found in Annex 13 of PIV.
Efficiency Pricing
3.    The key assumptions and adjustments made in the economic analysis are as
follows:
(a)   EconoMic Cost of Unskilled Labor.
4.    Since the bulk of the project activities take place during the planting
and harvesting seasons, there is virtually full employment at this time. In
these conditions, the prevailing market wage rate is a good basis for
estimating the economic cost of labor. The market rate during this period is
Rs 20.9 per work/day. A standard conversion factor of 0.8 has been applied to
the market wage rate to arrive at the economic cost of labor.
5.    Given the relatively large size of the project, there is a possibility
that its increased demand of labor would induce an increase in wages rates.
This possibility is low, given t;ie relative abundance of rural labor. However,



- 41 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 4
under the sensitivity analysis, increases in wages rates of an average 20%
during the planning period have been assumed to test the economic soundness
of the project.
(b) Land Valu9oa.
6.    Even the poorest of lands to be utilized by the project generate certain
products which will now be foregone because of the project. The net benefits,
derived from the harvest of grass, wood and other products were taken as the
opportunity cost of land.
(C) OutDut Prices.
7.    All product outputs in the project are non-tradables.  The output prices
used in the analysis are market prices. The analysis also assumes that no
Government sales will take place at below market prices. Since market prices
of all the outputs are considered a good estimate of their opportunity cost,
they were taken as the basis for economic value calculations. With the few
exceptions, prices were assumed to remain unchanged in real terms during the
next 40 years, the project's planning horizon. This conservative assumption
was adopted despite evidence of long term real price increases for wood
products and the expectation that demand will continue to grow at a fast pace
in the future, outstripping supplies (for details of demand projections, see
Annex 4 of the PIV). The only exceptions to the constant prices assumption
were in cases of clearly acute and growing scarcity such as poles, teak timber
and bamboo, when price escalation was assumed. The details of future prices
utilized for the multiple products expected to be generated by the project are
described in Table 1 and in   _harahtra             r.39 SeGt0r  =Jant
-Reoaratien ag-ort, GOM June 1991 (Project File) .
8.    On the other  hand, it could also be argued that the size of the project
will lead to substantial increases in supply in the future and therefore to
decline in output prices. For the reasons above, this outcome is judged as
unlikely but alternative calculations were carried out under the sensitivity
analysis. Due to the fact that no estimates of price-elasticity can be
realistically derived for the next 40 years, the analysis simply asummed an
average decline of output prices of 20% during the whole planning period.
Financial and __onomi' Profitability
9.    The projects's financial and economic profitability rates are
satisfactory. Thus, under the highly conservative assumptions adopted, the
project economic rate of return is estimated at 15.2% The NPV of the project
using a 12 percent discount rate -- the opportunity cost of capital -- is Rs.
974 million. Benefit and cost flows for the project as a whole and for each
one of the programs are displayed in Table 2.
10.   Financial and economic profitability rates were calculated for both the
plantations and the village ecodevelopment components. The FRR and ERR for the
different plantation components as well as their Net Present Value are
displayed in Table 3. In all cases the FRR and ERR exceed 12%, the
opportunity cost of capital. The economic rates of return for teak and bamboo
plantations, which are the largest components in the commercial plantation
program, are between 13% and 15%. The economic rate of return of the root
stock development plantation program, covering about 100,000 ha of degraded
forest land, is expected to reach 18.6%. In the case of the ecodevelopment
program the estimated ERR is 32% with financial rates of returns for its



- 42 -
lAnnex 3.
Page 3 of 4
multiple models ranging between 40 and 60%. The wasteland afforestation
component shows some of the highest ERR, ranging from 17 to 37%. Despite of
this attractive result, this component has not been expanded further in the
project design. This is due to difficulties related to undetermined land
tenure rights which complicate securing an increased area for plantation, and
because the high returns mentioned have been achieved mainly on an
experimental basis, with no definitive evidence that they could be maintained
in larger-scale undertakings. However, the subject will be further
investigated during project implementation. The lower average rate of return
for the whole project derives mainly from the relatively modest results of the
production forestry program but even in these components profitability rates
exceed 12%.
11.   Given the large number of project components, details of calculations of
FRR and ERR have been relegated to the project file. However, examples of the
most probable scenarios for two such components have been included as Tables 4
and 5.
OthQr Econo mcnefita
12.   As mentioned intangible benefits and externalities have not been
measured. Thse are likely to be substantial. By disposing of policy
distorsions, the project is expected to lead to a more efficient allocation of
resources, particularly by eliminating administered prices when they are not
justifiable on equity of environmental objectives. Although the effects of the
project on market prices and efficiency in general have not been explored in
detail, it is plausible that an increased reliance on market forces will
enhance economic efficiency. The elimination of below miarket prices sales of
forestry produce is also likely to increase Government income by a substantial
amount without necessarily impairing the capacity of efficient industries to
effectively compete (See Annex 4 of the PIV, Foreatbas   ndustrigs). These
effects will be studied and monitored during project implementation. Parallel
actions leading to administrative restructuring of the Government agencies
directly involved in the sector is also expected to generate beneficial
impacts on economic efficiency, environment and equity.
13.   The project will provide employment equivalent to some 80 million
workdays and local income will be enhanced by about Rs 5,000 per person per
year when fully employed in the project. Indirect effects derived from
increased local income are difficult to estimate but are likely to be
substantial. In addition, most of this additional income, both derived from
direct and indirect employment, is expected to benefit some of the poorest
strata.
14.   The reduction in the pace of deforestation and forest degradation will
bring about beneficial effects on agricultural production by reducing soil
erosion. The project will also result in substantial progress in managing an
integrated system of protected areas. While the benefits of biodiversity and
ecosystems protection and conservation are impossible to value in economic
terms they are, no doubt, important.
Sensi        a
15.   The economic rate of return fluctuates within an acceptable range when
some of the key assumptions of the analysis are altered. Three main areas of
uncertainty are (i) forestry yields, (ii) prices of outputs and (iii) prices
of inputs, including labor.



- 43 -
Page 4 of 4
16.   The project implies a substantial increase in forestry yields derived
from better seeds, and from improved nursery, plantation and forest management
practices. These may not be fully achieved. The sensitivity analysis indicates
that if productivity gains were 50% below those assumed in the most probable
scenario, the ERR would be 12.9%.
17.   Furthermore, the project will eventually increase supply of a number of
forest products. Projections of demand suggest that demand will continue to
increase at a very dynamic pace and therefore it is unlikely that the
additional supply originated by the project would depress prices. However, if
this unlikely event took place, the sensitivity analysis indicates that with
output prices 20% lower than those assumed in the most probable scenario, the
ERR wouled still be 14.5% (See Table 6).
18.   Since the project will promote government sales of forestry produce at
market prices instead of at lower, administered prices, it is important to
estimate the effect of this policy change on the economic feasibility of the
project. Moving from administered prices to market sales will affect mostly
the bamboo production componeat. This is because sales of timber at
preferential prices have already virtually stopped. If bamboo continued to be
sold at preferential prices, say Rs. 280 per ton, the economic profitability
of that project component would be negative for this component and the overall
project profitability would fall to 12.6%. This results illustrates the
importance, from the point of view of the Government and its revenues, of
moving rapidly to market-valued sales of forestry produce from public lands.
19.   Another general area of uncertainty is related to project costs. As
mentioned, labor and other costs may increase in real terms beyond present
levels. If all input costs increased by 20% the ERR would be 14.6%.
20.   As two or more of these unfavorable event could take place
simultaneously, the analysis explored the soundness of the project given a
coincidental reduction in productivity or output prices of 50% an= an increase
in costs of 20%. In this scenario, the ERR would be 12.2%, still marginally
higher than the opportunity cost of capital of 12%. In fact, total costs would
have to increase by 148% or benefits decline by 60% for the ERR to fall to 12
%. Changes of this magnitude are unlikely and steps have been taken to
minimize these r'sks.
21.   On the other hand, it is reasonable to assume that the Government would
have planted a certain amount in absence of the project and that therefore
only the truly incremental output and not the full forestry output should be
attributed to the project. If it is assumed that in absence of the project the
Government would have planted 100 000 hectares (albeit at a 10% higher average
cost and with yields reaching only 60% of those expected to be generated by
the project, due to lower efficiency) the project's rate of return would be
19.2%.



Annex 3
Table 1
MAHARASHTRA FORESTRY PROJECT
PRTCFS USED IN PROJECT ANALXYSI
(Rs)
Category Price            Unit       Financial Price             Economic Price
Teak Poles                Pole            18                  14.4
Teak Timber               M3           4,000                 3,200
Teak Smallwood            M3           1,000                   800
Bamboo                    Culm             3                   2.4
Gmellna Timber            Cum          5,000                 4,000
GmelIna SmalIwood         Cum          1,500                 1,200
Subhabul Poles            Pole            10                     8
Shiras Poles              Pole            15                    16
Babul Small Wood          Cum            500                   400
Khair Timber              Cum          3,000                 2,400
Firewood                  Cum            150                   120
Bhendl                    Pole            10                     8
Tamarindus Indica         Kg               2                   1.6
Agave                     Ha             150                   120
Sabal Grass               Ha             150                   120
Fodder Grass              Ha             100                     8.
Leaves                    Ha             100                    80
Jatrohpa oil              Kg               3                   2.4
Mango Frults              Kg               2                   1.6
Moha Fruits/Flower        Kg               2                   1.6
Neem Fruits               Kg            1.50                   1.2
S4urce: GOM, 1991. Despite proJect plantings, the shortage of teak, other hl value woods and baboo is
not ertetod to abate In the nxt few decades. Therefore, real price Increases wre assed for these
produicts. For further detalls on prices used In the analysis, see Mharashtra Forestry Project.
PreparatIon Rport, GO1, J  1991.



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA FORESTRY PROJECT
PROJECT ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
t   2         3              4              57                                         9              9             le             t
M.diul1                -X<O14633.0      -59.104.50w    -23,920D    -57.216.000      -24,704.000    15.36.0w0      -9.984.000    -30.0.000      -2,74.00      500,416.0W     .9.534.0W      8.160.0
MW 2M                   -3Z%0300        *14.776.0D    -2.70.000      -3.5203        -9.334.0       .1.136.00     .4966          -1,896.000    -1,3bOO,      IW.104.0       -2.496.0O      2.704.0
96"Mmdii?3X5600                         -14.776K00     -2761.000       4.576.00D    -9.67.00 -0 *.t,00-D 2496.0W                -5.360         704.03      136.4,0D0      -449.oOD       3.440.003
MM                     -29X03W0         -633360        46.116.0,     -29.232.00X    -39.396.000    14132.OOD    -22O.O 0       -24.730.500    195.1320WO    -17".3 O       -22ODS.0 O    395.=W0
Mmii WI                 -*29.324060      -W0230.000     4J.440,0CO     .24044DO     -22.20.000      5S.0000       -19A.0000    -22.520.000    305.320.400    240.120.000    -19.330.000    433.030
M -lRM                   -3sXDO           -7.46,8D,300  -X6D,Gow       -3.2340O0      .3.420o.0      -996.A0       *2,596000     34.23.OW       21.332D000     15.332.000    19.532000      24.033000
Meu n3                  -36.090.560 9.s3.500            -3.4%96,a0     -3.2o,00       2.3            1.304.000     -1.09.0W      -1.160.000     6.3.0o0       33.424.000     4.024.0DD      9.396.0W
Mmi  134                 41544.000        .9.596.00o    45010W         .2.452,00 0     .3.0D0        30.000        -1 0           -.1660.000    27.724.000     2.604.0O0     4.04.000      37500,0CO
U      WAI              c40.200          -46.30         -4.04.0O0      6.316.0        7.5000O       -4.9s5oW       -s.5s6.000    10.900.000     1.364.0OD      X404.00D      1232..0O0     10o0ooo
Mmidd W.A4              -21.714.OD       -466oo0        -3A00          33m0W         2.434.000       30OO          3.z2.0W       15.210.000     6.042,.0      10.962,OW      15.24zoDD     3.2o7.OO
MMWA3                   -2604.32         -1l3l.10D       6S7.000       7".570        133.43.50      23.185.0W     3924s9.cW      39765.O0      37.03,C0W      39.765.000     39>9.000      39.715.000
"M|IiiFWI                -31.5W0            s503.        6".27300      9.619.120      3323,20        3.716.00o     3.636.000      5.012.00W      157200D       5.012.000      3.636.0W0     3.613O20
Tab!r  _ Nd hhuh             -1.013.451.440    -257.013.380   -337.745.0    -97.627.330    -71.535.330    181.743.000    -23.021,000  38.099.000    614655.0DO    1.101.635.000    4137.0W      970.565.0
tL. F* uV y                     0               0              0             0          6,300.0O       6300,00        630,040       6.3C.000       6.30.0oW       66300.000     6.300.OW      6.30W.OX
ftb Mm  omo    0                               0              0             0              0              0             0              0             0              0
?tuaaWDnii                     0            3.730.000      .3313.600     4.133.20       3.349.30       4*313.400     3.552.20       4.313.400      3.952.0       4.33.400      3.952.20       4.313.400                ;
PiA :?w wDod                    0            11-4AOD0      11.440.30      12.549.400     11.547.5000 20                3131.6.0      12.940.20     11.356600      12.400        11.356.460    124MM=
4kb:. WuiDhwd                     0                0          9A4%0OD       13,#.1, a       V.900.       47.791.30      53.306.O       SU.300        5&3.0k         S.43.300      53.306.500    53143303
T44iEDa U                       0            12iO04000      19.70.530     22.61.00       32,477,760    57.6.36D       64.332.14o    65.921.52D     633240         65.921.520    64.332.2      32.049.520
TorTAL  wm                 -1.013.453.440    -24.91733     -117.33        -74,73.730    -39.457A.i    2319,32D0    41.311.360       104.0D20.52   674,.37X0  1.167.556.520   106319.2o4       .52.614.520
h.j. 0f                 36300D0         69900WO        72,700.00     5450OD.     -6.0C0W           16.300.00      5.0Do0        5.O00D0        5,0.0PO0      S.=00.0        53.000.00     s.OW.OW
his Dmn,b~ia3              7.4a00          32.0o0         46300.0        S.00o.0        0I1O06OW      I.000o         1,500.000      l.5o0.        1.0  .o         so0o.50   .000 I.0.0          0J0
TuLh I6p                16500.000        3310.1000M     P.50030       14.400.000     7.000.000     1.400.0W           0             0              0             0              0             0
3uaud.wL iAd.                5.400.000       .3 0 ,3eo S0                      0             0              0             0              0             o              0             0             0
WiW                    3.3000           27W.90D       33.102         71.10X00W     450UWC0W       42.700DW          0              0              0             0              0             0
s     twwuku               2230a000        14.9000        37.0w         13.300.000     1QO0 0          5.40             0              0             0              0             0             0
T4u  9ii                1.6178C0 145.Mo00              isu0.0           20.000    143 .0           4     O.0W=    5     0         m m0         5.20o          530.=0        5.200             S.                  I 0
Nil3Nlf                 -1.4l3133,440    .3 .370    -.752023          -2746,570    -1.017.630    171^32D0    366111.240           10.5320    649.737.40    I.J6735550    1039.O    157,1520 
EKR               15.2%
NPV    Rs 974 million



INI
M-AHARASHTRA FORESTRY PROJECT
PROJECT ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
13     __   14  _            i              is            17             Is            1             2e             21            22             23            24             25             26            27
4,8000        -7,34.0        4.416,0       -.10.2400      .9t4.0M 0      17.260D0       9934.0D0    1.07.76000    14.116.0W0       -7 .0W         -9.984.0       14.5W.0O      -13.M4.000     -7.540DO       14.6O.W
-3.I13.       -1DOM         I.104,0       .1.     0      -.6MW          3.904.OM      -2.4960       463.776.W0         0              0              0             0              0              0             0
-.2.9U        -.C6OW        2,504,00       -%2,60.       -2.496,000     5.504.0        .2.496.000   2     82,12.0WD  4,704.00     -1.96.0DO     -X496.OD0      4.64.000       -3.496.0WD    -1.996.0DW     4.701W
-22,000.000 D  17Xp0    4Mk32OD0    -24.7801300    -22.00.0D0            49.132.DO      -2XA2S.00     -24.780OD0    40732.00       -17.OK800      -22.0.W       482360A1       -22.000.0      -17.A0        407332O.
.19*VDO        *15,0         78120.000    -2Z CO          -19.100        10232IOD      -1980,m        44141W        959.72.0       -15.800        -1960.OD0    957.00          -19.40,0W      -15M.80       959.7290W
19.53Z.O0     A,132.00      61.4000       21.780.00      26144.000      33.Zt4.COO    2644.0W        51.740.000        0              0              0              0             0              0             0
4.014,        4000           9W             3.90.0        40m80          12.040         4,024.OD      7t.160W       13.624.0W      4.624.000      4.024.0OD     13-50.0O       4.024.000      4.624.00      13.624.0WD
4.0           5.404b000     61^4,0          4.40.O00      4.141         72.4400         40.0O        1640           73.444.0W      5.404.0W       4.04.WO       71?1.OD        414.0W         5.404p0       72.044.0W0
12.364Do0     12964,A       1300414CO00     19.029.000    190.0          19.S4.tD       17.684Ow      19.020,0W      32.524.000    33J24.00C      31.124.000     3Z460.0W      32524.W       33.124.0      31124.0D
15.24Z.00     1.Z.0          71.            2.2500W   OD 2,              3,22.0D0       2D.2.0D0       9.45600W      1300D0    30.662.0           30,32OD        13.170.0D     3,362D0        30.62SODD      1320DO
3.75.         3 .76          34V19.0        39,765M       3571.000       38.715.000     39.249,0      39.765.0W      39.765.0W     39.765.0WD     39A6.0         39.765.00    39.765.0D0     3927.W         39.765.0W
.72MA         5,012,00       22360M         50120         2.921o0        3.012.0W       3,636C00      5011,             0              0             0              0              0             0              0
44161,000     5.71000    18.115W            57531D0W      59f23,00      150361.000    59.659.00       3665    0W   1.633.131.0W    70.41 1.0D     55213.0        .69.975.000    52.1Il.WD    6t913.0DD      1.30.331.00
6.16O0        V400.          6.3t0          6.30R.000       6.33Q000        6D.300.0   630D0.000      6310              e          6.300.         6.30D.O00        63WW 630.0W                630      000 6I
2413.000      2936000        2D0.10         2D.916600     20.1600        2160000        2D.160.0D     20.160,0       20.0W         29.160.000     2U60.0WD       2D.160.O0     216q.W         2D.160.       2D.160.0W
3.Xf2Co       4.313.4W0      3952,2C       4,313,4W       395X20         4.13.40D       3.95Z200      4.313.40D         0              0             0              0              0             0              0
11.156,6D     12,42W         11.156.010     IX0.290       11.6           1Z940.200      1     0       124912DO          0              0              0             0              0              0             0
5. 3065D      StAW           5k306.50       848.30054 0 530             58.480        510S0          5N48.300       5.1.300       584.300        584S30         58.84.30      584830         5.848.30      58.300
60.460.0      8200952        84620          OZ.49.520    S14f60.240      819.           846D.2A0      83049.53       69.246640     626.60         6.244640       6S.246.640    698.4640       6.246.64      61.24640
1270621.0    140k43.        1.749.4.20    139.M 2         139.3.2AO    1 51.2102D    1419.240   Zo2595              1.701.37.40   13.657.40    123.459.640    1.98.10    120357.690    131.59.640    1.69.7.640
"M0DO         5.00.D         sSn0          500            s,.a0           S.000        5.000.0W       SAeW.0         SO    5.00D00  SJ0W00 0      51W000X       S.ODO.         50.W           5.0,.XW       SA.WAO
1two             00          I.500OW         500.0O       1.50D0         I.0  00        .50           1.500,0D.O0D  1.s50D 1D0AW                  1.50QOD  11.500.0            1.5I WoD       1.SWXO        1.50.OD0
0             0              0             0              01             0             0              01            0              0              0             0              0              0             0
0             0              0             0              0              0             0              0             0              0              0             0              0             0 
0             0          .0                0              0              0             0              0             0              0              0             0              0              0             0
0      0                     0             6              0              0             0              0             0              0              0             0              0              0             0
00  a  :1
5s            523 o          so. 0           200          1,210          5s20.000        2 S 0o0      5.200,000t     5.0000        5.2D.000       5.20.OD       s.200.cWo      s5 o0          5200          S        s o          CD X
115.421.20    135.53    1.744,445.20    13433.5          L14A.9         16.0I52        134.919.60      645.703.52    6177640    133.45740    118,259.640    1320A104    115.157.610    132,959.640   2.77ffO 
4..



INDIA
MARHRASUTRA FORESTRY PROJECT
PROJECT ECONOMIC HUE OF RETURN
3,            3t,  ._.       6            31             32            33             34            35            3X             37            3S            39
-3.5.US        *3M. 1e 3.40%0    4..X0                   -1402MD        146,000       -7ceo .131 OD    l4.s- 0ooD                -9.9"4.0       -7.34.000     141.0           ..
*0                   a                                             0          0                                           0             000
-as~is  ..486g00     17.54.00          0                            0             0              0             0             0              00                          00
4iblM  .31~S.I00    43350= 0            000000                                                                                0             000
.~A3P  49P009    3.56.22.000                          0              0             0             0              0             0             0              00
*  0             0             ~~             ~~            ~~           ~~0  0  0  0    0              0             0             0              0             0
4.74w  4.UWO       446J24.U           000000                                            0              0                                                 0             0
3M3  32.521100   D.w~~~m           0             0             00                           0             0              0             0             0              C
34.400        3.0.90          1200            00                           0             0              0             0              0             000
3%um          3.4,00        39i,0             0              0             0              0             0             0              0             0             0l             0
*                             00                                         00                           0             0              0             0                            0
*h.S      63510         43010            000            0             0             0              0                                          0             01             0
~~U4.U00  24.1~~~~~~Ub  ~~16~~000  0  0           0             0              0-1$KW    109           09"A           07%4W         2401          0s KD
0        0k        0Mfi              0              0             0             00            00             0             0              01           00             0
0     0             ~~            ~~           ~       ~~0 00  00  00         0             0             00            00             0             00             0
3.94.300      S.S. 314.30                     a              0             0              0             0             0             0              0             0              0
WO'MM           .2b'0         asuo            a              0             0              0             0             0             0              0             0             0
139.40.14     12415614     ?j19".m4.I      .9.94.00      -1024X%0       14116.000     .7.58410      -13$91.00      14.56)10      -9M.9840       -7.364.000    14.16.00     5.571.264.U0D
510.43        S1IMD0        510.90         5.00511       5.00010       5.00.00        510.0         5.00.00       5.00.00       5.00.00        SJ000.w       S.0004        5.M0.000
3.310  U03           1J.50090      3._i.00        1A0.W         1140511        U    = 11400.0  .5001       J1400.00      1.sSLoO        2400M 000w 1.30.W0 .00D
*0                   0             0              0             0             0       0             0      a                                          00
o      0             0             0              0             0             0              0             0             0       00                   0             00 
0000                               0              0             0             0              0             0             0                                   0             0
0             0             0             0              0             0              0             0             00           00              0             0
00 cr
SAIM  5=00D  S.ZD.=  S=wo  S.Min  S.ZDJM         S=ODD         5=00D                                              (D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00 14 0
0
114.3130    11.5.1          .1.4.4         1.610         -5.440.m       9.91.00       -12.78410     -19.184.000    9.300.4       -25.14O00     -12.7310       9.616.000    SOKOK.00 D 23
o   o   e   o   o   o           o             o             o              o             o             o              o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t



- 48-                               Annex 3
Table 3
INDA
MAHARASHTRA FORESTRY PROJECT
RATL-s OE RnTTJR
COMPOQNENT/MODEL             u             En            Economic NPV
(Rs in Millions)
Production Forestry
Model FPI                  17.3          15.0           153
Model FP2                  18.4          15.7           32
Model FP3                  19.3          16.8           52
Model FP4                  16.1          13.4           73
Rehabilitation of Degraded Forest Land
Model RDF1                 21.6           18.6          556
Model RDF2                 20.0           17.1          35
Model RDP3                 13.0           12.4           3
Model RDF4                 17.6           16.8          54
Wasteland Afforestation
Model WAI                  18.5          17.0           41
Model WA2                  22.3          20.9           45
Model WA3                  38.5          36.9           167
Forest and Wasteland Developnent
F&W1                       20.5           15.3           6



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA FORESTRY PROJECT
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
2                 3        4         5        6        7        a         9        10       11       12        13       14        15       16       17       iS        19       20       21       22
Lab.           5.54t     1.670     554      1.5       420      150       75       zo       142      767       75       183       75       100      158      100       75       183      75       933       158      t00
IGmWM            s5         2         2       85        2        177       2        85      177        2        2       260        2        2        177      85        2       377       2        85       177       2
t _W  i           0         0         0        SD       0        150       0        50       133     1.j83      0        217       0        50       167      S0        0       217        0      1.717     167       50
o    _dnb         260       122       31      S1        25        10       25       25        25      500       25       25        25       25       25        25       25       25       25       I.00O     25       25
Pa_             lW         0        0        0         0        1o       10        10       10       10        10       10       10       10        10       10       10        10       10       10       10        10
Tlde             4A4       t794      XI7      Il        448      497       112      270      487      2662      112      095       112      187      537       210      112      612      112      3.745     537      187
ran             0                   0        0         0        0        0        0         0      IIOD0      0         0        0        0         0        0        0        0         0      36.000     0         0
Slwmi              0         O        0         0        0       600        0        0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0        0         0        0
Ti.              0         0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0        0         0        0         0        0        0        0         0        0        0         0
A"               0         0' *              1o 0      0       350       0        IU0 0              150       0       350       0        150       0        ISO       0       150       0        150       0       150
G=              la0      100       1D00    150       150      I0       1501 I0            150I     150       15         0 ISO   150      150      ISO      150                150      150      150       150      150 0
0        0         0        0         0       450       0        0        6C0       0        0       1.010      0        0       1.000      0        0       La20       0        0       1.200      0
IM) 18            100      100       0         0        0        0         0        0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0        0         0
Tosum              sr         D       mD        300      150      1.350     150      3a0      750     1.300      150     1.300     150      3w       1.150     300       150     1.500     150    363        1.350     350
IWrUUNUII   *4343    4534              .337    *t.504    .253      853       3S       30       263     15.6       38       605       38       113      613       30       38       as        38     32555    813        113
EU    17*U
4183
I o0



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA FORESTRY PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
*_       .              2           3         4         5          6        7         *          9          30        11         12        13        14           i5         16        17          18
1*m                   3.39           539        393        113       113       175       75        125       782        358        75        1.061      75        125        lx,s         125       7n         1,325
d                       437            2          2         as         2        176        1         4        176         1          1        259         1         1          176         84         3         176
T    _ms                 133           0          0          50        0         150       0         50       1.413       S17        0        1.924       0         50         2.300        50         0        2450
KM                    w10             0          0          0         0         10       10        10         10         10         10        30         10        10          10          10        10         10
1     Wmeb               3"7           541         m3        261       115       Sl         w6       269       2381        86          6       3.254       86        136        3.711        269       86        3.961
_      ~              :,*-              0          0          0         0         0         0         0         0          9C0        0          0         0         0           0           0         0           0
Feb                   :.0            0          0          0         0         0         0         0         0         3.000       0          0         0         0           0           0         0           0
AWw                     0             0          0         150        0        150        0        150        0          150        0         150        0        150          0          150        0          150 I
G                      lOD310   0         1    300        ISO        150      150        150       150       150        IS0        150       150        150       150         IS0         150       ISO         150
0            0           0         0         0        450        0         0        6360         0         0        1.6W         0         0         13,800        0         0        14.000
1MWBu                     0            0           0         0         0          0         0        0          0          0          0         0          n         0           0           0         0          0
Told w mp   =               700           100        IOD        300        W5       750       150       300       6.510      4.*20      150       8.9M0      150        300       13.950       300       150        14.300
Of3V~t(Wt El                -2,S43         *.35       -.4         42        2S        191       SI        25       3.3D3      2.651       51       45S1        51        91         B.191        25        51        5,271
?UsYB      rw7(P)              250           250        250        250       250       250       250       250       250         250       250        250       250        250         250        250       25C         250
O%;}I1Tfl4      f       *2,795             43          4D       *-                    *59      -199      *225      3.053      2.401      -199      4.331       -199      -359       7,941        -225   *199         8.021
00 Or 0
CD 
0
O '3



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA FORES'¶RY PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
i9        :1          D   a    2            a         24         ,5        2S          a          2         29         3
7        51          3455         325      75        1,55         75       125       1J455        125       75       2X590
I        66          374          1        1         259          1        3          176         *4        1         176
0        96          270         D         0         2,410        0        50        2,790        5D        0        4,90
10        to 0        10          30        1         !0          10       30          t0          10       10         10
as       1A          440         in        U         UN           a        186        4.401       269       S6        7,756
O        111          0 .         0        0          0          0         0           0          0         0        4.A3fi                                                               U'
O       E~W           a           0        9          0          0         0           0          0         0          0
0        UO0          0          30        0         150         0         5D         0          150       0         150
,s        3            90         1S0      in         150         150      J50         I50         I50      I50        350
o         o         lew          o 0  l4w0  0  0    1W           0         0           5          0         0        16560
*O        0           0           0        0          0          0         0           0          0         0        29,700
ISO      7.90        16i710       MD       350       lowD         W        340        1.710       300       150       50.56
St       5.          93            1 9     53        90          51        91           n         25        51       34,47
2%    SS             lb 250       20    25 D          250         250      250         23D       a2         2sD        250
1        4,35         9.9         .9       -1"        97          -1m9     .59        97           -20      -199      3397
0
IDA) 



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA FORESTRY PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
23      2        U        :        27      22       23       30       31       32       33       34      35       36       37       38      39         40
75     1to       73       10       153      n5 73           I.5       75       1O       US      IM       75       133      75      ID         S       3."s
2        *       2        2       17      as       2       177       2       a5       177      2        2       28)       2        2      17m        35
0      217       0       so       167      50       0       2p5       0       50       161      50       0       217       0       50       167      7.746
25      25    2S          25       25       23       25     VW        25       25       25       23      25       25       25       25       25      1.0o
o       10       t        10       tO       10       10      10       1         0 10    10       10      10       10       10       10       10        10
112      -       III      la        3o              112     5= 512             270      5o      1IV      112 Wl     5      112      137     537      1279.9
4-n
a                                                  0                      0        0        0a0a  0           0       0                           0
*        *       *        o@       o        0        o         9 0  0                   0 0  0       0                0        0        0 o         44.791
*        0       0        0        0        0        0     23.72      0        0        0       0        0        0        0        0       0       141,3w
0       13       0       13       0,       I0        0      13        0       1         oD 0    1        e 0     13        0       15D      0         150
13      13       US       13       1        13      13       10       130    .1U        13      13O      1S0      ISO      15       150     ISO        150
O LO             0        0        2        0       0        .W       0        0      1.S        0       0      1,3W       0        0      132.0       0
0         0      0        0        0        0       0        0        0        a        0       0        0        0        0        0       0         0
US      1.35  JU          3m      1.33      35       13     55.521    11    3          1.3150  3c        ISO        1,   1S        3W       1-350    1331
3        m       3        11U     313       30      3      49.919     38       30       t31     113      3       a5        38      113      313     173.35
(0 I-z 1¢0
iob



- 53 -                        Annex 3
iNnTa                           Table 6
MAHARASTHRA FORESTRY PROJECT
SENSITIVITY AALYSIS
Percent Cost Increase
0            10          20
Percent Benefit Decrease    0         15.2         14.9         14.6
20          14.5         14.2         13.9
50          12.9         12.5         12.2



Annex 4
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA FORESTRY PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
FY/Semester          Disbursement  Cumulative    % of Total
(US$ million) Disbursement    Credit
(US$ million)
FY 92 - I                      2.0           2.0            1.6
FY 93 - I                      3.2           5.2            4.2
- II                    3.5            8.7           7.0
FY 94 - I                      3.5          12.2            9.8
- II                    7.1           19.3          15.6
FY 95 - I                      7.1          26.4           21.3
II                    10.9           37.3          30.1
FY 96 - I                     10.9          48.2           38.9
- II                   13.8           62.0          50.0
FY 97 - I                     13.8          75.8           61.1
- 1I                   13.9           89.7          72.3
FY 98 - I                     13.9         103.6           83.5
19.0         122.6           98.9
PY 99 - I                      1.4         124.0          100.0



- 55 -
Page 1 of 4
MAMABASHTRA EOBESTRY PROJEC
SUPERVISION PLAN
1.      Bank Su oervisLLk  Inut.   The supervision plan for the Maharashtra
Forestry project will be designed in a manner which recognizes that major
project components (Nursery Improvement, Village Eco-development etc.) will be
implemented under a flexible time schedule. To a great extent each major
component is an independent entity which varies with respect to critical dates
and significant events. It is unrealistic to expect each major component to
be prepared for supervision missions simultaneously. Thus, a blueprint
approach to supervision based on site visits at pre-fixed intervals is likely
to be ineffective and is not recommended. Nevertheless, as a minimum an
annual review of each project component will be prepared and both a mid-term
project review and project completion report will be prepared during the
course of the project. Other specific periodic reports will be prepared in
accordance with guidelines laid down in the project start-u:p workshop. An
indicative supervision schedule and the staff inputs required are indicated in
the sections below which reflect the concern that supervision be carried out
with respect to the variable implementation schedule of each major component.
(The staff inputs required for field supervision indicated are additional to
regular supervision needs for the review of progress reports, procurement
actions, correspondence etc.)
2.       Borrowers Contxibution to SuR_xri_ion   Periodic progress reports are
to be prepared and submitted by the borrower. Overall responsibilities for
project monitoring and evaluation and progress reporting will reside with the
Project Coordinating Unit (PCU). The forest administration will maintain
records of the project's implementation progress regarding physical and
financial targets. To assist in project reporting the PCU will establish a
core team of specialists to oversee the development of a functional Management
Information System and to ensure the timely completion of project supervision
reports. The content and form of these supervision reports will be determined
during the project start-up workshop. Timing of the report submissions will
also be finalized during the project start-up workshop.   Input for monitoring
and evaluation will be provided from directors of individual project
components based on a management information system which will be established
for the project. The core staff team within the PCU will also oversee
coordinate and facilitate supervision activities. The PCU will be responsible
for coordinating arrangements for Bank supervision missions and for provding
information required by missions. Mission briefing meetings on arrival will
normally be carried out by the PCU whereas the wrap up meeting will be chaired
by the Secretary of Forests.



- 56 -
MATIAASRAFOESTIRY PROJEC
Tble of   ntts
Annex 1      Forestry in Maharashtra
Annex 2      Forest Policies and Legislation
Annex 3      Research, Extension and Technology Application
Annex 4      Forest-based Industries
Annex 5      Non-wood Forest Products
Annex 6      Marketing Arrangements
Annex 7      Village Eco-development and Joint Management of Degraded
Forest Areas
Annex 8      Biodiversity Conservation
Annex 9      Resource Assessment and MIS/GIS Development
Annex 10    Personnel, Training, Publicity and Extension
Annex 11    organization and Management
Annex 12    Proposed Treatment Models
Annex 13    Project Cost Tables



- 57 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
INDI
MAHIARSHTRA FORES:CTRY PRJEC
DOCUMZNTS AVAIT.ARLE IN PROJECT FILE
PROJECT IMPLEMENTCATTON VOLUIMS
Projecat graparation Working DgrAUWn.=:
-     Maharashtra Forestry Sector Project (2 Volumes) - Preparation Report
(Pune - June 1991).
-     Plantation Aspects - July 1991, Prepared by B.R. Poole.
-     Report on Forest Industries - Prepared by Karl H. Kerr.
-     Study of Forest-based Industries in Maharashtra.  Prepared by
Maharashtra Industrial and Technical Consultancy organization Limited.
March 1991.
-     A Review of Timber Supplies Status and Trends of the Forest Industries
and a Recommended Role for the Training Center for Mechanical Wood
Industries. Draft October 1990. Prepared by Wendell P. Clark.
-     Consultancy Report on Forest Resources and Forest Managemnent information
Systems. Prepared by INTERFOREST AB (J. Attebring), January 1991.
-     Study Report on Wastelands Availability and Production Potential in
Maharashtra. Prepared by Agricultural Finance Consultants Limited,
April 1991. Two Volumes.
-     A New Approach Ensuring Conversion of Wastelands into Productive Assets
of Renewable Energy. Prepared by Vinayak Patil and Kanwarjit Singh.
Undated.
-     Oil Gloom to Oil Boom. Jatropha Oil Pragmatic Alternative.  Prepared by
Vinayak Patil and Kanwarjit Singh. Undated.
-     Jatropha Curcas.  Multi-Purpose Plant and Source of Energy for the
Future. Prepared by Edgar Munch and Joachim Kiefer. Undated.
-     A Report on Monitoring Survey of Trainning and Visit Project in
Maharashtra 1988-89. Prepared by M&E, Department of Agriculture. Pune.
July 1990.
-     Wildlife Protected Areas and Conservation Planning in Maharashtra. A
Consultancy Report. Prepared by W. A. Rodgers. Undated.
-     Report on the Workshop on the Role of NDOs and Women and Joint
Management of the Greater Forest Areas and Village Eco-development.
April 1991. Prepared by M4ITCOM.
-     Role of Cooperatives in Social Forestry.  Prepared by Kirloskar
Consultants Limited. Pune. September 1990.



- 58 -
anne2
Page 2 of 2
Alternative Sources of Energy and Fuel Savings Devices.  Prepared by
Kirloskar Consultants Limited. Pune. September 1990.
Availability of Marketing Avenues for Social Forestry Products.
Prepared by Kirloskar Consultants Limited. Pune. September 1990.
Village Eco-development.  A Strategy for Ecological Regeneration and
Forest Protection. April 1991. Prepared by the Institute for Rural
Development. Center for Development Studies and Activities. Pune.
Village Eco-development - Part II.  A Methodology for Operationalizing
the Action Plan. June 1991. Prepared by the Institute for Rural
Development. Center for Development Studies and Activities. Pune.
Status on Forest Research on Maharashtra.  Prepared by CCF (Research and
Education) Nagpur, 1990.
Background Paper on Activities of Directorate of Horticulture. Pune.
Undated.
Background Paper on: a) Forest based Industries in Maharashtra; b)
Colection of Minor Forest Produce in Maharashtra; and c) Wood and other
Forest Products Substitution in Maharashtra. Prepared by PCCF. Nagpur.
Undated.
Review of Forest Technology in Maharashtra.  Prepared by G. F. Redhead.
November 1990.
Livestock and Fodder Development in Maharashtra.  Prepared by B. G.
Cook. November 1990.
Report of the Study Group on Forestry, Social Forestry, Environmental
Improvement and Control for Formulation of the Eight Five Year Plan.
1989.
Horticulture Development Aspects in Maharashtra.  Prepared by Harbans
Singh.
Legal Aspects of Forestry in Maharashtra.  Prepared by Chhatrapati
Singh. December 1990.
Tribal Forest Interaction in Maharashtra - A Consultancy Report prepared
by Kishor Shah. November 1990.
A Review of Local Institutions, Cooperatives and Non-governmental
Organizations in Maharashtra. Prepared by Anupam Bhatia.
Re-orientation of Conservation Concepts Involving New Strategies for
India, Particularly Maharashtra. Prepared by Erach Bharucha. Three
Volumes. January 1991.
Institutional Framework.  Maharashtra Forestry Development Project.
Prepared by O.N. Kaul and D.K. Tandon (Tata Energy Research Institute).
1990.
Report of the Working Group on Fodder Development.  June 1988.  National
Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development.



IBRD 23295
740              WESTERN                76a                                     78'            h ol oha tf slssl
MAHARASHTRA                   MADHYA  PRADESH                      7o8 the ,os--,a feo
erteral se of Thei World B.nk
- 7 ~~~~~~PLI                                                                          G-op.The .oifi'..
and the bo.nd.riss sh.wn
GUJARAT                                                                                                      OOhi  imo
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pr pf T W-l B- Gmp,VR IG AIFL
V~~~~~~      L                                                     ;- X Xo  of >acrnmyr(30 tm/rriton Gor ZoneARSOFOETCVR
aHA~KIt~A~A~/endorsai-en -
74°~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  OA'ER  GHTwh70m/r7
NAGPUR                                19
20'
RATN~~~~~~~~~~IRI~ATA
IYOR                                                 0~~~~~~~OETARA  N AR-LMAI  OE
SINDHUDUR~~~~AN HR
COA                                                                PRADESH                          KILOMETERS TRNSIIONZON
RATN~~)EAT AIFL
EZI SCARCE RAINFALLI 
KON                                                      FORE740AWEATERNDGAGRO<C00Mmm/yrZ7NE
VERY HIGH RAINFALL ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      NOVMBR 99



