Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20970
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(23280)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 88.9 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR
MAHARASHTRA FORESTRY PROJECT
SEPTEMBER 28, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = India Rupee (Rs.)
Rs. 1 = US$ 0.38
US$ I = Rs. 26 (1992)
= Rs. 43 (2000)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
FD            Forest Department
FDCM          Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra Ltd.
FP            Forest Production model
GIS           Geographic Information System
GOI           Government of India
GOM           Government of Maharashtra
HRD           Human Resource Development
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
JFM           Joint Forest Management
MAI           Mean Annual Increment
MFD           Maharashtra Forest Department
FDCM          Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
MIS           Management Information System
MTR           Mid-Term Review Organization
NTFP          Non-Timber Forest Product
PA            Protected Area
QAG           Quality Assurance Group (World Bank)
RDF           Rehabilitation of Degraded Forest
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SFD           Social Forestry Directorate
TM            Treatment Model
VED           Village Eco-Development
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:    Edwin R Lim
Sector Manager/Director:    Ridwan Ali
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Irshad A. Khan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DRAFT CONFIDENTIAL
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  4
5. Major Factors Affecting implementation and Outcome                                    9
6. Sustainability                                                                       10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        11
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                       12
9. Partner Comments                                                                     13
10. Additional Information                                                              15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P010390                                       Project Name: MAHARASHTRA FORESTRY
Team Leader: Irshad A. Khan                               TL Unit: SASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: September 28, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: MAHARASHTRA FORESTRY                           L/C/TF Number: 23280
Country,Department: INDIA                                                Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: AL - Livestock; AT - Forestry; AY - Other
Agriculture; VM - Natural Resources Management
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  12/08/89                                 Effective: 05/18/92           05/18/92
Appraisal:  06/04/91                                  MTR: 03/31/95              01/25/96
Approval:  01/14/92                                 Closing: 09/30/98            03/31/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF INDIA/GOVERNMENT OF MAHARASHTRA STATE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                            Joseph Wood
Country Manager:     Edwin Lim                                  Heinz Vergin
Sector Manager:      Ridwan Ali                                 Jan Weetjens Wijnand
Team Leader at ICR:   Irshad A. Khan                            Bernard Van de Poll
ICR Primary Author:  Ian Hill; Kariyan Mei; Animesh
Shukla and Irshad A. Khan
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: U                      U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
QAG rating oj'July 1999
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1.  The major objectives were:
a)   To slow down environmental degradation;



b)   To maintain and improve biodiversity conservation;
c)   To increase the productivity of forest lands;
d)   To develop wastelands;
e)   To raise biomass self-sufficiency;
f)   To generate rural incomes and improve equity through increased community participation.
In support of these objectives and to increase the effectiveness of project investments, the project
also aimed to introduce fundamental institutional, technical and policy changes in the management of the
sector.
3.1.2. The project was innovative in attempting to improve the performance of the forest sector as a
whole, rather than focusing on a sub-sector such as social forestry, as in earlier Bank funded projects.
Project objectives framed within this sectoral approach were consistent with the Bank's Countty Assistance
Strategy and national and state government priorities. However, some of the objectives were stated very
broadly and the consequent lack of specificity has meant that there has been some difficulty in linking goals
to strategies and programs. Defining the objectives in a well-structured log-frame would have improved
clarity. In addition, the sector-wide approach was translated into eleven sub-components with
implementation difficulties compounded by complex institutional arrangements.
3.2 Revised Objective.
3.2.1   At the time of the Mid-Term Review (MTR) overall project objectives were maintained but the
scope of the project was reduced and the objectives better articulated as follows:
a)   Increase productivity on forest and wastelands;
b)   Increase community participation to improve rural incomes and equity, and raise biomass
self-sufficiency;
c)   Conserve biodiversity;
d)   Improve sector management
Slowing environmental degradation remained an implicit overarching objective.
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1  The project had two major components, each sub-divided into important sub-components as
follows:
A. Land Treatment
-      Plantation Development providing investment for the treatmnent of about 360,000 ha of degraded
public forests and wastelands and 9,000 ha of private lands through: a) production forestry and
enrichment plantings; b) rehabilitation of degraded forest; c) wastelands afforestation; and d)
pasture development
-      Village Eco-development (VED) and Tribal Development providing assistance to selected villages
to draw up and implement micro-plans for the rehabilitation of degraded village common and
surrounding lands through afforestation, fodder development, and soil and moisture conservation,
supported by related community works. In tribal areas the focus was on joint management of
degraded forests. All programs in this sub-component emphasized the participation of local people
-2-



and NGOs.
-      Biodiversity Conservation and Protected Areas Management providing assistance to develop an
integrated strategy to enhance the conservation and management of protected areas in Maharashtra,
rationalizing the existing Protected Area (PA) network, updating management plans of existing
areas and developing plans for new areas.
B. Technology and Project Institutional Support
Technology Improvements upgrading the quality of planting material through establishment of: a) a
seed production unit responsible for collection, treatment and storage of seeds; b) a nursery unit for
the development and management of modem nurseries; and c) a pasture research unit for pasture
seed collection and pasture establishment.
Project Institutional Support including restructuring of the forest administration.
-      Development of specialized support services including extension, research, training, strategic
planning, personnel management, resource monitoring, and marketing intelligence capabilities.
3.3.2  The project structure was closely related to the achievement of the project development objectives
with individual sub-components contributing to specific project objectives. The lessons learnt during earlier
Bank lending for the forest sector in India were considered in project preparation. The most important of
these were (a) the need to move from a narrow sub-sector approach (focusing on social forestry) to a more
comprehensive sector-wide approach including all aspects outlined above and (b) to involve conmmunities
more actively and directly in the management of forest resources.
3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1   The project was restructured and a number of changes were made to project components at the
time of Mid-Tenn Review (January 1996). The target for land to be treated under the project was reduced
by about 30 percent and wasteland afforestation was canceled, principally because of poor survival rates
and a slow pace of implementation prior to MTR. . Flexibility was introduced in land treatment models to
allow for site specific adaptation, and accommodate local community preferences.
3.4.2  Participatory mechanisms were strengthened and a component was added to introduce Joint Forest
Management in 200 villages. To support this initiative a two-pronged training strategy was developed. All
MFD field staff were to be trained in participatory approaches with senior officers participating in training
of local staff. This was particularly important because it provided an opportunity for officers to translate
policy into operational guidance and to clarify any issues that arose. The second important modification
was the introduction of "heterogeneous" training with FD staff and local community members receiving
training together. This approach proved effective in raising issues and identifying solutions for both
community members and MFD field staff.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1  Unsatisfactory. The project design was innovative in attempting to address the forest sector in an
integrated manner. It was also consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) objective of
increasing efficiency in the public sector. The main risks to the project were correctly identified, but the
design did not take into account the borrower's ability to effectively manage rates of seedling survival and
-3 -



achieve the anticipated productivity and financial gains.
3.5.2  Physical targets and productivity assumptions were overly ambitious and critically dependent on
sequenced activities (e.g. delays in producing improved planting material and slow progress toward gaining
community support for plantation protection severely undercut expected productivity gains). Given the fact
that nearly 75% of the total project cost was directed to achieving physical planting targets, unrealistic
productivity projections undermined the financial viability of this component and the project as a whole
(see para 4.3). This was a pivotal design error.
3.5.3  The project was also based on unrealistic expectations of the pace of reform. Dated covenants did
not adequately take into consideration the time required to build consensus to introduce significant
institutional and technical reforms. The pace of reform was further delayed by complex institutional
arrangements as reforms had to be implemented independently by two separate Ministries and a
Corporation. Physical distance and indirect reporting arrangements also played a role. For example, the
Project Coordination Unit was located at Pune, remote from the Maharashtra Forest Depeartment (MFD)
and the Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM), and reported directly to the Secretary,
Revenue and Forest Department in Mumbai.
3.5.4  Project design was also flawed by over-dependence on consultant inputs as a precursor to initiating
project activities. This was exacerbated by the initial weak government commitment to implementing the
participatory approaches at the field level and to institutional and technical reforms. A QAG supervision
assessment made in July 1999 found project Quality at Entry deficient, but commented that the post MTR
design was sound as it reduced the project to a more manageable size and increased the focus on
community participation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective.
4.1.1  Satisfactory. The project achieved several of its development objectives, particularly those relating
to slowing environmental degradation, institutional development, increasing community participation in
forest management and biodiversity conservation. Consequently, the overall project outcome can be
assessed as satisfactory. Although performance in the early years of the project was unsatisfactory, there
was a significant improvement in program management and a greater commitment on the part of both the
Government and the implementing agencies during the later half of the project period. The project has
contributed to the overall objective of slowing environmental degradation, through the establishment of
significant areas of plantations, the rehabilitation of degraded forests and the establishment of vegetative
cover on waste and community lands. Other achievements are discussed below in relation to the four
revised development objectives noted in para 3.2. Key outcome indicators are summarized in Annex 1. The
major project impacts have been:
(1) Adoption of modem technology for nurseries and seed handling resulting in improved planting
material for land treatment. The technology has had and most likely will continue to have a positive
impact on forest productivity.
(2) Introduction of participatory forest management involving local communities in rehabilitation
and development of degraded community and forest land.
(3) Biodiversity conservation arrangements were consolidated by organizing a separate wildlife
- 4 -



wing with the necessary planning skills and infrastructure for protected area management.
(4) Fundamental change in the approach of the Forest Department shifting from command and
control to a participatory management of forests involving communities in all aspects from
planning and implementation to revenue sharing. The Human Resources Development activities
were designed to effectively facilitate the change process and improve capacity of public forestry
and community institutions.
Specific Objectives:
4.1.2  Increased Productivity on Forest and Wasteland (DO1). Unsatisfactory. While area-based physical
targets for plantation development were achieved following their downward revision at MTR, plantation
productivity increases were much lower than expected due to a variety of factors including; rigid treatment
models, inappropriate site selection, limited availability of improved planting material, and a limited
involvement of communities in protection. This combination of factors resulted in low survival rates in
many areas. While some of these issues were effectively addressed during implementation (mainly by
creating more flexible treatment models and incorporating community preferences in planting material
selection) the net impact of this component was disappointing as both survival and productivity remain
well below expected levels, and an ex-post analysis (see para 4.3) shows that the plantation program as a
whole yielded an ERR of 6.9%.
4.1.3  The establishment of pastures was satisfactory, although restricted partly due to delays in the
consultancy to develop technical fodder growing packages and the strategy for pasture development. There
were also delays in setting up the Pasture Development Unit and a lack of appropriate specialization within
the MFD. Despite these delays, trial and demonstration plots were ultimately established satisfactorily by
the MFD.
4.1.4 The improvement of planting material was satisfactorily achieved, although with some delays
because of slow consultant recruitment. Improved planting material has contributed to increased
productivity during the project period but not to the extent envisioned. Seed and nursery facilities were
unable to fully meet the demand for quality seeds for the entire state and at the end of the project period
improved nurseries provided only about 25% of the current demand for seedlings. Nevertheless, capacity
for seed collection, handling, storage, and certification was achieved and is likely to be sustainable. In
addition, the improved nursery facilities established during the project have had a significant demonstration
impact. MTR targets in this area were met and exceeded - against a target of 6 modem nurseries, 13 were
actually established and against a target for one seed unit two were established.
4.1.5  The development of a research strategy was delayed until 1997 due to delays in consultant
recruitrnent. Following review by the MFD in the light of national priorities developed by Indian Council of
Forestry Research ad Education (ICFRE), a prioritized action plan was completed in 1999 which provides
a basis for future research that will contribute to increased productivity. Institutional recommendations
were not acceptable to government due to the large incremental staff requirements.
4.1.6 Improved rural incomes and equity through community participation and raise biomass
self-sufficiency (D02). Satisfactory. The Joint Forest Management (JFM) program, introduced at MTR,
has contributed significantly to the achievement of this objective. Successful implementation has been
based on a long-term strategy supported by a Govermment Order setting out the governing legislation and
benefit sharing arrangements. Clearly defined guidelines for field staff and an important HRD training
program provided the necessary institutional support and required skills to change MFD' s approach to
- 5-



community participation in forest management. The program has made significant contributions to rural
incomes, in the short-term, through provision of wage employment. More importantly, in the longer-term,
improvements in water supply and fodder availability, are leading to changes in cropping patterns and
improved milk production resulting in additional increases in rural income. Benefit sharing, the transfer of
forest assets, the establishment of village funds, and the empowernent of community organizations have all
contributed to the development of the rural economy, but to consolidate gains in equity and gender issues
additional training for MFD staff and JFM committee members is needed. One measure of the success of
the program is reflected in the growing demand from communities to be included, resulting in a large
increase in the number of participating villages.
4.1.7  The Village Eco-Development (VED) program was rated satisfactory by the end of the project
period, although the initial approach was not well defined and was largely based on earlier social forestry
programs, with implementation mainly undertaken by the Social Forestry Department (SFD). One hundred
and fifty five villages were ultimately involved in the program, falling short of the MTR target by 10%.
Forty NGOs were also involved in implementation of the VED program., although only 25 of these
contributed satisfactorily to program implementation. Following mid-term restructuring, a more
participatory approach was successfully adopted based on a significant program of training. This has
resulted in many communities participating fully in establishment and protection of forest resources.
Unfortunately in many of the earlier VEDs a culture of dependency on SFD remains to be addressed.
Program benefits in terms of wage employment, development of community funds, water supply, fodder
availability and improved crop and livestock production are broadly similar to the JFM program. But
assets created under VED are totally transferred to the village community after three years. As of March,
2000, assets in 24 villages were completely transferred to VED committees.
4.1.8  Village Eco-Development program was also implemented in areas adjoining Protected Areas as a
means of increasing rural incomes to reduce dependency on PA resources. This program was initiated in
only 55 villages. It has largely failed to achieve its objective. Until MTR program implementation by the
Wildlife Wing was based on SFD guidelines for non-forested areas. This was found to be inappropriate and
a new approach was introduced more closely linked to reducing dependency on the PA resources by
providing biogas and training in income generating activities. The biogas portion of the program was
subsequently discontinued by GOM because it was benefiting only a few individuals and not the whole
community. Thus far the income generating initiatives have had little impact.
4.1.9  Improved Biodiversity Conservation. Satisfactory (D03). The strengthening and development of
the Wildlife Wing of MFD represents a significant institutional achievement. A biodiversity conservation
strategy for the state and management plans / concept papers developed for 14 PAs form the basis for
improved management. Habitat improvement programs were implemented in 24 PAs out of a total of 27 in
the state and a monitoring system has been designed and implemented. A public awareness program based
on 24 information centers has been started and contract research completed. These assessments of
institutional and management achievements must, however, be seen as proxies for improved biodiversity
conservation, as real enhancement in biodiversity are only evident from medium to long-term systematic
monitoring.
4.1.10 Improved Forest Sector Management (DO4). Satisfactory. Many of the elements of improving
sector management have been satisfactorily achieved despite initial delays. Thus, important policy reforns
identified at appraisal have been completed. A well structured training program has resulted in an
important change in the approach of MFD staff to the participatory management of forest resources. An
HRD strategy and action plan have been developed. The recommendations of the institutional development
study have been considered in depth and action taken on a number of key recommendations, including
- 6 -



changes in the administrative structure of MFD. The design of a Management Information System (MIS) is
almost complete and necessary hardware is available. A Geographic Information System (GIS) has been
successfully developed and is being introduced in a number of Working Plan Divisions. Infrastructure
improvements financed through the project have facilitated implementation. Although important
management issues related to decentralization, target-oriented budgetary planning, and inter-agency
co-ordination remain to be resolved, changes in the management of the sector, linked to important
attitudinal changes have taken place during the project period. The most fundamental of these has been the
training and skill acquisition that led to a widespread acceptance of JFM as an effective management tool.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1  Output indicators are presented in Annex 1, linked to project components and development
objectives. Appraisal or MTR estimates are compared with actual achievements, or estimates based on
MFD monitoring data and implementation experience during the project period.
4.2.2  Plantation Development: Unsatisfactory. Almost 283,000 ha of forest land was planted or treated
during the project period. This amounts to 120% of MTR targets. Quantitatively this is an acceptable result
however quality and financial concems suggest an unsatisfactory outcome in this component. Plantation
survival rates in some treatment models and on many difficult sites were very low. Due to (a) lack of site
specific planning, (b) site to treatment mismatch, (c) ineffective protection and aftercare, plantation
productivity was well below optimum levels. Mean Annual Increment (MAI) in the production forest
models was well below anticipated levels at project closing (see Annex 1, Output Indicators). Failure to
assess the economic impact of the decline in productivity on the overall financial viability of this component
was a major shortcoming of the MTR.
4.2.3  Village Eco-development and Joint Forest Management: Satisfactory. The VED program has been
introduced in 155 villages from an appraisal target of 170. About 15,941 ha of land has been planted. Over
600 communities are participating in the JFM program as compared with a target of 200 set at MTR.
Some 26,400 ha of forest land have been treated and a further 182,400 ha are being protected through
JFM. These participatory programs have resulted in improved rural incomes. The widely recognized
success of this component provides important positive reinforcement to the provisional MFD engagement
with communities and increases the likelihood of expansion of these pilot activities in the future.
4.2.4 Biodiversity Conservation and Protected Area Management: Satisfactory. A separate Wildlife
Wing was created which has been significantly strengthened with staff and other infrastructure, providing a
focus for biodiversity conservation. A conservation strategy for the state has been developed, leading to the
development of an Integrated Protected Area System. Management plans have been developed and
approved for 3 PAs and concept papers developed for a further 13. The formal notification procedures for
20 of the state's 38 PAs are advanced. A public awareness strategy has been developed and 24 visitor
information centers established.
4.2.5  Technology Improvement: Satisfactory. Two seed units have been established, 995 ha of seed
production areas developed, and about 83 tons of quality seed produced. Thirteen nurseries using root
trainers and other improved nursery practices have been established. These have a capacity to meet 25% of
the current demand for planting material, but on a cumulative basis have met only 7.8% of the need over
the project period. A Pasture Development Unit has also been established and about 4,400 ha of pasture
developed.
4.2.6  Project Implementation Support. Satisfactory. There were considerable delays in the recruitment of
- 7 -



consultants resulting in slow implementation of many project activities and reforms. A well-structured
Human Resource Development strategy and associated action plan were prepared. Training in principles
and practices of JFM and VED resulted in a significant attitudinal change towards community participation
amongst staff at all levels. The contribution of project supported training to this attitudinal change is
potentially one of the most important impacts of the project.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1  The overall impact of the project has been re-evaluated, and the economic rate of return (ERR)
re-estimated using the latest information on prices, costs, forest areas, productivity, and other accrued
benefits. Detailed information on these analyses and assumptions made are given in Appendix C. Two
scenarios have been assumed in the re-estimation of the ERR. Scenario 1 includes all quantified benefits,
except the benefits from carbon sequestration. Scenario 2 includes, not only the benefits given in Scenario
1, but also the benefits from carbon sequestration.
4.3.2 The ERR of Scenario 1 was estimated at 6.9%. The ERR for Scenario 2 is highly dependent on the
value placed on sequestered carbon. The valuation of such carbon is a controversial issue, and values of
between US$5 to US $ 25 per ton have been quoted. To obtain an ERR of 12%, the OCC in India, it must
be assurned that the value of carbon is about US$17/ton. With a more conservative assumption of the value
of carbon at US $ 10/ton, the ERR is 10%.
4.3.3  The ERRs for individual plantation models have also been recalculated. Those for production
forestry models range from 3% to 10%. For rehabilitation of degraded forest land the ERR ranges from
negative to 15%, and for wasteland development it is negative. JFM generates the highest ERR of 16.5%
while that for VED is 9.9%.
4.3.4  The overall ERR and the ERRs for individual models are significantly lower than those presented
in the SAR, due in large part to over-optimistic assumptions at SAR about forest productivity (see also
paras 4.1.2 and 4.2.2). The overall ERR was estimated at appraisal as 15.2%. If the ERR is recalculated
using only the benefits included in the SAR calculations, but with the present revised assumptions about
productivity, the overall ERR is 6.5%. As indicated above the ERR of the JFM component is significantly
higher that the ERR of the project as a whole. This fact has been recognized and incorporated in the design
of most of the ongoing forestry projects in India -greater emphasis on support to JFM activities increases
both the financial viability and poverty targeting (with increased returns in early years from harvesting of
non-tirnber products with benefits directed to poor, forest-dependent households). This is another important
lesson learned as a result of this project.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
4.4.1  Comparative analysis of various financial models indicates that the JFM model generates the
highest returns. The 209,000 ha forest area transferred to about 600 villages under the JFM program would
generate a total revenue of about US$ 1.4 million per year. Based on 50/50 benefit sharing, the
communities would receive US$ 700,000 per year, or about US$ 1,200/village per year. This revenue
constitutes an important financial incentive as well as a source of income to rural communities. The above
estimate does not include forest by-products such as fuelwood and fodder, which are very crucial to rural
livelihoods. During the implementation, the project generated about 78 million person-days of wage
employment, thus providing income to rural communities. Part of this income was deposited in the village
fund for further use in village development as well as a source of rural micro-credit.
- 8 -



4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1  Satisfactory. The project has had a significant impact on the three main implementing agencies by
encouraging a change in approach to the management of forest resources, from command and control to
one of partnership with communities. The project-financed consultancy on institutional reform has
stimulated a review of existing arrangements and led to changes in the structure of the MFD. Specialized
units have provided an institutional focus for the introduction of improved technology, MIS, GIS, and
monitoring and evaluation activities, while training programs have helped to create the necessary
management and technical competencies. The JFM and VED programs have supported the development of
community organizations for the protection of forest resources. Management of associated village funds
has built community self-reliance and Forest Protection Committees increasingly provide a focus for other
rural development activities. These community organizations are designed to be representative, but gender
and equity concems remain.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1 Unrealistic expectations embedded in the design undermined the borrower's ability to effectively meet
early targets and covenants. Institutional and technological changes came more slowly than designers
anticipated. Productivity assumptions were overly ambitious and critically dependent on sequenced
activities. This combination of factors resulted in a much lower ERR than expected.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1 Implementing agencies were not given adequate administrative and financial authority and much
decision-making was highly centralized, resulting in delays in procurement of goods and services, and
inadequate control of implementation programs. Difficulties were compounded by frequent changes at the
Secretary level and amongst senior staff in MFD and SFD. A lack of commitment to training in the early
part of the project adversely affected the needed changes in staff attitudes, management skills and technical
competencies, and the failure to select and approve individuals for overseas training meant that few staff
benefited from exposure to ideas and practices outside India.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1  Project objectives, programs and procedures were not widely disseminated amongst the staff of the
implementing agencies prior to project effectiveness, leading to delays in implementation. There were
delays in procurement particularly of equipment and consultancy services. The Project Coordination Unit
acted as an administrative layer rather than a facilitator and sought to centralize many procurement
activities. Delays in initiating appropriate training programs constrained the introduction of new
approaches and skills required to involve communities in participatory management of forest resources.
Forest treatment models developed at appraisal were initially treated as inflexible prescriptions tied to
budgetary norms so that necessary site specific modifications were not introduced. Monitoring focused on
the achievement of targets, rather than on outcomes and had only a limited impact on program
management.
5.4 Costs and financing:
5.4.1  Total project costs, including the extension period, are estimated at Rs.4,162 million. Using
year-by-year exchange rates this represents 96% of the SAR estimate in Rupee terms (Rs.4,3 15 million).
-9-



In dollar terms, the total cost was 79% of the SAR estimate, primarily due to depreciation of the Rupee
vis-a-vis the US dollar (SAR estimate of US$141.3 million vs actual costs of US$111.7 million) . The
World Bank financed about US$ 94.24 million, or 84% of total project costs.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating.
6.1.1   Likely. The sustainability of project activities is dependent on the policy environment, human
resources and government commitment to continued funding. Appropriate sectoral policy changes have
been introduced and these are unlikely to be reversed. Specialized technical skills that have been developed
will remain as a continuing asset and the significant attitudinal shift towards participatory management of
forest resources is also likely to be sustained as is evident from Government commitment to expand the
JFM program. A well-structured HRD strategy and a strong Change Management Committee provide the
basis for further reforms. GOM commitment to implement the HRD strategy is reflected in the State
Budget for FY 00-01, in which the provision for HRD activities is about Rs.4.0 million. This is consistent
with the requirements of the HRD Action Plan.
6.1.2  Sustainability of other important project activities is also linked to GOM commitment to providing
adequate funding for the forest sector as a whole. The MFD Plan Budget approved by GOM for project
and non-project activities during FY 00-01 is about Rs.400 million (US$ 9 rmillion), of which Rs.317
million (US$ 7 million) is for continuation of project activities and Rs.83 million (US$ 2 million) for
non-project activities. A further Rs. 105 million will be sought to replace external funding. These budgetary
provisions will not pennit the plantation program to continue to expand at the current rate, and
maintenance of the plantations and other assets created by MFD under the project are not guaranteed.
Project investments in GIS and MIS have generated systems that are widely accepted and utilized for sector
management and their upkeep is deemed likely. The sustainability of participatory management programs
for JFM and VED is dependent on the availability of additional GOM funding, or on obtaining funds from
other sources, such as GOI or other state schemes. The core biodiversity conservation program can be
sustained from GOM funds. It seems likely, therefore, that most MFD activities can and will be sustained.
6.1.3  The sustainability of project activities undertaken by FDCM is more questionable as the
Corporation is experiencing severe financial constraints. It is clear that the current plantation program
cannot be sustained and it is unlikely that there will be adequate funds for the maintenance of existing
plantations. The future viability of the seed and nursery activities is contingent upon FDCM's decision to
introduce pricing consistent with full cost recovery. Consequently, the sustainability of project activities
undertaken by FDCM is uncertain.
6.1.4  Sustainability can also be considered from an environmental point of view. The project has resulted
in significant environmental benefits (see para. 4.6). The increasing emphasis on the participation of people
in the management of resources increases the likelihood that the enviromnental benefits will be sustained.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations.
6.2.1   GOM had expected that the Bank would respond favorably to a request for a follow-on project,
that would build on the successes of this project and further integrate project activities into the regular
operations of the implementing agencies. A proposal for such a follow-on project has been submitted and is
under consideration by the Bank. As noted in para. 6. 1, GOM budgetary provisions allow for continuation
of many project activities, including the implementation of JFM and HRD programs. Additional funding to
- 10 -



expand participatory resource management programs is being sought from GOM and centrally sponsored
GOI schemes.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1  Unsatisfactory. Bank staffing and skill mix at appraisal were adequate and project identification
was consistent with the Bank and borrower priorities.Appraisal failed to adequately assess the inmmediate
commitment of the borrower to implement vital refonns and also underestimated the capacity of the
implementing agencies to achieve ambitious physical targets. At project negotiations the Bank increased the
IDA credit by US$ 20 million to expand the plantation target. In hindsight it is clear that the credit amount
was excessive and the problem was further exacerbated by the depreciation of the rupee vis-a-vis the dollar.
About US$16 million were canceled from the credit following MTR and, even though the project was
extended for 18 months, another US$ 13 million was canceled at project closure.
7.1.3  The SAR and project implementation volume did not provide sufficient clarity for the implementing
agency with respect to some aspects (JFM) while other aspects were mistakenly interpreted as immutable
(treatment models). While the JFM approach was included in the project strategy, there was no component
or financial allocations to support it. Finally, as the ICR guidelines call for evaluating projects according to
standards prevailing at the time of the ICR and not at the time of appraisal, it is worth noting that there is
no evidence whether sufficient attention was paid to environmental and social considerations at appraisal.
7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1   Satisfactory. The supervision of the project by the Bank has been regular and included an
appropriate skills mix. MTR was extremely important as a range of issues adversely affecting performance
were successfully addressed, although the lack of economic analysis at MTR led to questionable continued
support to plantation development. A greater flexibility was maintained in supervision following MTR, and
during the period of project extension. Overall, Bank supervision staff skill mix and continuity was
maintained. The supervision teams spent adequate time in the field. There were two missions per year - one
minor and one major. Bank managers remained involved and provided guidance to the staff. Except for the
last two years, the project was managed from headquarters with necessary support and back up from the
field office. No deviation from Bank's policies and procedures including the safeguard policies were found.
In 1999, QAG assessed project supervision as satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
7.3.1  Satisfactory. Design deficiencies were overcome by appropriate action at MTR and subsequent
supervision. The project has therefore been able to achieve many of its development objectives, so the
Bank's overall performance can be assessed as satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1  Satisfactory. During preparation the MFD agreed to take bold steps to upgrade their technical
capabilities, to revamp institutional arrangements and to initiate a new partnership with communities in the
management of forest resources in the state. At appraisal the borrower provided data and collaborated in
the preparation of the project. However, preparation inputs were channeled through a small number of staff
- 1 1 -



and discussions of project concepts and activities were not systematically disseminated neither at
headquarters nor to field staff. This narrow base of understanding and support for project objectives led to
weak initial ownership and contributed to a lack of consensus amongst those responsible for
implementation at the time of project effectiveness and, hence, to slow start up of project activities.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1  Satisfactory. Although there were significant delays, the State Government eventually approved
irnportant policy reforTns, gave support to the institutional reform program, and was fully supportive of
participatory forest management.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1  Satisfactory. Once the Project Coordination Unit was established plantation activities went ahead
rapidly, although models were initially treated as inflexible prescriptions. Performance was adversely
affected by delays in the recruitment of consultants which delayed improvements to seed and nursery
facilities. Initially, the approach adopted in the VED program was unsatisfactory. Performance is assessed
as satisfactory due to improvements made following MTR.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1  Satisfactory. Although performance in the early part of the project was unsatisfactory, the
significant improvement made after MTR means that the overall performnance of the borrower can be
assessed as satisfactory.
S. Lessons Learned
8.1    Policy and Institutional Reform. Government commitment to reform programs must be
clearly established prior to project effectiveness. A distinction needs to be made between policy and
institutional reforms. The forrner are purely dependent on government decisions that can be made prior to
project effectiveness. Institutional reforms result from a gradual change in attitudes and processes which
takes time, so commitment must be evidenced by initiation of the reform process. The project has clearly
shown that effective HRD programs bring about changes in attitude and can provide the driving force for
change management, so early commitment to HRD is essential for reform.
8.2    Community Participation and JFM. Participatory forest management programs should, in
future, receive a higher priority than government plantations. Community involvement in the
management of forest resources results in improved forest protection and productivity, higher economic
returns, and a significant impact on rural poverty and community development. The benefits from increased
availability of forest products, particularly fodder, improved ground water recharge, and resulting indirect
increases in agricultural production have been noted. In addition, the development of the Forest Protection
Committee at village level under JFM as an effective conmmunity institution empowers villagers,
particularly through the management of village funds by the committee, and provides a focus for many
other rural development activities. This contrasts with the marginal economic benefits of plantations
established and managed by government agencies. However, improved seed and planting materials, coupled
with sound silvicultural practices, are as important in participatory programs as in government plantations.
8.3    Flexible Project Management. There is a need for flexibility during project implementation so
that forest management practices can be linked to site conditions. During implementation of this
project, forest treatment models developed at appraisal were treated as rigid prescriptions, linked to targets
- 12 -



and budgetary norms, adversely affecting performance. To avoid this, field staff must be given authority to
vary expenditures on site specific forest treatment, within an overall budget envelope. The JFM program
allows this flexibility and the choice of land treatment and tree, fruit or fodder species is made by
communities. Good supervision complemented by an effective MTR can assist implementing agency to
make the necessary changes.
8.4    The Role of Government. Government has an important role in strategic planning for the
forest sector and in the introduction of improved technology. Project implementation experience points
to the need for strategic planning to assess the suitability of forest land for various types of management,
and allocate the land to various management zones accordingly. If plantations are to be established for
timber production, they should be located on the best available forest lands. Elsewhere, it is likely that JFM
will be the most effective system of management, supported by the introduction of improved planting
material and better silvicultural practices to provide increased returns to the participating villagers at short
intervals. The improved technology produced through the successful planting material program increased
the availability of high quality planting stock. However, project experience shows the need for advance
planning to link production and demand for these improved planting materials, whether it be for plantations
or participatory programs.
8.5   Impact Evaluation. Monitoring indicators must reflect project outcomes as well as physical
outputs. A monitoring and evaluation unit was strengthened during the project implementation, but there
was always a focus on physical establishrnent of plantations. Consequently, assessment of project
outcomes, in particular of project activities involving communities and environmental aspects, was difficult
to quantify.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Government of Maharashtra's
Remarks on Imnlementation Completion Report (ICR)
9.1.1 In the Development Objective 1 (DO 1): Increase productivity on Forest and Wasteland
(components: plantations development, technological improvement); the achievement is (has been) rated
as unsatisfactory (in ICR).
9.1.2  In this regard this is to point out that the physical targets of plantation development component
have been evaluated using primarily the parameters of achievements of appraisal targets and productivity
estimated at SAR and shown as 78% of the original appraisal targets. In fact reduction of physical target
at MTR were basically decided in consultation with the World Bank and hence so far as target achievement
viz. SAR targets are concerned, they were impacted by the decision of reduction of physical targets taken
during MTR making the achievement of SAR targets impossible. Thus the comparison of the achievement
of physical targets with SAR targets to rate the achievement of plantation development component is not
appropriate. Again, in view of the fact of projected ERRs at the time of project preparation being relatively
high and overestimated (as already agreed to by the ICR mission) the productivity estimated at the end of
the project appears quite obviously as low.
9.1.3  In Appendix A, attachment 2, page 1, the MTR physical targets achieved are as under:
- 13-



MTR Targets (Ha)       Achievement (Ha)
FDM, FOCM, SFD  )           2,96,789                2,87,103              96.73%
FDCM               )
SFD                )
9.1.4  Thus physical targets set for plantation development are satisfactorily achieved, as per MTR
targets.
9.1.5 As has been pointed out by the ICR mission also, the slowing down of environmental degradation
was implicit over arching objective of the project. In view of this one cannot ignore the fact that the
contribution to the increase in productivity of the area under treatment has been not just because of the
planted material but also because of vigorous growth of root stock, improved soil and moisture
conservation, and other intangibles like nutrient cycling, carbon sequestration etc. in the area. These
achievements, it has been specifically mentioned by the ICR mission, resulted from improved technical
management within the implementing agencies despite difficult ecological conditions. Moreover, the
technology improvement component of this development objective has been rated as satisfactory in para
4.3 Point No. 5 of this ICR report itself
9.2.   In the Development Obiective 4 (DO4) (Plantation Development) the achievement is (has been)
rated as unsatisfactory(in the ICR). In this regard it is again pointed out here also there has been a
reliance on physical targets at SAR while evaluating the achievements. Considering in the remarks on para
4.1.2 of ICR report as pointed out in para 1 above, it is pointed out that the achievements of this
component should also be viewed against the MTR targets since down sizing of the plantation target at
MTR simply precluded the possibility of achieving SAR targets. This single parameter should not be
considered as the sole parameter for evaluating this component. Considering all the above points
mentioned with reference to the issue at para 4.1.2 also, the achievement of this component may not be
rated as unsatisfactory but satisfactory.
9.3    Further in annexes the following comments are made:
Annexure 1:
MIS study position is as shown under:
Indicator               MTR/Ext. Estimate           Actual/Estimate
MIS study complete      Complete by 1998            2000: All except 4 modules
MIS functional          Functional by 1999          2000: One pilot circle for 7 modules
Annexure 5:
The achievement of gender related objective/output has been rated as unsatisfactory. In this
regard, it is submitted that as against the earlier history of not sensitive environment for gender
issues in forestry sector, within the project period itself one finds involvement of women in the
decision making institutions within JFM and VED programmes to the extent of 20 to 25%
representation. This position may not be rated as unsatisfactory but satisfactory.
- 14 -



Annexure 6:
The Borrower performance in the pre MTR period has been rated as unsatisfactory both
regarding performance of the Government as also implementing agency.. Here it is submitted that
the Maharashtra Forestry Project was the first of its kind in the country and the switching over from
the normal work mode to the project mode was bound to take sometime. However, the things
improved as the project proceeded. Considering the fact that quality of entry has been rated by the
mission as unsatisfactory, the performance of Government and Implementing agencies in the pre
MTR period should not be rated as unsatisfactory but quite satisfactory and encouraging.
Appendix C:
Para No. 8:   Assumption of incremental benefits of US$ 2 per ha per year is too low.
Considering the annual increment in forest at the rate of about 0.6 cubic meters, it should at least be
above US$ 100.
Para No. 16:  The phrase 'due to' shall be replaced by 'if there is'.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Nil
10. Additional Information
- 15 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/Impact Indicators
Indicator                        Appraisal Estimate                       Actual/Estimate
I.  Increased productivity of forest land  Variable. Dependent on           Plantation MAI increase of 1.0 to 2.06 m3/ha
production model
2. Improved rural incomes and equity      Not specified                     Community funds.
through                                                                  Wage employment
community participation                                               Improved water, fodder, fuelwood availability
Raised biomass self sufficiency                                          Transfer of assets to community
Increased crop and livestock productivity
Community institutions developed
3. Improved biodiversity conservation     Not specified                     Increased biodiversity
Improved institutional and management
arrangements
4. Improved forest sector management      Not specified                     Policy and institutional reforms, and acceptance of
participatory management approach
Output Indicators:
Indicator                       SAR               MTR                    Actual/Estimate
Increased productivity offorest land:
Production forest established  (hectares)       165,000            130,822                     148,102
Increase in MAI (cum /ha) models
*        FPI                                      3.56                                           1.52
*       FP2                                       1.98                                          0.93
*        FP3                                      3.94                                           1.53
*        FP4  (tons/ha)                           2.76                                           1.15
*        FP5                                      NA                                            2.12
*        FP6                                      NA                                            2.18
*        RDFI                                     1.98                                          2.19
RDF2                                     1.03                                          3.29
2.03                                          1.71
-16 -



Area degraded forest treated (hectares)          145,000            92,694                      121,741
Area wasteland afforested    (hectares)           37,500             10,590                       12,869
Area pasture developed     (hectares)             10,000             6,743                        4,391
No. seed units                                                            1                           2
Ha. Seed production areas   (hectares)             Not            Not specified                     995
Tons quality seed produced                       specified        Not specified             82.78 to March 99
No. improved nurseries established                 Not                 6                             13
% use of improved planting material              specified        Not specified         Cumulative 7.8% to 1999.
8                                        Current. 25%
Improving rural incomes, equity and biomass
*        'VED      (Villages)                      150                170                          155
*        VED/PA (Villages)                         60                 60                           59
.        JFM       (Villages)                       0                 200                         602
Increase in rural incomes                           -.            Not specified                 Positive
Improved water availability                         _             Not specified                 Positive
Increase in fodder and fuelwood production          -             Not specified                 Positive
Asset transfer                                      _             Not specified                 Positive
Increase in crop production                          .            Not specified                 Positive
Improving biodiversity conservation
Conservation strategy developed                                   Not specified             Completed in 1999
Wildlife Wing strengthened                                        Not specified          Posts sanctioned 1993-97
No. PAs managed by Wildlife Wing                    16                38                           38
No. PA management plans completed                   10                 18             14 draft plan +13 concept papers
No. VED plans implemented                           60                 60                          59
No. visitor centers established                     17                 24                          24
Improving sector management:
Sector reform study and action plan completed                   Complete by 1997                  1998
No. recommended reforms implemented
*        Policy                                                   Not specified                     5
*        Administrative                                           Not specified                    13
HRD strategy and action plan approved                           Complete by 1999                  2000
HRD Cell established                                           Established by 1997                1999
No. courses/workshops                                             Not specified                   425
No. persons trained                                               Not specified                  20,490
*        GIS developed                                            Not specified                   1997
*        No. WP Divisions using GIS                               Not specified                    7
*        MIS study complete                                     Complete by 1998       2000 - except budget module
*        MIS functional                                        Functional by 1999         2000 - one pilot circle
Infrastructure
*        No. of buildings completed                                  1828                         1763
*        % goods & equipment procured.                                100                           99
-17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Components (in US$ milhon equivalent)
Project Component              Appraisal Estimate     Actual/Latest Estimatel/    Percentage of
(US$ million)            (US$ million)           Appraisal
A. Land Treatment
1. Plantation Development                      87.70                    67.05                   76
2. Eco and Tribal Development                    8.00                    14.02                  175
3. Biodiversity Conservation                    7.20                      7.70                  107
Sub-Total                                      102.90                   88.77                    86
B. Technology & Project
Implementation Support
Technology Improvements
1. Seed unit                                    0.60                     0.89                   148
2. Nursery unit                                 1.80                      2.46                  137
3. Pasture Development unit                     0.50                      0.65                  130
Sub-Total                                       2.90                     4.00                   138
Project Implementation Support
1. Project organization                         7.70                     13.80                  179
2. Restructuring Forest Administration          0.30                      0.19                   63
3. Specialized support services                 3.00                      4.95                  165
Sub-Total                                      11.00                     18.94                  172
Total Base Cost                                116.80                   111.71                   96
Physical Contingencies                          6.30                      0.00                    0
Price Contingencies                             18.10                     0.00                    0
Total Project Cost                          141.20                   111.71                   79
1/ Using year-by-year exchange rates: 25.00 (91/92); 27.06 (92/93); 30.71 (93/94); 31.64 (94/95)
33.18 (95/96); 35.65 (96/97); 37.55 (97/98); 41.71 (98/99) and 43.18 (99/00).
- 18 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (in US$ million equivalent) *
Expenditure               Procurement Method                             Procurement Method
Category                   App aisal Esfimate                           Actual/Latest Estimates
ICB      NCB       Other   NBF    Total    ICB         NCB      Other    NBF         Total
1. Plantation      0.00     00.0   110.90      0.00   110.90                       79.06              79.06
Works
2. Civil           0.00     4.60     7.10      0.00    11.70              0.48     12.14              12.62
Works
3. Goods           2.00     2.50     0.90      0.00     5.40     1.78               5.80               7.58
4. Services        0.00     0.00     3.40      0.00     3.40     0.21               1.53               1.74
5. Misc.           0.00     0.00     10.70     0.00    10.70                       10.71              10.71
Total           2.00     7.10   133.00      0.00   142.10     1.99      0.48   109.24      0.00    111.71
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Component                  Apl Praisal Estimate        ActuMl/Latest Estimate       Perceg of Apraisal
Bank   Governme Co-financi   Bank   Governme Co-financi   Bank   Governme Co-financi
nt       er                  nt       er                  nt        er
1. Land Treatment
- Plantation Development  95.30    10.60              63.03      2.51                 66        24
- Eco &tribal             8.70      0.90              13.34      1.36                153       151
development
- Biodiversity conservation  5.80   2.70               4.66      3.29                 80       122
Sub-Total               109.80     14.20              81.03      7.17                 74        50
B. Technology &
Project
Implementation
Support
Technology
Improvements
I. Seed unit              0.40     0.30                0.63      0.29                158        96
2. Nursery unit           1.80      0.40               1.87      0.68                104       169
3. Pasture                0.50      0.20               0.57      0.11                115        53
development unit
Sub-Total                 2.70     0.90                3.07      1.07                114       119
Project Implementation
Support
1. Project                7.40     2.10               10.63      3.27                144       156
Organization
2. Restructuring          0.40      0.00               0.15      0.04                 38
Forest Administration
3. Specialized support    3.10      0.40               3.77      1.50                122       376
services
Sub-Total                10.90     2.50               14.56      4.80                134       192
Total Base Cost
Physical Contingencies                                               X
Price Contingencies
Total Project Cost      123.40     17.60         1   98.66      13.04                 80        74
- 19 -



* Note: NBF = Not Bank Financed (includes elements provided under parallel co-financing procedures,
consultants under trust funds, any reserved procurement and any other miscellaneous items). The
procurement arrangements for items listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as NBF need to be
explained in footnote to the table.
- 20 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Cost Benefit Analysis
Present value of Flows
Economnc Analysis                 Financia Analysis
Appraisal     Latest Estimates    Appraisal      Latest Estimates
ERR%
- Whole project                           15.2             10.0
- FPI model                               15.0              9.8
- FP4 model                               13.4             10.0
- RDFI model                              18.6             14.6
- JFM model                                 --             16.5
Area treated (ha)                      367,500          330,000          367,500          330,000
MAI (ton/cu.m/ha):
- FP1 model                               3.93             1.52             3.93              1.52
- FP4 model                               2.76             1.15             2.76              1.15
- RDFI model                              4.97             2.64             4.97              2.64
- JFM model                                 --             3.46                --             3.46
Area under JFM protection (ha)              --          209,000                --          209,000
Wage employment                             80               78               80               78
(person-day/million)
Incremental annual income in                                                                 1,200
JFM villages (US$/village)
- 21 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Sta   orect ycle                          No. of Persons and Specialty                     Performa nce Ratin
(e.g. 2 Economists, I EMS, etc.)         Implementation         Development
Month/Year       Count _       Specialty                             Progress             Objective
Identification/Preparation
Jan 90
Appraisal/Negotiation
Appraisal June 91
Negotiation Dec 91
Supervision
March 1993                          5   Foresters(2); Sociologist(l);               S                    S
Wildlife(l) Planner(l)
October 1993                        2   Foresters(2)                               S                     S
May 1994                            6   Foresters(2); Sociologist(l);              S                     S
IT(I); Plant tech.(I),
Procurement( 1)
December 1994                       3   Foresters(2); Sociologist(1)               U                     U
June 1995                           7   Forester(l); Agriculturist(l);             U                     U
Sociologist(I); Procurement( 1);
Biodiversity(l); IT(l); Plant
tech.(l)
January 1996                        9   Foresters(2); Sociologist(l);               S                    S
Social forestry(l); IT(I); Costab
spec.(l); Plant tech.(l);
Biodiversity(l); Procurement(l)
November 1996                       3   Foresters(2); Sociologist(l)                S                    S
June 1997                           7   Foresters(2); Inst.& Policy(l);             S                    S
Biodiversity(l); Procurement(l);
Sociologist(l); Social forester(l)
March 1998                          5   Foresters(2); Biodiversity(l);              S                    S
Social forest.(l); Plant quality(l)
August 1998                         3   Forester(l); Forest mgmt(l);                S                    S
Team asst.(l)
February 1999                       8   Forester(l); NRM(I);                        S                    S
Biodiversity(l); IT(I); Forest
mgmt(l); Forest tech.(l); Social
for.(l); Procurement(l)
October 1999                        3   Forester(l); NRM(I); Social                 S                    S
forest.(l)
ICR
April 2000                         6    Forestry spec.(2); Program
assist.(l); FAO-CP team of
3 persons
/ U = Unsatisfactory; S = Satisfactory; I = no significant problems; 2 = moderate problems.
- 22 -



(b) Staff:
i     Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation              137.80                       371.70
Appraisal/Negotiation                    68.10                       190.70
Supervision                             207.14                      467.68
ICR                                       8.50                        32.00
Total                                   421.54                      1062.08
This includes Bank-financed and trust fund consultants
- 23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
0 Macro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                          O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
O Physical                                 O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
E Financial                                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
I Institutional Development                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                            * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
L Poverty Reduction                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Gender                            O H OSU*M O N O NA
0 Other (Please specify)            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
0 Private sector development               0 H  O SU O M  * N  0 NA
O Public sector management                 0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
0 Other (Please specify)                   0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Community participation
- 24 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performnance                                Rating
O Lending                                             OHS OS *U OHU
0 Supervision                                        OHS Os   Ou  OHU
O Overall                                             OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
O Preparation                                         OHS OS   O  U  O HU
O  Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                  OHS OS   O u   O HU
O Overall                                             OHS OS O U O HU
- 25 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Appendix A: Aide Memoire of FAO-CP tearn
Appendix B:   Technology Improvement and Treatment Models
Appendix C:  Financial and Economic Analysis
Appendix D:  Borrower's Evaluation
- 26 -



