Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2328 IN
                  (Maharashtra Forestry Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                               and
                       STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
                      Dated January 29, 1992
\0c                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2328 IN
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated January 29, 1992, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association)
and STATE OF MAHARASHTRA, acting by its Governor (Mahara-
shtra).
      WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between India, acting by its President (the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to eighty eight million nine
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 88,900,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the State of
Maharashtra agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS Maharashtra, in consideration of the
Association's entering into the Development Credit
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
Page  2
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the Development Credit
Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) Maharashtra declares its commit-
ment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to
this end, shall carry out the Project except for Part A.3
through FD, and Part A.3 of the Project through FD with
the participation of AHD, all with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administra-
tive, financial, engineering and forestry practices, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.\0c      (b)   Without limitation upon the prov
isions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, Maharashtra shall carry out
a program of reform of the forestry sector relating to
institutional development, technical improvements and
policy measures, satisfactory to the Association, and
shall implement such reform and the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and
consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment.
      Section 2.03. Maharashtra shall carry out the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and sched-
ules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisi-
tion, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
      Section 2.04. (a) Maharashtra shall beginning on
July 31, 1992 and by July 31 of every year thereafter
during the implementation of the Project, exchange views
with the Association with regard to the progress of the
reform program referred to in paragraph 2.01 (b) hereof,
the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
      (b)   Maharashtra shall promptly inform the Associa-
tion of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of the reform program
referred to in paragraph 2.01 (b) hereof, the Project,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the
performance by Maharashtra of its obligations under this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
Page  3
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) Maharashtra shall maintain records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments
or agencies of Maharashtra responsible for carrying out
the Project.\0c      (b)   Maharashtra shall:
            (i)   have its records and accounts referred to
                  in paragraph (a) of this Section for each
                  fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consis-
                  tently applied, by independent auditors
                  acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as
                  available, but in any case not later than
                  nine months after the end of each such
                  year, (A) certified copies of its finan-
                  cial statements for such year as so au-
                  dited and (B) the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Association shall have
                  reasonably requested; and
            (iii)       furnish to the Association such
                        other information concerning said
                        records, accounts and financial
                        statements as well as the audit
                        thereof, as the Association shall
                        from time to time reasonably re-
                        quest.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force
and effect on the date upon which the Development Credit
Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations
of the Association and of Maharashtra thereunder shall
terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
            (i)   the date on which the Development Credit
                  Agreement shall terminate in accordance
                  with its terms; or
            (ii)  the date 20 years after the date of this
                  Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates
in accordance with its terms before the date specified in
paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall
promptly notify Maharashtra of this event.\0c      Section 4.03. All the provision
s of this Agreement
shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding
any cancellation or suspension under the General Condi-
tions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or
permitted to be given or made under this Agreement and
any agreement between the parties contemplated by this
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request
Page  4
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it
shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving
such notice or making such request. The addresses so
specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)
      For Maharashtra:
            Chief Secretary
            Government of Maharashtra
            Mantralaya, Bombay
            Maharashtra, India
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  SACHIVALYA                          953-118443
                  BOMBAY\0c      Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to
 be
taken, and any document required or permitted to be
executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Maharashtra
may be taken or executed by its Chief Secretary or such
other person or persons as Maharashtra shall designate in
writing, and Maharashtra shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticat-
ed specimen signature of each such person.
      Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in
several counterparts, each of which shall be an original,
and all collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Joseph Wood
                                           Regional Vice President
South                                                         Asia
                  STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
                  By /s/ Lalit Mansingh
                                         Authorized Representative
Page  5
\0c                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     Procurement Procedures
1.    (a)   Except as provided in paragraph 2 hereof,
equipment shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
      (b)   In the procurement of equipment in accordance
with the procedures described in paragraph 1 hereof,
equipment manufactured in India may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
2.    Except as provided in paragraphs 3 and 4 hereof,
civil works shall be, and equipment and vehicles estimat-
ed to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000 per
contract may be, procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Associa-
tion.
3.    Civil works estimated to cost less than the equiva-
lent of $10,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed $7,000,000, and all plantation under the
Project may be carried out through force account using
labor from local communities in a manner satisfactory to
the Association.
4.    Equipment estimated to cost less than the equivalent
of $20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
5.    Seeds and planting materials shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations solicited from a list of at least three
suppliers from at least three different countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.\0cPart B:     Review by the Association
of Procurement
Decisions.
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards
and final contracts:
      (a)   With respect to (a) each contract for equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, and
(b) each contract for civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment
out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by
the preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in
Page  6
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of
the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which
withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes
of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist Maharashtra in carrying out the
Project, Maharashtra shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with princi-
ples and procedures satisfactory to the Association on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Execut-
ing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
\0c                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
1.    Maharashtra shall carry out Part A.4 of the Project
with the participation of non-governmental organizations,
and local institutions involved in planning and coordi-
nating developmental activities. Such organizations and
institutions shall be satisfactory to the Association.
2.    In implementing Part A.4 of the Project, Maharashtra
shall ensure that, in addition to the cost of land
rehabilitation: (a) the cost of soil and moisture
conservation activities shall not exceed an amount
equivalent to 25% of the cost of land rehabilitation; and
(b) the cost of allied works shall not exceed an amount
equivalent to 10% of the combined cost of the rehabilita-
tion and soil and moisture conservation activities under
such Part.
3.    Maharashtra shall ensure that: (a) Parts A.1 and A.2
of the Project shall be carried out in accordance with
treatment models satisfactory to the Association, and
that, after March 31, 1995, such models shall follow the
tested forest plantation and management procedures; and
(b) seedlings used in such models shall be suitably
culled unless such seedlings are obtained from nurseries
developed under the Project.
4.    Maharashtra shall cause FD to employ consultants and
restructure the pasture development unit under Part B.4
of the Project by March 31, 1993.
5.    Maharashtra shall take steps, satisfactory to the
Association, to ensure that the jurisdiction of the
territorial staff of FD over all ecologically important
protected areas shall be transferred to its wildlife
wing, not later than September 30, 1997, and that such
wing shall be headed by an official having exclusive
duties in such wing.
6.    Maharashtra shall cause FD to: (a) by March 31,
1993, employ consultants and establish the seed unit
Page  7
under Part B.1 of the Project; and (b) employ consultants
by March 31, 1993 to upgrade selected nurseries under
Part B.2 of the Project.
7.    Maharashtra shall cause FD to: (a) by March 31, 1994
complete the review of the current forestry research
program under Part B.3 of the Project and, based on the
recommendation of such review, formulate a research
program, including a timetable for implementation,
satisfactory to the Association; and (b) implement such
program in accordance with such timetable.
8.    Maharashtra shall cause FD to (i) establish, not
later than September 30, 1992, the PMIU under Part C.2 of
the Project, and (ii) place qualified personnel to head
the specialized units under Part C.2 of the Project and
to take all possible measures to maintain such personnel
in such positions during the implementation of the
Project.
9.    Maharashtra shall cause FD to:
      (a)  carry out the study on forest administration
restructuring under Part C.3 (a) of the Project in
accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association;
      (b)  by March 31, 1995: (i) complete such study in
accordance with such terms of reference; (ii) hold a
series of workshops to discuss its findings for purposes
of identifying potential actions in the areas of career
development, specializations within FD, linkages between
the forest administration, the rest of the administration
of Maharashtra and the private sector, including non-
governmental organizations and policy measures required
to remove constraints on private sector and non-govern-
mental organization participation; and (iii) based on the
results of such study and discussions, formulate a plan
of action, including a timetable for implementation,
satisfactory to the Association; and
      (c)   implement such plan in accordance with such
timetable.
10.   Maharashtra shall cause FD to: (a) complete the
study under Part C.3 (b) of the Project by March 31,
1993; and (b) take all necessary measures to retain
personnel receiving specialized training under the
Project for at least three years in their respective
positions upon completion of, and return of such person-
nel from, such training.
11.   Maharashtra shall cause FD to: (a) carry out the
study under Part C.3 (c) of the Project through PMIU for
the purpose of formulating annual recommendations to be
used in the preparation of the annual investment and
plantation budget of FD based inter alia, on annual price
forecasts, demand projections and supply information; (b)
prepare such budgets that take into consideration such
recommendations; and (c) set the administered prices of
public forest produce for a given year  giving due weight
to the calculation by PMIU of such prices which would be
within 10% of the weighted average market price for that
year.
12.   Maharashtra shall:
      (a)   adopt, or cause to be adopted, all appropriate
measures as may be necessary or required to ensure that
private plantations supported under the Project shall be
exempt from vesting to the State under relevant laws and
regulations; and
Page  8
      (b)   obtain, or cause to be obtained, in a prompt
and efficient manner, all approvals and clearances from
the Borrower or its relevant departments or agencies as
may be necessary or required for the purpose of imple-
menting the activities under the Project.
13.   Maharashtra shall carry out forest planning,
monitoring, coordination and evaluation of the Project
through PCU.
14.   Maharashtra shall: (a) by March 31, 1995, identify
those species, satisfactory to the Association, with
respect to which felling restrictions in non-state lands
and transit restrictions for timber and other forest
produce shall be eliminated, and adopt a timetable,
satisfactory to the Association, for eliminating such
restrictions for those species identified; and (b)
implement the elimination of such restrictions in
accordance with such timetable.
15.   Without limitation to the generality of Section 9.06
of the General Conditions, Maharashtra shall cause FD to
furnish to the Association by June 30 of each year during
the implementation of the Project beginning on June 30,
1993, reports on the progress of the Project, including
the reform program.
16.   Maharashtra shall, in consultation with the Associa-
tion and in accordance with terms of reference and
methodology satisfactory to the Association, undertake
and complete by March 31, 1995 a mid-term review of the
Project, including the reform program, and, shall,
promptly thereafter, carry out the agreed recommendations
of such review in a manner acceptable to the Association.
17.   Maharashtra shall, by March 31, 1995, issue guide-
lines consistent with the Borrower's National Forestry
Policy, 1988, and satisfactory to the Association,
relating to the use of exotic species in forestry
plantations.
