CREDIT NUMBER 2328 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(MAharashtra Forestry Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                             , 1992


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2328 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                 o2-uLa19    , 1992, between
INDIA, acting by its Pres dent (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Project will be carried out by       the State of
Maharashtra with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower r .Ll make available to such State the
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and the
State of Maharashtra;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the State of Maharashtra of even date herewith, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;


﻿-2-
(c)   "Maharashtra" means the State of Maharashtra, a State
of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(d)   "FD" means the Forest Department of Maharashtra;
(a)   "AHD"  means  the  Animal   Husbandry  Department  of
Maharashtra;
(f)   "PCU" means the Project Coordinating Unit established
within FD;
(g)   "PMIU" means the Planning and Marketing Intelligence
Unit to be established within PCU; and
(h)   "FDCM" means the Forestry Development Corporation of
Maharashtra.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to eighty eight million nine hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 88,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement,
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1998 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each January 1 and July 1 commencing
July 1, 2002 and ending January 1, 2027. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on January 1, 2012 shall be one
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%)
of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the


﻿-4-
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time ,.o time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph   (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause Maharashtra to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of
Maharashtra therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Maharashtra to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to Maharashtra in accordance with the Borrower's standard
arrangements for developmental assistance to the States of India.


﻿-5-
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the
Project shall be carried out by Maharashtra pursuant to Section 2.03
of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. Without any limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
(i) provide, or cause to be provided, to Maharashtra or its relevant
departments or agencies in a prompt and efficient manner all
clearances and approvals as may be required or necessary for the
purpose of enabling Maharashtra or its relevant departments or
agencies to implement the activities under the Project, and (ii)
process in the utmost expeditious manner any proposals for clear-
felling of limited areas under Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, by March 31, 1995, review
and discuss with the Association the possibility of permitting FDCM
to raise captive plantations for industrial utilization on forest
lands other than reserve forests.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expend_tures;
(ii) ensure   that all records    (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until
at least one year after the Association has


﻿-6-
received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made; and
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as   the  Association   shall  have   reasonably
requested, including a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of expendi-
ture submitted during such fiscal year, together
with the procedures and internal controls involved
in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   Maharashtra shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation


﻿-7-
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that Maharashtra
will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by Maharashtra, and is legally
binding upon Maharashtra in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
3.03 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary, or Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs of the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-8-
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, PIN 110001, India
Cable address:                Telex:
ECOFAIRS                  953-3166175
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By S      I   '
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ByS
Regional Vice Preside-it
South Asia


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Plantation costs          64,200,000        90%
(2) Civil works                7,500,000        90%
(3) Seeds and planting         3,200,000        100% of foreign
materials under                             expenditures
Parts A.6, B.l, B.2                         100% of local
and B.4 of the                              expenditures
Project, equipment                          (ex-factory
and vehicles                                cost) and 80%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4) Consultants'               3,900,000        100%
services and
training
(5) Incremental                2,800,000        50% of expendi-
operating                                   tures incurred
costs                                       until March 31,
1994, 40% of
expenditures
incurred there-
after until
March 31, 1996,
and 30% of ex-
penditures in-
curred thereafter
(6) Unallocated                7,300,000
TOTAL                88,900,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;
(c)   the term "plantation costs" means the aLgregate total
of: (i) costs of nurseries, land preparation, including labor,
inputs for tree plantations, maintenance and protection; and (ii)
direct supervision costs related thereto varying between 5-10% of
the total costs under (i) depending upon the treatment model
applied; and


﻿- 12 -
(d)   the term   "incremental operating   costs" means the
incremental costs for salaries and allowances of staff of FD and
for operation and maintenance of offices and vehicles, incurred by
Maharashtra and its relevant departments and agencies for purposes
of implementing the Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals,
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR
3,600,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after June 30, 1991.
4.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect
of expenditures to be financed under Category (1) out of the
proceeds of the Credit after March 31, 1995, unless the Association
shall be satisfied, based on evidence satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, that Maharashtra has formulated the plan of action referred
to in paragraph 9 (b) (iii) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement
and has made progress, satisfactory to the Association, in
implementing such plan.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to increase the productivity
of forest lands, arrest environmental degradation, maintain or
improve bio-diversity conservation, develop wastelands, raise bio-
mass self-sufficiency, generate rural income and promote community
participation in forestry activities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Plantation Development
Plantation development on about 360,000 ha of degraded public
forest and wasteland, and about 9,000 ha of private lands consisting
of:
1.    establishment of about 165,000 ha of production forestry
and enrichment plantings on public degraded forest
lands, and boundary plantings, agro-forestry and
horticulture on private lands;
2.    rehabilitation of about 195,000 ha of wastelands and
degraded lands on public forests, particularly unclas-
sified forest areas and revenue lands, accompanied by
vegetative soil and moisture conservation practices, to
be carried out on marginal sites or sites with shallow
soils or with excessive slopes and rocky outcrops,
including testing of Jatropha curcas for such rehabili-
tation;
3.    carrying out of pasture development, including fodder
research, and range development and management improve-
ment for about 10,000 ha of public degraded forest and
revenue lands;
4.    formulating and implementing a program of village eco-
development, and tribal development in about 210
villages consisting of rehabilitation, soil and moisture
conservation, allied works, and biomass production
activities to be carried out involving men and women on
degraded private and public lands used by village


﻿-14-
communities, and initiating joint management with local
people in appropriate state forest lands in these and
other villages in Maharashtra;
5.    establishment of an integrated development strategy to
enhance the conservation and management of protected
areas, including:
(a)   rationalizing the existing protected area network,
reviewing and updating their management plans, and
developing such plans for new areas;
(b)   improving the management of about ten priority
protected areas and development of procedures to
facilitate notification and settlement of such
areas;
(c)   carrying out the activities under paragraph (4)
of this Part of the Project in protected areas of
selected districts;
(d)   strengthening the wildlife wing of FD through,
inter alia, research and training;
6.    Establishment of nurseries with a total productive
capacity of about 12 million seedlings.
Part B:     Technology Improvement
1.    Estabi.shment of a seed unit under FD with sole respon-
sibilities for selecting and developing suitable seed sources,
organizing harvesting, and storing and distributing adequate
quantities of seed.
2.    Upgrading of nurseries through installing overhead irrigation
and development of root trainers.
3.    Carrying out of a review of the current forestry research
program and identifying research priorities for the near and long
term.
4.    Restructuring the pasture development unit for developing
fodder and pasture treatment models, enhancing sylvi-pasture
management and seed production.


﻿- 15 -
Part C:     Institutional Development
1.    Provision of staff, offices, vehicles, equipment and training
for purposes of carrying out the Project.
2.    Establishment of specialized units for purposes of carrying
out the Project, including PCU for coordination, PMIU for strategic
planning and market intelligence, and other units in the areas of
management information system, research, extension, village eco-
development, training and publicity, and provision of technical
assistance relating thereto.
3.    Carrying out of studies on: (a) forest administration
restructuring; (b) assessing the capacity of existing training
institutions and future needs; (c) analyzing seedling pricing and
demand; (d) identifying interventions on timber forest products;
(e) analyzing the policy and incentives framework; and (f) bio-
diversity conservation for designing an integrated protected area
strategy.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1998.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an    amount
equivalent to $6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the


﻿- 17 -
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding  the provisions of paragraph    3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once  the  total unwithdrawn  amount of   the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such


﻿- 18 -
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expendi-
tures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified.       Unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
.6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant    provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


