Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAtL 1'SE ONLY
Report No. 2230-LSO
LESOTHO
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
March 1, 1979
Energy & Water Supply Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                     Rand (R)
US$                           =   Rand 0.87
1 Rand                            US$ 1.15
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDF                        = African Development Fund
Binnie                      =  Binnie and Partners, U.K.
FRG                         =  Federal Republic of Germany
Government (GOL)            =  Government of Lesotho
HMSB                        =  Hydrological and Metereological Services Branch,
Ministry of Public Works (MOW)
KfW                         =  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MHSW                        = Ministry of Health and Social Welfare
MGMT                        = Ministry of Geology, Mines and Tourism
MF                          = Ministry of Finance, Planning and Statistics
MI                          = Ministry of Interior
MW                          = Ministry of Works
NUL                         =  National University of Lesotho
ODM                         = Ministry of Overseas Development, U.K.
RSA                         =  Republic of South Africa
UK                          =  United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland
USAID                       =  United States Agency for International Development
VWS                         =  Village Water Supply Branch, Ministry of
Rural Development (MRD)
WHO                         =  World Health Organization
WSB                         =  Water & Sewerage Branch, MW
WEIGHTS, LENGTH AND MEASURES
1 Acre-foot (ac. ft.)           =  1233.5 cubic meters
1 Imperial Gallon (Ig)          =  1.2 US gallons = 4.55 liters
1 cubic meter (m )              =  220 Ig or 264.2 US gallons
1 million Imperial                        3
gallons per day (Imgd)        =  4,546 m Aday
I liter per second (1/sec)    =  0.0864 m /day (19,005 Ig/day or 22,824
US gallons/day
1 meter (m)                     =  3.28 feet (39.37 inches)
1 millimeter (mm)               =  0.039 inches
1 kilometer (km)       2        =  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km )        =  0.386 square miles (or 247 acres)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



LESOTHO                         FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    THE WATER SUPPLY AND WASTE DISPOSAL  SECTOR                     ................       1
Country Background  . * * * *         ..................... .... . ...... .     1
Water Resources  . ....          ....................... . . .  **.....         2
Sector Organization and Development  ..................                         2
Present Service Levels  .....                ..........................         4
Service Level Goals  ...................................                        6
Implications  of Meeting Sector Goals  .                  ................      7
Possible Constraints  .....              .........................              8
II.    POPULATION, SECTOR SERVICES AND DEMAND IN PROJECT AREA  ....                            8
Location  ...........................................................           8
Regional Development Prospects  ....                  ...................       9
Sector Agencies  ...           .........................         ..........     9
Existing Water Supply and Waste Disposal Systems                     .....      9
Population Served and Standards  of Service  ............                      11
Population Projections and Demands  for Service                    .......    12
Project Rationale  ...             ...................................        14
III.    THE PROJECT            .......................        ........................         15
Genesis  ............................................................         15
Objectives  .......          ........................ ............            16
Technological Alternatives  and Service Standards                    .....    16
Description of Project Components  ....................                        17
Cost Estimates  .......................................                       18
Project Financing  ....................................                       20
Implementation  .......................................                       20
Water Resource Aspects  ...............................                       21
Environmental  and Health Aspects                   .....................     21
Procurement                 ..........................................        22
Disbursements  .............         ..    .............. ...........         23
IV.    ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS  .............................                           23
Project Benefits  ..............               .......................        23
Least Cost Solution ...............             ..      .................     24
Rate of Return and Pricing Considerations  ....                   ........     24
Impact on Poverty Group  .........                 .....................      25
Project Risks  ...... ..............                ....................      25
This report was prepared by Messrs. E. LaBahn and E. Greenwood and is based
upon information obtained during a mission to Lesotho in May 1978.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                            Page No.
V.   THE BORROWER AND THE PROJECT IMPLEMENTING AGENCY ..........   25
Lending Arrangements ...... . . . ..  ........ ......  ..   25
Implementing Agency ............       .....................   25
Future Organizational Plans         ......................   26
Management and Personnel                  ..... *........    26
Management Systems  .. .O.  ......... ...... ............... .    27
Billings and Collections       .............................    28
Audit ................ ...................................    28
Manpower Development and Training       ........4  ..........    28
VI.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ......... .. . . . .. .  ............. .......... ......    29
Past Performance and Present Financial Situation .....   29
Revenues ......................................   ......... .......    30
Financing Plan ................ ......  ............ .   31
Monitoring and Evaluation Criteria ...................   33
VII. AGREEKENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .....................   34
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX          Description
1             Population Projections
2             Future Water Demands
3             Description of Proposed Construction Components
4             Construction Cost Estimates
5             Project Implementation Schedule
6             Schedule of Disbursements from IDA Credit
7             Organization Chart of Ministry of Works
8             Income Statement Projections
9             Cash Flow Projections
10             Balance Sheet Projections
11             Notes to Financial Projections
12             Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
MAP
IBRD 13825-Lesotho Water Supply Project



LESOTHO
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
I. THE WATER SUPPLY AND WASTE DISPOSAL SECTOR
Country Background
1.01      Lesotho, with an area of 30,344 km  (11,716 sq. mi.), is situated
close to the southerly extremity of Africa and is entirely surrounded by the
Republic of South Africa (RSA). The country consists mainly of the highest
part of the great plateau of southern Africa and nearly 75% of the country
ranges from 1,800 to 3,300 m (6,000 to 11,000 ft) in ground surface elevation.
Soil cover is generally shallow with little vegetative growth and severe soil
erosion is widespread. Lowlands situated mainly in the west and southwest
are associated with three principal southwest - trending rivers, namely the
Caledon, the Makhaleng, and the Senqu (or Orange).
1.02      The climate is moderate due to Lesotho's high elevation, despite the
subtropical latitude (about 30  South).  Rainfall varies widely, both as to
location and time. Over 75% of the land area has more than 635 mm (25 inches)
of average annual rainfall with the highest totals occurring in the highlands.
Mean daily temperatures are rather low, ranging from 70 C during winter to 21 C
during summer in the lowlands and ranging from -120 to 15 C in the highlands.
1.03      Other than water, Lesotho has scanty natural resources, and the
economy depends mainly upon tourism, subsistence agriculture, and upon
remittances from migrant Basutos employed in RSA. Little industrial develop-
ment has occurred to date although Government is attempting to encourage this
through the introduction of industrial estates.
1.04      The population of Lesotho was estimated at 1.2 million in 1975
and increasing at a rate of 2.2% per year. The urban population of Maseru
comprises about 3% (about 40,000 persons) of the total and has been growing
at about 7% per year. The population of small towns has been growing at a
lesser rate, generally ranging from 2 to 5% per year.
1.05      The general health of the Basuto is poor and water-related disease
is a significant factor in this. Principal water-related diseases reported
are: diarrhoeal disease, typhoid, hepatitis, polio and infectious skin and
eye-diseases. The incidence of diarrhoeal disease and typhoid tends to peak
in Lesotho during the rainy season. Recent studies in rural areas have
indicated that there are no perceived differences in the prevalence, epide-
miology and seasonality of water-related disease in villages with and without
improved water supplies, indicating that hygiene at personal and household
levels is little understood or practiced and implying a need for intensified
health education.



Water Resources
1.06      Lesotho's water resources are substantial although availability
is constrained significantly by location and seassn.  The total annual
resource has been estimated to be 4,500 million m (3.6 million ac. ft.)
of which surface water represents over 99%. However, due to more extended
durations of flows and generally better and more uniform water quality,
springs and boreholes--particularly the former--are used widely throughout
Lesotho to meet domestic water demands in rural areas. Due to steep slopes
and little alluvium, runoff tends to be rapid and carryover storage fre-
quently is necessary for supplies dependent upon surface sources. Natural
water quality of all supplies is good relative to chemical characteristics.
Supplies from boreholes and protected springs generally have good overall
quality throughout the year. Due to high turbidity, suspended solids concen-
trations, and fecal pollution, surface sources normally are used only for
urban supplies involving relatively large quantities, and for which water
treatment is provided.
1.07      Although records obtained from 68 meteorological stations and 38
stream gaging stations appear to be satisfactory, geographical coverage of the
latter is only fair and additional stations need to be established. Informa-
tion relative to ground water currently is limited but efforts to improve this
are underway.
1.08      Little use (less than 1%) is made of the total water resource and
there is little likelihood that this will change significantly due to the
country's limited potential for agriculture, industry and energy consumption.
With this is mind, GOL is cooperating with RSA in investigations of the
feasibility of exporting a portion of Lesotho's surplus surface water supplies
to RSA. 1/ In recognition of this possibility, GOL has authorized studies of
internal water needs and recently passed the Water Resources Act of 1978.
The Act, which recognizes domestic use as paramount, empowers the responsible
Minister to prepare regulations for implementation and enforcement.
Sector Organization and Development
1.09      Five different ministries are active in the sector.  Two of these,
the Ministry of Works (MW) and the Ministry of Rural Development (MRD),
have principal roles while the remainder mainly are supportive. As part of
an effort to reorganize the water supply and sewerage sector, GOL recently
decided to create a new ministry 2/ in which water supply activities would be
concentrated, but administrative arrangements regarding the transfer of
activities to the new Ministry have yet to be worked out.
1/ This cooperation is a follow up to earlier discussions of a possible
smaller-scale scheme to divert surplus water from the Malibamatso River
for sale to RSA;
2/ The Ministry of Water, Power and National Resources.



- 3 -
1.10      MW participates through its Water and Sewerage Branch (WSB) and
its Hydrological and Meteorological Services Branch (HMSB). WSB provides
water service in nine district headquarters towns (including the capital,
Maseru) and a newly developed town located in central Lesotho, in addition to
sewer service in two of these towns. WSB will manage water systems in four
other towns 1/ as soon as facilities are provided and, similarly, WSB intends
to take over the existing water system in the town of Roma from the National
University of Lesotho (NUL). WSB also operates tanker trucks to service
septic tanks located in Maseru and in certain of the district headquarters
towns. Additional description of WSB, which would be the executing agency
under the Project, is given in Chapter V. HMSB develops and maintains
hydrologic and meteorologic networks, and maintains supporting records. MRD
is responsible for implementing and operating water supply schemes in rural
areas of Lesotho through its Village Water Supply (VWS) section.
1.11      Ministry of Interior (MI) participation in the sector is limited
to Maseru and the district headquarters towns where it is responsible for
removal and disposal of night soil from bucket latrines. The Ministry of
Geology, Mines and Tourism (MGMT) carries out ground water investigations and
surveys Lesotho's ground water resources. The Ministry of Health and Social
Welfare (MHSW) operates a public health laboratory and administers an external
assistance grant to improve latrines and water supplies at 600 primary schools.
Other support functions provided by MHSW include mainly health education, the
maintenance of health statistics, and the monitoring of solid waste disposal.
A summary of principal organizational responsibilities in the sector is shown
below.
Sanitation
Water    Water Supply           Night Soil  Environmental
Responsible Agency  Resources  Urban  Rural  Sewers  Collection        Health
MGMT                     X
MHSW                                                                        X
MI                                                            X
MRD (VWS)                                 x
MW
HMSB                 X
WSB                           X                X
1/   Design of water facilities for these towns (Mapoteng, Maputsoe, Morija
and Peka), which are presently without public water supply or wastewater
systems, currently is underway. These towns are included in the ongoing
six-town water supply project in which external assistance is being
provided by the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG).



-4-
1.12      All new projects are processed through the Planning and Development
Office of the Mlinistry of Finance, Planning and Statistics (MF). Projects are
prepared by consultants and financed mainly by bilateral and multilateral
assistance agencies usually on grant terms. For population centers, design of
proposed projects is by consultants, construction is mainly by contract with
some minor works by force account, and maintenance and operation is by WSB.
Accounting and personnel administration are by staff seconded to WSB from MF
and from the Administration branch of MIW (para. 5.02).
1.13      In rural areas VWS is responsible for planning and design.  Grant
funds are used for financing capital costs, while local input consists of
self-help construction, maintenance and operation. Recent proposals suggest
strengthening VWS to also provide construction and major maintenance while
local input would be limited mainly to operation and minor maintenance. GOL
would absorb recurring expense while donor funds would continue to be sought
for financing capital works.
1.14      There is a need for WSB to improve its liaison with other agencies
active in the sector. In order to improve daily operations and planning for
future development, it is particularly important that WSB develop stronger
working relationships with HMSB, MHSW and MI. Moreover, WSB effectiveness
is hampered by a lack of autonomy and authority in accounting and personnel
matters. GOL recognizes the need for more autonomy but, based on experience,
considers it prudent to proceed slowly. In May 1978, as a first step, the
Minister of Finance issued directions covering WSB's operations known as the
"Water and Sewerage Service Directions". These directions would give WSB a
measure of autonomy in its operations and require commercial accounts to be
prepared. WSB's operations would be transferred to the new Ministry of Water,
Power and Natural Resources (para. 1.09), as soon as administrative arrange-
ments can be made, but its scope of operations would remain unchanged.
Present Service Levels
1.15      Close to 100% of the urban population and a substantially lower
percentage 1/ of the rural population reportedly had reasonable access to
piped water supplies in 1975. However, the former figure reflects the
central core of Maseru, which is the only town which can reasonably be
classified as urban. Remaining towns, none of which has a population
exceeding 6,000, can be classified as rural centers with low-density, rural-
type development. In Maseru and in the eight district headquarters towns,
treated water is delivered to domestic customers through inside taps, outside
1/   Accurate figures are unavailable although the Second Five Year
Development Plan reports that 16% of the rural population was served
in 1975 by 300 village water schemes. Another estimate is given for
the same date by Feachem et al in "Water, Health and Development,
An Interdisciplinary Evaluation" published in 1978 which states that
"... at the most, 12% of the (rural) population have access to a
protected water supply of some description ...



- 5 -
taps, and public standposts. An early 1978 field survey of the Maseru peri-
urban area indicated that, of population resident in about 9,900 dwelling
units, virtually none had water service from inside taps; 9% were served from
outside taps; 15% from public standposts; 52% depend upon springs or private
boreholes and 29% purchase water from private supplies or other householders.
Rural supplies, which provide little, if any, control of water quality, are
available mainly at the source or from public standposts. Although a break-
down of population by service level for urban areas is unavailable, the
following table indicates levels of service, in terms of connections and
consumption, for WSB - served areas.
Connections             ennual Consumption
Service Level                 Number  % of Total         m  x 000   % of Total
For Central Maseru, 1976
Private connection 1/           2,800        99            1,113          95
Public standpost                   27         1               63           5
Total                       2,827      100            1,176         100
For Eight District Headquarters Towns, 1976
Inside tap                        663        42               90         35
Outside tap                       795        50               53         20
Public standpost                  119         8              117         45
Total                      1,577       100              260         100
1/   Includes all categories of private connections for domestic, commercial,
industrial and institutional usage.
1.16      In Maseru where sewer service is provided to about 50% of the
population, the system currently is being modified (but not enlarged)
through external assistance from the United Kingdom's Ministry of Overseas
Development (ODM). The balance of the urban population generally is served by
bucket latrines or pit privies although, in some instances, conservancy tanks
or septic tanks are used.  About 50% of the population of Maseru's peri-urban
area are served through pit and bucket latrines while the balance have no
sanitation facilities whatsoever.



1.17      WSB supplies generally are metered and a flat rate tariff of RI per
thousand Ig (US$0.96 per thousand US gal), which covers only a portion of the
total cost of service, is levied. GOL subsidizes remaining costs. Customers
with private connections are charged whereas users of water obtained from
public standposts are not. All payments for water service are collected at
WSB's head office and district revenue offices and paid into GOL's Consoli-
dated Revenue Fund. Piped water supplies in rural areas are not metered nor
are charges levied. However, payment of a portion of the capital cost
sometimes is made by the user to the extent that the local area contributes
to the original cost of construction (para. 1.13). The remainder of costs
are met by GOL. Charges are levied for sanitation services in urban areas
but the charges do not recover all costs. Those customers connected to sewers
are charged directly by WSB based upon the number of water-using facilities
contained in the building being served. Customers receiving other forms of
sanitation service are billed by MI. All payments for sewer and/or sanita-
tion service are received by the Treasury.
Service Level Goals
1.18      GOL's sector objectives and development strategy, as reflected
by the first and second five-year development plans (1970/71 - 1974/75 and
1975/76 - 1979/80, respectively), include surveying the country's water
resources and projecting future water needs. Although there is no stated
objective as to levels of service or percentage of population to be served by
target dates, the plans provide for the construction of water supply facili-
ties to serve specific population centers and given numbers of villages during
the plan periods. With respect to sewerage, except in Maseru, reticulated
systems in urban areas are not considered necessary but there is provision
in the development plan to improve other types of sanitary services.
1.19      Although overall sector development objectives and planning are
incomplete, reasonable progress has been made. Sector objectives of the
first plan generally have been achieved. However, there was an admitted
underestimation of costs and of the time required to get development projects
underway, which together resulted in actual capital expenditures about 25%
short of the plan target. Implementation of the second plan is still in
progress but it seems there will be creditable success in meeting sector
objectives. These objectives include: the continuation of studies of water
resources and needs; the preparation of a long-range plan for future expansion
of the l4aseru water supply system and a limited expansion of that system;
the completion of studies (including those concerning tariffs) and plans for
water supply facilities in about a dozen towns and the beginning of construc-
tion of those facilities which would be phased over the second and third plan
periods; and the construction of at least 200 village water supply schemes.
GOL investment in actual construction of village water supplies under the
second plan would about equal those for urban water supply facilities and
this allocation seems reasonable since the value of the self-help contribu-
tions in rural areas is not reflected in the development plan.



1.20      For sewerage, the second plan objectives are confined to modifica-
tion of the Maseru system; improved sanitation facilities in all other urban
centers; and a review of the sewer tariff structure and sewerage financing.
The second plan fund allocation for sewerage is about 30% of the total for the
sector.
1.21      The second plan includes a sector related program for the installa-
tion of water supplies and toilet facilities at primary schools. GOL expects
this to serve as a demonstration for the promotion of pit latrines in rural
areas.  Public health, community development and other field personnel also
are supposed to expand their educational programs to encourage the installa-
tion and use of pit latrines.
Implications of Meeting Sector Goals
1.22      The second development plan allocated about R6.6 million to the
sector including funds for studies of national water resources and needs,
technical assistance, and training. Although the total sector allocation for
the second plan is almost four times actual sector expenditures under the
first plan, it represents only about 6% of the R 111.6 million public invest-
ment proposed under the second plan for all sectors.
1.23      Capital financing for the sector has not been a constraint to date
and it is not expected to be one during the next several years. Considerable
assistance has been provided by various external sources of financial and tech-
nical aid 1/ and this is expected to continue. In particular, Kreditanstalt
fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) is to finance water supply projects in six of the 13
towns to which GOL gives priority; projects for the remaining seven towns
would be financed by the proposed IDA Credit. ODM is financing the Maseru
sewerage program, the African Development Fund (AfDF) is assisting in the
Maseru water supply development, and the United States Agency for Interna-
tional Development (USAID) is expected to assist with rural water supplies.
1.24      Sector-wide information on past operating expenditures is not
available in a useable form since the figures are buried in the total re-
current expenditures for social infrastructure. Government recognizes that
a national water supply and sewerage pricing policy, based on economic prin-
ciples, needs to be developed, but this cannot be done immediately (paras.
6.04 and 6.07). Meantime, tariffs for water supply and sewerage services
provided by WSB will be raised to a level adequate to cover estimated cash
operating expenses and debt service. GOL's expenditures on major maintenance
of rural water supply and sanitation schemes (para 1.13) will increase as
sector goals for village water supplies are met. A village water supply
project recently prepared for USAID financing has a significant component for
strengthening maintenance and operation in recognition of the importance of
this aspect.
1/   AfDF, KfW, ODM, SIDA, UNICEF, UNDP, and USAID.



-8-
1.25      The manpower situation in Lesotho is recognized by GOL to be ex-
tremely serious. Projects in GOL's overall development program have been
either hindered or postponed by the lack of skilled manpower and high level
staff. There are many vacancies in public service posts requiring highly
qualified staff and it is necessary to rely heavily on expatriate personnel
and foreign consultants. At the same time, there is a severe shortage of
employment opportunities for unskilled labor. 1/ GOL's second development
plan includes a frank discussion of manpower problems and a statement of
intent to institute a national manpower planning and development program.
1.26      The manpower situation in the water supply and sewerage sector
reflects the overall problem in the country as far as skilled staff are
concerned. Unless there is an accompanying effort to resolve education
and training deficiencies, the investments planned for the sector will
aggravate the problem. Such efforts are proposed in conjunction with
the ongoing KfW-financed six towns water supply project (para. 5.13) and
are being considered for the proposed USAID-financed rural
water supply project.
Possible Constraints
1.27      The principal constraints which delay planned sector development
or reduce the expected benefits are as follows:
(a)   a shortage of qualified staff to plan' and administer projects
and to operate and manage the water supply and wastewater
systems efficiently (paras. 1.25 and 1.26); and
(b)   insufficient public education on health and hygiene (para. 1.05).
The Project addresses the former constraints through institutional improve-
ments described in paras. 5.04 and 5.06. USAID has indicated that it would be
willing to accommodate public health education requirements relating to water
supply in ongoing or proposed USAID projects (para. 3.22).
II. POPULATION, SECTOR SERVICES AND DEMAND IN PROJECT AREA
Location
2.01      The Project would benefit seven small towns: viz., Leribe, MIafeteng,
Roma and Teyateyaneng in the relatively densely populated western lowlands of
Lesotho; Mohale's Hoek and Quthing located in the extreme south where trans-
portation by road is relatively poor; and Mokhotlong situated in the highlands
in the remote easterly Mokhotlong District (see Map IBRD 13825).
1/ To help increase domestic employment opportunities and to meet other goals,
Government has set up a Labor-Intensive Construction Unit under the Bank
Group's Second Highway Project (Credit 619-LSO).



-9-
Regional Development Prospects
2.02      Each of the Project towns is a regional population center with
importance as the site of regional institutions such as hospitals, schools,
missions and, except Roma, district administration centers. Roma is the site
of the National University of Lesotho (NUL). Six of the towns are in the
region of the country where intensive agriculture, a prime objective of the
national development program, is possible and which forms the operating center
of the IDA-financed Lesotho Basic Agricultural Project (Credit 795-LSO).
The seventh town, Mokhotlong, is in the scenic northeast mountains, an area
which also has mineral potential. Four of the towns are located on the
country's few paved highways. In all cases, population growth is expected to
match or exceed the national average and there is need to expand and improve
basic infrastructure such as water supply.
Sector Agencies
2.03      WSB presently is responsible for water service in six of the seven
towns and, at such time as NUL discontinues such service, is expected to
provide service in Roma as well (para. 1.10). Sewerage in the Project towns
currently is limited to Roma where a system is operated by NUL to serve mainly
campus facilities. GOL has indicated that, eventually, the Roma wastewater
system would be transferred to WSB.
2.04      As noted previously (para. 1.14), WSB has significant problems
which limit its performance and would hamper substantial expansion of WSB
operations. These, and steps proposed for improvements, are described in
Chapter V.
Existing Water Supply and Waste Disposal Systems
2.05      Present service provided by WSB to the six district headquarters
towns generally is limited to part of the areas of the administrative re-
serves. 1/ Overall it covers less than 50% of the combined reserve areas
although, in Teyateyaneng, the water service area extends outside the boun-
dary. Populations resident in peri-urban areas must rely on springs, private
sources of supply and/or skeletal village water supplies constructed by MRD.
The NUL water system in Roma presently provides service mainly to the Univer-
sity and to nearby institutions.
2.06      Water systems in all of the Project towns are relatively unsophis-
ticated with major dependence upon filtered surface water supplies supple-
mented with production from springs and/or boreholes. The basic designs are
reasonable and the systems, in general, can be readily expanded. However, due
to short remaining life and unsatisfactory maintenance of appurtenant pumping
equipment, the majority of boreholes are no longer active and, with few
1/   Defined area reserved for public use subject to the administrative
jurisdiction of the central government, through MI, and for which
a formal boundary exists.



- 10 -
exceptions, 1/ are not proposed for future duty. Test drilling operations
conducted by the consultants indicate that boreholes are not appropriate for
future construction in the Project towns.
2.07      No public sewerage exists in the Project area and water-borne waste
disposal is restricted to institutions such as hospitals, missions and schools.
Septic tanks are being used with limited success in five of the towns and, due
to limited soil cover and low permeabilities, there is an increasing trend to
provide oxidation ponds for the larger institutions, such as hospitals, with
the effluent being discharged to adjacent streams. The balance of facilities
consists of conservancy tanks, bucket latrines, and pit latrines generally
serving individual houses or commercial buildings and normally restricted to
the reserve areas. Bucket latrines are the most frequently used type of
individual disposal system. A total of about 90 public toilets of this type
exist in all but two of the Project towns. 2/ Bucket latrines, both private
and public, are regularly serviced by MI teams with disposal accomplished
outside the reserve boundaries according to cut and cover type operations.
WSB is attempting to service conservancy tanks and septic tanks located in
certain of the Project towns using tanker trucks based in Maseru, but this
has proven to be relatively ineffective due to the combination of long travel
distances, rough roads and poor vehicle maintenance.
2.08      In general, disposal of wastes presently is unsatisfactory due
to poor hygienic practices 3/ and due to the responsibilities of water supply
and sanitation being shared by WSB and MI which do not maintain close and
continuous communication. Abattoirs, which exist in each of the towns, have
inadequate provision for waste disposal. In several instances, the effluent
of oxidation ponds and septic tanks is tributary to existing or proposed
water intakes. Similarly, the disposal of bucket wastes and the subsequent
cleaning of buckets represent a public health hazard due to proximity of
these operations to the public water supply.  Perhaps the most severe poten-
tial problem exists at Mafeteng where surface drainage from the entire town
is tributary to a reservoir which serves as the towns's principal source of
water supply. Studies by the consultants indicate that this potential
problem of pollution can be lived with for the short term, but continued
utilization of the reservoir as the town's principal source may require some
remedial drainage works and, in any case, should be accompanied by close
monitoring of raw water quality.
1/   Certain of the existing boreholes at selected Project towns, after
repair and/or maintenance of appurtenant equipment, are to be retained
for standby service;
2/   There are no public toilets in Mokhotlong or Roma;
3/   Probably improvable through the increased availability of safe water
supplies and improved public health education at community and household
levels.



- 11 -
Population Served and Standards of Service
2.09      No detailed information is available relative to populations served
by existing water systems in the seven towns. As of March 1976, a combined
population of about 26,000 persons 1/ is estimated to have been resident in
the water service areas of the seven towns of which an estimated 21,000 (80%)
were provided piped water service. A summary of connections and annual water
consumption estimated for piped water systems in the seven towns for 1976 is
shown below. As noted, the largest block of consumption was by institutions,
followed by public standposts.  About 70% of the connections were metered and
an estimated 20 to 30% of total water production was unaccounted for. Al-
though operational difficulties of these systems sometimes are encountered due
to short-term interruptions in water supply and to staff constraints, 24-hour
continuous service to customers normally is maintained.
Annual Water Consumption
Connections            Estimated for 1976
% of         Aiount           % of
Category of Service                 Number  Total          m  x 100         Total
Domestic
Inside tap                           619    36.3            76.6          14.5
Outside tap                          678    39.7            42.4           8.1
Public standpost                     118     6.9           115.6          21.9
Commercial                             100     5.8            57.8          11.0
Institutional                          188    11.0           234.6          44.5
Industrial                               3     0.2               0             0
Other                                    1     0.1               0             0
Total                           1,707   100.0            527.0         100.0
2.10      Few related socio-economic indicators exist and none of these relate
specifically to the Project towns. However, incomplete records of public
health for 1975 (para. 1.05) indicate that three water-related diseases 2/ are
among the ten communicable diseases most frequently reported by clinics and
hospitals nationwide. No comparative statistics are available for morbidity
and mortality due to water-related diseases in urban vs. rural areas.
1/   Excluding an institutional population of about 5000.
2/   Gastro-enteritis, dysentery and typhoid;



- 12 
2.11      Although information is available concerning waste disposal practices
in the Project towns (para. 2.07), the extent of service cannot be quantified.
Probably less than 10% of the total resident populations, including institu-
tions, are served by water-borne waste disposal systems0 In 1975, UNDP-
financed studies recommended that public sewerage be provided to each Project
town. However, GOL has deferred taking action on the recommendations until
the proposed first phase program of water supply improvements is largely com-
plete. This is a reasonable approach since the large-scale introduction of
sanitary sewers to the area would not be appropriate at this time and since
other alternative measures are planned (para. 1.18)s
2.12      Lesotho is one of the world's poorer countries with a GNP per capita
of US$230 based, to a large extent, upon remittances from migrant workers.
Based upon a recent update of poverty income level information, Bank staff
have estimated that approximately 26% of Lesotho's population were below the
poverty line of about R 197 (US$226) per household in 1977. Except for Maseru,
which reflects relatively high pay levels of senior civil servants and expa-
triates, income equality is rather pronounced and extends throughout all
regions, including the Project towns. Based upon this, more than 26% of the
populations of the Project towns are estimated to have incomes below the
poverty line. Part of this low-income population presently is served from
public standposts attached to the existing water systems while the balance
is located in peri-urban areas which do not receive piped water service.
Population Projections and Demands for Service
2.13      Past service in the Project towns has been limited mainly to hos-
pitals, missions, schools, minor local commerce and trade and, with the
exception of Roma, the local offices of GOL. Only minor residential popula-
tions in village-type clusters are served. Although recent legislation 1/
tends to favor increased development of urban communities, the heavy depen-
dence upon subsistence agriculture in and adjacent to the towns, coupled
with the lack of industry and the limited opportunity for trade and commerce,
precludes significant near future change from past growth trends. Except
for planning associated with industrial estates proposed for Mafeteng and
Teyateyaneng, no land use plans exist for the Project towns.
2.14      Water master plans were developed for each of the seven towns based
upon projections of population and water demand covering the 20-year period,
1976-96. Past population trends were determined mainly from national census
data for the years 1966 and 1976 although census data for prior years also
were reviewed. Only those built-up areas currently served or which are
clearly suitable for immediate service by the existing system, after exten-
sion, have been counted as forming part of each town's population. Certain
other adjacent areas have been included at differing future dates, depending
upon the alternative demand projections under consideration for each town.
1/   As evidenced by: a) the Land Bill of 1978 and, b) the Urban Government
Bill, 1978.



- 13 -
The historic (1966-76) rate of growth for each of the town's current supply
area ranges from 2.2% (for Teyateyaneng) to 5.3% (for Roma) compared with a
compound growth rate of about 2.2% per year for Lesotho as a whole.  The
consultants have assumed that the most probable future rate of population
growth at each town initially would follow a medium rate of growth equal to
the average annual rate of town population growth determined from the national
censuses of 1966 and 1976. This is reasonable. Further details concerning
population projections are included in Annex 1.
2.15      Although water systems in the seven towns have been operating since
prior to 1966, there is little in the way of records of past water use patterns
to establish long-range trends of future water demand. Demand forecasts,
consequently, are largely based upon an analysis of incomplete WSB monthly
water consumption records for all customers for the fiscal year 1975-76.
Representative average annual water consumption rates for 1976 were derived
or estimated for all categories 1/ and flow factors for short-term periods of
demand estimated. Domestic per capita consumption consisted of 35 lpcd and
20 lpcd for outside tap and public standpost, respectively, which were common
to all towns. Values developed for remaining categories, including inside
taps 2/, were specific to each town.
2.16      Projections of future domestic consumption were developed as a
function of four variables: a) population rate of growth; b) level of service
(i.e., inside tap, outside tap or public standpost); c) rate of expansion of
service area; and d) per capita demand (within specific categories of service).
The population rate of growth has already been mentioned (para. 2.14). The
consultants considered three alternative projections for each of the remain-
ing variables which were used in developing three alternative rates of growth
in domestic water demand. In each instance, the consultants selected the
medium projection as being appropriate. This is acceptable.
2.17      Institutional consumption represents a large (about 44%) proportion
of current consumption and is expected to remain relatively large in the future.
With the exception of schools, hospitals and prisons, current consumption
figures are assumed also to apply in the future. Consumption at schools,
hospitals and prisons is based upon numbers of occupants and 1976 per capita
consumption was based upon experience elsewhere and not on locally-observed
values, which are judged to be unrealistically low. 3/ Again, three alterna-
tive projections were developed ranging from no increase to a substantial
*             increase in unit consumption over the period 1976-96.  A medium projection
was established by the consultants, which is acceptable, that consists of the
following in lpd per unit of occupancy:
1/   Categories of consumption consisted of: a) domestic, b) commercial,
c) institutional, and d) industrial;
2/   See Annex 2 for range of estimated 1976 values.
3/   Past consumption reflects limitations in existing supply capacity rather
than characteristics of demand.



Calendar Year
Facility          1981     1986      1991     1996
Day school         60        60        65        65
Boarding school  170        180       190      200
Prison             50        60        70       80
Hospital          300       350       400      450
2.18      Little commercial consumption and no industrial consumption pre-
sently occur. Future commercial consumption was estimated based upon 1976
consumption increased in proportion to three alternative rates of population
increase for the town and surrounding rural areas. Again, a medium projection
was adopted by the consultants, and it is acceptable. As mentioned earlier
(see para. 2.13), plans have been prepared to develop LNDC industrial estates
at Mafeteng and Teyateyaneng and the possibility of limited development of
this type also exists for Leribe and Mohale's Hoek. Allowances for such
developments mainly are reflected in projections for the period after 1986.
A consumption rate of 5000 lpd per hectare, which is acceptable, has been
allowed for all industrial estates.
2.19      Although undoubtedly substantial leakage and waste of water currently
occurs, insufficient records are available to determine the extent of this.
The consultants have estimated that current unaccounted-for water averages
about 25% of production for all towns which they predict as declining to about
17% by 1996. These estimates are acceptable.
2.20      Further details concerning water consumption are shown in Annex 2.
Projections of future consumption and production also are shown separately
in Annex 2 for each of the seven Project towns together with a summary of the
combined demands.
Project Rationale
2.21      Recognizing the need for accelerated development of the water supply
sector, GOL has requested technical and financial assistance from a number of
external bilateral and multilateral agencies. However, the assistance avail-
able is not sufficient to include projects in seven towns which GOL considers
to have priority and for which feasibility studies already have been completed.
Therefore, GOL requested Bank Group assistance on these projects and, in so
doing, to:
(a)  assist in the development of Lesotho's water resources;
(b)  strengthen sector institutions;
(c)  upgrade domestic water supplies and waste disposal; and
(d)  enhance the quality of life of the poverty group through
reduction of the incidence of water-related disease.



- 15 -
Of the foregoing, only waste disposal and public health aspects 1/ would
remain largely unchanged by the Project. An additional reason for Bank Group
participation is that the Project would strengthen infrastructure in Lesotho's
western lowlands and thereby supplement development efforts of the ongoing,
IDA-financed Lesotho Basic Agricultural Service Project (para. 2.02). The
Project also would be closely coordinated with other sector development
efforts and, since the latter already are underway, could be designed to
profit by their experience.
III. THE PROJECT
Genesis
3.01      The Project was made possible by various preliminary studies in
some of which the Bank had close association. These included surveys and
outline plans of extension of water supplies for 11 towns in 1971. These
studies were financed by UNDP with the Bank acting as executing agency. The
results of the studies indicated that each of the towns required extensive
additions to existing water supplies. The studies, being only preliminary in
nature, were not in sufficient detail for appraisal nor were institutional
needs investigated. In 1974 FRG agreed to finance pre-investment studies
which included: (a) the preparation of long-range (15 to 20 years) plans
for water system development, and (b) engineering and feasibility studies
considering first phase (5 to 10 years) developments for each of 12 2/ towns.
Operational, financial, accounting, managerial and other institutional matters
also were to be investigated. Upon the request of GOL, a 13th town, Roma,
was added to the studies although the cost of this additional work was to be
absorbed by GOL. Binnie Shand Lesotho, a joint venture consulting group, was
retained in association with Peat Marwick Mitchell and Company, to perform
the studies. The consultants' work was completed in 1977 and KfW appraised
a project in November 1977 that, due to limitations in loan funds, included
only six 3/ of the 13 towns. Early in 1978, GOL requested the Bank's assis-
tance in financing improvements in the remaining seven towns.
1/   Government has proposed that public health education inputs be provided
through ongoing or proposed USAID-financed projects (paras. 1.27 and
3.22);
2/   These consisted of the eight district headquarters towns of Butha-
Buthe, Leribe, Mafeteng, Mohale's Hoek, Mokhotlong, Qacha's Nek,
Quthing, and Teyateyaneng, and the four additional towns of Mapoteng,
Maputsoe, Morija and Peka.
3/   Butha-Buthe, Mapoteng, Maputsoe, Morija, Peka and Qacha's Nek.



- 16 
Objectives
3.02      The Project would provide water supplies to about 20,000 new WSB
consumers in the seven towns by 1986 and would improve service to 21,000
current consumers 1/ through better control of water quality and enhanced
access through provision for additional public standposts. The Project would
strengthen WSB, the Project entity, and would further develop Lesotho's water
resources and assist in the creation of an improved environment for increased
employment in population centers outside Maseru. An estimate of the numbers
of additional persons to be served through the Project by 1986 in each of the
towns is shown below. Most new consumers will be among the poorer segment of
each town's population.
Town                 Number of New Customers
Leribe                      4,200
Mafeteng                    1,300
Mohale's Hoek               2,400
Mokhotlong                  1,000
Quthing                     3,200
Roma                        5,500
Teyateyaneng                2,300
Total:                 19,900
Technological Alternatives and Service Standards
3.03      Each of the proposed schemes included in the Project has been
compared by the consultants to alternative schemes providing identical levels
of service. In all towns excepting Mokhotlong 2/, supplies are available from
three alternative sources: viz., springs, boreholes and surface supplies.
Although springs and existing boreholes would be retained for future use,
studies have indicated that surface supplies represent the most practical
means of meeting most of the future water demands of the seven towns. Only
in Mokhotlong can the current utilization of spring sources be significantly
increased, but even increased spring output there ultimately must be augmented
by production from surface supplies.
3.04      With major dependence upon surface sources whose yields and water
quality range widely depending upon season, the consultants carefully con-
sidered abstraction procedures, the need for carryover storage and the identi-
fication of an effective process for water treatment. Sub-surface intakes
have been tried previously in Lesotho with generally poor results due to the
limited extent of permeable stream bed. Surface intakes also have problems
1/   Excluding about 5,000 institutional consumers;
2/   Potential sources in Mokhotlong are limited to springs and surface
supplies.



- 17 -
due to widely-varying flows and high suspended solids content. The Project
includes a pre-design component to review past experience and practice else-
where in order to develop improved design standards that would be applicable
to Lesotho conditions. Due to the adverse physical quality characteristics
mentioned above, the addition of chemicals (for coagulation and flocculation),
sedimentation, filtration and chlorination are required for treatment of all
surface supplies. Recent experience has shown that slow sand filters, due to
their simplicity and little demand upon operator attention and skill, are
highly appropriate to Lesotho conditions. The consultants have properly
identified the need for upgrading present pre-treatment procedures through
the use of chemical coagulants.
3.05      The potential use of labor-intensive construction methods in the
Project is limited because of the high prevalence of rock and thin soil
mantle. However, the possibility of using labor-intensive techniques in the
construction and/or rehabilitation of earth dams and embankments included in
the Project will be carefully considered by the consultants prior to final
design and the preparation of tender documents. Three towns, viz., Mafeteng,
Mohale's Hoek and Roma, include such facilities.
3.06      The level of service to be provided to domestic water users is
an important consideration in the design of the proposed Project. Currently,
many existing houses within the proposed service areas are not suitable for
internal plumbing and it is highly unlikely that more than 20% to 30% of
households would have inside taps by the year 1996, the end of the 20-year
long planning period investigated by the consultants. By 1.986, the design
year, such service is even less likely. Detailed information regarding
existing and projected future levels of service is described in paras. 2.15
through 2.20 and in Annex 2.
Description of Project Components
3.07      A full description of physical components of the Project is included
in Annex 3. Locations of the Project towns are shown on Map IBRD 13825. A
summary description of the Project follows:
Part A - Water Supply Construction
3.08      Components described below are generally common to each of the
water system extensions proposed at the seven towns.
(a)  Civil works consisting of:  (i) source of supply facilities;
(ii) treatment works; (iii) pumping plant structures; (iv)
transmission mains; (v) service reservoirs; (vi) distribution
systems; and (vii) ancillary structures;
(b)  Equipment including:  (i) pumping plant; (ii) treatment plant;
(iii) water meters; (iv) vehicles; and (v) tools
and miscellaneous equipment; and



- 18 -
(c) Consulting engineering services for: (i) design,
and (ii) supervision of construction.
Part B - Institutional Development
Accounting
3.09      Consulting services for the design and implementation of a commer-
cial accounting system, and for staff training in the use of such a system
(para. 5.06).
Tariff Studies
3.10      Consulting services for a tariff study to recommend a water supply
and sewerage pricing policy and make proposals for a phased introduction of
tariff changes (para. 6.04);
Part C - Preparation of Phase II Project
3.11      This consists of engineering consultancy services for pre-invest-
ment studies of a phase II project for the extension of water systems in each
of the seven towns. The preparation would be scheduled late in the Project
period but in sufficient time to permit the commissioning of the phase II
project by 1986.
Cost Estimates
3.12      The estimated total cost of the Project is R 6.1 million (US$7.0
million equivalent) net of duties. No duties and taxes would be payable on
any goods and services imported directly into the Rand Customs Union for the
Project nor would any goods and services purchased within the Rand Customs
Union be subject to duties and taxes at the stage when such goods and services
are acquired directly for the Project. It would not be possible to identify
taxes paid by suppliers and contractors at an earlier stage but, in any case,
these would not be significant. Foreign exchange costs, which include Rand
expenditures outside Lesotho, would amount to US$4.8 million or 69% of total
expenditures. A summary of the total Project costs is shown below and a more
detailed breakdown of the construction cost estimates is included as Annex 4.



- 19 -
Foreign
Rands (thousands)          US$ (thousands)      Exchange
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Component
Part A - Water Supply
Construction
Basic Construction
Leribe                       133      336     469      153      386      539
Mafeteng                     160      434     594      184      499      683
Mohale's Hoek                248      465     713      285      535      820
Mokhotlong                   110      281     391      127      323      450
Quthing                      147     372      519      169      428     597
Roma                         411      552     963      472      635   1,107
Teyateyaneng                  99     273      372      114      314     428
Subtotal              1,308   2,713   4,021   1,504   3,120   4,624          67
Engineering                   83      333     416       95      383      478
Subtotal, Part A      1,391   3,046   4,437   1,599   3,503   5,102          69
Part B - Institutional Development
Accounting                    16       80      96       18       92      110
Tariff Studies                 4       14      18        5       16      21
Subtotal, Part B          20      94      114       23      108     131      82
Part C - Preparation of
Phase II Water Supply Project
Consulting Services           16       62      78       19       71      90      79
Contingencies
Physical                   185     357      542      213      411     624
Price                      272     608      880      313      699   1,012
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS  1,884   4,167   6,051   2,167   4,792   6,959           69



- 20
3.13      The consultants' original estimates of Project costs, which were
at March 31, 1976 price levels, were projected by the mission to baseline
(March 31, 1979) cost levels using inflation factors developed by the con-
sultants based upon historical construction cost indices for the Southern
Africa Customs Union area. These inflation factors were 14%, 12% and 10%,
respectively, for the years 1976, 1977 and 1978. An allowance of either
10% or 20% was added to baseline costs for physical contingencies. The 20%
allowance was applied to site investigations in advance of design of the
Qhobosheaneng dam and reservoir proposed at Roma, and to all civil works
components involving surface water intakes and/or raw water storage at each
of the towns. A 10% allowance was assumed for all other components. Annual
price contingency factors, which reflect the recent trend in southern Africa,
were developed for the Project and applied to baseline costs and to physical
contingencies. In developing these factors, which are 9% for 1979 and 8%
for each of the succeeding years, no distinction was made between local and
foreign cost components nor between civil works and equipment since cost
information developed for the Project has not reflected such distinctions in
the past. The overall cost of engineering is expected to average US$4,200
per man-month.
Project Financing
3.14      The proposed IDA Credit of US$6.0 million would be used to finance
all foreign costs and approximately US$1.2 million equivalent of local costs
of selected components and would cover about 86% of the total Project costs.
Remaining Project costs of about US$1.0 million equivalent would be met by
GOL.
Implementation
3.15      WSB would be responsible for Project implementation.  Engineering
consultants would be utilized for detailed design, preparation of tender
documents, evaluation of tenders and construction supervision.1/ Additional
engineering input amounting to an estimated 18 man-months also would be
required to perform feasibility studies required for the preparation of a
phase II project. WSB recently engaged Binnie and Partners (Binnie), a
UK firm which participated in Project pre-investment studies, to design the
KfW-financed, six towns water supply project and it is expected that Binnie
would also be retained on the Project. This arrangement would be acceptable
and WSB would continue to retain engineering consultants whose qualifications,
experience, and terms and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to
the Association. An implementation schedule showing physical elements and
timing of the work program is included as Annex 5. In order to expedite
progress and effectively coordinate with the KfW-financed six towns water
supply project, GOL plans to appoint the engineering consultants shortly so
that site investigations and design can begin by April 1979. Commissioning
of the physical components of the Project is planned for mid-1982.
1/   Total engineering efforts required for these activities are 140
man-months of which 75 man-months would be required for detailed
design and preparation of tender documents.



- 21 -
3.16      The level of construction activity in Lesotho is low and, based
upon similar projects recently completed or ongoing in the sector, con-
struction is expected to be carried out mainly by firms from RSA. Although a
possibility of labor-intensive construction exists for a few selected Prc!-o t
components (see para. 3.05) and GOL has requested that force account be
permitted, most, if not all, construction activity would be handled through
civil works contracts. Unskilled laborers would be recruited locally.
Although the formation of a National Construction Company (NCC) is being
considered, if accomplished, the formation would be too late for NCC to
participate in the Project.
3.17      Land will be needed by the Project as sites for reservoir and
treatment units although the precise extent of this need has yet to be
determined. Since all land in Lesotho currently is owned by Government
and held in trust by the King, no problems are anticipated in gaining access
to such sites when required. Although the Project cost estimates do not
reflect land acquisition costs, these costs, if any, would not be significant
and would be met by GOL.
3.18      WSB will be responsible for maintenance and operation of the
Project facilities after commissioning. Although WSB is weak in these areas,
training included as part of technical assistance to be provided by FRG
(para. 5.13) would minimize the risk of unsatisfactory maintenance and
operation practices.
3.19      Dams proposed for the Project are relatively small and generally
represent little risk of damage to life or property. Although WSB currently
neither owns nor operates dams outside Maseru, future operation of such
facilities does not appear to pose any undue risk. Provision for a special
review of dam design or periodic inspection by independent experts during or
after completion of construction is not necessary in view of the relatively
small scale of the works and the limited risk posed by failure.
Water Resource Aspects
3.20      Surface supplies constitute the most significant single component
of the Project's water supply. Based upon historical records, which generally
are adequate, the consultants have designed each of the schemes with a 5% (1
in 20 years) risk of failure of source. This is acceptable.
3.21      Although no current regulation exists which constrains water
development or usage, the 1978 Water Act eventually will affect such control.
After this Act has become effective through gazetting,, permits issued by
HMSB, or a possible successor agency, will be required by all abstractors.
Environmental and Health Aspects
3.22      The Project would have a negligible environmental impact although
some improvements to public health are anticipated (see para 4.01). However,
a recent ODM-financed field study of village water supplies in Lesotho tenta-
tively concluded that there are no significant differences in the prevalence,



epidemiology and seasonality of water-related disease in villages with and
without improved water supply. The study concluded that the community and
household environment is relatively unhygenic, thus contributing to a high
incidence of water-borne disease. The study team recommended that, in order
to significantly improve public health at the village level, a complementary
program of public health education should be introduced together with im-
proved standards relating to the construction and operation of rural water
systems. The standard of operation and maintenance of WSB facilities is
generally higher than for rural supplies and would be further improved
through augmentation of staffing and staff training (paras. 5.09 through
5.13). Although the Project would not include funds for a public health
education program, Government has indicated that an ongoing USAID-financed
rural health development project could be used to accommodate any special
health inputs required by the Project. A proposed rural water supply project
also being considered for early USAID financing is expected to include a
public health education component and would probably be a more suitable
vehicle for this component. Additional technical assistance in public health
education also is expected from the Irish Government. Other future Bank Group
projects 1/ in Lesotho, if necessary, could assist with implementation through
coordination with the Health Education Unit under MHSW and the Lesotho Distance
Teaching Center under the Ministry of Education.  GOL has agreed to furnish to
the Association, not later than June 30, 1980, or such other date as may be
agreed, a report covering public health education needs in the water supply
and sanitation sector through 1982 and a detailed plan or plans of action to
meet such needs.  GOL also has agreed to exchange views with the Association
on said report and plan or plans and promptly thereafter implement such plan
or plans taking into account the Association's views.
Procurement
3.23      Approximately 87% of the total Project costs would involve construc-
tion and supply contracts, about 90% of which would consist of civil works.
Equipment and pipe are not manufactured locally and would have to be obtained
from abroad with the most likely source, based upon recent experience on
similar contracts, being RSA. Although WSB plans to group civil works con-
tracts to the extent possible, consideration would be given to receiving
concurrently separate bids for works in the individual towns, with a view
to encouraging the participation of smaller contractors. These contracts
would include the supply of the appropriate materials. No suitable local
civil works contractor currently exists but, should this situation change, GOL
has requested that provision be made for local preference of 7-1/2%. Except
as indicated below, all procurement financed by the proposed IDA Credit would
be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank Group guidelines. Minor civil works amounting to about US$0.7
million equivalent, may be constructed by GOL through force account in which
case only the materials would be financed by IDA. Contracts for the procure-
ment of single items of equipment or contracts for groups of items of equipment,
vehicles and spare parts costing less than US$25,000 equivalent each and less
than US$100,000 equivalent in the aggregate may be awarded after solicitation
of quotations from at least three suppliers.
1/   The Lesotho Third Education project scheduled for appraisal in FY80
would be a suitable vehicle.



- 23 -
Disbursements
3.24      Retroactive finance of up to US$100,000 equivalent to finance the
cost of preliminary investigations and design by the engineering consultants
is proposed. The IDA Credit would be disbursed to meet selected portions of
the Project cost as follows: (a) 86% of total expenditure on civil works
excluding works constructed under force account, if any; (b) 100% of foreign
expenditures or 90% of expenditures for local procurement of materials for
works carried out under force account, if any, and for vehicles, equipment or
spare parts; and (c) 100% of foreign expenditures or 80% of local expenditures
for consulting services as described in Parts B and C of the Project. An
estimated disbursement schedule is given in Annex 6. Any Credit funds undis-
bursed at the end of the Project would be made available for meeting appro-
priate WSB needs closely associated with the Project, subject to approval
by the Association. The proposed closing date for the IDA Credit would be
September 30, 1983. This allows a margin of about nine months after the
estimated completion of work by engineering consultants on the preparation
of the phase II project.
IV. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS
Project Benefits
4.01      The Project would provide public water service to some 20,000 new
consumers in the Project towns (an increase of about 95%) by 1986 who, for
the most part, now rely upon unprotected sources consisting of springs and
streams. Secondary benefits would include improved reliability and water
quality enhancement to present consumers, and strengthening of WSB. The
effectiveness of these improvements in raising the level of public health in
the Project towns is dependent upon other factors such as the level of personal
hygiene practiced at community and household levels. For this reason, imple-
mentation of the Project should be carefully coordinated with other organiza-
tions and programs which are mainly concerned with public health and other
aspects of community development (para. 3.22).
4.02      The Project would focus on institutional improvements through the
appointment of a Chief Executive Officer and a Financial Controller, and
through the appointment of consultants to design and implement a commercially
oriented accounting system and provide or arrange for related staff training.
Other training needs would be met through existing GOL programs (paras. 5.09
and 5.10) and proposed FRG assistance (para. 5.13).



- 24 -
4.03      WSB's financial performance should be improved through the account-
ing improvements mentioned in the previous paragraph, and as an outcome of
the changes in tariff level and structures which are expected following the
completion of the tariff study which would be included in the proposed
Project (para. 6.04).
Least Cost Solution
4.04      An economic analysis of alternative plans of water supply was made
by the consultants for each of the towns. These analyses, which were based
upon the 20-year period 1976-96, considered alternative schemes for the same
service areas, per capita demands, and levels of service. The least-cost
development was determined for each town through a sensitivity analysis
considering various growth rates of consumption, discount rates ranging from
5% to 15%, and shadow wage rates for unskilled labor varying from 0% to 100%.
The studies showed the relative costs of the various schemes to be fairly
insensitive to changes in discount rate and the shadow wage rate for labor.
Also, in most instances, the same scheme represented the least-cost solution
at all alternative rates of growth, with only phasing or hydraulic capacity
requiring adjustment.
Rate of Return and Pricing Considerations
4.05      The Project has many of the characteristics of a rural water supply
project due to the small size and nature of the Project towns. As indicated
in para. 6.07, Project water consumers, together with WSB-consumers located
elsewhere, would pay a tariff based on the recovery of cash operating costs
and debt service. The internal financial rate of return 1/ which would be
negative substantially underestimates the real economic return because health
and amenity benefits, as well as consumers' surpluses, for a project such as
this are impossible to quantify. Despite this, the Project is worthwhile
because of non-financial benefits described in para. 4.01. The average incre-
mental cost (AIC) of water in the Projict towns, excluding shadow pricing 2/,
ranges from about R 0.5 to R 1.0 per m , using a3discount rate of 11%, as
compared to the new tariff level of R 0.33 per m (US$1.44 per thousand US
gal) expected to be introduced shortly (para. 6.07). As the Project towns
1/   These range from -4.7% in Mafeting to 1.7% in Teyateyaneng.
2/   In view of the rather unique labor market situation in Lesotho where
the best alternative productive possibility of a laborer may range from
subsistence farming, where earnings are well below the minimum wage in
Lesotho, to working in the South African mines, where earnings are
considerably higher than the minimum wage in Lesotho, a shadow wage
rate could not be calculated for Lesotho without extensive research.



- 25 -7
are in some of the lowest income areas served by WSB, 1/ it is questionable
whether average tariffs could be raised to AIC, although an increasing block
tariff could be instituted so that at least the top block could approximate
this level. Pricing policies and practices would be among the questions to be
addressed by the tariff study to be financed by the Project (para. 6.04).
Impact on Poverty Group
4.06      With at least 26% of the households 2/ subsisting below the poverty
level of R 197 annual income, the impact upon the poor is likely to be signi-
ficant. The 20% of the people in the seven towns who are currently without
service can almost certainly be classified among the poverty group. Thus, in
extending service to areas surrounding the present supply area, more than 26%
of the beneficiaries of the Project are likely to be poor.
Project Risks
4.07      The principal risk is that staffing inadequacies might jeopardise
Project implementation and/or operations and maintenance, but this risk has
been minimized by the measures described in paras. 5.04 and 5.06).
4.08      As it may take some time to establish an adequate information
system on which to accurately estimate tariff increases needed to meet finan-
cial objectives, it is possible that the estimated tariff increase to meet
operating expenses and debt service may produce less than the required
revenues (para 6.07). In this case, GOL would have to make further tariff
increases and, in the meantime, continue to meet any operating cash deficit.
V. THE BORROWER AND THE PROJECT IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
Lending Arrangements
5.01      The Borrower would be GOL who would make the proposed US$6 million
IDA Credit available to WSB on the terms stated in para. 6.10.
Implementing Agency
5.02      WSB is headed by the Chief Water and Sewerage Engineer.  Under
present arrangements, he has only limited responsibility and authority
over personnel and accounting matters. Staff recruitment, compensation,
1/   It is estimated that a poor household of four persons earns no more
than R 197 annually (para 2.12). Thus based upon this amount, if the
household consumes an average of 20 Ipcd and paid the AIC representing
the composite of all project towns its water bill would range from
about 7% to about 15% of its total income.
2/   At the national level.



- 2 6 -
transfers and dismissal are mainly handled through MW's Personnel Branch
which follows uniform government personnel practices. The slowness and
inflexibility of these procedures impairs WSB's ability to recruit and
retain suitable staff and, although WSB's responsibilities are increasing,
many positions remain unfilled. Accounting staff are MF employees, and
there have been frequent staff changes which have contributed to a lack of
commitment and motivation. Accounting follows GOL practice and is inappro-
priate for effective commercial management. A chart reflecting the current
organization structure of MW and WSB is included as Annex 7.
Future Organizational Plans
5.03      Government recognizes the need for more autonomy to be given to
the conduct of water and sewerage operations but, based on past experience
in other sectors, considers it prudent to proceed slowly. In May 1978, as a
first step, the Minister of Finance issued directions covering the establish-
ment of a "Water and Sewerage Service Trading Account" (Trading Account)
under MW. The directions would cover the future operation of WSB but, apart
from these directions and the other changes mentioned below, WSB's personnel
and scope of operations would remain essentially the same. The instrument
creating the Trading Account provides for: (a) the appointment of a Chief
Executive Officer; (b) the processing of receipts and payments relating to
town water supply and sewerage services through the Trading Account, (c) the
preparation of an annual profit and loss account and a statement of assets
and liabilities. The Chief Executive Officer is to be responsible for the
efficient management of water supply and sewerage services, and WSB's staff
including accountants and their support staff would be accountable to him.
He would be a member of a Board controlling the Trading Account together
with representatives of the MF, the MW, the cabinet office responsible for
personnel, and another member appointed by the Permanent Secretary (PS) of
MW. Major Board recommendations on staffing matters would require the
concurrence of the PS, and proposals for tariff increases would require
Cabinet approval. Major capital expenditure proposals and the mobilization
of finance would continue to be handled through the Central Development and
Planning Office of the MF. A separate bank account is to be established
through which all receipts and payments relating to water supply and sewerage
services would flow. Delegation of powers regarding appointment, promotion
and dismissal of staff has recently been granted to WSB and permission to
open a separate WSB Bank account has been obtained from MF. Very recently a
Ministry of Water, Power and Natural Resources was formed and WSB's operations
are expected to be transferred from MW to the new Ministry as soon as
administrative arrangements can be made. This would not affect the scope of
WSB's operations or the aforementioned directions covering its operations.
The water supply system for the small university town at Roma, one of the
Project towns, is presently run by the National University of Lesotho,
but Government will transfer the system to WSB not later than March 31, 1980.
Management and Personnel
5.04      Efforts are being made to recruit a Chief Executive Officer and a
Financial Controller through British and Irish technical assistance respec-
tively. The appointments would be crucial to the strengthening of WSB's



- 27 -
staffing capability and therefore the appointment of qualified candidates to
these positions would be a condition of Credit effectiveness. WSB's present
Chief Water and Sewerage Engineer has been handicapped by poor health for some
time and has been relatively inactive. Much of the responsibility for water
supply has therefore been placed upon a young, professionally qualified water
engineer whose future responsibilities are expected to include administration
of the KfW-and IDA-financed projects. The engineering staff is expected to be
strengthened by two qualified expatriate water engineers, one to be responsible
for Maseru, the other for district operations, who are expected to join WSB
shortly. Appointments to these positions would be conditions of Credit
effectiveness. WSB has also recently been strengthened by the recruitment of
a Masutho engineer recently graduated from a Canadian university. With the
foregoing appointments, WSB's capability would be considerably strengthened.
This will be further added to by the GTZ-assisted training efforts described
in para 5.13. The Financial Controller would require additional support staff
as there are no professionally qualified accountants on WSB's staff nor any
staff with any significant formal training in accounting or experience in
commercial accounting (para. 5.06).
Management Systems
5.05      WSB does not operate as a separate accounting entity.  Financial and
accounting procedures are in accordance with usual government cash accounting
practices and are largely concerned with accountability for parliamentary
approved expenditures. Revenues are paid into the Consolidated Revenue
Fund and are not related to water supply and sewerage operating expenses,
neither of which are readily determinable. Balance sheets are not prepared.
Information on such matters as billed revenues, water consumption, debtor and
creditor levels, and inventories is either missing or inadequate. Furthermore,
capital and recurrent expenditures are not adequately distinguished.
5.06      So that WSB could conform to the accounting provisions of the Water
and Sewerage Service Trading Account directions, and also use accounting
information for management, it would be necessary to establish accounting
practices along commercial lines, including the provision of information on
revenues, capital and operating expenditures, assets and liabilities. Fur-
thermore, the effectiveness of billing and collections needs to be improved
through double entry controls, and the development of controls relating water
consumption to billed revenues. Fixed assets records also need to be devel-
oped. As most of the Financial Controller's time will be committed to day-
to-day activities, the services of accounting consultants will be required
to design and assist with the implementation of an accounting system, identify
any further staffing needs, and train or arrange for training of accounting
staff. When carrying out their assignment, it would be desirable for the
consultants to maintain close contact with the Financial Controller and, if
possible, the consultants should commence their task shortly after the appoint-
ment of the Financial Controller. The Project provides for consultants to
effect accounting improvements and their appointment, on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association, would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
Terms of reference for the engagement acceptable to GOL and the Association



- 28 -
have been prepared. GOL and WSB will consult with the Association, not later
than March 31, 1980, about the consultant's recommendations, and will promptly
implement such measures as are considered appropriate, based on a time schedule
acceptable to the Association, including the recruitment of any additional
staff needed to establish effective accounting procedures.
Billings and Collections
5.07      Meter readings are made monthly and bills are sent out by post.
Bills are paid at WSB's Headquarters and at District Revenue offices and paid
into GOL's Consolidated Revenue Fund. WSB's policy is to disconnect consumers
after accounts are overdue more than one month, but lack of transport and
adequate staff to monitor overdue accounts has made it difficult to adhere to
this policy. Consumer accounts are kept manually. They lack double entry
controls and, due to staffing difficulties, the maintenance of the records
has deteriorated. Adequate statistical information is not available on total
outstanding accounts, billings, or water consumption and, although collection
performance appears good based on accounts listed as overdue, an overall
assessment of the effectiveness of the billing and collection system in
relation to water supplied cannot be readily made until WSB's information
system is improved.
Audit
5.08      As GOL's audit department would not have the staff to conduct the
audit of commercial accounts, it would be necessary for the Auditor General to
delegate his responsibility to a private auditing firm. To ensure that audits
are of a satisfactory standard WSB will have its accounts audited annually
by auditors acceptable to the Association and WSB's audited accounts would be
submitted to the Association within nine months after the end of FY1980 and
not later than six months after the end of subsequent fiscal years.
Manpower Development and Training
5.09      WSB is a small organization currently serving a population of not
more than 80,000 and, consequently, its training needs are not large. The
responsibility for WSB manpower development rests with the training unit of
MW, the Chief Training Officer of which is appointed under a UN arrangement.
The training officer has prepared a training program for MW and another
dealing specifically with WSB's training needs. The latter document includes
manpower projections for WSB's managerial, professional and technical needs
and some proposals for meeting the related educational and training needs.
However, more specific plans are required (see paras. 5.12 and 5.13).
5.10      At present, three Basotho are pursuing undergraduate studies in
engineering and are expected to be available for employment by WSB over
the next two or three years. No plans or estimates have yet been made for
training accountants either at the professional or technician level, but this
is probably because WSB's accounting staff has been supplied by MF.
5.11      Lesotho has a Technician Training School which gives diploma level
training in civil engineering and another institution, the Lerotholi Training



- 29 -
Institute (LTI), gives instruction for craftsmen such as plumbers. WSB
recruits employees from both these institutions. LTI is a possible source of
specific job-related training but special courses would have to be arranged.
5.12      A more detailed identification of the skills needed to carry out
WSB's functions, an assessment of when they will be required, the identifica-
tion of the sources and amount of funds to carry out a training program, and
arrangements with specific institutions or training centers for a program to
meet WSB's needs are required. A major portion of WSB's needs is likely to be
on-the-job training, and WSB's supervisors are likely to require training in
the skills of on-the-job training.
5.13      After their November 1977 appraisal of the six towns water supply
project (para 3.01), KfW indicated that a comprehensive training program for
technical personnel should be "launched" by the end of 1978 and that KfW would
support GOL's request for technical assistance from the FRG for this purpose.
As a first step, officials of the West German Ministry for Economic Cooperation
have agreed to submit to their Cabinet a proposal for a DM1.5 million (US$0.78
million) grant for technical assistance which would provide a comprehensive
review of training needs and provision for other training assistance. To the
extent that WSB's training cannot be met through the ongoing MOW training
program for WSB or through other local resources (paras. 5.09 and 5.11),
FRG would fund any training assistance required.
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past Performance and Present Financial Situation
6.01      WSB does not presently operate as an accounting entity although this
will be changed after an accounting system has been designed and WSB's account-
ing staff strengthened. In the past, water supply and sewerage assets have
been mainly financed by external grants to GOL. An estimated notional balance
sheet at March 31, 1978 for WSB, with fixed assets valued at replacement cost
less depreciation (para. 6.05), is given below:
Assets                      Liabilities and Capital
---------------------(millions of Rands)---------------------
Fixed Assets           7.55       Government Equity          8.12
Work in Progress       1.07       Long Term Debt             0.55
Current Assets         0.10       Current Liabilities       0.05
8.72                                 8.72
6.02      As noted in paras. 5.05 and 5.06, WSB's financial records are not
maintained for the evaluation of its financial performance and neither past
operating revenues nor operating expenses are readily determinable. However,
it is clear that revenues have been inadequate to cover cash operating ex-
penses, let alone depreciation.



- 30 -
Revenues
6.03      Roughly 70% of WSB's revenues are estimated to come from water supply
and 30% from sewerage services. The water tariff was raised from the previous
flat rate (aNplicable to all but standpipe consumers) of R 0.50 per thousand
Ig (R 0.11/m  or US$0.48 per thousand U  gal), which has been in effect since
1972, to R 1 per thousand Ig. (R o.22/m or US$0.96 per thousand US gal) on
November 1, 1977. This action apparently satisfied an AfDF requirement that,
as a prerequisite to disbursement of its 1977 loan for the Maseru water supply
project, WSB's water tariff level and structure be reviewed. Although the
tariff increase was apparently intended to increase revenues to a level equal
to estimated cash operating expenses, it seems unlikely that the revenues
generated by the new tariff will meet this objective. There is a minimum
monthly charge of Rl (US$1.15) which also applies to unmetered supplies.
About 90% of water connections are metered and it is WSB's intention to meter
all deliveries shortly. About 22% of water consumed is supplied without charge
to consumers through public standposts and GOL considers that a change in this
practice at present would be unacceptable. Public standposts are reasonably
well maintained and users appear to treat them responsibly. By April 1, 1980,
GOL will pay WSB for water supplied through public standposts at average cost,
less charges levied and collected from consumers, if any, and will pay for
water supplied to GOL departments and agencies at rates comparable to users
with similar water consumption patterns.
6.04      There is a need for a national, long-term water supply and sewerage
pricing policy to be developed, taking into account long-run marginal water
supply costs.  The following need to be considered:   (a) charges for water
supplied at public standposts; (b) differing tariffs in Maseru and in the
district Headquarters towns; (c) a block increasing tariff; and (d) ability
to pay. Although GOL favors economic pricing of water in principle, it
would prefer not to make any abrupt changes in the present tariff level and
structure but to make changes gradually. Therefore, it is likely that WSB
will only achieve financial viablity over a period of years. In any case, it
would be better to wait until improved financial and statistical information
is available (paras. 5.05 to 5.07) before suggesting any radical tariff
changes. Consultants will be employed on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Association to complete a tariff study by June 30, 1980. Terms of refer-
ence for such a study acceptable to GOL and the Association have been prepared.
Not later than September 30, 1980, annual financial performance standards
acceptable to the Association will be established for WSB including, inter
alia, the requirement to produce revenues sufficient to cover all operating
expenses and a reasonable return on the assets used for WSB's services, and
promptly thereafter WSB will take steps to modify the level and structure of
water and sewerage tariffs be to meet such standards.



- 31 -
6.05      As part of their "Twelve Towns Water Supply Study", Binnie made a
physical inventory of water supply and sewerage fixed assets in 1976 valuing
them at replacement cost less depreciation. This is a satisfactory basis for
the initial valuation of WSB's water supply and sewerage assets. Assuming 12%
and 10% annual revaluations for FY 1977 and FY 1978 respectively, water supply
fixed assets are valued at R 8.58 million less accumulated depreciation of
R 3.56 million, and sewerage fixed assets at R 3.09 million less accumulated
depreciation of R 0.56 million. The foregoing has been accepted by Government
as the initial value of fixed assets at March 31, 1978 . After this fixed
assets will be revalued annually using methods acceptable to the Association.
The first revaluation covering FY1979 would be completed within six months
from the date of the Development Credit Agreement.
6.06      The sewerage tariff was increased by about 40% on April 1, 1977, but
it is still inadequate to cover estimated operating expenses. The sewerage
tariff is based on the number of sanitary fixtures per plot and, in the case
of septic tanks, on the extent of service provided.
6.07      As a first step prior to further changes in tariff level and struc-
ture, water supply and sewerage tariffs would be raised and maintained at a
level sufficient to cover cash operating expenses and debt service. The
increase of water supply and sewerage tariffs to this level would be a condi-
tion of Credit effectiveness. Assuming that increases are effective from
April 1, 1979, it is estimated that water supply tariffs would have to be
increased by a minimum of 50% 1/, and sewerage rates by 25%. Even then, it
will be impossible to confidently estimate that proposed tariff increases
will meet their objectives until WSB improves its accounting and statistical
information system and a more reliable data base exists for future financial
projections.
Financing Plan
6.08      It is estimated that WSB's capital requirements between FY1980
and FY1984, the projected disbursement period, would amount to R 17.82
million (US$20.49 million). As estimated in the following table, 34% of the
planned capital spending would be on the estimated R 6.05 m (US$6.96 m) seven
towns Project to be financed with the help of the proposed US$6 million IDA
Credit. The remaining capital spending during this period would be on a
project to improve the Maseru water supply system and on the six towns water
supply project. The projects would be substantially financed (about 93%) by
AfDF and KfW, respectively. The remaining financial requirements for the IDA,
AfDF and KfW-assisted projects would be provided by GOL. Under the FY 1980
to FY 1984 financing plan shown below, the source of 85% of WSB's FY 1980 to
FY 1984 project spending would be through external lending agencies (IDA 30%,
1/   This would bring the water supply tariff up to US$1.44 per thousand
US gal. Some examples of average water rates in other countries of the
Eastern Africa Region expressed in US$ per thousand US gal and reflect-
ing shadow-priced costs, where appropriate, are Blantyre, Malawi:
US$1.10; Gaborone, Botswana: US$1.05; Mombasa, Kenya, US$1.81; and
Mogadishu, Somalia: US$1.20.



- 32 -
AfDF 29% and KfW 26%), and the remaining 15% would be financed by GOL. 1/ It
is possible that WSB may accumulate some surplus cash for capital spending
during this period after further tariff increases are effected (para. 6.04)
and its financial performance can be better predicted, but it would be
imprudent to rely on such a contribution.
Millions     Millions
Requirements                              of Rands       of US$       Percentage
Development Expenditures
Proposed Project                       6.05          6.96          34
AfDF-assisted Maseru
water supply project /a              5.72          6.58          32
KfW-assisted six towns
water supply project                 4.89          5.63          27
Other                                  0.05          0.06
Interest during construction /b        0.74         0.86            4
Additions to working capital             0.37          0.40           3
17.82        20.49          100
Sources
Internal cash generation                 1.51          1.74           7
Less:  debt service /c                   1.20          1.38           5
Net internal cash generation             0.31          0.36           2
Government equity /d                     1.69          1.94           9
Borrowings:
IDA Credit                            5.21          6.00           30
Interest during construction /b        0.74         0.84            4
AfDF                                   5.25         6.04           29
KfW                                    4.62         5.31           26
17.82        20.49          100
/a   Expenditures between FY 1980 and FY 1984 only.
/b   This is interest added to IDA Credit made available by GOL to WSB
during construction period;
/c   After deducting interest during construction;
/d   Cash contribution by GOL for the AfDF, IDA, and KfW-assisted projects.
1/   This would include interest during construction on the IDA Credit which
is treated as a GOL loan and would amount to 4% of total capital require-
ments. The 15% GOL contribution also includes 2% shown in the above
table as internal cash generation as the latter cannot be accurately
estimated.



- 33 -
6.09      Tentative financial projections for FY1979 to FY1986 (paras. 6.07
and 6.10) consisting of cash flow projections, income statements and balance
sheets, together with notes thereon, are presented in Annexes 8 to 11. WSB's
financial performance has been estimated on the basis of water supply and
sewerage tariffs meeting cash operating expenses and debt service (para. 6.07)
and capital spending being financed from loans and equity. When future finan-
cial performance standards are established, following completion of the tariff
study, it is expected that WSB would also generate some cash to help finance
capital spending. By 1986 it is expected that the quantity of water sold by
WSB would be 2-1/2 times the FY1979 figures.
6.10      GOL would make the IDA Credit available  to WSB over 24 years,
including a 4-year grace period, at a 7-1/2% interest rate, which is close to
the IBRD lending rate, and interest would be financed through borrowings until
1983 with combined level payments of principal and interest commencing in
1984. A condition of credit effectiveness would be that satisfactory arrange-
ments covering the foregoing are in full force and effect.
6.11      AfDF funds have been made available to GOL without interest over
50 years, including a 10-year grace period, and with a 0.75% annual service
charge on the loan disbursed. The KfW loan provides DM 12 million for the
six towns water supply project. The loan would be for 50 years, including
a 10-year grace period, and at a 0.75% interest rate. There are no separate
provisions in the AfDF and KfW agreements regarding the terms under which
funds would be made available to WSB, and GOL would make the funds available
to WSB on the same terms as they are provided to GOL.
6.12      To help ensure that any capital spending by WSB, until project com-
pletion, does not jeopardize its present capital spending program, apart from
the proposed Project and the ongoing AfDF- and KfW-financed projects, WSB
will not incur annual capital expenditures in excess of US$200,000 equivalent
unless the GOL and the Association shall otherwise agree.
Monitoring and Evaluation Criteria
6.13      The progress of the Project would be monitored through semi-annual
and annual reporting requirements covering: (a) physical and technical
progress; (b) cost estimates, expenditures and disbursements; (c) management
and staff development; and (d) financial operations.
6.14      Within six months of Project completion, WSB will submit a report
to the Association on the execution and operation of the Project and related
matters.
6.15      The proposed Project includes consulting services for improving WSB's
information system, which is extremely weak. Until this has been done, and
WSB's management capability to make use of such a system has been strengthened,
it would be inappropriate to establish any further monitoring requirements.
However, this question would be reviewed by supervision missions.



34 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      Agreement was reached with Government on the following principal
points:
(a) WSB will employ accounting consultants to improve its
accounting system and arrange or provide related staff
training (para. 5.06);
(b) that by September 30, 1980, following the completion of
a tariff study, annual financial performance standards,
acceptable to the Association, will be established for
WSB (para. 6.04).
7.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be that:
(a) the accounting consultants referred to in 7.01(a) would be
appointed;
(b) a Chief Executive Officer, a Financial Controller and two
additional water supply engineers be appointed (para. 5.04)
(c) WSB would raise its water supply and sewerage tariffs to a
level adequate to cover cash operating expenses and debt
service (para. 6.07); and
(d) satisfactory arrangements are in full force and effect
covering the terms under which GOL would make the IDA
Credit available to WSB (para 6.10).
7.03      The Project is suitable for a US$6 million equivalent IDA credit.
March 1, 1979



- 35 -
ANNEX 1
LESOTHO
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Population Projections
1.01      Past population trends were determined mainly from national
census data for the years 1966 and 1976 1/ although census data for prior
years also were reviewed.  The census data obtained for each town covered
enumeration areas lying partly or wholly within five kilometers of each town
center. The determination of appropriate town populations 2/ from these
data was rather arbitrary since each town comprises a number of adjoining
villages having ill-defined boundaries. However, for the initial period of
review 3/, only those built-up areas currently served or which are clearly
suitable for immediate service by the existing system, after extension,
have been counted as forming part of each town's population. Certain other
adjacent areas have been included at differing future dates, depending
upon the alternative demand projections under consideration for each town.
The historic (1966-76) rate of growth for each of the town's current supply
area is shown in Table 1 of this annex. These figures indicate a range of
from 2.2% (for Teyateyaneng) to 5.3% (for Roma) compared with a compound
growth rate of about 2.2% per year for Lesotho as a whole. Three alternative
rates 4/ of population growth were considered for each of the towns together
with matching boundaries representing alternative geographic limits of future
service areas. The consultants have assumed that the most probable initial
rate of population growth at each town would follow the base rate 4/. The
applicable base rate of population growth then was applied at each Project
town to the 1976 census population reported as resident within prescribed
geographic limits 5/ in order to develop residential populations for the
years 1986 and 1996. The resulting composite growth rates for all towns are
equivalent to 6.5% and 4.4% for the successive 5-year periods 1976-81 and
1981-86, respectively. Projections of future population for each of the towns
are shown in Table 1 of this Annex.
l/   1976 census data are provisional;
2/   Institutional populations are excluded;
3/   Census years 1966 and 1976;
4/   These consist of:  a) a "low" rate (0.75 x base rate); a "medium"
rate (equal to base rate); and c) a "high" rate (2.0 x base rate)
where the base rate is the indicated average annual rate of town
population growth determined from the national censuses of 1966
and 1976;
5/   In all Project towns, water service areas projected for the years 1986
and 1996 are larger than the areas actually supplied in 1976.



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
LESOTHO
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Pro.iections of Future PoDulationsi/
Historic2/
Rate of
Growth,                   Population by Year
Sub-area Locations      X        1976aV    1981         1986      1991       1996
Leribe                 4.3       5,174      6,380       7,860     9,690      11,900
Mafeteng               2.9        4,045     4,650       5,300     6,150       7,300
Mohale's Hoek          2.6       5,199      6,270       7,600     9,020      10,300
Mokhotlong             4.3          807     1,600       1,830     3,060       3,600
Quthing                3.6       1,590      1,900       3,870     4,570       5,500
Roma                   5.3       3,904      5,050       6,540     8,460      10,950
Teyateyaneng           2.2       5,719      7,050       8,000    10,400      13,600
TOTALS                          26,4384  32,900       41,000    51,350      63,150
1/ Exclusive of institutional populations;
2/ Based upon census data for the years 1966 and 1976;
3/ Based upon preliminary results of 1976 National census;
4/ An estimated 21,000 persons (or 80%) of this population was provided with
piped water service.
December 1978



- 37 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
LESOTHO
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Future Water Demands
1.01      Demand forecasts are based upon an analysis of incomplete WSB
monthly water consumption records for all customers for the fiscal year
1975-76. As a result of this analysis, each WSB customer was classified
under one of the following categories:
Domestic                        Commercial
Inside tap                    Institutional
Outside tap                   Industrial
Public standpost              Other
1.02      Each category noted above was further subdivided into metered
and un-metered connections. In most of the towns 1/, the majority of private
connections and public standposts are metered. Through examination of the
records, representative average annual water consumption rates for 1976 were
derived or estimated for all categories and flow factors for short-term
periods of demand estimated. Domestic per capita consumption included 35 lpcd
and 20 lpcd for outside tap and public standposts, respectively, which were
common to all towns. Values developed for remaining categories, including
inside taps, 2/ were specific to each town.
1.03      Projections of future domestic consumption were developed as a
function of four variables: a) population rate of growth; b) level of service
(i.e., inside tap, outside tap or public standpost); c) rate of expansion of
service area; and d) per capita demand (within specific categories of service).
The population rate of growth has already been mentioned (see Annex 2.1).
Regarding levels of future service, three alternatives were considered: viz,
a) a low-demand forecast assuming that all new domestic water service would be
by public standposts; b) a medium-demand forecast based upon a gradual transi-
tion from the 1976 service level relationship specific to each town to the
year 1996 when, in terms of total number of households served, 20% would be
served from inside taps, 70% from outside taps and 10% from public standposts;
and c) a high-demand forecast that assumes the following percentages of
households served would be applicable in the indicated years:
1/   Mohkotlong, which has no customer meters, and Roma, which is 47% metered,
are exceptions to this;
2/   Average 1976 per capita consumption estimated for inside taps ranged
from 95 lpcd for Quthing to 190 lpcd for Roma.



- 38 
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
Households Served, %
Category of Domestic Service       1986             1996
Private Connections
Inside tap                        20               30
Outside tap                       70               65
Public Standpost                    10                5
1.04      The consultants selected the medium demand forecast as being
appropriate. This assumes that the majority of new households to be served
would be by single-tap private connections located somewhere on the customer's
plot but outside the house. This forecast allows for limited provision for
piped wastewater systems by 1996, but does not assume full-scale sewerage in
the towns. Relative to rate of expansion of service area, three separate
rates specific to each town have been assumed ranging from no additional areas
added (low case), to addition of obvious areas by 1986 (medium case), and to
certain other possible areas by 1996 (high case). The latter variables would
be expressed in terms of population. A medium rate of expansion was adopted
by the consultants which assumes the incorporation of only the most obvious
areas to the current service area by 1996.
1.05      The fourth variable affecting domestic consumption considers three
alternative growth rates of per capita demand from the previous base rates
derived for 1976. These range from a low projection characterized by no
increases in per capita demand with time to a high projection which considers
per capita demand for outside taps and public standposts to increase by 10
lpcd from 1976 to 1996 while deliveries through inside taps increase linearly
from the 1976 value specific to each town to 250 lpcd by 1996 at all towns. A
medium projection was adopted by the consultants that results, for the period
1976 to 1996, in an increase of 5 lpcd for outside taps and public standposts
while deliveries through inside taps would increase linearly by 1996 to 150
lpcd, or to a value 25% higher than the 1976 value, whichever is greater.
1.06      The assumptions used by the consultants in developing projections
of future commercial, institutional and industrial consumption are described,
together with unaccounted-for water, in Chapter II of this report. Projec-
tions of future consumption and production are shown separately for each of
the seven Project towns in Tables 1 through 4 of this annex together with a
summary of the combined demands.



- 39 -                            ANNEX 2
Table 1
LESOTHO
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Future Water Demands
3
(m /yr. x 1000)
Leribe
Water Demand by Calendar Year
Category of Demand               1976      1981       1986       1991      1996
Domestic
Inside tap                   19.1       33.6       55.6      87.1      132.5
Outside tap                   9.8       24.1       45.6      76.0      122.4
Public standpost             17.7       29.8       28.0       22.4      10.9
Commercial                       26.5      32.3       39.7       48.6      59.8
Institutional                    34.6      94.9      118.4     154.0      192.5
Industrial                        0.0       9.1       18.3       31.0      43.9
Total Consumption           107.7      223.8      305.6     419.1      562.0
Unaccounted-for water            38.7      62.4       64.1       88.2     118.0
Total Production            146.4      286.2      369.7     507.3      680.0
Mafeteng
Water Demand by Calendar Year
Category of Demand               1976      1981       1986       1991      1996
Domestic
Inside tap                    9.7       18.9       32.3      51.5       78.4
Outside tap                   6.9       17.0       30.6      48.9       73.2
Public standpost             17.0       21.9       19.7      14.7        8.8
Commercial                       10.6      12.0       13.9       16.1      18.3
Institutional                    12.8      90.5      107.3     134.7      159.2
Industrial                        0.0       9.1       18.3       31.0      43.9
Total Consumption            57.0      169.4      222.1     296.9      381.8
Unaccounted-for water            27.7      55.8       46.7       62.4      80.2
Total Production             84.7      225.2      268.8     359.3      462.0



ANNEX 2
- 40-                             Table 2
(m3/yr x 1000)
Mohale's Hoek
Water Demand by Calendar Year
Category of Demand               1976       1981       1986       1991       1996
Domestic
Inside tap                    23.6       37.7       58.3       85.1      117.2
Outside tap                    5.5       19.7       40.6       68.6      105.5
Public standpost              31.1       31.0       28.7       21.9        9.4
Commercial                         7.3       8.5        9.9       11.5       13.4
Institutional                    17.1       99.4      117.4      145.2      172.2
Industrial                        0.0       16.4       25.6       34.7       43.8
Total Consumption             84.6      212.7      280.5      367.0      461.5
Unaccounted-for water            20.6       49.7       58.9       77.1       96.5
Total Production             105.2      262.4      339.4      444.1      558.0
Mokhotlong
Water Demand by Calendar Year
Category of Demand               1976       1981       1986       1991       1996
Domestic tap
Inside tap                     3.7        6.7       10.4       19.5      32.9
Outside tap                    6.6       10.1       13.8       23.3      36.8
Public standpost               1.4        5.2        4.7        8.3        3.3
Commercial                        1.3        1.5        1.8        2.1        2.4
Institutional                     5.7       26.3       32.0       40.7       49.2
Industrial                        0.0        0.0        0.0        4.6        9.1
Total Consumption             18.7       49.8       62.7       98.5     133.7
Unaccounted-for water            10.2       19.0       13.2       20.7       28.1
Total Production              28.9       68.8       75.9     119.2      161.8



-41                               ANNEX 2
Table 3
(m 3/yr. x 1000)
Quthing
Water Demand by Calendar Year
Category of Demand               1976       1981       1986       1991       1996
Domestic
Inside tap                                6.7       12.6       37.1       60.3
Outside tap                    9.8       10.7       16.0       39.7       56.3
Public standpost               0.1        3.7       19.7        9.0        5.0
Commercial                         3.3        3.7       4.2        4.7        5.3
Institutional                     8.0       31.6       38.6       48.6       58.6
Industrial                        0.0        0.0        0.0       12.8       25.6
Total Consumption             21.2       56.4       91.1      151.9      211.1
Unaccounted-for water            10.9       21.5       19.1       31.9       44.3
Total Production              32.1       77.9      110.2      183.8      255.4
Roma
Water Demand by Calendar Year
Category of Demand               1976       1981       1986       1991       1996
Domestic
Inside tap                     1.1       19.7       52.2     105.1      189.8
Outside tap                    3.3       15.0       34.3       64.6     112.1
Public standpost               5.8       28.5       27.7       22.6        9.9
Commercial                        0.4        0.4        0.7        0.7        1.1
Institutional                    81.0      233.2      288.4      361.7      446.0
Industrial                        0.0        5.8        5.8       18.6       31.4
Total Consumption             91.6      302.6     409.1      573.3      790.3
Unaccounted-for water            25.9       71.2       85.8      120.5      166.1
Total Production             117.5      373.8      494.9     693.8      956.4



-42 -                             ANNEX 2
Table 4
(m3/yr. x 1000)
Teyateyaneng
Water Demand by Calendar Year
Category of Demand               1976       1981       1986       1991      1996
Domestic
Inside tap                     9.6       33.7      65.8      125.2      219.0
Outside tap                   10.2       26.1      46.0       82.6      138.7
Public standpost              34.8       35.6       30.7      25.7       12.4
Commercial                       11.9       12.2       12.5      12.8       13.1
Institutional                    80.1      105.0     118.9      142.4      162.9
Industrial                        0.0        9.1       18.3      31.0       43.8
Total Consumption            146.6     221.7      292.2      419.7      589.9
Unaccounted-for water            30.8       46.6       61.4       88.1     123.9
Total Production             177.4      268.3     353.6      507.8      713.8
Summary for 7 Towns
Water Demand by Calendar Year
Category of Demand               1976       1981       1986      1991       1996
Domestic
Inside tap                    66.8     157.0      287.2      510.6      830.1
Outside tap                   52.1     122.7      226.9      403.7      645.0
Public standpost             107.9      155.7     159.2      124.6       59.7
Commercial                       61.3       70.6       82.7      96.5      113.4
Institutional                   239.3      680.9     821.0    1027.3    1240.6
Industrial                        0.0       49.5       86.3     163.7      421.5
Total Consumption            527.4    1236.4    1663.3    2326.4    3130.3
Unaccounted-for water           164.8      326.2      349.2     488.9      657.1
Total Production             692.2    1562.6    2012.5    2815.3    3787.4
December 1978



- 43 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 6
LESOTHO
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Description of Proposed Construction Components
1. General - All Towns
Design Criteria
1.01      With minor exceptions, all water system improvements would be sized
to meet water demands projected for 1986. Exceptions consist mainly of certain
transmission and distribution mains which, due to the small size and low capa-
city, are uneconomic to duplicate at a later date. Source of supply, treatment
works, pump stations and transmission mains would be sized to meet maximum-day
demands, while the design of distribution mains would be based upon peak-hour
demands. Distribution system storage capacity is based upon 24 hrs of
production at a maximum-day demand rate.
Distribution System
1.02      The distribution System in each town would be extended, and public
standposts added to provide increased coverage and improved access.
General Plant
1.03      The Project would include the construction of buildings at each town
to provide for: a) operations and storage of equipment and supplies and,
b) administration.
2. Leribe
Source of Supply
2.01      The existing borehole would be deactivated and appurtenant pumping
equipment dismantled and retained for use elsewhere. Minor modifications
would be made to two existing gravity mains from Subeng stream and Qoqolosing
spring. Major improvements would be made to the Hlotse River intake and
appurtement works as follows: (a) extend electric power to intake; (b)
construct permanent Hlotse River abstraction facility; (c) construct grit -
removal tanks; (d) provide electric-drive pump set and (e) construct new raw
water supply main.
Treatment Works
2.02      The nominal capaSity of the existing treatment works would be
increased to about 1,900 m /day through the provision for additional



44 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 6
sedimentation basins and slow sand filters, and minor modification of existing
treatment units.
Treated Water Transmission
2.03      A new pump station would be provided at the treatment works to boost
to a newly created Upper (Tlai-Tlai) Zone.
Treated Water Storage
2.04      Additional distribution system storage would be provided consisting
of approximitely 800 m of ground-level storage at the treatment plant site and
about 200 m of elevated storage to serve the Upper Zone.
3. Mafeteng
Source of Supply
3.01      The existing Scot's Vlei dam would be repaired and a new outlet
structure and raw water supply main constructed. The existing raw water pump
station would be modified so as to provide the capability of transferring
surplus water from the Scot's Vlei catchment to Luna Lake for supplemental
storage. An intake and raw water pump station also would be constructed at
Luna Lake to permit the return of this water to Scot's Vlei when storage in
the latter is depleted. Pumping equipment at existing boreholes would be
repaired and/or replaced and a new rising main would be provided to connect
the boreholes to the distribution system.
Treatment Works
3.02      The nominal capa3ity of the existing treatment works would be
increased to about 1,400 m /day through the addition of sedimentation basins
and slow-sand filters, and the modification of existing treatment units.
Chlorinators would be provided to treat ground water production.
Treated Water Transmission
3.03      Existing pump ssts would be replaced by units providing a firm
capacity of about 1,400 m /day and the existing rising main would be replaced
by a larger main with increased pressure rating. The existing rising main
would be converted to distribution service.
Treated Water Storage
3.04   3  The distribution storage capacity would be increased to about
1,400 m through provision for about 700 m of additional capacity at a single
site. One of two existing reservoirs also would be rehabilitated.



- 45 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 6
4. Mohale's Hoek
Source of Supply
4.01      Off-channel storage would be constructed adjacent to the Makhaleng
River to provide carryover storage capacity during extended drought periods.
Pumping equipment at these boreholes would be repaired and/or replaced and the
existing rising main from the boreholes would be extended. An electric power
supply would be extended to several boreholes. Raw water pumping capacity at
the Makhaleng River intake would be increased.
Treatment Works
4.02      The nominal capacity of the existing treatment works would be
increased to about 1,800 m /day through the construction of additional
sedimentation basins and slow sand filters.
Treated Water Transmission
4.03   3  A new intermediate booster station, having a firm capacity of
1,800 m /day, would be constructed midway between the treatment works and the
distribution system in order to develop the full capacity of the existing
rising main. A new pump station and appurtenant rising main also would be
constructed to boost water to a newly created Upper Zone.
Treated Water Storage
4.04   3  Distribution system storage capacity3would be increased to about
1,800 m through the addition of about 1,300 m of capacity at three separate
sites.
Distribution System
4.05      The existing distribution system would be extended and partitioned
into three, hydraulically-separate zones.
5. Mokhotlong
Source of Supply
5.01      Facilities would be provide adjacent to the Mokhotlong River to
improve the dependability of supplies from the River, and from an adjacent
stream and spring. These would consist mainly of new, low-lift pump units.
Minor improvements also would be made elsewhere to existing gravity supplies
through construction of a weir at a minor stream intake and through the
insertion of air valves in the supply pipeline.



- 46 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 6
Treatment Works
5.02      The nominal cipacity of the existing treatment works would be
extended to about 600 m /day through the addition of sedimentation basins
and slow sand filters. Minor modifications would be made to influent and
effluent piping to permit routing all gravity supplies through the treatment
works. The existing pressure treatment unit would be retained but provision
would be made for improved chemical mixing and chlorination.
Treated Water Storage
5.03      An additional 300 m  of storage capacity would be provided to
supplement existing distribution system storage.
6. Quthing
Source of Supply
6.01      Existing boreholes would be retained on standby status after
repair and/or replacement of appurtenant pumping equipment and the existing
rising main would be extended. Permanent abstraction works also would be
constructed on the Sengu River and on Qomoqomong stream. A raw water pumping
station and rising main would be constructed to transfer water from the Senqu
River to the Qomoqomong during low-flow periods. Existing low-lift pumps
adjacent to Qomoqomong stream would be replaced.
Treatment Works
6.02      The nominal ca acity of the existing treatment works would be
increased to about 600 m /day through the addition of sedimentation basins
and slow sand filters. Existing arrangements for the addition and mixing
of chemicals also would be modified and gas chlorination would be provided.
The existing settling tank and dry well would be deactivated. The former
would be converted to treated water storage while the clear weil for the
Lower Moyeni Zone would be replaced by a new facility of 100 m capacity
located at a more suitable elevation on the site. A new chlorinator would
be provided to permit ground water production.
Treated Water Transmission
6.03      A new pump station would be provided at the existing treatment
works to boost flows through a new rising main to the Upper Moyeni Zone.
A new gravity main also would be provided to convey treated water to the
Lower Moyeni Zone.



- 47 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 6
Treated Water Storage
6.04      Approximately 300 m  of treated water storage capacity, in the
form of ground-level storage, would be provided at the treatment works and
at two other sites providing service to the Upper and Lower Moyeni zones,
respectively.
7. Roma
Source of Supply
7.01      An earth fill-dam and outlet structure would be constructed on the
Lower Qhobosheaneng stream to provide carryover storage capacity for use
during periods of low-flow on Roma stream, the principal existing supply of
Lesotho National University (LNU). The pumping equipment at five existing LNU
boreholes would be repaired and/or replaced and appurtenant piping modified to
facilitate direct delivery of production from these sources to the existing
Lehloba reservoir. The existing intake and appurtenant pumping equipment and
piping at Roma stream would be rehabilitated to assure improved reliability of
this source.
Treatment Works
7.02      New treatment works providing a nominal capacity of 1,200 m 3/day 1/
and consisting of chemical dosing and mixing facilities, sedimentation basins
and slow sand filters would be constructed adjacent to the outlet works of the
proposed lower Qhobosheaneng reservoir. Disinfection of the treated affluent
would be provided at the new works and at the existing Roma works using gas
chlorination. Minor modifications also would be made at the Roma works,
mainly to improve pre-treatment processes, involving chemical mixing, coagula-
tion and sedimentation. After completion of treatment plant additions and/or
modifications, the existing LNU campus treatment works would be deactivated.
Treated Water Transmission
7.03      A new high-service pump station of 1,800 m 3/day capacity would
be constructed at the proposed Lower Qhobosheaneng treatment works to boost
to the existing Lehloba reservoir through a proposed 2-km long rising main.
A pump station and rising main also would be provided to boost to the
Upper Lehloba and Maphotong zones. Existing high-service pumps at the
Roma treatment works and transfer pumps located on the LNU campus would
be replaced so as to match the revised pumping conditions.
1/   The treatment works would be designed to operate for short periods at an
1,800 m /day (50% overload) rate.



- 48 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 6
Treated Water Storage
7.04      Ground-level storage capacity totalling about 400 m3 would be
constructed in standard size units at two sites to serve the Upper Lehloba
and Maphotong zones.
8. Teyateyaneng
Source of Supply
8.01      The existing Phuthiatsana River intake would be modified and/or
supplemented and raw water pumping capacity increased. Existing boreholes
located adjacent to the Teyateyaneng River would be retained on standby
status after required rehabilitation of the boreholes, repair and/or replace-
ment of appurtement pumping equipment, and the installation of flow meters.
The existing subsurface intake adjacent to the Teyateyaneng River also would
be retained on standby after minor modifications to the intake, repair and/or
replacement of appurtenant pumping equipment, and the installation of a flow
meter.
Treatment Works
8.02      The existing PhEthiatsana treatment works would be extended by
additions of abolt 1,200 m /day of nominal capacity providing a total capacity
of about 1,800 m /day. These additions would consist mainly of sedimentation
basins and slow sand filters.
Treated Water Transmission
8.03      The firm capacity of the existing Phuthiatsana high-service pump
station would be increased to about 1,800 m /day through the addition of a
third pump unit. An intermediate booster pump station would be constructed
midway between the Phuthiatsana treatment works and the distribution system
in order to more fully develop the capacity of the existing rising main. The
rising main also would be extended so as to deliver water directly to the new
Lower Zone reservoir.
Treated Water Storage
8.04      Approximately 1,750 m3 of distribution sysiem storage capacity would
be constructed at two separate sites. About 1,700 m of this would consist
of ground-level storage provided to replace three old reservoirs presently
serving the Lower Zone. The balance would be elevated storage supplementing
service to the Upper Zone.
December 1978



- 49 -
LESOTHO
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT                                        ANNEx 4
Page i of 8
Construction Cost Estimates
Summary
Rands (Thousands)                 US$ (Thousands)                    Percentages
Town                       Local    Foreign    Total         Local    Foreign    Total         Total    Grand Total
Leribe
Civil Works                 128       290         418         147        334         481         64
Equipment                      5       46           51           6        53          59         08
Engineering                  10        37          47           12        43          55         07
Contingencies                39       102         141           45      117          162         21
Subtotals              182       475         657         210       547         757        100          12
Nafeteng
Civil Works                 149       328         477          171       377         548         57
Equipment                    11       106         117           13       122         135        14
Engineering                  10        41          51           12        47          59        06
Contingencies                50       138         188           58       159         217        23
Subtotals              220       613         833         254       705         959       100           13
Mohale's Hoek
Civil Works                 244       408          652         281       469         750        63
Equipment                      4       57           61           5        66          71        06
Engineering                   13       54           67          15        62          77        07
Contingencies                 88      163          251         101       187         288        24
Subtotals              349       682        1031         402       784        1186       100           17
Mokhotlong
Civil Works                 108       247         355         124       284         408          63
Equipment                     2        34          36            2        39         41         07
Engineering                   8        31          39           9        36          45         07
Contingencies                35        95         130          40       109         149         23
Subtotals              153      407          560         175       468         643        100          10
Quthing
Civil Works                 142       324         466         163       373         536         63
Equipment                     5        48          53            6       55          61         07
Engineering                  10        38          48          12        43          55         06
Contingencies                49       127         176          56       146         202         24
Subtotals              206      537          743         237       617         854        100          13
Roma
Civil Works                 406       514         920         467       591        1058         64
Equipment                     5        38          43            6       44          50         03
Engineering                  25       102         127          29       117         146         09
Contingencies               152       201         353         175       231         406         24
Subtotals              588       855        1443         677       983        1660        100          25
Teyateyaneng
Civil Works                  92       212         304         106       244         350         57
Equipment                     7        61          68           8        70          78         13
Engineering                   7        30          37           8        35          43         07
Contingencies                32        89         121          37       102         139         23
Subtotals             138       392         530          159      451         610        100          10
GRAND TOTAL,
CONSTRUCTION                    1837      3961        5798         2113     4555        6668                    100
Lecember 1978



-50-                                                                  ANEX a
PTaie 2of 8
LESOTHO
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Construction Cost Estimates for Leribe
LOCAL COSTS                                    FOREIGN COSTS
Year Ending December 31                       1979    1980    1981    1982    Subtotal    1979    1980    1981    1982    Subtotal                Total Costa
------------------------------------ Rands x 00s-------------------------------------------------------
Civil Works
Source of Supply
Intake -rk                                   35                       35                    64                        64                 99
Raw water Storage
Pumping plant
Supply maina                                 156       97      24      277                  363      224       55     642                919
Treatment Works                                   129       90       26     245                   299     179       61      539               784
Booster Pumping Plant
Transmission Mains                                 23        3               26                    53        5               58                S4
Service Reservoirs                                279       75       18     372                   651     173       43     867               1239
Distribution Mains                                 83       83      82      248                   191     192      191     574                822
Services and Standpoata                            15       14       15      44                    32      35       34      101               145
General Plant                                      32        3    _          35                    48       6                54                89
Sub-totals                                7S7      365      165    1282                  1701     814      384-   2899               4181
Pumping Plant
Source of supply                              15      10                25                  145       75              220               245
Booster Pumps                                 14        1               15                   47        4               51                66
Treatment Works
Water Meters                                        6                         6                    47      28       29      104               110
Vehicles                                                                                           49                       49                 49
Tools and Misc. Equipment                                    4                4                    21      17                38                42
Sub-totals                                 35       15   ,=          50                   309      124      29      462               512
Consulting Services
Engineering
Design                               18       38                        56           74     149                       223               279
Supervision of construction                   10      18       10       38                   37       74      38      149               187
Sub-totals                         18         4     i8       10      94           74      186       74      38      372               466
Baseline Costs                  18     835      398      175    1426           74      1      2 4 51!    73T                      5159
Contingencies
Physical                                    2      87       40       18     147            8      226     101       45     380                527
Price                                       1     102       87      57      247            3      267     221      146     637                884
Sub-totals                          35    189'    127   ' 75        394           11    - 493      322     191    1017               1411
GRAND TOTAL                                     21    1024      525      250    1820           85    2689    1334       642    4750               6570
Dgcepber 1978



- 51-                                                                    ANt 4
Page 3 of 8
LESOTHO
WATER SUPPLY PR(OJECT
Construction Coat Estimates for  gfateog
LOCAL COSTS                                 PORFIGN coSTS
Year Ending December 31                       1979    1980    1981    1982    Subtotal    1979    1980    1981    1982    Subtotal                 Total Costa
--~- - ----- ----------------------- ---  RBE- :r OO               -------------_-_-----__--_---___________--
Civil Works
Source of Supply
Intake works                                  26        3               29                   38        5               43                 72
RAW water storage                             28       24       9       61                    12      11        3       26                87
Puping  lant                                  23        3               26                    52       5                57                83
Supply mains                                 158       80      26      264                  366      185       61      612               876
Treatmant Works                                   156      tOO       29     285                   363      231       66     660                945
Boostar Pumping Plant
Transmission HiLins                               167      111      135      443                  390      Z59      317     966               1379
Service Rsaervoira                                113       52       15     180                   250      118      38      406               586
Distribution Mains                                 31       61       61     153                    72      143     142      357               510
Services and Standposts                             4       11       12      27                    14       26      23       63                90
General Plant                                       50       6               56                    7 7       8     _         83               139
Sub-totals                                 75-6    451      287    1494                  1632   __9L        650    3273               4767
Equiment
Pumping Pant
Source of supply                              26       36       3       64                  244      317       28      589               653
Booster pumps                                          22       4       26                           205       29      234               260
Treatment Works                                              3       10       13                            18       35      53                 66
Water Meters                                                                                       19       43      38      100                100
Vehicles                                                                                           49                        49                49
Tools and Misc. Equipment                                    4    _           4                    21       17    _          38                42
Sub-totals                                 2L6    __a        17      1S7                  333      6nn0 .i    iQ.a                    UPO
Consulting Services
Engineering
Design                                20      41                        61           81      163                       244               305
Supervision of construction        _          11       20       10      41                    41      81       41      163               204
Sub-totals                         20       52       20    _10       102           81     204       83       41     407                509
Baseline Costs                  20     834       535     314   2703           e81             Ii 79    -!       7                 6446
Contingencies
Physical                                    2      89        56      31    178             5      222     lob       82      480               658
Price                                       1     102       118     102    323             3      263     366      266      898              1221
Sub-totals                                          7 4      133    51            148    1378                                        1879
GRAM2  TOTAL                                    23    1025       709      447   2204            92    2654    2206    1169    6121                 8325
Oeeew*r 1978



-  52                                                            ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 8
LESOTHO
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Construction Cost Estimates for Mohale's Hoek
LOCAL  COSTS                                   FOREIGN  COSTS
Year Ending December 31                        1979    1980    1981    1982    Subtotal    1979    1980    1981    1982    Subtotal                  Total Costs
--B----------------------------- Rands xOO' -----------------------------------------------------------
Civil Works
Source of Supply
Intake wrks
Raw water storage                            509      254       84      847                   217     109       37      363               1210
Pumping plant
Supply mains                                 124       55        5      184                   289     129       11      429                613
Treatment Works                                     74       81      49      204                   173      190      116     479                683
Booster Pumping Plant                               24                        24                    72        8               80                104
Transmission Mains                                           23     135      158                             55      314      369               527
Service Reservoirs                                 205      110       95     410                   410      254      225     959               1369
Distribution Mains                                  98      196      196     490                   228      456      458    1142               1632
Services and Standposts                             17       35      34       86                    41       81       80     202                288
General Plant                                       35        5      _        40                    52        5    _           57                97
Sub-totals                                1086      759      598    2443                  1552    1287    1241    4080                 6523
Esuinment
Pumping Plant
Source of supply                                       16        1       17                           141        5      146               163
Booster gumps                                          14        3       17                           121       33      154               171
Treatment Works                                      3                         3                    26        3                29                32
Water Meters                                                                                        31       61       61     153                153
Vehicles                                                                                            49                         49                49
Tools and Misc. Equipment                                   _ 4                4                    21       17               38                 42
Sub-totals                                   3       34        4       41                  127      343       99     569                610
Consulting Services
Engineering
Special investigations
Design                                26      54                         80          107     215                        322               402
Supervision of construction                   14       26       14       54                   5L,     107       54      215               269
Sub-totals                         26       68       26       14     134          10/      269      107       54     537                671
Baseline Costs                  26    l157       819      616    2618          107    1948   IT7        flZ    3T70
Contingencies
Physical                                    3      166      107       70     346           11      216      185     143      555                901
Price                                       1      146      184     202      533            4    .238       382      453    1077               1610
Sub-totals                          4   .312        291      272      879           15     454      567      596    1632               2511
GRAND TOTAL                                      30    1469    13h1O      888    3497           122    2402    2304    1990    6818                10315
Deaember 1978



- 53 -
ANNzEX 4
Page 5 of 8
LESOTHO
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Construction Cost Estimates for Mokhotlong
Local Costs                             Foreign Costs                Total
Year Ending December 31                     1979   1980   1981   1982   Subtotal  1979   1980   1981   1982   Subtotal   Costs
----------------------------Rands x 00's-----------------------------------------
Civil Works
Source of Supply
Intake works                                      3                        3               5                        5          8
Raw water storage
Pumping plant
Supply mains
Treatment Works                                    115    115      58       288             268    268    138        674        962
Booster Pumping Plant
Transmission Mains
Service Reservoirs                                  78     38      12      128              184      92     31       307        435
Distribution Mains                                 119    196    184        499             277    458    429    1,164        1,663
Services and Standposts                             15     32      32        79              37      75     75       187        266
General Plant                                       69     17                86             104      26              130        216
Sub-totals                                 399    398    286    1,083               85                                  5 673  50
Equipment
Pumping Plant
Source of supply                                 3                        3               26      3               29         32
Booster pumps
Treatment Works                                      1                        1              15       3               18         19
Water Meters                                         4      2                 6              53      68     61       182        188
Vehicles                                                                                     77                       77         77
Tools & Misc. Equip.                                        4                 4              21     17                38         42
Sub-totals                                  _8       6               _4             192      91      61      344        358
Consulting Services
Engineering
Special investigations
Design                                  15       31                      46      62      124                     186        232
Supervision of constr.                            8     15       8       31               32     62      31      125        156
Sub-totals                          15     _3'   1T5         8       77      62     156      62    31        311        388
Baseline Costs                       15     44      419    294    1,174        2   1,223  1,072    765    3,122        4,296
Contingencies
Physical                                    2       45     42      29      118       6      123    107      77      313        431
Price                                       1       54     92      95      242       2      148    235    248       633        875
Sub-totals                           3       99    134    124      _360       8      271    342    325       946
GRAND TOTAL                                  18      545    553    418    1,534       70   1,494  1,414  1,090    4,068        5,602
December 1978



- 54 --                                         AEX 4
Page 6 of 8
LESOTHO
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Construction Cost Estimates for Quthing
Local Costs                            Foreign Costs                 Total
Year Ending December 31          1979  1980   1981   1982   Subtotal   1979  1980   1981   1982   Subtotal    Costs
~~~~-     =                 Rands x    00's-
Civil Works
Source of Supply
Intake works                        337    76               413              760    181               941      1,354
Raw water
Pumping plant                        29      5               34                64     12                76       110
Supply mains
Treatment Works                         119    95      25       239              277    222    55         554        793
Booster Pumping Plant                     3     6                 9                8     12                20         29
Transi ssion Mains                       52    27      59      L38               122     65   137         324        462
Service Reservoirs                       93    54      11      158               217    124    26         367       525
Distribution Mains                       64   130    130       324               152    302   301         755     1,079
Services and Standposts                 11    23       23       57                29     52    52         133       190
General Plant                            44     5                49               66       8               74       123
Sub-totals                       752   421    248      1421            1,695    978   571        3244      4.665
Equipment
Pumping Plant
Source of supply                     18    12       1        31              153      92      5       250        281
Booster pumps                          4     6      1        11               10      47    13          70        81
Treatment Works                                         3        3                              26         26         29
Water Meters                                                                      13      18    18         49         49
Vehicles                                                                          49                       49         49
-Tools and Misc.  Equipment                      4                4                21     17                38        42
Sub-totals                       22    22       5        49              246    1?4    62         482        531
Consulting Services
Engineering
Special investigations
Design                       19       39                     58       77      154                     231        289
Supervision of constr.       _       10    19      10        39                39     77    39        155        194
Sub-totals               19      49   1i9       10       97       77     193      77    39        386        483
Baseline Costs           19      823   462    263       1567       77   2.134  1.229   672       4.112      5.679
Contingencies
Physical                         2      116    54      26       198       8      289    141    67         505        703
Price                            1      103   103      85      292        3      267    273   218         761     1,053
Sub-totals                3     219   T57    11          90              556    414   285       1,266      1.756
GRAND TOTAL                       22   1,042   619    374    2.,057         8           1AAq   9.S.L      x
December 1978



-  55-                                                     ANNEX 4
page 7 of 8
LESOTHO
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Construction Cost Estimates for Roma
Local Costs                                   Foreign Costs                    Total
Year Ending December 31              1979    1980       1981    1982   Subtotal   1979    1980          1981      1982  Subtotal   Costs
________ - ------------------------------Rands00's--------------              -            -------------
Civil Works
Source of Suppiy
Intake works                                35         2                37                 52          1               53          90
Raw water storage                       1,332        985    237      2,554                888       657    159    1,704        4,258
Pumping plant
Supply mains                                11         3                14                 28         6                34          48
Treatment Works                               234       113      25        372                551       260      60       871      1,243
3ooster Pumping Plant                           9         2                 11                 23         3                26         37
Transmission Mains                            311       249      46        606                726       583    109    1,418        2,024
Service Reservoirs                             56        46      11        113               132        106      27      265         378
Distribution Mains                             46        92      93        231                107       216    216        539        770
Services and Standposts                        11        21      23         55                 24        51      52       127        182
General Plant                                  55        14      _          69                 82        20               102        171
Sub-totals                          20           27    435       S,062              2,613    19         623    5139        9,201
Equipment
Pumping Plant
Source of supply                            14         3                17                 56        25                81          98
Booster pumps                               15         6       1         22                 34        34     10         78        100
Treatment Works                                                   5          5                                   25        25         30
Water Meters                                                                                   22        42      42       106        106
Vehicles                                                                                       49                          49         49
Tools and Misc. Equipment                                 4                  4                 21        17                38         42
Sub-totals                              29          13     6        48                182       118    _7T        377         425
Consulting Services
Engineering
Special investigations           64                                      64    258                                    258         322
Desiga                           37         77                         114    150          307                         457        571
Supervision of constr.                      20        37     20          77                77       151      77       305         382
Sub-totals                  101         97        37     20        255    408         38         51      77    1020         1 27
Baseline Costs              101      2,226    1,577    461        4,365    408       3,179    2,172      777    6,536    10,901
Contingencies
Physical                            17        359       256      70        702      67        412       283      93       855    13557
Price                                4        285       365    157         81        6        36        49      27     1185596
Sub-totals  /1        644      K2_1   T2_         81       16         96       48      25       .          ,6
S u b - t o t a l s   2 1   6 4 4   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   2 2 7   1 . 5 1 3   8~~~~ ~3   8 0 8   7 7 2   3 5 0   2   0 1 3   3   5 2
GRAND TOTAL                           122     2,870    2,198    688        5,878    491       3,987    2,944  1            ,549     14,427
December 1978



-  56-                                              ANNEX 4
page 8 of 8
LESOTHO
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Construction Cost Estimates for Teyateyaneng
Local Costs                                Foreign Costs                 Total
Year Ending December 31             1979  1980   1981   1982   Subtotal    1979  1980   1981   1982  Subtotal    Costs
Civil Works                                                     _-________________----Rands x 00's - - ----- --------
Source of Supply
Intake works                           81      49               130               182      89              271         401
Raw water storage
Pumping plant
Supply mains
Treatment Works                          116      95      51       262                274    222    118       614          876
Booster Pumping Plant                     29      18                47                 67      70             137          184
Transmission Mains
Service Reservoirs                       119      23       6       148               288      54      12      354          502
Distribution Mains                         47     97      96       240               113    227    227        567          807
Services and Standposts                     9     15      19        43                 20     40      40      100          143
General Plant                              40       9               49                 61     15                76         125
Sub-totals                        441    306    172         919            1,005    717    397   2,119           3,038
Equipment
Pumping Plant
Source of supply                        1       3                 4                26      27               53          57
Booster pumps                          47      11                58               260      95              355         413
Treatment Works
Water Meters                                3                         3                31     45      44      120          123
Vehicles                                                                               49                      49           49
Tools and Misc. Equipment                          4                 4                21      17               38           42
Sub-totals                        53T      18                69               387    184       44      615         684
Consulting Services
Engineering
Special investigations
Design                         15      30                        45        59    118                       177         222
Supervision of constr.                  7      15       8        30                30      58      30     118          148
Sub-totals                 15      37      15       8        75        59        148   38     30       295         370
Baseline Costs              15    529    339    180    1,063            59  1,540    959    471   3,029          4,092
Contingencies
Physical                           .2     61      39      18       120         6    172    105        47      330         450
Price                               1     65      75      58       199         2    190    212    153         557         756
Sub-totals                  3    126    114        76       319         8    362    317    200        887       1,206
GRAND TOTAL                          18    655    453    256    1 382            67  1,902  1 276    671   3 916          5 298
December 1978



LESOTHO
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1 978                              1979                              1980                                1981                               1982
JF FMAMJ   S                   0                 JF M A_ D J ASNDJ FMAMJ J A SONDI F|M|A|M J J|A SON O J F|M|AM J                                            J A S|O|N D
MonthsAfterProjectAppraisal                        1    2 3 4  5 6  7 8 9 10112 13141516171819    21222324122627282930 313 3334353  3738394041  24344  54647 4849505152535455
Part A - Water Supply Construction
Engineering
Design Planning
Site Investigations
Detailed Design & Preparation
of Tender Documents
Construction Supervision
Procurement
Vehicles
Equipment                                                                                                                                                                                                                      U
Pipe and Supplies
Construction
Dams, Levees, and Stream Abstraction Works
Borehole Testing & Rehabilitation
Supply Mains
Treatmnent Works
Pump Station Structuires
Transmission Mains
Treated Water Reservoirs
Reticulation Systems
General Plant
Part a - Institutional Developnsent
Accounting
Tariff Studies
Part C -PreParation of Phase II Project
Legend
Construction, Execution of Activity
-----   -Period of Tender and Analysis of                                                                                                                          WrdBn      91
.......Manufacture and Deliver Materilas
*Advertise
V   Open Tenders                                                                                                                                                                               U
o  Award Contract



- 58 -
ANNEX 6
LESOTHO
WATER SUPPLY PRUJECT
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS FROM IDA CREDIT
Cumulative
IDA FY              Disbursements
and                at end of Quarter      Percentage
Quarter                US$ Thousands         of Total
1980
1st quarter                0                     0
2nd quarter                0                     0
3rd quarter              120                     2
4th quarter              420                     7
1981
1st quarter            1,020                    17
2nd quarter            1,740                    29
3rd quarter            2,520                    42
4th quarter            3,240                    54
1982
1st quarter            3,840                    64
2nd quarter            4,320                    72
3rd quarter            4,740                    79
4th quarter            5,100                    85
1983
1st quarter            5,340                    89
2nd quarter            5,520                    92
3rd quarter            5,700                    95
4th quarter            5,850                    97.5
1984
1st quarter            6,000                   100
December 1978



LESOTHO
WATER SUPPEY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF MfNISTRY OF WORKS
INCLUDING WATER AND SEWERAGE BRANCH
|M,n,.t*, of Wo.k,
D| t P -on     S.nts.y
W,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M                                           01k. .  . I    .*
| ~ ~ ~ ~~ee, 5kc Eqie., ,
X   .  __.                    |          1'                 '    '  '' 1.  WA
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W                                   r
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ol Di.o Dll:30.
| M en n n  |   1<;; ;;; 11<;i;;7   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~[i  {i1    {i}                    {X1 ~ ~ ~~~~U
2 | D"nlie~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  s 1 



- 60 -
ANNEX 8
LESOTHO
WATER AND SEWERAGE BOARD
INCOME STATEMENT PROJECTIONS
Ydar ended March 31      WL979    1980      1981    1982      1983      1984     1985    :198
NET SALES (lmg)          393      467       592      787      865       934     1t?08    1tO8
(thousands of Rands)
OPERAT ING REVENUES
WA LER S'UPPLY            393       700     8a8      1180     1297      2 092    2257    243:.
S:iE Wf.l\-           .. _ _n 38 L  --162' ----LS!Q _. __ :222 _. _X!6I __.3 .7____ 36Q __ ._423
11:11 sel .   ___ 531 . . ~___823d  ___LQ8 --- 1402 ---_1551 3  _   23! . _.__2612 Z._  f3 60
OPER,^TING EXPENSES
E MF I.. -lY BhT          28'       333      390      456      534       625      731      855
POWER & (3Li              1.52      182      232      310      369       431      504      590
f HE IF'P L .C  S          66        79      101      135      161      :189      221      256
TRANSPO.RT COST':          80       94       109      120      150       175      205      240
MAI.LNTENANCE              58        68       79       93      109       127      149      174
ttTHtER                     15       18       20       24       28        33       38
D E F'RE:CI'Tl(J N             __33A     .3_S _      52 . _ ..   86.4  : 1.0_30   .1.. 2;2 _-12
TOL                . ...    ............ .. 286  . ....1158  .... 1349 . .__1238   _2215  __2610    .  ... ..22332
O1PE!:'AThINiG INC:::HF  _4i5 _  . -226 ._ _=;21 ----336                   __5   . _ -93
.EF INC1OME XB:F TNIT   -455     -296      -271     -336    -657      -211      -358     - 529
TNT [ CHAFiRGED OFRATNS_._____5A1 _____52         - - _._12   _542 ._.
NT::  I NCOPiE           -496     -353    -;35 2    -433    -761       -(/50    - 900     I -:1 I:
December 1978



- 61-
ANNEX 9
LESOTHO
WATER AND SEWRAGE BOARD
CASH FLOW PROJECTIONS
Summary
Year ended March 31         1979      198(     1981.    1982       1983      1984       1980-84 1 tji,     1983
(thousands of Rands)
INfE:RNAl. SOURCES
NF T IN('OIME Tfl-.EF 'LN!EREST-455    -296  -2771     -336      -657      -211    --1771       358     -52Y
-*DEt:;EC:IA TIDN    .     _33  ..3  84          ...1.8 .522              - ..103D  .32            2 .......... 122'
(:l FOAl              -125        88       147      25) 6     207       819      1517      '769       70i
UPL RsT:I O)Ni3L Fit:E
U U. I R' E-ME N l S
--WORhI:lNG CAPITAL        :130        72        54        76       49       169       420        70)       7V
-DEPTr SERVICE                             _._24 .._1Q5 224 _35 510 . _222 .1952. 220.
T Ul           .       .204 A. _  22 I28 ..          462  - _.552  ----821 .. 23.'2  ....292    .          .
NEtT AVALAfBLE
FROM OPERATlONS:         -329       -89      -131      -211      -352       -72      -855       --21       ',
GUNS f FR U C TI 1 N
RE .OlU IRt: MEN T S
--l"RUPOFSE:I: :iD  PROJ.i  I  ECT  0  368     2467     1936       960       320      6051  O
--6 TOWNS Wsi1 ER:; PRO JECT    0     6830    1600      1560      1053         0      4893         0         O
-M  S FRU WAiTER SF.J FLY F   i     2(150     2150      1150       276         0      5726              0   0
-M:ASERIJ .;EWERAG3E PROJEC5OOO        o                   0         0                  0         0         0
O THF-.R                    ...  _        _ lQ        .       _1D ._10 .D -I_ .. 1             _   1   Q       1
TCTC riL    _       .      t  360 ..  32QC   ___6222 ___4656 ..-_2222            1 6 722 ..... ....... ... ..  1Q -.
L: ALA4N2 E rc FINANCE     1689    3;297      6 358     4867      2651       402    1 7;55        31       j. 0
F l N A iC:.lIt D Y
I:.Dis l; -$DIT               O-0  0378       2247       L 928    1.152      2h:L    ',J9;,)6           0   0
AFDF                       300      2000     2000      1000       256         0      52'5 6                 0
KFW                           0      62()      J()(    150(      1.000         0     462()        (         0
- IE4[l lY         T ..          ---1 ---- 2888    _58___8 a..486 _  __261      .      _9' -62  ...    .    ..
lOY' AL                171.1    3286       6335     4914      2669       330    17534         1.0        0
SURPLUS TI   .
(F FULNI )                 22      -11       -23        47        1.8     -72       -41       -?l.    -1.07
I     .EBT SERVICE COVERAGE  -. * 7   0.8      0.7       0.7       0.4       1 1      0. 8  V . f I       S :
December 1978



- 62 -
ANNEI 10
LESOTHO
WATER AND SEWERAGE BOARD
BALANCE ShEET PROJECTIONS
Projected
Estimated                        (thousnds of-Rands)
1978               1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
ASSETS
PLANT IN OF'ERATION      11682             14683   16014   17465   29862   39291   43132   47024   51266
LESS: DEPRECIATION       4126            ___4822 ---5645 _6521 __2ZZ54 _2316 __11184 __1331I  __15746
NET PLANT                7556               9856   10369   10894   22108   29975   31948   33706   35520
WORK :N PROGRESS         1062                472    3683   10008    4097           25       50       50       50
CURRENT ASSETS
-CASH AND BANKS
OPERATIONAL              0                 100      117      136      159      186      218      255      298
TEMPORARY SURPLUS        0                  22>1     11        0       35       53        0        0        0
-ACCOUNTS RECE.VABLE       56                 88       144     180      234      260      400      436       476
-INVENTORIES              50                      6   --6    80 _____29 __102 ____12Z ____142 ---124
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS     106                 268      340      396      522      608      745      840      948
87.24             10596   14392   21298   26727   30608   32743   34596   36518
LIABILITIES
EQU ITY
'-CAPITAL                8108                9519    9807   10395   10881   11142   11211   11221   11221
-RETAINED EARNINGS!    0                    -496    -849   -1201   -1634   -2395   -3145   -4045   -5096
-REVALUATION RESERfi       0             __680 __-1562 ___2500 ___3481 ___54Zi ___8162  _A1044 -             214Q2
TOTAL               8108                9703   10525   11694   12728   14218-  16235   18220   20202
LONG TERM DiEBT           559                826    3789    9501   13893   16265   16343   16165   15969
CURRENT LIABILITIES
-ACCOUNTS PAYABLE          57                  67       78       91      106      125      146      171      200
-OVERDRAFTS                - _                            ----- 12 ------ _0         _____1Y _____40 ____14Z
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES  57                 67       7a      103      106      125      165      211      347
8724              10596   14392   21298   26727   30608   32743   34596   36518
DEBT/EQUITY RATIO (")                          8       26       45       52       53       50       47       44
pecemher 27, 1978



- 63 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 2
LESOTHO
WATER AND SEWERAGE BRANCH TRADING ACCOUNT
Notes to Financial Projections
Introduction
1.        WSB has not operated as an accounting entity but as a branch of the
Ministry of Works. Past revenues and operating expenditures are not reliably
determinable. Accounting is on a cash basis. Capital and operating expendi-
tures are included in the same expense classifications and there is inadequate
information on debtor, creditor or inventory levels. No consumption records
are maintained and billed revenues and debtors have not been totalled for some
time. The financial projections are based primarily on the best information
WSB has been able to supply the mission, but the quality of this information
is limited by the inadequacies of the records and the inexperience of WSB's
personnel.
Income Statement
Revenues
2.        It has been assumed that, from April 1, 1979, water supply and
sewerage levels would be raised and maintained at a level sufficient to cover
cash operating expenses and cash debt service 1/ and would not be reduced.
This is estimated to require a 50% tariff increase to be followed by a further
tariff increase of 49% on April 1, 1983. There is a lack of adequate and
reliable information about past consumption and related billed revenues.
Improvements to WSB's statistical and accounting system will be required
before adequate estimates and monitoring of revenues and collections can be
made. Meantime, based on available information, it has been assumed that
revenues for 30% of the quantity of WSB's water supplied to its consumers
will not be collected during FY79, 25% during FY1980, 20% during FY1981, and
15% thereafter.
3.        In the absence of information about billed sewerage revenues, pro-
jected sewerage revenues are based on an estimate of the proportion of WSB's
cash operating expenses related to sewerage operations.
1/   The debt service shown in Annex 9 under the heading "Operational
Requirements" includes interest during construction (IDC) financed
through borrowings and thus exceeds debt service paid out. IDC is
included in borrowings in this Annex.



- 64 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 2
Operating Expenses
4.        Unless otherwise stated, a 9% inflation rate has been added to
estimated expenses in addition to estimated real increases in expenses as
indicated below.
Employment Costs
5.        These are assumed to increase by 8% per annum.
Power and Oil, Chemicals
6.        This is assumed to increase proportionally with production.
Transport and Maintenance Costs
7.        These are assumed to increase by 8% per annum.
Depreciation
8.        Average anual depreciation rates on fixed assets has been
taken at 2.5% per annum.
Balance Sheet
Fixed Assets
9.        Fixed asset records are not kept by WSB.  Binnie Shand Lesotho,
WSB's consultants, made a physical inventory of water supply and sewerage
fixed assets and valued them at 1976 replacement cost less depreciation. To
this has been added estimated additions for FY77 and FY78. An assumed 10%
annual revaluation has been made for the two years, after which fixed assets
have been revalued at 9% per annum.
Inventories
10.       These have been assumed to increase in line with operating
expenses.
Accounts Receivable
11.       These have been assumed to be equal to two months' average annual
sales.
Accounts Payable
12.       These are assumed to increase at 17% per annum.



- 65 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 2
Loans
13.       It has been assumed that Government would make the proceeds of
the IDA Credit available to WSB over 24 years, at a 7-1/2% interest rate
and that interest would be financed through borrowings until 1983, with
combined level payments of interest commencing in 1984. Finance for the
AfDF-assisted Maseru water supply project and the KfW-assisted six towns
water supply project is to be made available to WSB over 50 years, includ-
ing a 10-year grace period, and at a 0.75% interest rate.



- 66 -
ANNEX 12
LESOTHO
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
A.   WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Al. "Lesotho Study on Water Resources Development, Inventory Report",
1971-72, Binnie and Partners, UNDP-Financed, 6 vol.;
A2. Report on Lesotho's needs for sewerage and sewage disposal, March
1975, E B Andersen; UNDP-financed, 1 vol.;
A3. "Annual Report for the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, For
the Year 1975", Government of Lesotho, 1 vol.;
A4. "Pre-Investment Studies for Maseru Water Supply", Final Report,
February 1976, SWECO, AfDB-financed, 3 vol.;
A5. "Reconnaissance study to Plan for Internal Uses of Lesotho's
Water Resources", Final Report, September 1977, SWECO, SIDA-financed,
6 vol.;
A6. "Village Water supply Study," Final Report, 1978, Metcalf and
Eddy International, USAID-financed, 1 vol.;
A7. "Water Resources Bill, 1978", National Assembly of Lesotho,
April 1978;
A8. "Water, Health and Development, An Interdisciplinary Evaluation",
1978, Feachem, et al, Tri-Med Books Ltd., London, 1 vol.;
B.   PROJECT
B1. "Twelve Towns Water Supply Study", Final Report, December 1977,
Binnie Shand Lesotho in association with Peat Marwick Mitchell
and Company, KfW-financed, 6 vol.;
B2. "Roma Water Supply Study", Final Report, December 1977, Binnie
Shand Lesotho, GOL-financed, 1 vol.
B3. "Lesotho Water Supply Project: Existing water systems," summary
description by Bank staff, September 1978;
B4. "Incremental Costs and Internal Financial Rates of Return,"
analysis by Bank staff, September 1978;
B5.  "Trading Account:  Water and Sewerage Service Directions," Lesotho
Ministry of Finance and Planning, May 1978.
December 1978



POTARTAT                          WERE   ME                     0                 ..*,.                  iM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRD132
* TRO~TLE<4MT3A   ~    '      WATE  SUPPLPOJECT
OTTER   -.              I~ ~ ~~~~CKOTON
2                                                                                        I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
-l-All             ~~~~TS-1,  EMETO
-T~~~~~~~~~~~ 113 ~ ~ ~   ~          ~          ~         ~         GAFM                    
LWOE                                               KOLAJARLE      RTEFELG                                                                                                  ,    AREAS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m
N-3  ~          ~          N 
TETAT                                                               TRIM'~~~QAT
C  ~~~~~~~~RM                     vl~T ~'r  jl 
MA FiNS STATE        OxMOLOARR0AMO
MOTLALLE                                                 LCEOOTRtVFksO
FEMONKANA  -                      MOOAFM~~~~~~~~rWAY
.kAT~A~sGNA



