CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 887 LSO
Development Credit Agreement
(Water Supply Project)
between
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 6, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 887 LSO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 6, 1979, between KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the Gen-
eral Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in Lhis Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "WSB" means the Water and Sewerage Branch of the Bor-
rower's Ministry of Works, responsible for water supply and
sewerage in district headquarters towns in the Borrower's terri-
tory, or any successor thereto;
(b) "Trading Account" means the Water and Sewerage Service
Trading Account under the jurisdiction of the Borrower's Ministry
of Works, established pursuant to the directions of the Borrower's
Ministry of Finance and Planning issued in May 1978; and
(c) "Rand" or "R" means the national currency of the
Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to six million dollars ($6,000,000).


﻿- 2 -
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amendcd from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association,
for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1983
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the aredit
withdrawn and outstanding fr)m time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Janu-
ary 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 1989, and ending Janu-
ary 15, 2029, each installment to and including the installment
payable on January 15, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Pro.ect
through WSB with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public


﻿- 3 -
utility practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) Wichout in any way limiting the generality of the
preceding paragraph of this Section, the Borrower shall ensure
that: (i) a Chief Executive Officer, responsible for directing and
coordinating WSB's activities, and a Financial Controller, respon-
sible for directing and controlling the implementation of the
commercial accounting system included in Part B of the Project,
both with the required qualifications and experience, are main-
tained in their functions with appropriate powers and responsibil-
ities; (ii) two qualified engineers are appointed to WSB to be
responsible for the water supply operations under the Project in
Maseru and outside Maseru, respectively; and (iii) additional
accountiLg staff are promptly recruited as and when needed for the
implementation of the system referred to in subparagraph (i)
hereof.
(c) The Borrower shall put at the disposition of WSB,
through the Trading Account, the proceeds of the Credit that are
allocated from time to time to expenditures for Parts A, B and C
of the Project under arrangements and terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association and which shall
include transfer payments from the Trading Account of principal in
equal installments over twenty years aiter a grace period of four
years, and interest at a rate of seven and one-half per cent per
annum.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall through WSB: (i) employ,
or continue to employ, engineering consultants in order to assist
WSB in the detailed engineering for Part A of the Project, the
procurement of goods and services and the supervision of construc-
tion therefor and in the carrying out of Part C of the Project;
and (ii) employ accounting specialists in order to assist WSB
in designing and instituting the commercial accounting system
included in Part B of the Project, as well as identifying WSB's
training and staffing needs therefor. Qualifications, experience,
and terms and conditions of employment ol said consultants and
specialists shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Associa-
tion.
(b) The Borrower shall complete by June 30, 1980, or such
other date as may be agreed between the Borrower and the Associ-
ation, the tarift study included in Part B of the Project with the


﻿assistance of consultants whose qualifications, experience, and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financ-d out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for _e Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be
furnished, to the Association, promptly upon their preparation,
the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and
any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Associatioi shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be main-
tained, records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) siall enable the Association's accredited represen-
tatives to visiL the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Association at
regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial


﻿-5-
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association ol their respective obligations under thu Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such rights in respect of land as shall be required for
the construction (and operation) of the facilities included in the
Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such
rights in respect of land are available fo- purposes related to
the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. Without limiting the scope of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement, the Borrower shall through WSB:
(a) establish and maintain separate records, the Trading
Account and pro-forms financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures
accountable to WSB's water supply and sewerage services; and
(b) (i) have the Trading Account and such pro-forma finan-
cial statements for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to
the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than nine months after the end of each such year up to and includ-
ing the statements for fiscal year 1980 and thereafter not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of such financial statements for such year as so audited


﻿and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other infor-
mation concerning the Trading Account and financial statements and
the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall through WSB take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provision
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
Section 4.04. Not later than March 31, 1980, or such other
date as may be agreed between the Borrower and the Association,
the Borrower shall: (a) exchange views with the Association
on the recommendations of the accounting specialists referred to
in Section 3.02 (a) (ii) of this Agreement for the design and
institution of the commercial accounting system; and (b) promptly
thereafter take steps as may be appropriate on the basis of said
recommendations, taking into account the Association's comments
thereon, in accordance with a time schedule acceptable to the
Association.
Section 4.05. (a) Upon completion of the tariff study re-
ferred to in Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement, the Borrower and
WSB shall: (i) review, in consultation with the Association, the
recommendations included therein; (ii) not later than September
30, 1980, or such later date as the Association may agree, estab-
lish for WSB's services appropriate annual financial performance
standards acceptable to the Association, including, inter alia,
the requirement to produce over each fiscal year revenues suffi-
cient to cover at least all operating expenses (including adequate
provision for maintenance and depreciation) accountable to WSB's
water supply and sewerage services and a reasonable return on the
assets used for WSB's services; and (iii) promptly thereafter take
steps to modify the level and structures of the water and sewerage
tariffs applicable to WSB's services to meet such standards.
(b) Until such time as said steps have been taken under
paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Borrower undertakes that
the water and sewerage tariffs applicable to WSB's services will
be increased and thereafter maintained at levels sufficient to
cover all cash operating expenses and debt service payments
accountable to WSB's water supply and sewerage services.


﻿- 7 -
(c) For the purposes of this Section, the transfer payments
to be made from the Trading Account pursuant to Section 3.01 (c)
of this Agreement shall be deemed to be debt service payments
accountable to WSB's water supply and sewerage services.
Section 4.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall ensure that, not later than April 1,
1980: (a) charges for water supplied through public standposts be
paid in full to the Trading Account on the basis of the average
cost for water so supplied, after deduction of charges paid by the
users of public standposts, but only if and to the extent that
such users' charges are levied and collected; and (b) the Bor-
rower's departments and agencies be charged and thereafter
continue to be charged for water supplied to them at rates
comparable to those applicable for water supplied to users with
similar water consumption patterns.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall through WSB at all times
manage, operate and maintain its water supply and sewerage plants,
machinery, equipment and property, and promptly make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engi-
neering and public utility practices, under the direction of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 4.08. The Borrower undertakes to revalue annually the
fixed assets used for WSB's water supply and sewerage services,
under methods acceptable to the Association, and to have the first
such revaluation to cover the twelve-month period beginning
April 1, 1978 and to be completed within six months from the date
of this Agreement, or such other date as may be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association. For the purposes of this Section,
the value of such fixed assets shall be deemed to be as of
March 31, 1978: (i) R8.58 million less accumulated depreciation of
R3.56 million for water supply fixed assets; and (ii)'R3.09 mil-
lion less accumulated depr,ciation of RO.56 million for sewerage
fixed assets.
Section 4.09. Unless the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, no capital expenditures, other than for the
Project and the water supply projects presently financed by
Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau and the African Development Fund,
shall be incurred, until the completion of the Project, on account
of WSB's water supply and sewerage services that shall in any
fiscal year exceed the equivalent of $200,000, or such other
amount as may be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿-8-
Section 4.10. The Borrower shall ensure that, not later than
March 31, 1980, or such later date as the Association may agree,
the water supply assets operated by the National University of
Lesotho at Roma will be transferred to the jurisdiction of WSB.
Section 4.11. The Borrower undertakes that: (a) unless
the Association shall otherwise agree, WSB shall be and remain
exclusively responsible for all public water supply and sewerage
services to population centers (excluding the village water supply
program) in the territory of the Borrower; and (b) if WSB is
transformed into an entity with legal personality, the Borrower
shall cause such entity to observe all covenants in this Agreement
relating to WSB or to WSB's water supplj and sewerage services,
subject to suitable modifications of such covenants to reflect
WSB's legal personality.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Chief Executive Officer, the Financial Controller
and the two engineers referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement have been appointed;
(b) the accounting specialists referred to in Section 3.02
(a) (ii) of this Agreement have been employed;
(c) the arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of this
Agreement have been established and are in full force and effect;
and
(d) the water and sewerage tariffs applicable to WSB's
services have been increased to levels sufficient to cover all
cash operating expenses and debt service payments accountable to
WSB's water supply and sewerage services.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the action described in
paragraph (c) of the preceding Section 5.01 has been taken in
accordance with the law of the Borrower.


﻿-9-
Section 5.03. The date July 5, 1979 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty-four years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representaive of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 395
Maseru 100
Lesotho
Cable address:                     Telex:
FINMIN                              330BB
Maseru, Lesotho
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
By Is/ Timothy T. Thahane
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                 3,500,000         86%
(excluding works
carried out under
force account)
(2) Materials with                500,000        100% of foreign
respect to works                             expenditures
carried out under                            and 90% of local
force account and                            expenditures
equipment, vehicles
and spare parts
(3) Consultants' and              600,000         100% of foreign
specialists' ser-                            expenditures and
vices                                        80% of local ex-
penditures
(4) Unallocated                 1,400,000
TOTAL       6,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of
the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory
of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such


﻿- 12 -
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$100,000 may be made in respect of Category (3) on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
May 31, 1978.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the


﻿- 13 -
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project which is designed to develop the Borrower's
water supply systems and administrative capabilities in the water
supply sector consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
Improvement and extension of existing water supply systems
and/or the construction and installation of new water systems,
and acquisition of equipment, vehicles and spare parts, to meet
water demands projected for 1986 in the towns of Leribe, Mafeteng,
Mohale's Hoek, Mokhotlong, Quthing, Roma and Teyateyaneng.
Part B:
Strengthening the administrative capabilities of WSB through
the design and institution of a commercial accounting system,
undertaking a tariff study for the water supply and sewerage
sectors including inter alia the tariff structure as well as the
prospective tariff level requirements and the recommendations of
methods to implement appropriate changes in such structure and
level, and the phased introduction of tariff changes, all with the
assistance of consultants and experts.
Part C:
Preinvestment studies for further extension of the water
supply systems in the towns listed in Part A hereof.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts C and E hereof, goods and
civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category (1) of the table set forth in


﻿- 16 -
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be pro-
cured in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of
this Schedule, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of
7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject
to, the following provisions:
1.   Contractors applying for such preference shall be asked
to provide, as par* of the data for qualification, such informa-
tion, including details of ownership, as shall be required to
determine whether, according to the classification established by
the Borrower and accepted by the Association, a particular firm or
group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding
documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the method
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to
give effect to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by the
Borrower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
F,r the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for single units or for groups of items of equip-
ment, vehicles and spare parts estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $25,000 each may be awarded after solicitation of
quotations from at least three suppliers, provided, however, that
the total cost of such procurement shall not exceed $100,000
equivalent in the aggregate.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for Part A of the Project
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:


﻿- 17 -
(a) Before bids are invited, thu Borrower shall furni,, to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 18 -
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.
E.   Procurement Without Contracting
Minor civil works estimated to cost in aggregate about
$700,000 equivalent under Part A of the Project may be carried
out by WSB under force account.


