Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3566 
Operation Name 
Third Programmatic Development Policy Loan for Sustainable 
Development (SusDevDPL III) 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Health (25%); Central government administration (25%);General 
water, sanitation and flood protection sector (20%);Sub-national 
government administration (15%);Solid waste management (15%) 
Project ID 
P101301 
Borrower(s) 
GOV OF COLOMBIA 
Implementing Agency 
NATIONAL PLANNING DEPT (DNP) & MINISTRY OF 
ENVIRONMENT, HOUSING, & TERRITORIAL 
DEVELOPMENT (MAVDT) 
Date PID Prepared 
October 6, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
November 4, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 16, 2008 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Over the past five decades, the government of Colombia has engaged in a number of activities to protect 
the environment, ranging from restructuring the legal and regulatory landscape to strengthening 
institutional capacity for protecting and managing natural resources and environmental quality. During 
this time Colombia’s environmental management framework has focused on three main priorities: (i) 
river basin management and conservation of water bodies, (ii) reforestation, and (iii) conservation of 
biodiversity. The government has made important advances in these areas, including establishing a 
system of national parks and forestry reserves that covers more than a quarter of the national territory.  
However, with increasing urbanization new environmental challenges have arisen.
1
These challenges 
include the impacts of human activities on the environment, such as (i) localized environmental health 
problems associated with inadequate household water and sanitation and indoor air pollution; (ii) urban 
and regional air pollution, inadequate waste management, and contamination of rivers, lakes, and coastal 
areas; and (iii) natural resource degradation and pollution contributing to global environmental 
problems.  
Addressing these challenges has been a key priority of the Colombian government, as reflected in the 
2006–2010 National Development Plan (PND). The Colombian government is carrying out an extensive 
environmental reform program, outlined in a chapter of the PND dedicated exclusively to its 
environmental management strategy. This program further pursues the government of Colombia’s 
original interdisciplinary sustainable development program supported by the DPL series. The proposed 
DPL is aligned with the strategies and reforms included in the PND, which aim to integrate principles of 
sustainable development into the planning process and harmonize actions of various branches and levels 
of government in order to safeguard quality of life and create conditions for sustained economic growth 
and social development. With the support of the DPL series, the government is making steady progress 
in meetings its environment goals. 
1
Approximately 75 percent of the population currently resides in urban areas, and by 2020, it is estimated that 80 percent will 
live in urban areas. 
Page  2
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The proposed development policy loan (DPL) is the third in an expected series of three quick-disbursing 
loan
s
aimed at supporting the government of Colombia’s interdisciplinary sustainable development 
program and its efforts to move toward achievement of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), 
particularly Goal 7 which seeks to ensure environmental sustainability. Specifically, the program has the 
following objectives: (i) improving the effectiveness and efficiency of the National Environmental 
System (SINA); and (ii) integrating principles of sustainable development into key sectors, with a 
particular emphasis on protecting the most vulnerable groups. 
 
The prior actions to be completed by the government for SusDevDPL III include (i) approval of a 
National Policy on Environmental Health that covers the areas of water quality and urban and indoor air 
quality, and considers the results of policy-based Strategic Environmental Assessments (SEAs); (ii) 
strengthening MAVDT’s Climate Change Unit to meet the environment goals of the 2006-2010 PND; 
(iii) implementation of a system to monitor and evaluate both national and regional environmental 
management based on six sustainable development objectives described in Decree 1200 of 2004; (iv) 
development and approval of an Urban Environmental Policy that clarifies roles and responsibilities of 
Regional Autonomous Corporations (CARs) and Urban Environmental Authorities (AAUs); (v) 
implementation of a plan to adapt DNP’s and the Vice Ministry of Environment’s structure to better 
meet the environment goals of the 2006-2010 PND and manage environmental policies; (vi) adapting 
the Water Resources Unit in MAVDT in line with new water resource management reforms, to ensure 
appropriate institutional framework to support their implementation; and (vii) design and approval of a 
national policy for air pollution control. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The SusDevDPL III continues efforts to prepare critical sustainable development policies related to air 
quality, urban environmental management, and environmental health; strengthen SINA agencies and 
improve interinstitutional coordination; and implement a system to monitor regional and national 
environmental performance. The implementation of this environmental performance monitoring system 
will support planning and monitoring of progress of the SINA toward goals directly linked with 
sustainable development and achievement of the MDGs. 
 
The SusDevDPL series has clear poverty implications, given that environmental degradation 
disproportionately affects the poor and most vulnerable populations, and thus increases inequality. 
Improvements in air quality, water quality, and hygiene in urban centers will lead to decreased 
morbidity and mortality from diarrheal diseases, acute respiratory illnesses and other health effects, and 
allow for reductions in avertive expenditures to address health risks. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
Since the raison d’etre of the operation itself is to support the government in mainstreaming 
environmental considerations into a number of key sectors, the operation’s design is proactive with 
respect to internalizing environmental concerns. This occurs at distinct levels. At the sectoral level, three 
policy-based SEAs have supported the integration of environmental concerns in the context of sectoral 
policy development for environmental health and air pollution prevention and have facilitated 
interinstitutional agreements and commitments among various stakeholders to address the respective 
environmental concerns (e.g., water and air quality). Other positive impacts on the environment are 
Page  3
expected to derive from improved environmental management at the national and local levels, in which 
the program places particular emphasis in assuring improved transparency and accountability with 
respect to governmental oversight and decisionmaking processes. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
250 
 Total 
250 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Juan C. Belausteguigoitia 
Title: Lead Environmental Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-8809 
Fax: (202) 522-3132 
Email: jbelausteguigoit@worldbank.org
 
