Page  1
LOAN NUMBER 7621-CO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Third Programmatic Development Policy Loan  
for Sustainable Development) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated _______________________, 200_ 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7621-CO 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated ____________________, 200_, entered into between 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing 
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The 
Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions 
which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in 
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; (b) the fulfillment of the standard and special 
conditions of Effectiveness described in Section 5.01 of this Agreement; and (c) the 
Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The 
Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined and modified in the Appendix to this 
Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of
 
US$450,000,000 (Four hundred fifty 
million Dollars), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement
 (“Loan”).  
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
Page  3
2
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of 
the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the  Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to 
a
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be con
sidered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end, and further to Section 5.10 of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall: 
(i) regularly monitor the Borrower’s 
macroeconomic policy framework and the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program; and (ii) from time to time, at the request of either party, 
exchange views on these matters and the actions specified in Section I of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
Page  4
3
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation 
that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist on the following: 
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action or policy under the Program (including any action listed in Section 
I
of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement) in a manner that would, in the opinion 
of the Bank, adversely affect the achievement of the objectives of the 
Program. 
 
ARTICLE V
 —
EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on June 18, 2010. 
 
Page  5
4
ARTICLE VI
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. T
he
Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance and Public Credit. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit 
Carrera 7A, No. 6-45, Piso 3 
Bogotá, D.C. 
Colombia 
 
Cable 
address: 
    Facsimile: 
MINHACIENDA 
   (571) 
350-9344 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for  
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
Page  6
5
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
By 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
 
1. 
The Borrower has taken the following actions to improve strategic planning and 
monitoring framework for sustainable development:  
 
(a) 
Issued, through CONPES, a policy directive approving the national 
policy on environmental health, covering the areas of water quality and 
urban and indoor air quality, considering the results of policy-based 
SEAs. 
 
(b) 
Issued, through MAVDT, official letter signed by its Vice-Minister No. 
2000-2-126271 dated November 5, 2008, accompanied by various 
official communications supporting the actions taken by MAVDT for the 
strengthening of its climate change unit and the necessary steps to meet 
the environmental goals set forth in the 2006-2010 National 
Development Plan.  
 
(c) 
(i) Issued, though MAVDT, 
Circular
 No. 2000-3-129333, signed by its 
Vice-Minister and dated November 11, 2008, accompanied by other 
o
fficial communications and screenshots from MAVDT’s website 
supporting the establishment of procedures for the implementation of a 
system to monitor and evaluate both national and regional environmental 
management, based on the sustainable development objectives described 
in Decree 1200 of April 20, 2004; and (ii) published electronically, 
through MAVDT, on its website the monitoring and evaluation system 
referred to in (i) above. 
 
2. 
 The Borrower has taken the following actions to improve inter-institutional 
coordination, as well as increased public participation in environmental decision-making: 
 
(a) 
Issued, through MAVDT, an official letter signed by its Vice-Minister, 
attaching draft minutes of the XXV National Environmental Council 
meeting dated July 28, 2008, evidencing the discussion and approval of 
an urban environmental policy jointly prepared by MAVDT, CARs and 
AAUs, clarifying roles and responsibilities of CARs and AAUs, as well 
as implementing mechanisms for improved transparency.  
 
Page  8
7
(b) 
Issued, through DNP and MAVDT, official letters Nos. GPADS-
20087030663111 of November 5, 2008 and 2000-2-128270 of 
November 10, 2008 respectively, accompanied by various official 
communications supporting the actions taken by both agencies to adapt 
DNP and MAVDT’s structures to better meet the environmental goals set 
forth in the 2006-2010 National Development Plan, as well as to better 
manage environmental policies. 
 
3. 
The Borrower has taken the following actions to reduce cost of environmental 
degradation associated with water resources and air quality management: 
 
(a) 
Issued, through MAVDT, Resolution No. 2160 of December 7, 2007, 
jointly with an official letter signed by its Vice-Minister dated October 
31, 2008, creating the water resources unit within MAVDT, setting forth 
its functions and responsibilities, and indicating the budget allocated to 
said unit for the carrying out of its functions. 
 
(b) 
Issued, through MAVDT, signed minutes of the CONAIRE meeting 
dated October 24, 2008, approving a national policy for air pollution 
control. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts
.
The Loan shall be withdrawn in a single tranche. 
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations
Amount of the Tranche 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars
)
Single Tranche 
 
$450,000,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
$450,000,000 
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee.  No withdrawal shall be made from
 the Loan 
 
Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee. 
 
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
Page  9
8
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank 
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; 
and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank. 
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines 
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2009.   
Page  10
9
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each April 15 and October 15  
Beginning April 15, 2020, through April 
15, 2032 
 
3.85% 
On October 15, 2032 
3.75% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Page  11
10
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
Page  12
11
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  
Definitions
1. 
“AAUs” means 
Autoridades Ambientales Urbanas
,
the Borrower’s urban 
environmental authorities.
 
2. 
“CARs” means 
Corporaciones Autónomas Regionales
,
the 
Borrower’s regional 
autonomous corporations.
 
3. 
“CONAIRE” means 
Comisión Técnica Nacional Intersectorial para la 
Prevención y Control de la Contaminación del Aire
,
the Borrower’s inter-
sectoral technical commission for the prevention and control of air pollution.
 
4. “CONPES” 
means 
Consejo Nacional de Política Económica y Social
,
the 
Borrower’s National Council on Economic and Social Policy. 
 
5. “DNP” 
means 
Departamento Nacional de Planeación,
 the Borrower’s National 
Planning Department.  
 
6. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group Sub-group 
Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether 
or not containing tobacco 
substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
Page  13
12
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, unworked 
or worked 
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold ores and concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 
 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix.  
 
8. “MAVDT” 
means 
Ministerio de Ambiente, Vivienda y Desarrollo Territorial
,
the 
Borrower’s Ministry of the Environment, Housing and Regional Development. 
 
9. 
“National Development Plan” means 
Plan Nacional de Desarrollo
,
the 
Borrower’s plan for implementation (
Estado Comunitario: Desarrollo para todos
 
2006-2010) which sets forth national purposes, objectives, goals, priorities, 
Page  14
13
actions and strategies of the Borrower’s economic, social and environmental 
policy to be adopted by the Borrower’s government. 
 
10. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated November 14, 2008 from the Borrower to the Bank 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the continued execution of the Program, 
and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
11. “SEA” 
means 
Evaluación Ambiental Estratégica
,
the Borrower’s strategic 
environmental assessment, a document that incorporates environmental 
considerations into sectoral planning.  
 
12. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 
Page  15
14
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a 
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan 
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.” 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Fixed Spread” is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Fixed Spread” means, for each Withdrawal, the Bank’s fixed spread for 
the Loan Currency of the Withdrawal in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, 
D.C. time, on the Withdrawal Date; provided, that: (a) for purposes of 
determining the Default Interest Rate, pursuant to Section 3.02 (d), that is 
applicable to an amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance on which 
interest is payable at a Fixed Rate, the “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s 
fixed spread in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar 
day prior to the date of the Loan Agreement, for the Currency of 
denomination of such amount; (b) for purposes of fixing the Variable 
Spread pursuant to Section 4.02, “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed 
spread for the Loan Currency in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. 
time on the Conversion Date; and (c) upon a Currency Conversion of all 
or any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance pursuant to Section 
4.04 (a), the Fixed Spread shall be adjusted on the Execution Date in the 
manner specified in the Conversion Guidelines.  
Page  16
15
 
(d) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout 
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in 
support of which the Loan is made.”   
 
(e) 
The term “Variable Spread” is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Variable Spread” means, for each Withdrawal and each Interest Period: 
(1) the Bank’s standard variable spread for Loans in effect at 12:01 a.m. 
Washington, D.C. time, on the Withdrawal Date; (2) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for the Interest Period, below (or above) 
LIBOR, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by it to fund 
loans that carry interest at a rate based on the Variable Spread; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per 
annum. In the case of a Loan denominated in more than one Currency, 
“Variable Spread” applies separately to each of such Currencies.  
 
(f) 
A new term “Withdrawal” is added to read as follows: 
 
“Withdrawal” means each amount of the Loan withdrawn by the 
Borrower from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 2.01. 
 
(g) 
A new term “Withdrawal Date” is added to read as follows: 
 
“Withdrawal Date” means, for each Withdrawal, the date on which the 
Bank pays the Withdrawal. 
 
