                                              Documentof
                                           The World Bank


                                     FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                ReportNo. 46467-CO




          INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT

                                      PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                                 FORA

        PROPOSEDTHIRD PROGRAMMATIC DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOANFOR

                                  SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT

                               INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$450MILLION

                                                  TO

                                  THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBLA



                                          November 13,2008




SustainableDevelopment Department
Colombiaand Mexico Country ManagementUnit
Latin America andthe CaribbeanRegion



This document has a restricteddistributionandmay beusedby recipientsonly inthe performanceoftheir official
duties. Its contents may not otherwisebe disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

       REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA-GOVERNMENTFISCALYEAR
                          January 1-December 31

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
            (Exchange Rate Effectiveas of November 13,2008)

               Currency Unit        =   Colombian Peso (COP)
               2,288.49 COP         -
                                    -           US$l.OO


                      WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                               Metric System


                   ABBREVIATIONAND ACRONYMS

AAU        Autoridad Ambiental Urbana (UrbanEnvironmentalAuthority)
CAR        CorporacidnAutdnoma Regional (RegionalAutonomous Corporation)
CDM        CleanDevelopment Mechanism
CEA        Country EnvironmentalAnalysis
CFAA       Country FinancialAccountabilityAssessment
co         CarbonMonoxide
CONASA     Comisidn Te'cnicaNacional Intersectorial para la Salud Ambiental
             (National IntersectoralTechnicalCommissionfor EnvironmentalHealth)
CONPES     Consejo Nacional de Politica Econdmicay Social (NationalCouncil on
             Economic and Social Policy)
COP        ColombianPesos
CPS        Country Partnership Strategy
CTA        Consejo Tdcnico Asesor (TechnicalAdvisory Council)
DNP        Departamento Nacional de Planeacidn (National PlanningDepartment)
DPL        Development Policy Loan
EL4        EnvironmentalImpactAssessment
EMBI       EmergingMarketsBondIndex
FDI        ForeignDirect Investment
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GHG        GreenhouseGas
GNP        GrossNationalProduct
HIPC       HeavilyIndebtedPoor Countries
IBRD       InternationalBank for ReconstructionandDevelopment
IDB        Inter-AmericanDevelopment Bank
IDEAM      Instituto de Hidrologia, Meteorologiay Estudios Ambientales (Institute of
             Hydrology, Meterologyand EnvironmentalStudies)
IFC        InternationalFinance Corporation
IMF        InternationalMonetaryFund
MAVDT      Ministerio de Ambiente, Vivienday Desarrollo Territorial (Ministry of
             Environment, Housing, and Territorial Development)
MDGs       Millennium Development Goals
MEM        Ministerio de Energiay Minas (Ministry of Energy and Mines)
MHCP       Ministerio de Hacienday Cre'dito Pziblico (Ministry of Finance and Public

                                                                         FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                               Credit)
       MPS                  Ministerio de Proteccidn Social (Ministry of Social Protection)
       NFPS                 Non-FinancialPublic Sector
       NO2                  NitrogenDioxide

       0 3                  Ozone
       PAHO                 PanAmericanHealthOrganization
       PAT                  Plan deAccidn Trienal (TriennialAction Plan)
       PER                  Public ExpenditureReview
       PGAR                 Planpara la GestidnAmbiental Regional (RegionalEnvironmental
                               ManagementPlan)
       PGIRS                Planpara la GestidnIntegral de Residuos Sdlidos (Integrated Planfor Solid
                               Waste Management)
       PHRD                 Japan Policy andHumanResourcesDevelopment Trust Fund
       PM2.5                Particulatematter up to 2.5 micronsin size
       PMlO                 Particulatematter up to 10micronsin size
       PND                  Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 2006-2010 (National Development Plan2006-
                               2010)
       POMCA                Plan de Ordenamientoy Manejo de las CuencasAbastecedoras de Agua
                               (Watershed Management Plan)

       PPm                  Partsper Million
       SDR                   SpecialDrawingRights
       SEA                   Strategic EnvironmentalAssessment
       SINA                 SistemaNacional deAmbiente (NationalEnvironmentalSystem)
       so2                   Sulfur Dioxide
       SusDevDPL            Programmatic Development PolicyLoanfor Sustainable Development
       SusDevDPL I First Programmatic Development Policy Loanfor Sustainable Development
       SusDevDPL I1          SecondProgrammatic Development PolicyLoan for Sustainable
                               Development
       SusDevDPL I11        Third Programmatic Development Policy Loanfor Sustainable Development
       TSP                  Total SuspendedParticles
       UNDP                 UnitedNationsDevelopment Programme




                                       Vice President:  PamelaCox
                                     Country Director:  Axel van Trotsenburg
                                       Sector Director: LauraTuck
                                       Sector Manager:  LauraTlaiye
                                   Task Team Leader:    Juan C. Belausteguigoitia


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                           REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
    THIRDPROGRAMMATIC DEVELOPMENT LOAN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT    POLICY                          FOR



                                                             CONTENTS

LOANAND PROGRAM SUMMARY                          ............................................................................................................          iii

I INTRODUCTION
 .                    .......................................................................................................................................           1

I1 COUNTRY CONTEXT
 .                            ..............................................................................................................................            2
       A Recent Economic Developmentsin Colombia .................................................................................
        .                                                                                                                                                               2
       B MacroeconomicOutlook and Debt Sustainability............................................................................
        .                                                                                                                                                               3

111 THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAMAND PARTICIPATORY PROCESSES
  .                                                                                                                                ...................................  5
       A. Improvingthe Effectivenessand Efficiency ofthe National Environmental System(SINA) ...........8
       B. Integrating Principles of SustainableDevelopment into Key Sectors.............................................                                               11

IV BANK SUPPORTTO THE GOVERNMENT'SPROGRAM
  .                                                                                                 ..............................................................     14
       A Linkto Country PartnershipStrategy .
        .                                                                       .......................................................
       B. Collaboration with the IDBand Other Donors                           .......................
       C. Relationshipto Other Bank Operations..........................................................................................                               15
       D. LessonsLearned.............................................................................................................................                  16
       E. Analytical Underpinnings....................................................................................                                                 17

V THE PROPOSEDSECOND PROGRAMMATIC DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN
 .
   FOR SUSTAINABLEDEVELOPMENT                                ...............................................................................................           20
       A. OperationDescription .............................................................................................                             ..............20

VI OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION
  .                                                   ......................................................................................................           24
       A. Poverty and Social Impacts............................................................................................................                       24
       B. Environmental Aspects...................................................................................................................                     25
       C. Implementation,Monitoring and Evaluation...................................................................
       D. Fiduciary Aspects ..............................................................................................................
       E Disbursementand Auditing.............................................................................................................
        .                                                                                                                                                              27
       F. Risks and Risk Mitigation...............................................................................................................                     27




                                                                          i

                                                              ANNEXES

    Annex 1: Letter of Development Policy ............................................................................................................     32

    Annex 2: ProgramAchievementsunder SUSDEVDPL Iand I1........................................................................                            44

    Annex 3: OperationPolicy Matrix.....................................................................................................................   50

    Annex 4: Results FrameworkAnalysis ..............................................................................................................      55

    Annex 5: Potential Impact ofthe USFinancial Crisis on Colombia ..................................................................                      59

    Annex 6: Colombia at a Glance......................................................................................................................... 68



                                                                  MAPS

    IBRD35509        Colombia: Departmentsand UrbanAreas
    IBRD355 10       Colombia: Jurisdictions of Local and Regional Environmental Authorities




The SusDevDPLI11was preparedby an IBRDteam consistingof Juan Carlos Belausteguigoitia,Angela Armstrong,
Santiago Sandoval(LCSEN), ChristianYves Gonzalez (LCSPE), and Manuel Vargas (LCSFM). This operation was
undertakenunder the general guidance of Axel van Trotsenburg(Country Director, LCClC), Laura Tuck (Sector
Director, LCSSD), LauraTlaiye (Sector Manager, LCSEN), and David Sislen (Sector Leader, LCSSD). Peer reviewers
were Kirk Hamilton(ENV) and JohnNash (LCSSD).




                                                                       ..
                                                                      11

                                LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY

                                                COLOMBIA

                THIRD PROGRAMMATIC DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN
                               FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT


Borrower                 Republicof Colombia

Implementing             Ministryof Financeand Public Credit (MHCP), Ministry of Environment,
Agency                   Housingand Territorial Development(MAVDT), and the NationalPlanning
                         Department(DNP)

FinancingData            [BRDLoan
                         Terms: Fixed-SpreadLoan (FSL), US dollar denominated, payable in 24
                         years, including 11years grace period, with custom repaymentschedule, at
                         :he standard variablerate for US dollar FSLs.
                         4mount: US$450million

OperationType            The proposedProgrammaticSustainable DevelopmentDPL is the third
                         2peration ina series of three: SusDevDPL I,SusDevDPL11, and SusDevDPL
                         [II.

Main Policy Areas        [n2005, the Colombiangovernment requestedthe Bank's continuedsupport
                         [or two policy areas ofthe country's environmentalstrategy: (i)improvingthe
                         :ffectiveness and efficiency ofthe NationalEnvironmentSystem (SINA) and
                         :ii)integratingprinciplesofsustainabledevelopmentintokeysectorssuchas
                         water, transport, energy, and health.These two elements figuredprominently
                         in the environmentalstrategy of President Uribe's first administrationand
                         lave continuedto be key priorities inhis second administration, as reflected
                         inthe 2006-2010National DevelopmentPlan(PND) approvedby Congress.

Key Outcome              Key outcome indicatorsfor the program's mainpolicy areas are listedbelow.
Indicators               1. Improvingthe effectivenessandefficiencyof SINA:
                             (i)establishmentandoperationofanenvironmentalmonitoringand
                             evaluationsystem that providestimely input into environmental
                             management decisionmaking;
                             (ii)improvedidentificationofenvironmentalpriorities,asaresultofan
                             increaseduse of Strategic EnvironmentalAssessments (SEAS)and other
                             instrumentsto mainstreamenvironmentaland social considerationsinto
                             the policy formulationprocess; and
                             (iii)MAVDTandDNPinstitutionalizinginstrumentsforimproved
                             environmentalmanagement, such as sustainable developmentindicators
                             linkedto the MDGs.

                         2. Integratingprinciplesof sustainable development in key sectors:
                             (i)increasednumberofchildrenandmotherswithappropriatehygiene
                             behavior;
                             (ii)decreaseinnumberofopenwastedumpsby25%; and
                             (ii)airqualitymonitoringnetworkfor   PM2.5 fully operational, with at least
                             seven cities measuringPM2.5.1

' PMZ.Sstandsfor particulate matter up to 2.5 microns in size.

                                                       iii

'rogram            The Sustainable DevelopmentDPL Programsupports the government of
Ievelopment        Colombia's effortsto movetowardachievement ofthe Millennium
3bjectivesand     DevelopmentGoals (MDGs), particularlyGoal 7 which seeks to ensure
Zontributionto CPS environmentalsustainability. Specifically,the programhasthe following
                   objectives: (i)improvingthe effectivenessand efficiencyofthe National
                   EnvironmentalSystem (SINA); and (ii)integratingprinciples o f sustainable
                   developmentinto key sectors, with a particularemphasis on protectingthe
                  most vulnerable groups. The achievement of these objectivesis a key priority
                   of the Colombiangovernment, as reflectedinthe PND. Giventhe Program's
                   strongsupport to the PND, the operationalso directly supports the
                  achievement of the 2008-2011 Country PartnershipStrategy's (CPS's)
                   developmentobjectivestargeted toward environmentand naturalresource
                   management.

Sonditionof Loan   Givenan unanticipateddelay in meetingone of the operation'sprior actions
Zffectiveness      (the approval of an EnvironmentalHealthPolicy), the Bank and Colombian
                   governmentagreed that approval of this policy would be made a conditionof
                   loaneffectiveness.

iisks and Risk     The following risks have been identified:(i)macroeconomicrisks given the
Wigation           uncertaintyo f internationalfinancial markets; (ii)administrativerisks internal
                  to MAVDT due to a highturnover rate of the ministry's senior officials; (iii)
                  political risks, giventhat there may be vested interests(e.g., pollution-
                   intensiveindustries) in derailingthe reform process; and (iv) coordination
                  risks, given that significantmultisectoralcollaborationis neededto
                  mainstreamimprovedenvironmentalmanagement into key sectors.

                  Throughoutthe reformprogram,actionsare beingtaken to mitigatethese
                  risks, including:(i)the government reducingthe foreign currencyshare of its
                  public debt and increasinginternational reserves to over US$23 billion, as
                  well as havinginplace a sound fiscal and monetarypolicy; (ii)focused efforts
                  to improvethe effectivenessand efficiencyof investmentsinthe National
                  EnvironmentalSystem (SINA); (iii)institutionalstrengtheningof SINA
                  institutions,includingthe NationalPlanningDepartment,to support
                  consensus-buildingin environmentaldecisionmakingwithin priority sectors;
                  and (iv) Bankassistance via the associated Sustainable Development
                  InvestmentProject, which is supportingconsultation,monitoringand
                  evaluationof SINA efforts, andtargeted investmentsaimedat strengthening
                  environmentalmanagementinpriority sectors.

lperation ID      P101301
(umber




                                             iv

        INTERNATIONAL BANK FORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
                                   PROGRAMDOCUMENT
     FORA PROPOSEDTHIRD PROGRAMMATIC DEVELOPMENTPOLICY LOAN
                            FOR SUSTAINABLEDEVELOPMENT
                             TO THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA


                                  I. INTRODUCTION

1.       This document proposes a Third Programmatic Development Policy Loan for
Sustainable Development (SusDevDPL 111) o f US$450 million to the government o f
Colombia. This development policy loan (DPL) i s the third in a series o f three loans
supporting the government's efforts to achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).
It particularly supports Goal 7 which seeks to ensure environmental sustainability, Target 9
which aims to integrate the principles o f sustainable development into country policies and
programs, Target 10 which aims to reduce the proportion o f people without sustainable access
to safe drinking water and sanitation, and Target 11 which aims to achieve a significant
improvement inthe lives o f the urban poor.

2.       By addressing the urban environmental issues that affect the most vulnerable
segments o f the population (air pollution and inadequate water supply, sanitation, and
hygiene), the program supports achievement o f Goal 4 which seeks to reduce child mortality
by addressing the principal threats to children under five (morbidity and mortality related to
respiratory illnesses and diarrheal diseases). The objectives o f the SusDevDPL series are to (i)
improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the National Environmental System (SINA) and
(ii)integrateprinciplesofsustainable development intokeysectorssuchaswater resources
management and urban air quality, with a particular emphasis on reducing harmful effects on
the most vulnerable groups.

3.       The first loan (SusDevDPL I),    completed in FY06, focused on the initial steps of
building a results-based framework for monitoring sustainable development goals, improving
interinstitutional coordination mechanisms, and beginning preparation o f critical decrees,
while the second (SusDevDPL II),       completed in FY08, focused on the development and
passage o f sustainable development policies. Annex 2 provides an overview o f the
achievements reached under the first and second operation. The SusDevDPL I11 continues
efforts to prepare critical sustainable development policies, strengthen SINA agencies, and
implement a systemto monitor regional and national environmentalperformance.

                                   11. COUNTRY CONTEXT

A. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS INCOLOMBIA

4.      The Colombian economy is decelerating from the rapid and accelerating
investmentled growth of recentyears. The economy is estimatedto grow approximately 3.5
percent in 2008, less than half the growth rate o f last year. In addition, inflation has risen
slightly above 7 percent this year, drivenby price shocks to foodstuffs and fuel. The expected
current account deficit for 2008 i s 3.4 percent of GDP, but the external accounts are
susceptible to economic outcomes in major trading partners: namely, the United States and
Venezuela which together purchase almost half o f Colombia's merchandise exports. The
current account deficit in recent years has been driven by a sharp increase in imports of both
consumer and investment goods. In 2008, net FDI i s projected to be larger than the current
account deficit itself.

5.      Over the past few years, real economic growth accelerated from 2.5 percent in
2002 to 8.2 percent in 2007, while private investment rose from 9.9 percent of GDP in
2002 to over 16 percent in 2007. Colombia's unemployment rate dropped from over 17
percent in2002 to approximately 12 percent in 2007, while inflation dropped from 7.0 percent
in 2002 to 5.7 percent in 2007 (see Table 1). The positive outcome was partly due to high
world growth, lower cost o f international credit, and the prices o f Colombia's primary exports
have risen.     Domestic factors, particularly the improved security situation and stable
macroeconomic polices, have also driventhe country's recovery.


                                                   itors for  ]lornbia,  103-2007
     Indicator                           2003        2004       2005      2006      2007
     RealGDP growth(%)                    4.6         4.7         5.7      7.0       8.2
     Inflation(%) (end ofperiod)          6.5         5.5        4.9       4.5       5.7
     NominalExchangeRate (Average)       2877.7      2628.6     2320.8    2361.1    2078.3
     Current Account Balance (% of GDP)   -1-0        -0.8       -1.3      -1.9      -2.9
     NFPS Revenues(% of GDP)              30.0        30.0       30.6      32.7      33.0
     NFPS Expenditures(% of GDP)(         33.2        31.5       30.6      33.9      34.0
     NFPS Balance(% of GDP)               -3.2        -1.5       0.0       -1.2      -1.0
     GrossPublic Sector Debt(YOof GDP)    67.7        61.7       59.7     56.9       52.8
     ExternalDebt/GDP (YO)                40.3        33.3       26.0     24.5       22.8
     Investment(YOof GDP)                 19.0       20.1        21.5     23.3      24.4
          Public sector                   6.3         5.9        4.9       6.5       7.7
          Private sector               I  12.7        14.2       16.6      16.8      16.7
    ource: DNP, MHCP, BdR; NFPS:Non-financialpublic sector.


6.      The public sector deficit has been improving although fiscal concerns persist,
particularly in terms of expenditure rigidities. With the overall macroeconomic
environment strong over the last year, fiscal performance has beenmuch better than expected.
The non-financial public sector fiscal deficit decreased from 3.2 percent of GDP in 2003 to
1.O percent in2007 and i s expected to increase to about 1.7 percent during 2008. The central
Government deficit was 3.2 percent of GDP in 2007, down from 3.8 percent in 2006. The
non-financial public sector deficit was much smaller than the central Government deficit



                                               2

because it incorporates substantial budget surpluses o f the regions, state-owned enterprises,
and the social security system.

B. MACROECONOMIC OUTLOOK AND DEBT SUSTAINABILITY

7.       The economy is decelerating sharply in 2008. According to the most recent survey
by National Association o f Industry(ANDI),total industrialproduction dropped 0.6 percent in
the January-August 2008 compared to the same period in 2007. Also, total retail sales only
increased 0.1 percent in January-August 2008, compared to the same period in 2007.
Moreover, the first signs o f the impact o f the crisis are evident infinancial markets. As shown
in Annex 2 "Potential Impact of the U.S. Financial Crisis on Colombia", interest rates have
risen, and the spreads between Government bonds and U S Treasuries had reached almost 700
basis points in late October. (On November 10, the Colombia Global Emerging Markets
Bond Index (EMBI) was 498 basis points, still substantially higher than average levels over
the last two years.) Similarly, the exchange rate has shown signs o f depreciation and a much
higher volatility than experienced during 2007. To some extent, the depreciation has been a
welcome development, given concerns that the appreciation o f the currency during the first
half o f the year might be impacting competitiveness.

8.       The economy is expected to slow even further in 2009. The fiscal position is
projected to worsen, with a possible increase o f the non-financial public sector deficit (to
2.5% of GDP in 2009, the highest level in the last five years). The Government already
anticipates international funding (from multilateral agencies) for its external financing needs
inthe order ofUS$2.4 billionfor next year.

9.       Colombia faces a turbulent external environment,but the Government has taken
the necessary steps to mitigateit. To reduce external risks, the Government has reduced the
foreign currency share o f its public debt and overall external debt o f both the public and
private sector i s low at about 23 percent o f GDP. In addition, international reserves have
increased substantially and now stand at over US$23 billion. The authorities have a sound
fiscal and monetary policy in place, with an inflation targeting mechanism established and
with a medium term fiscal framework that targets a declining public debt to GDP ratio.
Overall external indebtedness i s low (21 percent o f GDP), and as noted above, the current
account deficit has been more than fully financed by net foreign direct investment-including
during the first half o f this year. Overall annual external financing requirements are on the
order o f $12-15 billion, but much o f this i s driven by the current account deficit, with the
excess o f imports influenced by flows o f foreign direct investment itself.

10.      Colombia's macroeconomic policy framework is appropriate. Monetary policy
has been tightened substantially since mid 2006 in response to possible overheating o f
economic growth with rate hikes totaling 4 percent since over the period. The most recent
Central Bank board meeting kept interest rates on hold, despite the recent sharp deceleration
o f the economy. The authorities are awaiting further anchoring o f inflationary expectations
prior to considering a loosening o f the policy rate-an        appropriate stance in light o f the
inflation targeting regime. Public sector debt has fallen sharply as a share o f GDP and a slight
loosing o f fiscal policy during 2009 i s a reasonable response given the slowdown in economic
growth.

                                                 3

                                  Table 2: Medium-TermOutlook, 2007-11




NFPS Balance(%of GDP)                            -1.o      -1.7      -2.5    -1.5     -1.2
Investment(% of GDP)                             24.4      24.3      23.7   24.1     24.5
  Public sector                                  7.7        7.6      7.5     7.6      7.7
  Privatesector
ExternalDebt(% of GDP)
Nominal ExchangeRate (Average, Col$/US$)

         Source:Nationalauthorities and WB staff estimations basedon RMSM-X model.


11.     Financial sector indicators are favorable; however, vulnerabilities remain as the
slowdown in economic growth is likely to lead to an increase in delinquency rates for
loans. Financial sector indicators remain sound and point to relatively modest chances o f
adverse macroeconomic spillovers in the near term. While credit growth has been rapid,
credit to GDP ratios are below their peak o f the late 1990s and close to the emerging market
average. The share o f nonperforming loans has remained low, both on average and for the
weakest performing banks. Also, in light o f the highlevels o f provisioning, credit risk for the
banking sector as a whole remains low. Liquidity ratios have declined, although liquidity
remains sufficient to cover short-term maturity mismatches.              Market risk remains the
predominant risk to the financial system, with the Banco de la Repziblica (Central Bank)
estimating that a 200 basis point increase in interest rates would reduce the profits o f the
banking system by 20 percent. Commercial banks appear resilient, with low estimated default
probabilities. The risk o f contagion from a further worsening o f problems in the subprime
market, through its effect on parent banks in developed countries, i s small. Foreign banks
account for about 20 percent of banking sector assets, compared with an average o f over 30
percent inother large LatinAmerican countries.

12.     Coordination betweenthe Bank and IMF has been strong. Bank staff attended the
IMF team's pre-mission briefing and there have been frequent consultations both on
macroeconomic issues and financial sector issues. The Bank i s reviewing financial sector
issues as part o f the initial phases o f preparation o f a potential DPL that could be presented to
the Board during 2009. A mission was conducted in late October to assess the current
situation and there has been substantial dialogue with the IMF mission (Article IV conducted
during the last week o f October and first week o f November). This work also builds on a
longstanding and intensivepolicy dialogue by the Bank on financial sector development.




                                                   4

    111. THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAMAND PARTICIPATORY PROCESSES

4.        Over the past five decades, the government o f Colombia has engaged in a number o f
activities to protect the environment, ranging from restructuring the legal and regulatory
landscape to strengtheninginstitutional capacity for protecting and managing natural resources
and environmental quality. During this time Colombia's environmental management
framework has focused on three main priorities: (i)             river basin management and conservation
o f water bodies, (ii)reforestation, and (iii)       conservation o f biodiversity. The government has
made important advances inthese areas, including establishing a system o f national parks and
forestry reserves that covers more than a quarter o f the national territory.

5.        However, with increasing urbanization new environmental challenges have arisen2
These challenges include the impacts o f human activities on the environment, such as (i)
localized environmental health problems associated with inadequate household water and
sanitation and indoor air pollution; (ii)urban and regional air pollution, inadequate waste
management, and contamination o f rivers, lakes, and coastal areas; and (iii)natural resource
degradation and pollution contributing to global environmentalproblems.

6.        Addressing these challenges has been a key priority o f the Colombian government, as
reflected inthe 2006-2010 National Development Plan (PND). The Colombian government i s
carrying out an extensive environmental reform program, outlined in a chapter o f the PND
dedicated exclusively to its environmental management strategy (see Box 1). This program
further pursues the government o f Colombia's original interdisciplinary sustainable
development program supported by the DPL series. The proposed DPL i s aligned with the
strategies and reforms included in the PND, which aim to integrate principles o f sustainable
development into the planning process and harmonize actions o f various branches and levels
o f government in order to safeguard quality o f life and create conditions for sustained
economic growth and social development. With the support o f the DPL series, the government
i s making steady progress in meetings its environment goals.

7.        The government's program supported by the DPL series draws on a Country
Environmental Analysis (CEA), which also provides an analytical foundation to the PND's
environmental management strategy. In addition, an associated Sustainable Development
InvestmentProject has provided technical assistance in the development and implementation
o f the DPL series' reforms.

8.        Consultations were held during preparation of the SusDevDPL and the CEA. The
preparation and dissemination o f the CEA benefited from close client engagement and wide
stakeholder consultation, including interviews with national and local government officials,
academics, and civil society. A survey o f more than 2,600 Colombians helped determine the
environmental priorities o f diverse sectors and stakeholders, including governmental
authorities, civil society representatives, and various ethnic groups. To disseminate the
findings of the CEA, the ministry held a national workshop in August 2004 that brought
together more than 150 individuals from over 50 organizations representing bilateral and
multilateral lending institutions, the public and private sectors, and civil society. The CEA

* Approximately   75 percentof the populationcurrentlyresides inurbanareas, and by 2020, it is estimatedthat 80
percent will live inurbanareas.

                                                        5

continues to be discussed at various fora in Colombia, including a workshop in August 2007
in which the Spanish translation of the CEA report was formally launched, and has been
widely referenced by national media. Additional consultations were carried out during
preparation o f key aspects o f the DPL series and MAVDT has consulted widely with relevant
sectoral ministries and stakeholders during the development o f actions linked to the third
operation (design o f a National Policy on Environmental Health, implementation o f a system
to monitor and evaluate national and regional environmental management, development and
approval o f an Urban Environmental Policy, and the design o f a National Policy for Air
Pollution Control). This consultation process has been formalized through the creation of two
technical commissions: the Technical Commission for the Prevention and Control of Air
Pollution (CONAIRE), responsible for ensuring intersectoral coordination inthe development,
implementation, and oversight o f policies, plans, and programs to prevent and control air
pollution; and the National Intersectoral Technical Commission for Environmental Health
(CONASA),         responsible for ensuring intersectoral coordination in the development,
implementation, and oversight o f policies, plans, programs, and strategies in the area o f
environmental health, at all government levels (national, regional, and municipal). Inaddition,
DNP has recently issued guidelines on policy development that require consultations be held
during the preparation o f all general government policies.

9.        Inaddition, the objectives and strategiesof the PND were widely consulted throughout
the country during the plan's preparation. Under the guidance of the National Development
Council, the plan benefited from the engagement o f regional authorities as well as
representatives from diverse economic sectors (energy, transport, and finance, among others)
and civil ~ociety.~ PND is aligned with the country's longer-term development plan, Visidn
                       The
Colombia N Centenario: 2019, which was prepared under President Uribe's first administration
through broad-basedconsultations with civil society.


  Box 1. Colombia's 2006-2010 NationalDevelopmentPlan

  The 2006-2010 National Development Plan, or PND, (Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 2006-2010 Estado
  Comunitario: desarrollopara todos) includes a chapter on "Environment and Risk Managementto Promote
  Sustainable Development" that introduces strategies and reforms aimed at integrating the principles of
  sustainable development into the planning process and harmonizingthe actions and resources of the various
  branches and levels of government. This will help safeguard quality of life and create conditions favorable
  for sustained economic growth and social development by promoting sustainable production and
  consumption,reducingrisk, and preventingenvironmentaldegradation.

  The PND identifies the following principles to support harmonization of environmental management: (i)
  transparency, to strengthen governance; (ii)eflciency, to optimize technical, financial and human
  resources; (iii)articulation of institutionalfunctions, to help integrate the responsibilities of diverse SINA
  actors so that complement one another; (iv) participation, to foster consensus among SINA actors in the
  design and planning of actions; (v) environmental sustainability, to preserve the natural resource base
  neededfor economic and social development;(vi) territorial focus that takes the particular natural, cultural,
  and economic dynamics of each region into account so that economic benefits and social welfare are
  maximized; and (vii) equity in recognizing the priorities of different segments of society and protecting the




 The National DevelopmentCouncil is a civic organizationcreated under the Constitution to enhance civil
society's participation inthe developmentof the National DevelopmentPlan(see www.cnpcolombia.org).

                                                         6

interests of the most vulnerable.

Basedon these principles, the environmentalmanagement strategy is focused on:

   (i)Environmentalplanning interritorial management.ThePNDcallsforthepromotion,support,and
        strengthening of sustainable processes for regional development. It also stresses incorporating
        environmental and cultural considerations into decisions on land use and occupation and promotes
        development and implementation of policies on land use and land management. Since about 75
        percent of the population lives in urban centers, the PND particularly promotes establishing criteria
        for rationalizing urban expansion within a regional perspective and developing productive sectors
        while minimizing their pollution. To help achieve this, the PND calls for development of an Urban
        Environmental Policy that will defme the roles and responsibilities of the AAUs and CAB. In .
        addition, the PND calls for the developmentofan IntegratedNational Action Planon Climate Change.

   (ii)Integrated water resource management. The PND calls for a National Water Policy to guide
        integratedwater resources management, establish objectives and strategies for efficient water use,
        define policy objectivesfor preventingwater pollutionand protecting water quality, and develop the
        necessary economic and legal instruments. The PND also stresses harmonization of norms and
        instruments related to wastewater management and the continued use of water basin management
        plans (POMCAs) as a hndamental tool for ensuringsustainability of water supplies.In addition, the
        structure of the Vice Ministry of Environment will be strengthened to better support and implement
        the integratedwater resourcesmanagement strategy.

   (iii)Knowledge,conservation,andsustainableuseof biodiversity.ThePNDpromotesdevelopmentofa
        national biodiversity inventory that is systematized and available to the public. It also stresses the
        definition of a national system of protectedareas as well as a strategy for its financial sustainability.
        In addition, the PND calls for the development of new economic and financial instruments and
        promotesgrowth andjob creationinbio-commerceto strengthenGreen Markets.

   (iv) Sustainable and competitive productive processes. To support sustainable development of key
        economic sectors, the PND calls for strategic environmental assessments (SEAS)of infrastructure,
        transport, energy, tourism, and environmentalhealth. For this purpose, MAVDT will prepare SEA
        guidelines to support the developmentof sectoralpolicies, plans, and programs.The PND also calls
        for development and implementation of interministerial and intersectoral agendas to strengthen
        environmentalmainstreaming.

   (v) Prevention and control of environmental degradation. The PND sets forth a National Policy for
        Environmental Health that aims to protect the most vulnerable segments of the population and
        targets the problemsthat impose the highest costs. The PND also calls for developmento f national
        air quality monitoring protocols, strengtheningof 15 air quality monitoring networks, and creation
        of inventories of emissions from fixed and mobile sources.

   (vi) Strengthening environmental governance. The PND calls for review and clarification of the roles
        and responsibilities of SINA actors, to help reduce conflicts and improve interinstitutional
        coordination. In addition, it calls for a review of the institutional structure of MAVDT and DNP to
        increase their capacity and give them a stronger role, particularly in incorporating environmental
        criteria into sectoralpolicies.




                                                       7

A. IMPROVING THE EFFECTIVENESS AND EFFICIENCY OF THE NATIONAL
ENVIRONMENTAL SYSTEM (SINA)

 A.l StrategicPlanningand MonitoringFrameworkfor SustainableDevelopment

Background

10.       Colombia faces serious challenges related to environmental degradation, which
affects public health and welfare and compromises the country's potential for sustainable
economic growth. An analysis o f the costs o f environmental degradation in Colombia
indicates that the most significant costs are associated with inadequate water, sanitation, and
hygiene (1,960 billion pesos) and ambient and indoor air pollution (1,915 billion pesos),
equivalent to about 2.8 percent o f GDP, mainly from increased child morbidity and mortality.
Further, the National Environment System (SINA) requires real and measurable impact
indicators to increase understanding o f the impacts o f key sectors on the environment, as well
as to promote linkages betweennational and regional priorities.

11.       Given the challenges faced by the SINA, the environment strategy outlined in the
2006-201 0 PND focuses on guaranteeing sustainable growth and reducing poverty by
improving cross-sectoral planning through incorporation of environmental considerations into
its policies for priority sectors (health, water, energy, and transport, among others) and giving
attention to the environmental problems that affect the most vulnerable segments o f the
population. As such, the PND calls for a National Policy for Environmental Health that aims
to protect the most vulnerable segments o f the population and targets the problems that
impose the highest costs (e.g., air and water pollution). These priorities also reflect the
government's commitment to achieving the MDGs. The PND also calls for strengthening
SINA by improving data collection, indicators, and intersectoral coordination.

12.       Inaddition, the PND aims to strengthenthe country's environmental management by
promoting measures that will reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The Plan emphasizes
developing mitigation and adaptation projects inthose sectors that have the greatest impact on
national development and designing applied technologies in partnership with national and
international agencies. These goals will be operationalized via a National Climate Change
Policy and an IntegratedNational Action Plan on Climate Change.

Actions supported by SusDevDPL111

13.       Guided by two policy-based Strategic Environmental Assessments (SEAS)on urban
air pollution and water quality, financed under the associated Sustainable Development
Investment Project, the SusDevDPL I11supports the preparation, dissemination, and approval
by MAVDT, the Ministry o f Social Protection (MPS), and the National Planning Department
(DNP) o f a National Policy on Environmental Health for approval by CONPES. MAVDT,
MPS, DNP, and the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) have worked together to
define the priority areas targeted under this policy, as well as lines o f action to improve the
management and oversight o f environmental problems that disproportionately affect the health
and productivity o f the most vulnerable (e.g., waterborne bacterial diseases and ambient air
pollution). These strategic lines o f action are aimed at strengthening(i)  institutional capacity
within MAVDT and MPS, (ii)         information management, (iii)   responsibilities for inspection

                                                  8

and enforcement, and (iv) technical and scientific capacities. Although the SusDevDPL I11had
originally planned to support both the approval and implementation o f this policy, the
government chose to ensure thorough consultation o f the draft policy with stakeholders and
the public prior to its submission to CONPES for approval. This consultation proved more
lengthy than originally anticipated, delaying policy implementation. Despite this delay, the
policy has gained a broad commitment as a result o f the consultation process, which i s
expected to strengthenthe policy's future implementation.

14.      The operation supports strengthening MAVDT's Climate Change Unit to meet the
environment goals o f the 2006-2010 PND. The PND aims to (i)promote options to reduce
greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) while reducing barriers for the development o f GHG
reduction projects in key economic sectors (e.g., supporting programs to develop renewable
energy technologies); and (ii)operationalize the country's climate change strategies in a
National Climate Change Policy. To strengthen its capacity to meet these goals, the ministry
carried out an analysis o f its climate change institutional and organizational framework.
Institutional stability was identified as key to managing climate change in the long term via
policies and adequate resources, hiring permanent staff in its Climate Change Group, and
improving interinstitutional coordination. In response, the ministry has created eight new
positions in its Climate Change Unit to (i)    support the development o f Clean Development
Mechanism (CDM) projects in the energy, industry, transport, agriculture, and solid waste
sectors, (ii)develop adaptation programs, (iii)  develop a registry o f the country's adaptation
and mitigation projects, and (iv) disseminate information to the general public on climate
change and mechanisms for clean development. Recently hiredstaff inthis group are currently
supporting the development o f the National Climate Change Policy, national roundtable
discussions to educate the public on climate change, and interministerial agendas to
mainstream mitigation and adaptation activities in sectoral programs.

15.      In addition, the SusDevDPL I11 supports the implementation of a system for
monitoring and evaluation o f regional and local environmental management based on six
sustainable development objectives and 15 impact indicators, included in Decree 1200 o f
2004. These sustainable development objectives are linked with the MDGs and balance both
urban and rural concerns. O f these six objectives, four support improved natural resources
management (e.g., forest conservation, diminishingwater shortage risks, optimizing the use o f
renewable natural resources, and increasing income and employment using sustainable
production methods), while the other two aim to reduce environmental health impacts and
vulnerability to natural disasters. These objectives and their corresponding indicators
(including hectares o f protected area, deforestation rate, water scarcity index, water
consumption by productive sectors, and morbidity and mortality due to severe diarrheal
disease, acute respiratory infection, and dengue, among others) promote better linkages
betweennational and regional priorities and strengthenthe focus on results and impacts linked
to the environment. When developing their Triennial Action Plans (PATS), CARs are
responsible for identifying goals linked to the MDGs and NDP. CARs and other national and
regional institutions are then responsible for monitoring and reporting on the indicators
included in Decree 1200 relevant to their regional priorities. Under the SusDevDPL 11,
MAVDT, CARs, and other national and regional entities, including the country's research
institutes and MPS, agreed on the methodologies and formats for collecting data on these
indicators. Building on these actions, the ministry has developed uniform procedures for

                                                9

reporting the status o f these indicators and a database to monitor and evaluate regional
environmental management. MAVDT has publicly disclosed on its website CARS' progress
toward achieving these indicators. Beginning in early November 2008, MAVDT will also
publicly disclose an overall evaluation o f all authorities' performance.

A.2 ImprovedInterinstitutionalCoordinationand IncreasedPublic Participationin
EnvironmentalDecisionmaking

Background

16.      As part of SusDevDPL I,DNP and MAVDT issuedan action plan for strengthening
the design, implementation, monitoring, and evaluationof environmental policies. In2005, an
assessment was carried out to determine the institutional strengtheningneeds o f both MAVDT
and DNP to improve the design, monitoring, and execution o f environmental policies. It was
determined that to improve the effectiveness o f MAVDT's new institutional structure four
aspects requiredstrengthening (i)    integrated management o f environment, housing, water and
sanitation, and regional development, (ii)formulation and articulation o f strategic policies,
(iii)implementation and oversight o f environmental and territorial development policies, and
(iv) coordination with the entities responsible for implementingpolicies andreforms.

17.      Inthis respect, the PND called for MAVDTto develop anUrbanEnvironmental Policy
demonstrating interministerial coordination in addressing the environmental challenges brought
on by the country's increasing urbanization and ensures that policy actions are included in
regional and local territorial development plans.

18.      For DNP, which has an advisory role indeveloping long-term environmental policies
and programs for the country's economic, social, and environmental development, the primary
institutional strengthening needs identified include improving long-term environmental
planning, integrating environmental considerations into policies, planning processes, and
regulations, improving coordination among sectors, and increasing the capacity o f DNP's
Environmental Policy and Sustainable Development Group to coordinate environmental
policy within the department.

Actions supported by SusDevDPL 111

19.      The SusDevDPL I11has supported the approval o f an Urban Environmental Policy,
which establishes guidelines for the sustainable management o f urban areas. Sustainable
management o f these areas i s expected to be achieved through the (i)promotion o f
interinstitutional coordination and cooperation (by defining the roles and responsibilities as
well as the resources and instruments o f responsible actors); (ii) promotion o f public
participation (by strengthening environmental education programs, among other actions); and
(iii)consolidation and harmonization of territorial development plans and environmental
planning (by incorporating urban environmental planning into regional and local development
plans). The achievement o f the Urban Environmental Policy's objectives will be measured by
MAVDT against defined outcome indicators (to be definedinearly 2009) that are expected to
be met inthe long term, by 2020.




                                                10

20.       In addition, the Vice Ministry of Environment's structure has been modified to
strengthen its organizational capacity to develop and implement environmental policies and
meet the environment goals o f the 2006-2010 PND. For example, the Vice Ministry has
formed a Water Resources Group to prepare, implement, and oversee a National Water Policy
(see paragraph 32), strengthened its Sectoral Sustainable Development Directional Office to
improve air quality management, strengthened its Climate Change Group to target options for
reducing GHG and operationalize the country's climate change strategies by developing a
National Climate Change Policy (see paragraph 22), strengthenedthe SINA Working Group
to improve coordination o f national environmental policy between the ministry, the 33 CARS,
6 AAUs, and 5 research institutes, and strengthened its Planning, Information, and Regional
Coordination Directional Office by providing it with tools to oversee and evaluate national
and regional environmentalmanagement.

21.      Lastly, DNP has strengthenedits Environmental Policy and Sustainable Development
Unit to better meet the environment objectives of the PND. While this Unit relied on four
professionals in 2007, seven positions were created in 2008 to meet this goal. Seven
specialists were hired in 2008 in the areas o f (i)environmental policy, (ii) environmental law,
(iii)biodiversity conservation and protection (two specialists), (iv) environmental risk
management, (v) project evaluation, and (vi) finance.


B. INTEGRATING PRINCIPLES OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INTO KEY
SECTORS

B.l Integratedwater resources management

22.      In 2003, the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Economic Development
were merged creating a new Ministry o f Environment, Housing and Territorial Development
(MAVDT) with the principal roles of establishing national policy, developingregulations, and
general planning and coordination o f environmental management, land use planning, water
supply and sanitation, and housing. Within the MAVDT, a Directional Office under the Vice
Ministry of Environment held responsibility for planning and policy making in the area of
water supply and sanitation, as well as water resource management. In2006, a Vice Ministry
o f Water Supply and Sanitation was created, assuming planning and policy making
responsibility in this area, while water resource management still remained the responsibility
o f the Vice Ministry o f Environment. With these organizational changes, however, the Vice
Ministry of Environment lacked the institutional capacity to oversee water resource
management at the national or regional level.

23.      At the same time, the 2006-2010 PND called for the development of aNational Water
Policy to orient the integrated management o f water resources and establish objectives and
strategies for efficient water use and management by all sectors. This Water Policy i s expected
to cover the management o f the following areas: groundwater, watersheds, and marine and
coastal management. This National Policy will build upon the groundwork carried out under
the SusDevDPL I1to improve the planning and administration of water resource management,
including the issuance o f decrees for watershed management, the planning and development
o f a registry o f water uses and users, and the establishment o f an information system, as well
as the definition o f wastewater discharge limits into marine and coastal waters.

                                                 11

Actions supported by SusDevDPL IIl

24.      To prepare, implement, and oversee the National Water Policy, the SusDevDPL I11i s
supporting MAVDT in strengthening the Vice Ministryo f Environment's structure to improve
integrated water resource management. Under Decree 2160 o f 2007, a Water Resource
Management Group has been established in the Vice Ministry. This Group i s responsible for
(i)promoting integrated water resource management by establishing required policies,
developing regulations, and general planningand coordination; (ii)   establishing guidelines for
plans and programs to support water quality and availability; (iii)  proposing guidelines and
criteria for watershed management plans; (iv) developing a National Water Policy; (v)
developing regulations to prevent and control water pollution; and (vi) defining parameters
and standards for water quality, depending on use. The Vice Ministry's Water Resource
Group currently relies on eight professionals, including watershed management specialists, an
adviser on water policy, a specialist on water use, an information systems specialist, and a
conflict resolution specialist.

B.2 Improvingurban air quality

25.      Ambient air pollution is one of the most widespread and serious problems in both
cities and rural areas, and i s linked to approximately 6,000 premature deaths per year.
Although levels are moderate inmost cities, the fact that close to 50 percent o f the population
lives in cities with more than 100,000 inhabitants creates substantial aggregate health effects,
associated mainly with particulate matter. These effects include cardiopulmonary diseases and
lung cancer in adults and acute respiratory illness, particularly in children, as well as death
from related diseases such as pneumonia.

26.      Urban air pollution from transportation and industry has increased, with the most
critical conditions occurring in the country's industrial corridors, especially Bucaramanga,
Medellin, and Baranquilla. Although several major pollutants, including ozone, are of concern
inColombia's urbanareas, the most serious health effects are caused by respirable particulate
matter smaller than 2.5 microns indiameter (PM2.5).

27.      The MAVDT is responsible for enacting national regulations for air pollution control
based on technical information provided by the Institute o f Hydrology, Meterology and
Environmental Studies (IDEAM), while regional environmental authorities are responsible for
their enforcement. However, most of the regional authorities have been incapable o f carrying
out their air pollution management responsibilities. Decree 244 o f 2006 established the
National Intersectoral Technical Commission for the Prevention and Control o f Air Pollution
(CONAIRE) to ensure intersectoral coordination o f policies, plans, and programs to prevent
and control air pollution.

28.      The lack o f national guidelines to promote coordinated strategies aimed at air
pollution prevention and control has lead to local and sectoral actions being carried out in an
isolated manner. In general, these efforts have not been evaluated nor has it been possible to
monitor their effectiveness.




                                              12

Actions supported by SusDevDPL 111

29.      The SusDevDPL I11is supporting the government inthe design o f a National Policy
for Air Pollution Control, which aims to ensure that actions carried out by institutions and
organizations directly or indirectly related to air pollution management are complementary, as
well as the policy's submission to CONAIRE for appr~val.~                      The policy also establishes
coordination and information mechanisms for decisionmaking. Specifically, the policy calls
for improvements in fuel quality, and the development o f updated emissions inventories, air
pollution emission limits, and air quality standards. An SEA on urban air quality, conducted
during the preparation o f this operation has provided technical inputs toward the policy's
preparation, as well as supported institutional agreements for the policy's implementation.




4Because the Air Pollution Control Policy is considereda sectoralpolicy, it is being submittedto CONAIRE for
approval.

                                                      13

              IV. BANK SUPPORTTO THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM


A. LINKTO COUNTRY PARTNERSHIPSTRATEGY

30.      The SusDevDPL I11i s identifiedinthe Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for 2008-
2011 (Report No. 42847-C0, dated March 4, 2008) for its support to the government's PND
and MDG goals o f ensuringenvironmental sustainability. Inaddition, actions supported under
the SusDevDPL 111, as well as the SusDevDPL Program's expected outcomes, are fully
aligned with the outcomes to which the CPS contributes: providing input to national policy
and helpingthe government strengthen the institutional capacity for managing environmental
services and mainstreaming principles o f environmental sustainability. The results expected
duringthe CPS's implementation include (i)    approval and implementation o f a national policy
on environmental health; (ii)strengthening MAVDT's Climate Change Unit to meet the
environment goals o f the 2006-2010 PND; (iii)    implementation o f a system to monitor and
evaluate national and regional environmental management based on six sustainable
development objectives linked to the MDGs; (iv) adapting Water Resources Unit in MAVDT
in line with new water resource management reforms; and (v) improved identification of
environmental priorities. The SusDevDPL series has directly supported the achievement o f
each o f these expected results: (i)a national policy on environmental health has been
submitted to DNP for presentation and approval at CONPES; (ii)eight new positions have
been created in MAVDT's Climate Change Unit to support the development o f C D M
projects, adaptation programs, a registry o f the country's adaptation and mitigation projects,
and public dissemination o f information; (iii) system to monitor and evaluate national and
                                                a
regional environmental management has been implemented; (iv) MAVDT has hired eight
water resource management specialists to support the implementation o f new reforms; and (v)
identification o f environmental priorities has improved through the use o f SEAS on
environmental health and water quality.


B. COLLABORATIONWITH THE IDB AND OTHER DONORS

31.      During preparation of the SusDevDPL Program the Bank has coordinated closely
with the Andean Development Corporation and the Inter-American Development Bank. The
DPL Program i s designed to complement the IDB's Urban Social Housing Project and the
IDB's second program to support the National Environmental System (SINA II), aims  which
to support sustainable development by strengthening national and regional environmental
institutions. Based on joint World Bank-IDB discussions with the government on synergies
between SusDevDPL and SINA 11, it was agreed that the IDBproject would focus specifically
on (i)reforestation linked to watershed management and protected areas and (ii)cleaner
production for the manufacturing sector.

32,      In addition, during the preparation of both the SusDevDPL I1and 111, the Bank has
closely coordinated with officials from the Embassy o f the Netherlands in Colombia, who
have prepared a grant-financed environmental program that supports institutional
strengtheningwithin SINA as well as the Colombian government's conservation efforts. Joint
team meetings have been held throughout preparation with MAVDT, DNP, embassy, and

                                               14

Bank officials to ensure that activities under the SusDevDPL Program and the sectoral
program supported by the Netherlands are complementary. While the SusDevDPL Program
places emphasis on strengthening SINA's             effectiveness and efficiency,       supporting
environmental health improvements, and addressing urban environmental challenges, the
Netherlands program gives greater weight to sustainable natural resource management.


C. RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER BANK OPERATIONS

33.     Activities under SusDevDPL I11 that will support environmental mainstreaming in
health, transport, water, energy, and other sectors are fully consistent with several Bank
projects and will reinforce the sustainability o f project results by promoting an adequate
framework that includes requiredsector policy reforms. These Bank projects include:


    0  Sustainable Development Investment Pro-ject. This US$7 million loan finances
       targeted actions and investments to support the development and implementation o f
       the DPL Program's policy reforms. Specifically, the Sustainable Development
       Investment Project supports policies and programs that address environmental
       problems affecting the quality o f life and well-being o f Colombians (such as air
       pollution and inadequate hygiene) and that strengthen the process o f formulating,
       coordinating, and overseeing regional and local environmental management and
       policies. For example, to support the development o f a national Air Pollution Control
       Policy, the project has financed improvements inthe air quality monitoring network in
       Colombia's largest cities, targeted at improving the monitoring o f those pollutants that
       are most harmful (e.g., PM2.5) and the implementation o f a policy-based SEA on urban
       air quality. Inaddition, to: support the development o f an Environmental Health Policy,
       the project has carried out a policy-based SEA on water quality and a nationwide
       Handwashing Campaign to prevent hygiene-related diseases. These SEAShave not
       only helped identify priority areas targeted under the Air Pollution Control and
       Environmental Health Policies, but have also supported responsibility agreements
       among environmental authorities and other stakeholders.


    0  Bogota Urban Services Pro-iect. This US$lOO million loan aims to improve (i)          urban
       livability by increasing access, coverage, quality, reliability, and interagency
       coordination o f transportation, water, sanitation, and related basic services, particularly
       for residents in low-income areas and (ii)  the city's mobility by providing better access
       to the public transport system, and improving road safety, traffic management, and
       transport planning. Among the beneficiaries are about 600,000 low-income residents
       who live in 14 o f the city's poorest zones. In addition, the Institutional Strengthening
       component aims to improve the delivery o f urban services through activities that will
       help ensure the social, environmental and financial sustainability of the works
       undertakenby the project.


    0  Integrated Mass Transit System Proiect. An initial US$250 million loan, completed by
       US$207 million o f additional financing, supports the expansion and/or construction o f
       bus rapid transit systems inmediumand large cities to improve mobility along the most
       strategic mass transit corridors, improving the standard o f living o f millions o f


                                                15

        Colombians by decreasing time and costs o f public transport. The project i s supporting
        (i)development of high quality and sustainable bus rapid transit systems; (ii)
        accessibility improvements for the poor through more feeder services to and from poor
        areas, as well as through fare integration to decrease the cost for users who take more
        than one bus to travel on the same route; and (iii)  increased institutional capacity at the
        national level inorder to develop integrated urbantransport policies and at the local level
        to improve urbantransport planningand transport management.


    0   La Guaiira Water and Sanitation Infrastructure and Service Management Project. This
        US$90 million loan supports the first phase o f the US$l50 million Water and
        Sanitation Infrastructureand Service Management Program APL. Phase Iwill increase
        service quality for water supply, sanitation, and wastewater treatment in urban areas
        for 300,000 consumers and improve the sustainability o f service by (a) supporting
        utility institutional performance through the government o f Colombia's "Specialized
        Operator" policy, and (b) delivering the necessarywater and sanitation infrastructure.

        Water Sector Reform Assistance Pro-iect.This US$40 million loan supports the reform
        o f municipal water utilities in underservedrural and urban areas o f the Caribbean coast
        by involving the private sector inutility management and expanding water and sewerage
        services to more people, especially the poor. Inaddition to supporting innovative public-
        sector participationschemes, the project provides technical assistanceto guide municipal
        leaders as they incorporate the private sector in the management and operation o f their
        water utilities. To obtain subproject support, water utilities are eligible for project
        support only ifa largeproportion o ftheir users are low-income households.

34.      The Bank's work on environmental issues inColombia likewisebuildson opportunities
provided under the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change through sources such as the Prototype Carbon Fund(PCF). The Jepirachi Carbon Offset
Project and the Rio Amoya Environmental Services project, both financed by the PCF, offer the
possibility o f reducing carbon emissions while fostering important technology transfers to the
renewable energy sector.


D. LESSONSLEARNED

35.      A key lesson gained from the preparation of SusDevDPL Iis the importance ofbuilding
a reform program on the basis o f extensive analytical work. The analytical work conducted as
part of the Country Environmental Analysis (CEA) and in preparation for the first operation
provided a thorough examination o f environmental priorities and an understanding o f the
country's institutionalframework for environmental management. The actual process o f carrying
out the analysis was equally important, as it helped build consensus among stakeholders on
reforms to the SINA. The preparation and dissemination o f the CEA benefited from close client
engagement and wide stakeholder consultation, from the government officials responsible for
setting environmental policies and programs to poor and marginalized groups that are most
vulnerable to environmental degradation.




                                                16

36.       In addition, resources provided under the associated Sustainable Development
Investment Project have been indispensable for providing technical assistance to advance the
government o f Colombia's reform program and to strengthen coordination among key
stakeholders. This project has financed key analytical work, workshops, and instruments that
support cross-fertilization and buy-in between institutions in different sectors (e.g., SEAs)
which have been instrumental indeveloping and implementing reforms under the SusDevDPL
Program. Through SEAs, a number o f interministerial agendas have been signed to support
the joint development o f policies in the areas o f environmental health, air pollution control,
and water quality. In addition, the policies supported by these SEAs have formalized this
interinstitutional coordination, by defining respective responsibilities for the improved
management o f these areas.

37.       Interinstitutional coordination has helped strengthen reforms under the SusDevDPL
Program. In particular, DNP's participation in the DPL Program has been instrumental in
enhancing coordination among key SINA actors as well as other line ministries. This
coordination among line ministries, as well as vertically between national and regional
authorities, has enriched policy development in the areas o f air quality, water quality, and
environmental health, as well as data collection required for the monitoring o f SINA's
progress toward goals linked with sustainable development and the MDGs.

38.       The Minister o f Environment took a leading role inoverseeing the achievement ofthe
SusDevDPL Program's reforms. The Minister's commitment, as well as MAVDT's
strengthened capacity to define and manage environmental priorities, creates an opportunity
for the promotion o f policy changes beyond the actions defined in the Program (e.g., in the
areas o f water resource management, indoor air pollution, climate change, and enforcement).


E. ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS

39.       The program rests on a solid analytical foundation that includes the policy notes
prepared by the World Bank for the current administration (Colombia 2006-2010: A Window
of Opportunity) and other economic and sector work, inparticular the Country Environmental
Analysis (CEA). The CEA was carried out in parallel with the preparation o f the first
Sustainable Development DPL to provide the Colombian government with an analytical
framework to support its efforts toward achieving the MDGs, with its findings expected to
support the design and implementation o f policies focused on protecting the most vulnerable
groups, especially poor children under age o f five. By achieving this objective, the CEA has
provided a basis for the structure o f the SusDevDPL Program. Table 3 illustrates how the
SusDevDPL Program i s supporting the CEA's key findings. Cornerstones o f the CEA include
(i)an assessment of the cost of environmental degradation in Colombia; (ii)a broad
assessment o f the institutional capacity for environmental management in Colombia; and (iii)
an assessment o f the effectiveness and efficiency o f existing policy, legislative and regulatory
frameworks to address environmental concerns. In addition, a broad survey o f societal
perceptions was carried out to assist the government in identifying the country's priority
environmental concerns, as well as the sectors from which they stem.

40.      The analysis o f the cost of environmental degradation conducted as part o f the CEA
(Larsen 2004) shows that the most costly problems associated with environmental degradation

                                               17

are urban air pollution; inadequate water supply, sanitation and hygiene; natural disasters
(such as flooding and landslides); land degradation; and indoor air pollution. The burden o f
these costs falls most heavily on vulnerable segments o f the population, especially poor
children under age five. The effects o f environmental degradation associated with these
principal causes are estimated to cost more than 3.7 percent o f GDP, mainly due to increased
mortality and morbidity and decreasedproductivity.

41.      The review of Colombia's institutional capacity for environmental management in
Colombia examined, inter alia, the distributional responsibilities among national, regional and
local environmental authorities, as well as cross-sectoral and interinstitutional coordination
mechanisms. It also reviewed the SINA's monitoring capacity and ways in which stakeholder
interests are balanced in the decisionmaking process. The assessment identified the following
problems within the SINA: (i)inadequate or inappropriate regulations, such as emissions
standards adopted from industrialized countries with little or no modification; (ii)limited
technical capacity in MAVDT and some CARs; (iii)inadequate enforcement, for example the
CARs collect only one-third of the effluent fees charged to polluters; (iv) inadequate data on
environmental quality and institutional performance; (v) lack o f priority setting across
environmental subsectorsandprograms; and (vi) inadequatemechanismsfor public participation.

42.      The analysis of environmental expenditures shows that current expenditures can be
better aligned with the priorities o f lower-income groups or with the most pressingproblems
associated with the cost o f environmental degradation (Canal 2004). In 2001, the CARs
allocated 28 percent o f their investment funds to projects involving protection o f flora and
fauna and only 5 percent to pollution control projects other than wastewater treatment plants.
Although data are limited and must be interpreted cautiously, the highest share o f CAR
investments appear to focus on the construction o f wastewater treatment plants, followed by
water basin management, reforestation, and conservation.

43.      The results of a 2004 survey of public perceptions about environmental problems in
Colombia, which included a sample o f 2,600 individuals from a wide range o f regions,
sectors, government agencies, civil society organizations, and ethnic groups (CNC 2004),
complemented the analysis o f the cost o f environmental degradation. Approximately 80
percent o f respondents identified air pollution as the top environmental problem, but there
were significant differences in the perception o f priorities among income groups. Whereas
low-income groups identified air pollution, noise, and natural disasters as major problems,
upper-income groups tended to perceive global environmental impacts (such global warming
and loss o f biodiversity) and inappropriate land use inurban areas as highpriorities.




                                                18

Table 3; SusDevDPL111's Support of CEA PolicyOptions
                                   Policy Options
Kev Issue                        identijied in CEA            Actions supported under SusDevDPL 111

Need for strategic and      Install and implement systemsto    Implementationof a systemto monitor and
systematictools for         monitor and evaluateenviron-       evaluateboth nationaland regional
priority setting            mentalmanagementandthe             environmental management basedon the
                            extent to which the objectives of  sustainabledevelopment objectives described
                            environmental priorities are       in Decree 1200o f 2004. (Decreeestablishes a
                            efficiently met.                   system of performanceindicatorsto measure
                                                               impact and resultsof environmental
                                                               investments at the regionallevel. These
                                                               indicatorsare linked with the MDGs (in
                                                               particularGoals 7 and 4) and serve to promote
                                                               and improvethe linkagebetweennationaland
                                                               regionalpriorities.)

Need for strengthening      Mainstreamenvironmental            Preparation, dissemination, and submissionto
institutions'capacity to    considerationsin policy            DNP of aNationalPolicy on Environmental
address environmental       formulationby strengthening        Healthfor presentationand approval at
priorities,particularly in  SINA institutions' capacity in     CONPES, coveringthe areas of water quality
environmentalhealth         priority areas through strategic   and urban and indoor air quality and
                            environmental assessment(SEA)      considering the results of policy-based SEAS.
                            o f environmental health

High cost of                Design and implement a"safe          In parallel,associated investment loan is
environmental               water" programthat includes          providingtechnical assistance and
degradationassociated       components dealing with              investmentsto support implementation of a
with waterborne diseases    handwashingand point-of-use          programto promote improvedhygiene.
                            disinfectionof drinkingwater

High cost of                Implement air pollution control    Design, dissemination, and submission to
environmental               interventions, such as promoting   DNP of aNational Policy for Air Pollution
degradationassociated       the improvement of fuel quality    Control for presentationand approval at
with air pollution          intransport and industry sectors,  CONPES, utilizing the results of a Strategy
                            expandingthe use of natural gas    EnvironmentalAssessment (SEA) on urban
                            to replacecoal and oil, and        air quality.
                            establishingmeasuresto control
                            emissionsfrom stationary,
                            mobile,and nonpointsources

                            Implement aprogramto monitor         In parallel, associated investment loan is
                            PM2.5and PMloin priority             financing improvements in air quality
                            urbanareas.                          monitoringnetworks in Colombia's largest
                                                                 cities (targeted at improvedmonitoringof
                                                                 PM2.i).

Requirements for            Deviseconcreteways of                Development of an urbanenvironmental
improvedurban               integratingenvironment into          policy, improving the effectivenessof
environmentalconditions     urbanplanningand management          existing planning, management and
                            tools after reviewingthe legal       financing instrumentsfor urban
                            and regulatory framework of          development, and promoting actionsand
                            environmental and urban              strategies that improve the quality of life in
                            legislation.                        urbanareas.




                                                     19

 V. THE PROPOSEDTHIRD PROGRAMMATIC DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN
                          FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT

A. OPERATION DESCRIPTION

44.      The general programmatic framework for this operation is given by the policy matrix
that was developed during preparation o f the SusDevDPL I.     This matrix consists of two broad
thematic areas, namely improving the effectiveness and efficiency o f SINA, and integrating
principles o f sustainable development into key sectors, with a particular emphasis on
protecting the most vulnerable groups. The commitments under the program are listed in the
Program Matrix (Annex 3).

45.      During SusDevDPL I1 negotiations, the government and the Bank defined a list of
proposed actions to be implemented prior to Board presentation o f the SusDevDPL 111.
However, an unanticipated delay arose with respect to meeting one o f the operation's prior
actions (the approval of an Environmental Health Policy). This delay stems from (i)   the longer
than anticipated consultations o f the draft policy with stakeholders and the public prior to its
submission to CONPES for approval; as well as (ii)    difficulties inscheduling the specific date
of the CONPES meeting, considering that President Uribe chairs the CONPES and his agenda
i s often uncertain. Given this unanticipated delay, the Bank and Colombian government
agreed that approval o f this policy would be made a condition o f loan effectiveness. Despite
this delay, the policy has gained a broad commitment as a result of the consultation process,
which i s expected to strengthenthe policy's future implementation.

46.      Box 2 presents the triggers for SusDevDPL I11 and actions taken by the Colombian
government to meet them. In addition, Box 3 shows how the operation adheres to good
practice principles for conditionality.




                                               20

Box 2. SusDevDPL I11Triggers



  1. Improvingthe ef  :tivenessof the SINA
                                                                            SEAs conductedon
1.1 Results-based         Approval and           *Approval by CONPES
                          implementation of a      o f aNationalPolicy on   environmental healthand water
framework for             NationalPolicyon         EnvironmentalHealth      quality to define policy priorities
planning and              EnvironmentalHealth      that coversthe areas of  Draft policy consulted with
monitoring progress       that covers the areas    water quality and        regionaland national
of the SINA toward        o f water quality and    urbanand indoorair       stakeholders.
goals directly linked     urbanand indoorair       quality, and considers   Agreement by MAVDT, MPS,
with sustainable          quality, and considers   the results of policy-   and DNP on final Environmental
development and           the results of policy-   basedSEAs.               HealthPolicy.
achievement of the        based SEAs.                                       CONPES approvalof the
MDGs                                                                        EnvironmentalHealth Policy is
                                                                            a conditionof effectiveness.

                          Strengthen             *Strengthen MAVDT's        Eightnew positions created in
                          MAVDT's Climate          ClimateChange Unit       MAVDT to support climate
                          Change Unit to meet      to meet the              change strategies outlined in
                          the environment          environment goals of     PND.
                          goals of the 2006-       the 2006-2010 PND.       Positions have been staffed, with
                          2010 PND.                                         adequate budgetallocated for
                                                                            staff salaries.

                          Implementationof a     *Implementationof a        Procedures for reportingthe
                          systemto monitor         system to monitor and    status of monitoringindicators,
                          and evaluate both        evaluatebothnational     measuringachievementof
                          nationaland regional     and regional             sustainabledevelopment
                          environmental            environmental            objectives, developedand agreed
                          managementbased          management basedon       to by regionalenvironmental
                          on six sustainable       six sustainable          authorities (CARs and AAUs).
                          development              development              Operation of system initiated.
                          objectivesdescribed      objectives describedin
                          in Decree 1200of         Decree 1200of 2004.
                          2004.
                                                                             MAVDT, CARs, and AAUs
1.2 Improvementsin         Development and         Developmentand
                           approvalof an Urban      approval of an Urban     havejointly prepared Urban
interinstitutional         Environmental            EnvironmentalPolicy      EnvironmentalPolicy.
coordination               Policythat clarifies    that clarifiesroles and   Policy approvedat meetingof
                           roles and               responsibilitiesof        NationalEnvironmental
                           responsibilitiesof       CARs and AAUs and        Council.
                           CARs and AAUs            implementation of
                           and implementation      mechanisms for
                           of mechanisms for        improved
                           improved                transparency.
                           transparency.

                          Implementation of a      Implementationof a        Institutionalanalysisconducted.
                           plan to adapt DNP's     planto adapt DNP's        Through the issuance of
                           and Vice Ministry o f   and Vice Ministry of      multiple resolutions, MAVDT
                           Environment's           Environment's             and DNP have strengthened
                           structureto better      structureto better        their offices and working
                          meet the                 meetthe environment       groups to meet the
                          environmentgoals of      goals of the 2006-        environmental obiectives of the


                                                    21

                           the 2006-2010 PND         2010 PND and            PND.
                           and manage                manage
                           environmental             environmental
                           policies.                 policies.

  2. Integratingprinc Ides of sustainable develollent in key sectors

2.1 Critical decrees,      Adapt Water               Adapt Water             MAVDT issuedResolution
laws and policies that     Resources Unit in         ResourcedUnit in        2160 of 2007, establishing
embody principles of       MAVDT in line with        MAVDT in linewith       Water Resources Group.
sustainable                new water resource        new water resource
development (e,g.,         management                managementreforms,      MAVDT has created eight new

air quality, water         reforms, to ensure        to ensure appropriate   positions to support the
                                                                             implementation of new water
quality, solid waste       appropriate               institutional
                                                                             resourcemanagement reforms.
management, and            institutional             framework to support
                                                                             Positions have been staffed,
environmental              framework to              their implementation.
                                                                             with adequate budget allocated
licensing)                 supporttheir
                           implementation.                                   for staff salaries.


                           Design and approval      Design and approval      SEA carried out to identify air
                           of a national policy      of a national policy    pollution priorities.
                           for air pollution         for air pollution       MAVDT, MPS, Ministry of
                           control.                  control.                Energy and Mines havejointly
                                                                             preparedand disseminateddraft
                                                                             Policy for Air Pollution
                                                                             Control.

                                                                             CONAIRE approvedthe policy
                                                                             on October 24, 2008.




                                                    22

Box 3. Good PracticePrincipleson Conditionality
Principle 1: Reinforce Ownership
The SusDevDPL I11 is fully alignedwith the government's environmentalmanagementstrategy contained in the 2006-2010
PND. The operation also rests on a solid analyticalfoundationthat includesthe Country EnvironmentalAnalysis (CEA).
MAVDT was an active partner during the CEA's preparation, which benefitedfrom close client engagement and wide
stakeholder consultation. By ensuring this wide scopeof engagement and dissemination, the results ofthe CEA havehad a
significant impact on the development of governmentpolicies, includingthe PND environmentalmanagement strategy, and
underpinthe DPL series.

Principle 2: Agree upfront with the government and otherfinancialpartners on a coordinated
accountabilityframework
The Bank's support is summarized in a briefand focused policy matrix that was widely discussed and agreed with govern-
ment officials. Although no other donors are currently providingbudget support to these reforms, both the IDB and the
Dutch government are providing support inthe environment sector that complementsthe actions and emphasizesthe
objectives of the SusDevDPL Program. One element of the DPL series (and related Sustainable Development Investment
Project) is to strengthen Colombia's monitoring and evaluation capacity with respect to progress towards its environmental
sustainability goals and the program's accountability framework is firmly anchored in Colombia's own system.

Principle3: Customizethe accountabilityframework and modalitiesof Bank support to country circumstances
Bank support does not include any sensitivepolicy reforms; rather support is fully aligned with the sustainable development
goals included in the 2006-2010 PND presentedto Congress which aims to strengthen the SINA and integrateenvironmental
considerationsinto key economic sectors.

Principle 4: Choose only actionscriticalfor achieving results as conditionsfor disbursement
The Bank's policy matrix uses a limited set of prior actions for the third operation of the SusDevDPL Program(7 in total)
These prior actions are focused on the developmentand passage of reforms supporting the government's medium-term
development program.

Principle5: Conducttransparentprogress reviewsconducivetopredictable andperformance-basedfinancial
support
The proposedone-tranche operation is timed to the country's budgetcycle, with timing agreed in discussions
with MHCP basedon the current review ofthe operation's prior actions. The policy matrix contains a limited
number of outcome indicators, which will be assessed as part ofthe operation's implementationand are closely
linked to the supportedpolicy actions.




                                                              23

VI. OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION

A. POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACTS

47.      The SusDevDPL I11 i s intended to bring about significantly positive poverty and
social impacts, and negative impacts are not anticipated. In general terms, improvements in
environmental sustainability are expected to benefit the poor. As described below, the poor
are the segment o f the population most at risk from the impacts o f environmental degradation,
particularly in terms o f health and productivity. Waterborne bacterial diseases and ambient
and indoor air pollution pose the highest costs, accounting for approximately 2 percent o f
GDP, due primarily to increased child morbidity and mortality. Diarrhea, which accounts for
approximately 7.3 percent o f child mortality, i s the most common and widespread waterborne
disease and i s more prevalent in rural zones populated by the poorest segments o f the
population. In fact, there are approximately 2.9 cases o f diarrheal illness per child each year.
Air pollution is also a significant problem, with particulate matter alone responsible for an
estimated 6,000 premature deaths and 7,400 new cases o f chronic bronchitis in Colombia
every year. Therefore, the poor are expected to benefit inthe form o f improved environmental
and health conditions that improve their potential for more productive work days and a better
quality o f life. In addition, the proposed project aims to ensure that the most vulnerable
segments o f society have a seat at the table with respect to the design and implementation o f
policies that affect them.

48.      Indoor air pollution almost exclusively affects poor households that use solid fuels for
cooking and lack improved stoves that reduce emissions and minimize exposure to particulate
matter. While the correlation between poverty and ambient air pollution i s more difficult to
quantify, the Journal o f Epidemiology and Community Health (Samet and White 2004) notes
that a growing body o f studies "are beginning to provide a coherent and not surprising picture:
persons having less socioeconomic status seem to be at increased risk from urban air
pollution." This may be due to both greater exposure as a result o f living in more polluted
areas and spending more time outdoors, as well as greater vulnerability to the effects o f air
pollution because o f previous exposure, poorer underlying health conditions, and less access
to health services.

49.      Diarrheal illness tends to affect the poor more frequently because it i s more prevalent
inhouseholds with less rigoroushygienepractices and lower accessto improved water supply
and sanitation, which typically correlate with poverty. The poor also are more likely to live
near point-sources o f water pollution, including leaching from solid waste sites. And although
the rate of diarrheal illness inColombia is slightly higher inrural areas than inurban centers,
the total number o f cases in urban areas is more than twice that o f rural areas (Larsen 2004).
As noted in the World Bank's 2003 report, Colombia: The Economic Foundation o f Peace,
"while the coverage rate of water supply, sewerage, and solid waste collection services is high
in the major cities, in absolute numbers, hundreds of thousands of families are still
inadequately served, most o f which belong to the poorest income strata." The report also notes
that these high coverage rates often mask qualitative gaps and serious deficiencies in the
services provided.




                                                24

50.       The Bank's November 2004 report on The Urban Poor inLatin America notes that in
Latin America the urban poor perform significantly worse than the non-poor on all health
indicators (in Colombia the urban poor perform even worse than the rural poor on some
indicators). The report adds that while the reasons for this are not completely accounted for,
"one o f the main causes appears to be the physical environment-lack                   o f access to basic
infrastructure, hygienic practices and pollution." It also cites evidence that industrial waste
disproportionately affects the health o f the urban poor, as well as "strong anecdotal evidence"
o f greater negative impacts o f air pollution on the urban poor.

5 1.      The actions supported by the SusDevDPL I11will help the government address these
environmental health risks, through the development o f a National Policy on Environmental
Health that covers the areas o f water quality and urban and indoor air quality and a National
Policy for Air Pollution Contr01.~


B. ENVIRONMENTALASPECTS

52.       The operation is expected to have significant positive impacts on the environment and
natural resources. It plays an important role in helping to mainstream environmental
considerations in key sectors (e.g., health, water, energy, transportation) in Colombia and in
the country's overall approach to development. In particular, the project takes a pragmatic
approach to supporting the government o f Colombia's efforts to achieve the MDGs by (i)
improving the effectiveness and efficiency o f the National Environmental System (SlNA) and
(ii)integrating principles of sustainable development into key sectors, with a particular
emphasis on protectingthe most vulnerable groups.

53.       Since the raison d'etre o f the operation itself i s to support the government in
mainstreaming environmental considerations into a number o f key sectors, the operation's
design is proactive with respect to internalizing environmental concerns. This occurs at
distinct levels. At the sectoral level, three policy-based SEAShave supported the integration
o f environmental concerns in the context o f sectoral policy development for environmental
health and air pollution prevention and have facilitated interinstitutional agreements and
commitments among various stakeholders to address the respective environmental concerns
(e.g., water and air quality). Other positive impacts on the environment are expected to derive
from improved environmental management at the national and local levels, in which the
program places particular emphasis in assuring improved transparency and accountability with
respect to governmental oversight and decisionmaking processes.

54.       The government's commitments to improved environmental management and the
SusDevDPL Program can be evidenced by the 2006-2010National Development Plan. For the
first time in three administrations, the PND includes a chapter dedicated to the government's
environmental management strategy. This strategy draws from the SusDevDPL Program and


  This section's analysisis basedon studies conductedprimarilyin2003 and2004, due to the lack ofmore recent
data on the effectsof environmentaldegradationonthe poor.However,the government has recently strengthened
its air quality monitoringnetworksinthe country's highestpollutingcities. These 16 networksare expected to
generate consistentdata on PMloand PM2,*emissions (those pollutantsthat are most harmfulto humanhealth)by
December2008. This data is expectedto supportthe government inupdatingestimatesof the economiccosts of
environmentaldegradation.

                                                     25

the findings o f the CEA and mandates a number o f actions included in the second
SusDevDPL operation and supported by the third operation.


C. IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION

55.      Although MAVDT i s responsible for coordinating actions under the SusDevDPL,
implementation o f the program's actions i s a shared responsibility among DNP, other line
ministries, CARS, AAUs, and research institutes. To support the development and
implementation o f the DPL's reforms, this coordination has been formalized through
interministerial agendas and interinstitutional working groups. MAVDT, however, has
primary responsibility for reporting progress on the program's implementation.

56.      A set of outcome indicators for measuring the program's achievement of
development objectives were agreed with government counterparts during preparation o f the
first SusDevDPL operation. Since the original indicators did not formally define baseline and
target values and often reflected procedural actions rather than outcomes, these indicators
have beenrefinedduring preparation and implementation o f the DPL series. Further, although
achievement o f these indicators will be measured at the completion o f the SusDevDPL 111,
Annex 4 presents the status o f these indicators at appraisal. This Results Framework Analysis
shows that the series has made substantial progress in achieving program indicators. MAVDT
i s in charge o f overall monitoring and evaluation and for collecting the appropriate data to
follow the indicators. Data availability for most indicators has been sufficient and timely.

57.      At the outset ofthe SusDevDPL series, the government had aimed to carry out actions
that would support the reduction o f the cost o f environmental degradation associated with
water resources management and natural disasters (subobjective B.3 o f the original Policy
Matrix). During the course o f implementation, however, the government and Bank recognized
that the natural disasters subobjective required special attention. As such, the government
requested a Disaster Risk Management Development Policy Loan with a Catastrophic Risk
Deferred Drawdown Option to strengthen its program for reducing risks resulting from
adverse natural events. This objective will be achieved by supporting actions related to (i)
improving risk identification and monitoring; (ii)increasing prevention and mitigation
measures for risk reduction; (iii)strengtheningthe National System for Disaster Management
and Prevention; and (iv) reducing the fiscal vulnerability o f the State to natural disasters. The
government and Bank, therefore, did not plan explicit prior actions or triggers for natural
disaster risk management within the Sustainable Development DPL series, and this
subobjective i s not included inthe Policy Matrix inAnnex 3.


D. FIDUCIARY ASPECTS

58.      In general, Colombia's fiduciary environment for DPL operations is considered
adequate. Particularly, important progress has been achieved in the modernization o f the
Public Financial Management (PFM) systems and institutions at the central government level,
as explained in Box 5. The Bank continues to contribute to this effort, through PFM-related
investmentlending and analytical/advisory services support.



                                               26

Box 5: PublicFinancialManagement

Colombiahas made important progresstoward improvingtransparency and enhancingaccountability in its public
financial management (PFM) systems. The nationaltax administrationhas undergone significant improvements
over the last five years in its systems and practices. Similarly, controls in public expenditure have been
strengthened through a comprehensive integrated financial management system, implementation of a standard
internalcontrol model, and reforms to the procurement system, such as the recently approved ProcurementLaw.
There is still, however, room for reducing transaction costs and exposure to waste and abuse, through the
implementationofrisk managementtools, better procurementpracticesand audit mechanisms.

The administration's current strategy, documented in the National Development Plan's pillar of "A State at the
Service of its Citizens: Efficient and Effective Government", providesinter alia for the continuous improvement
of public sector administrative models aiming at improvedexpenditure efficiency. The PND explicitly addresses
important PFM areas such as budget management, asset administration, procurement reform, internal controls,
and results-basedmanagement.

Relevant improvements to the procurement system, such as the introduction of merit evaluation as criteria for
selection of consultant services, create an opportunity to converge with internationalgood practice. Framework
contracts are also foreseen, which should translate into important savings in public procurement. However, there
are several aspects of the reformwhich are still underway and will need to be evaluated as their implementation
progresses.

A public financial management and procurementperformancestudy is currently underway.



E. DISBURSEMENTAND AUDITING

59.       Following a request for withdrawal, the funds will be transferred into an account o f
the Central Bank (Banco de la Republica, BdR) denominated in US dollars. BdR will
immediately credit the disbursed amounts to an MHCP National Treasury Account, thus
becoming available to finance budgeted expenditures under the national integrated financial
information system (SIIF). Upon request from the Bank, MHCP will provide written
confirmation o f the mentionedtransaction.

60.       An IMF central bank safeguards assessment of the BdR found no systematic
vulnerabilities in the safeguards of the BdR as o f 2003 and updated in 2005. Nothing further
came to the attention o f the Bank during program appraisal that caused it to believe that the
control environment into which the loanproceeds will flow i s other than adequate.

61.       Because o f the described conditions, no additional fiduciary arrangements (e.g.
dedicated accounts subject to audit) are deemed necessary for this DPL.

F. RISKSAND RISKMITIGATION

62.       Macroeconomic risks. Colombia faces a turbulent external environment, but the
government i s taking the necessary steps to mitigate external risks. For example, the
Government has reduced the foreign currency share o f its public debt and overall external debt
o f both the public and private sector i s low at about 23 percent o f GDP. In addition,
international reserves have increased substantially and now stand at over US$23 billion. The

                                                       27

authorities have a sound fiscal and monetary policy in place, with an inflation targeting
mechanism established and with a medium term fiscal framework that targets a declining
public debt to GDP ratio. Overall external indebtedness i s low (21 percent o f GDP), and the
current account deficit has been more than fully financed by net FDI-including          during the
first half o f this year. Overall annual external financing requirements are on the order o f $12-
15 billion, but much o f this i s driven by the current account deficit, with the excess o f imports
influenced by flows o f FDIitself.

63.      Coordination Risks. The Program Document for the SusDevDPL I identified
coordination as a potential risk, giventhe relative weakness o f the Environment Ministry.This
risk did not materialize during program implementation, with the coordination carried out
between MAVDT, DNP, and sectoral line ministries in the development o f policies that
support sustainable development (e.g., air quality, environmental health, and an urban
environmental policy) and a well-funded and effective capacity building program within
MAVDT and DNP. Further, the coordination processes supported by the DPL series have
helped institutionalize coordination efforts through the development o f interministerial
agendas to support both the development and implementation o f policies, as well as through
MAVDT's development o f guidelines on the consultative processes to be followed for policy
development. The benefits are widely recognized and the 2006-2010 PND also calls for
interinstitutional and multisectoral coordination efforts to integrate sustainable development
consideration into additional sectoral policies, such as transportation and tourism.

64.      The SusDevDPL IProgram Document also pointed to the program's reliance on
CARs to participate actively inthe implementation o f reforms. It was noted that their relative
autonomy posed an additional risk to ensure alignment o f actions between the national
government and regional agencies. This risk did not materialize and was alleviated through
the implementation o f a SINA working group that has .helpedensure that CARS' Triennial
Action Plans are consistent with approved Territorial Development Plans as well as to
promote horizontal cooperation between CARs, as well as the development o f an Urban
Environmental Policy that has clarified the roles and responsibilitiesof CARs and AAUs.

65.      Political Risks. The SusDevDPL IProgram Document also identified the risk o f
possible attempts at derailing the reform process by special interest groups affected by it. This
risk also did not materialize, giventhe DPL series' successes in implementing the program's
consensus-building mechanisms. The series has supported consultation efforts that ensure a
broad discussion o f the issues among government and civil society and promote buy-in with
respect to strategy proposals from the sectors. These actions have enhanced the credibility,
sustainability, and effectiveness o f policy actions, and have contributed to overcome
resistance from special interests.

66.      Administrative Risks. The SusDevDPL I1Program Document pointed to the risk o f
high turnover o f senior officials within the MAVDT. Although this high turnover has
subsided in the last three years, it was recognized that a return to the historical turnover rate
could create a moderate to high risk o f loss inmomentum to complete the reforms supported
by this program. This risk has beenmitigated by the design of the program, which anchors the
formulation o f sustainable development strategies on consensus-building among different



                                                 28

stakeholders as well as on official. agreements among institutions. Further, it did not
materialize duringthe implementationo f the DPL series.

67.     In conclusion, since the risks identified at the outset o f the DPL series have not
materialized, this third operation o f the Programmatic SusDevDPL series i s considered low-
risk. Given the mechanisms for interinstitutional and multisectoral coordination currently in
place, mandated under the government's 2006-2010 PND and supportedby the DPL Program,
the SusDevDPL Program is also now consideredto be low risk.




                                              29

                                            References

Alesina, Alberto. 2000. "Institutional Reforms in Colombia." Fundacion para la Educacion Superior y
        el Desarrollo (Fedesarrollo), Working Paper 001155. Bogota.

Canal, F. 2004. "Orientacion del Presupuestode las Corporaciones Autonomas Regionales -CARS-
        en 10s Planes de Acci6n Trianual; Periodos 1995-2003." Study prepared for the World Bank.
         Bogota.

Centro Nacional de Consultoria (CNC). 2004. Encuesta de Percepcidn de Prioridades Ambientales.
        Final Report. Consultingcontract with World Bank. Bogota.
DepartamentoNacional de Planeacion (DNP). 2005b. Visidn Colombia 11Centenario: 2019. Bogota.
        ,2007. Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 2006-201 0. Estado Comunitario: Desarrollo para
         Todos. Bogota.

DesInventar Database.Red de Estudios Sociales en Prevencion de Desastresen America Latina (LA
         RED).http://www.desinventar.org/.

Instituto de Hidrologia, Meteorologiay Estudios Ambientales (IDEAM). 2002. Primera Generacidn
        de Indicadores de la Linea Base de la Informacidn Ambiental en Colombia. Bogota.
        . 2004. Informe Anual sobre el Estado del Medio Ambientey 10s Recursos Naturales
        Renovables en Colombia. Bogota.
Larsen, B. 2004. Cost of Environmental Damage: A Socio-Economic and Environmental Health Risk
        Assessment. Prepared for the Ministry of Environment, Housing, and Territorial
         Development. Bogota.

Samet, J.M. and R.H. White. 2004. "Urban Air Pollution, Health, and Equity." Journal of
        Epidemiology and Community Health 48:3-5.
Skat-Swiss Resource Centre and Consultancies for Development. 2006. Investigacidn de
         Comportamientosde Lavado de Manos en Colombia. St. Gallen, Switzerland.
World Bank.2003. Colombia: TheEconomic Foundation of Peace. Washington, DC.
        . 2004a. "Operational Policy 8.60: Development Policy Lending." Updated in December 2005.
         Washington, DC.

        ,2004b. The Urban Poor in Latin America. Washington, DC.
        . 2005. Colombia Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report. Washington, DC

        , 2005a. ColombiaFirst Programmatic Development Policy Loanfor Sustainable
        Development (Program Document). Washington, DC.
        . 2005b. ColombiaSustainable Development Investment Project (Project Appraisal
        Document). Washington, DC.
        .2006. Republic of Colombia: Mitigating Environmental Degradation to Foster Growthand
        Reduce Inequality. Cited in DPL-I1Program Document as the "Colombia Country
        Environmental Analysis," or CEA. Washington, DC.

        . 2007. Colombia20062010: A Window of Opportunity. Washington, DC.
        . 2008. Colombia Country Partnership Strategy. Washington, DC.




                                                  30

ANNEX 1  LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY


ANNEX 2: PROGRAM ACHIEVEMENTS UNDER SUSDEVDPL Iand I1


ANNEX 3: OPERATION POLICY MATRIX


ANNEX 4: RESULTS FRAMEWORK ANALYSIS


ANNEX 5: POTENTIAL IMPACT OF THE U.S. FINANCIAL CRISIS ON
         COLOMBIA


ANNEX 6: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE (includes country map)




                             31

                                                                            Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Publico
   Republica de Colombia                                                 Departamento Nacional de Planeacion DNP
                                                              Ministeriode Ambiente, Vivienda y Desarrollo Territorial


                                         libertod y Orden




                        Annex 1: Letterof DevelopmentPolicy (Spanish)


                                                                 Bogo#d,noviernbre de2008

                                                         1 Q Q O     E?  - 1 3 0 9 3 9
     Seiior
     ROBERTZOELLtCK
     Presldent'e
     BANCO MUNDIAF
     Washington, D. C.

Estimado Sefior Zoellick:

Con el fin de asegurar la sostenibilidad ambiental, el gobierno del Presidente Alvaro Uribe,
continua comprometido con un conjunto de reformas institucionales y de politica en materia
de Desarrollo Sostenible, que permitiran que el Gobierno de Colombia avance en el
cumplimiento de 10s Objetivos de Desarrollo del Milenio, en especial 10s relacionados con el
objetivo No. 7, el cual busca asegurar la sostenibilidad ambiental y 10s objetivos 1 y 4, que
persiguen reducir la pobreza y la mortalidad infantil, respectivamente. Por Io anterior el
Gobierno Nacional solicita el apoyo financier0 del Banco, asi como la asistencia tecnica y el
acompafiamiento permanente en la ejecucion de las medidas de politica que hacen parte
del Tercer Credito Programatico de Desarrollo de Politicas de Desarrollo Sostenible.

El compromiso del Gobierno en materia ambiental esta respaldado por el buen desempefio
macroeconomico que experimenta nuestro pais y que sirve de base para estas politicas. AI
respecto, durante 10s ultimos afios el Gobierno Colombiano ha logrado disefiar y ejecutar de
manera exitosa un programa economico para el fortalecimiento de las finanzas publicas,
cuyos resultados se comenzaron a observar durante 2004 y se han ido consolidado
progresivamente.

Los principales objetivos de dicho programa economico han sido la estabilizacion de la
deuda publica y la reduccion del deficit fiscal de una manera gradual para garantizar la
sostenibilidad estructural de las finanzas publicas, enfocandose en disminuir 10s gastos
presentes y futuros y en incrementar 10s ingresos fiscales. La tendencia hacia el
mejoramiento de la situacion fiscal ha sido significativa y se evidencia en 10s resultados de
afios recientes. Por ejemplo, el deficit del Sector Publico Consolidado pas6 de 1,3%del PIB
en 2004 a un deficit de 0.8% del PIB en 2007.

El desarrollo del plan economico para fortalecer las finanzas publicas han surtido efecto,
considerando 10s logros en crecimiento economico que se han obtenido durante 10s ultimos




                                                   32

                                                                           Ministerio de Hacienda y Credit0 Publico
    Republica de Colombia                                               Depaflamento Nacional de Planeacion DNP
                                                            Ministerio de Ambiente, Vivienda y Desarrollo Territorial


                                        libertad y Orden


aAos. Una evidencia de 10s excelentes resultados es el crecimiento del PIB de 7.5% en
2007, mayor que el registrado en 2006 (6.8%). Las bases de este buen crecimiento
permiten preveer que Colombia ha "saltado" a una senda de crecimiento mas favorable con
evidentes repercusiones positivas en materia de empleo y bienestar de 10s colombianos.
Este crecirniento se debe especialmente al aumento de la demanda interna del pais, que se
vi0 favorecida por el aumento de la inversion, la cual crecio 26.9% en el 2006 y 21.2% en el
2007. Adicionalmente, el consumo final de 10s hogares tambien ha registrado un crecimiento
favorable, dadas las mejores condiciones economicas y la mayor confianza del sector
privado en la situacion economica del pais. Adicionalmente, el incremento en las
exportaciones contribuyo positivamente al crecimiento del PIB.

Este prestamo programatico tiene contempladas nuevas acciones para su tercera parte, la
cual esta programada para ser evidenciada en el segundo semestre de 2008. El apoyo del
Banco Mundial en el desarrollo de politicas para el desarrollo sostenible en la segunda fase
del Programa, permitio alcanzar importantes logros, entre 10s cuales se destacan: (i)
establecimiento de una linea base para monitorear 10s resultados e impactos de la gestion
ambiental en 10s niveles nacional y regional, Io cual ha permitido el fortalecimiento de 10s
procesos de coordinacion entre el Gobierno Nacional y las Corporaciones Autonomas
Regionales (CAR) para lograr 10s Objetivos de Desarrollo del Milenio relacionadas con el
medio ambiente, con el CAR, (ii) elaboracion de evaluaciones ambientales estrategicas
(EAE) para 10s temas de control de la contaminacion hidrica y de calidad de combustibles,
con el fin de promover la incorporacion de consideraciones ambientales en las politicas
sectoriales, (ii) expedicion de normatividad sobre estandares nacional de calidad del aire y
desarrollo de protocolos para el monitoreo de la calidad del aire y de emisiones
atmosfericas, (iii) cierre de mas de 70 botaderos a cielo abierto de residuos solidos, (iv)
implementacion de un plan de accion para la acreditacion de laboratorios ambientales y, (v)
expedicion de un conjunto de regulaciones y medidas de politica relacionadas con el
manejo integral del recurso hidrico.

Las acciones mas relevantes de esta tercera fase del Programa se centran en siete (7)
acciones encaminadas a fortalecer y complementar 10s procesos emprendidos por el
Gobierno en la primera y segunda fase, las cuales se agrupan en torno a 10s dos objetivos
principales de politica que persiguen las reformas: (i) mejorar la eficiencia y efectividad del
SINA, y (ii) promover la integracion de 10s principios del desarrollo sostenible en sectores
estrategicos.

Con el objeto de mejorar la eficiencia y efectividad del SINA se han previsto las siguientes
medidas: (1) aprobacion e implementacion de una Politica Nacional de Salud Ambiental que
cubra las areas de calidad del agua y calidad del aire urbano y en interiores, (2) Instalacion
y funcionamiento de un sistema para el monitoreo y evaluacion de la gestion ambiental
nacional y regional basado en 10s seis (6) objetivos de desarrollo sostenible descritos en el
Decreto 1200 del 2004, (3) Formulacion y aprobacion de una Politica Ambiental Urbana
que clarifique 10s papeles y responsabilidades de las CAR y las Autoridades Ambientales
Urbanas (AAU), y que obligue la implementacion de mecanismos para una mayor
transparencia institucional, y (4) implementacion de un plan para adaptar las nuevas




                                                  33

                                                                           Ministerio de Hacienda y Credit0 Publico
    Republica de Colombia                                               Departamento Nacional de Planeacion DNP
                                                            Ministerio de Ambiente, Vivienda y Desarrollo Territorial


                                          Ubertad; Orden


estructuras del DNP y del Viceministerio del Ambiente para administrar mejor las politicas
ambientales y alcanzar las metas ambientales del PND 2006-2010.

Respecto de la integracion de 10s principios de desarrollo sostenible en sectores
estrategicos se tienen las siguientes acciones: (1) adaptar la unidad de Recursos Hidricos
del Ministerio de Ambiente, Vivienda y Desarrollo Territorial -MAVDT de acuerdo con las
nuevas reformas para el manejo del agua, para asegurar un marc0 institucional apropiado
que apoye su implementacion, (2) diseAo y aprobacion de una politica nacional para el
control de la contaminacion del aire, utilizando 10s resultados de 10s Analisis Ambientales
Estrategicos (SEA) sobre calidad del aire urbano, y (3) fortalecer la unidad de Cambio
Climatic0 del MAVDT para alcanzar las metas del PND 2006-2010.

El interes del Gobierno de Colombia por asignar la debida importancia a la atencion de 10s
problemas ambientales se ha visto resaltado la Ley 1151 de 2007 del Plan Nacional de
Desarrollo    -  PND "Estado Comunitario 2006-2010: desarrollo para todos" que por primera
vez en las ultimas tres administraciones, cuenta con un capitulo exclusivamente dedicado al
tema ambiental y a 10s recursos naturales, especificamente el Capitulo 5 "Una Gestion
Ambiental y del Riesgo que Promueva el Desarrollo Sostenible", que promueve una
articulacion adecuada de las dimensiones economica, social y ambiental. En este sentido, el
Gobierno destaca la importancia de este Programa en el fortalecimiento de la agenda de
gestion ambiental del pais y en la formulacion del reciente PND

El capitulo ambiental recoge 10s frutos de cuatro (4) aAos de cooperacion intersectorial para
el medio ambiente, y busca avanzar en la integracion de consideraciones ambientales en 10s
procesos de planificacion del desarrollo, de manera que se promuevan modalidades
sostenibles de produccion y consumo, se prevenga la degradacion ambiental y sus costos, y
se aseguren oportunidades de desarrollo a las generaciones futuras.

lgualmente el capitulo 5 del PND busca garantizar una unidad de propositos de 10s distintos
actores del Sistema Nacional Ambiental (SINA), para Io cual se presentan una serie de
criterios orientadores que establecen, entre otros aspectos lo siguiente: (i) que la gestion
ambiental nacional ha de estructurarse en torno a la gestion integral del agua; (ii) que esta
debe contribuir a reducir la vulnerabilidad de 10s grupos mas pobres y a la creacion de
oportunidades para mejorar el nivel de vida de la poblacion; y (iii) que la gestion ambiental
ha de contribuir a que el pais aproveche las oportunidades que ofrece un mundo en
transforrnacion.

A partir de 10s anteriores criterios, el PND establece que la gestion de 10s actores publicos y
privados del Sistema Nacional Ambiental (SINA) se orientara al desarrollo de las siguientes
estrategias: (i) Planificacion ambiental en la gestion territorial, incorporando 10s
determinantes ambientales y culturales en las decisiones de us0 y ocupacion del territorio, e
incorporando y manejando el riesgo de origen natural y antropico en 10s procesos de
ordenamiento, (ii) gestion integrada del recurso hidrico, desde sus etapas de ordenamiento
y planificacion hasta su eficiente utilizacion, (iii) conocimiento, conservacion y us0 sostenible
de la biodiversidad, (iv) prornocion de procesos productivos competitivos y sostenibles, que




                                                  34

                                                                          Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Publico
    Republica de Colombia                                              Deparlamento Nacional de Planeacion DNP
                                                           Ministerio de Arnbiente, Vivienda y Desarrollo Territorial


                                        libertady Orden


mejoren el desempeAo ambiental y faciliten el acceso a 10s mercados nacionales e
internacionales, (v) prevencion y control de la degradacion ambiental, fortaleciendo 10s
instrumentos que atiendan de manera directa sus principales causas y promuevan una
cultura de la prevencion, y (vi) fortalecimiento y ajuste del sistema nacional ambiental,
especialmente de 10s procesos de planificacion, regulacion, seguimiento, control y
evaluacion, de coordinacion interinstitucional, de generacion, intercambio y us0 de la
informacion para la toma de decisiones de politica ambiental y en la inclusion de criterios
ambientales en las politicas sectoriales, asi como en la definicion precisa de competencias y
jurisdicciones.

El analisis consolidado de 10s avances de la gestion ambiental muestra indicadores
significativos en el contexto internacional. De acuerdo con el indice global de desempeno
ambiental (EPI) elaborado por las Universidades Yale y Columbia, en conjunto con el Foro
Economico Mundial de Davos, Colombia ha pasado del puesto 17 al noveno, en una
muestra de 149 paises, y ocupa el primer puesto entre 10s paises de su mismo nivel de
ingreso (ingreso medio).

Las reformas de politica incorporadas en la tercera fase del Programa han surgido de un
amplio intercambio de ideas entre 10s equipos del Banco y del Gobierno, incluyendo al
Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Pliblico, al Departamento Nacional de Planeacion y al
Ministerio de Ambiente, Vivienda y Desarrollo Territorial. Como resultado de este dialogo, se
ha logrado conformar un programa que permitira al Gobierno avanzar hacia el logro de 10s
Objetivos de Desarrollo del Milenio.

En este contexto, y con el fin de poner en funcionamiento un sistema para el monitoreo y
evaluacion de la gestion ambiental nacional y regional sobre la base de 10s objetivos de
desarrollo sostenible del Decreto 1200 del 2004, se construyeron durante 10s dos (2)
ultimos aAos, de manera concertada con las CAR, metodologias y protocolos para el
monitoreo regional de indicadores concertados, se ha puesto en marcha un                                modulo
informatico de seguimiento de indicadores de desarrollo sostenible (portal del MAVDT), y se
cuenta con un reporte regional de indicadores, que permiten evaluar la implernentacion de
las directrices de politica en materia de desarrollo sostenible que contempla el documento
CONPES 3343 de 2005 (documento de politica formulado en desarrollo de la primera fase
del Credito).

Una de las principales medias que contempla la tercera fase del Programa es la Politica de
Gestion Ambiental Urbana, presentada y aprobada por el Consejo Nacional Ambiental el
pasado 28 de julio de 2008. El objetivo de esta politica, es establecer directrices para el
manejo sostenible de las areas urbanas, definiendo el papel y alcance e identificando
recursos e instrumentos de 10s diferentes actores involucrados, de acuerdo con sus
competencias y funciones, con el fin de armonizar la gestion, las politicas sectoriales y
fortalecer 10s espacios de coordinacion interinstitucional y participacion ciudadana, para
contribuir a la sostenibilidad ambiental urbana y a la calidad de vida de sus pobladores,
reconociendo la diversidad regional y 10s tipos de areas urbanas en Colombia.




                                                 35

                                                                           Ministerio de Hacienda y Credit0 Publico
    Republica de Colombia                                               Departamento Nacional de Planeacion DNP
                                                            Ministerio de Ambiente, Vivienda y Desarrollo Territorial


                                         libertody Orden


De otra parte, y como evidencia del fortalecimiento del MAVDT para administrar mejor las
politicas ambientales y alcanzar las metas ambientales del PND 2006-2010, durante 10s dos
(2) ultimos atios se cuenta con el fortalecimiento y/o conformacion de 10s siguientes equipos
de trabajo del Viceministerio de Ambiente: (i) conformacion del Grupo de Recurso Hidrico,
mediante Resolucion 2160 del 7 de diciembre de 2007, el cual cuenta con un grupo de
profesionales especializados en temas inherentes a la gestion de 10s recursos hidricos, (ii)
fortalecimiento de la Direccion de Desarrollo Sectorial Sostenible (DDSS) para la gestion de
calidad del aire, con apoyo del Programa IDS (Credito BlRF 7335-C0), (iii) fortalecimiento
del Grupo de Mitigacion de Cambio Climatico, y (iv) fortalecimiento de la Direccion de
Planeacion, lnformacion y Coordinacion Regional con herramientas para el seguimiento y
evaluacion de la gestion ambiental nacional y regional.

Finalmente se debe mencionar el diseiio y aprobacion de una Politica Nacional para el
Control de la Contaminacion del Aire, la cual se deriva del documento CONPES 3344 de
2005 "Lineamientos para la Formulacion de la Politica de Prevencion y Control de la
Contaminacion del Aire". Esta politica, aprobada por la Comision Tecnica Nacional
lntersectorial para la Prevencion y el Control de la Contaminacion del Aire (CONAIRE),
atiende uno de 10s problemas ambientales de mayor impact0 en Colombia en Colombia en
terminos de costos sociales y ambientales, conjuntamente                   con 10s temas y agua y
saneamiento basico y 10s desastres naturales.

En materia de normatividad para la gestion de calidad del aire, el MAVDT expidio una nueva
normatividad sobre fuentes fijas (Resolucion 909 del 5 de junio de 2008) que reglamenta 10s
niveles de emision de contaminantes que debera cumplir toda la industria en el pais, con la
cual se actualiza la reglamentacion existente expedida por el Ministerio de Salud hace mas
de 25 atios. Asi mismo se emitio nueva reglamentacion para 10s niveles de emision de
contaminantes al aire para vehiculos y motocicletas, que estaban vigentes desde hace mas
de 10 afios. De otra parte, y con recursos del Programa IDS (Credito BIRF 7293-CO)) se
han fortalecido 16 redes de monitoreo de calidad de aire en centros urbanos y corredores
industriales prioritarios en Bogota, Bucaramanga, Pereira, Sogamoso, Cali-Jumbo,
Barranquilla, Jagua de Ibirico, la jurisdiccion del Area Metropolitana del Valle de Aburra,
Barrancabermeja, Ibague, Santa Marta, Sogamoso, entre otras ciudades. Est0 representa
un cumplimiento del 100 % sobre la meta establecida para el cuatrienio y un incremento del
30% de las estaciones que miden calidad de aire en el pais y del 50% del numero de
equipos disponibles con respecto al 2005. El reto para 2009 es continuar con el
fortalecimiento de       las redes de monitoreo y realizar un balance de la normatividad
establecida y propender por la implernentacion por parte de 10s diferentes sectores de la
normatividad expedida en el 2008.

La ejecucion del Tercer Credito Programatico de Desarrollo de Politicas de Desarrollo
Sostenible requiere de un esfuerzo de coordinacion interinstitucional importante y
disponibilidad oportuna de recursos tecnicos ,para la ejecucion de las medidas de politica.
Por Io tanto, es pertinente manifestar el compromiso del Gobierno de Colombia para llevar a
cab0 dicha coordinacion a traves del Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Publico, el




                                                  36

                                                                         Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Publico
   Republica de Colombia                                              Deparlamento Nacional de Planeacion DNP
                                                          Ministerio de Ambiente, Vivienda y Desarrollo Territorial


                                      tibertod y Orden


Departamento Nacional de Planeacion y el Ministerio de Ambiente, Vivienda y Desarrollo
Territorial.

Por todo lo anterior, el Gobierno de Colombia desea reiterar su compromiso con el Tercer
Credito Programatico de Desarrollo de Politicas de Desarrollo Sostenible que se presenta
en este documento, y acoge con beneplacito el acompafiamiento tecnico en las reformas
establecidas, asi como el apoyo financier0 del Banco Mundial a traves de esta linea de
credit0 contingente.



           Cordialmenis,




                                                        R9LlNA RMfERrA ROORhJEZ
                                                                DinctoraGeneral
                                                       epartmento Nacionalbe Ptaneacidn


                     I




                                                37

                                                                              Ministerio de Hacienda y Credit0 Publico
    Republica de Colombia                                                  Departamento Nacional de Planeacion DNP
                                                               Ministerio de Arnbiente, Vivienda y Desarrollo Territorial


                                           libertud y Orden



                         Annex 1: Letter of DevelopmentPolicy (English)

                                                                                  Bogota, November 2008



Mr. Robert Zoellick
President
World Bank
Washington, D.C.


Dear Mr. Zoellick:

For the purpose of assuring environmental sustainability, the Government of President
Alvaro Uribe remains committed to a set of institutional and policy reforms dealing with
sustainable development. These will enable the Government of Colombia to move forward in
meeting the Millennium Development Objectives, especially those related to objective 7,
which seeks to assure environmental sustainability, and objectives 1 and 4, which are aimed
at reducing poverty and child mortality, respectively. In light of the above, the National
Government seeks the financial support of the Bank, as well as technical assistance and
ongoing monitoring in the execution of policy measures that are part of the Third
Programmatic Development Policy Loan for Sustainable Development.

The Government's commitment to environmental issues is supported by the positive
macroeconomic development that our country is experiencing and that serves as the basis
for these policies. In this regard, in recent years the Government of Colombia has
successfully designed and executed an economic program to strengthen public finances, the
results of which began to be observed in 2004 and have been steadily consolidating.

The key objectives of this economic program have been the gradual stabilization of public
debt and the reduction of fiscal deficit, in order to ensure the structural sustainability of public
finances, focused on decreasing present and future expenditures and increasing fiscal
revenue. The trend toward the improvement of the financial situation has been significant, as
evidenced by the results of recent years. For example, the deficit of the Consolidated Public
Sector dropped from 1.3% of GDP in 2004 to 0.8% of GDP in 2007.

The development of the economic plan to strengthen public finances has had an effect,
taking into consideration the economic growth achievements in recent years. An evidence of
excellent results is the 7.5% growth in GDP in 2007, higher than that recorded in 2006
(6.8%). The bases of this positive growth show that Colombia has "jumped" to a path of
more favorable growth, with evident positive repercussions on employment and the well-
being of the Colombian people. This growth is especially due to the increase in the country's
internal demand, which was favored by increases in investment: 26.9% in 2006 and 21.2% in




                                                     38

                                                                            Ministerio de Hacienda y Credit0 Publico
    Republica de Colombia                                                Departamento Nacional de Planeacibn DNP
                                                             Ministerio de Arnbiente, Vivienda y Desarrollo Territorial


                                         libertod y Orden


2007. In addition, household consumption has shown favorable growth, due to better
economic conditions and greater private sector confidence in the country's economic
situation. Furthermore, increased exports have contributed positively to the growth of GDP.

This programmatic loan contemplates new actions for its third phase, which is scheduled to
take place in the second half of 2008. The World Bank's support to the development of
sustainable development policies in the second phase of the Program enabled significant
achievements such as: (i) the establishment of a baseline to monitor the results and impacts
of environmental management at national and regional levels, which has made it possible to
strengthen the processes of coordination between the National Government and the
Regional Autonomous Corporations (Corporaciones Autonomas Regionales [CARs]) in order
to achieve the Millennium Development Objectives related to the environment; (ii) the
preparation of strategic environmental assessments (SEAS) for water pollution control and
fuel quality, in order to promote the incorporation of environmental considerations in sectoral
policies; (iii) the issuance of regulations on national air quality standards and the
development of protocols for the monitoring of air quality and atmospheric emissions; (iv) the
closure of over 70 open-air solid waste dumps; (v) the implementation of an action plan for
the accreditation of environmental laboratories; and (vi) the issuance of a series of
regulations and policy measures related to the integrated management of water resources.

The most relevant actions of this third phase of the Program are focused on seven (7) that
are aimed at strengthening and complementing the processes undertaken by the
Government in the first and second phases, grouped around the two key policy objectives
dealing with reforms: (i) improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the National
Environmental System (Sistema Nacional Ambiental [SINAI); and (ii) promoting the
integration of sustainable development principles in strategic sectors.

The following measures have been envisaged to improve SINA's efficiency and
effectiveness: (1) the approval and implementation of a National Environmental Health Policy
that covers water quality and urban and indoor air quality; (2) the installation and operation of
a system to monitor and evaluate national and regional environmental management based
on the six (6) sustainable development principles described in Decree 1200 of 2004; (3) the
formulation and approval of an Urban Environmental Policy that clarifies the roles and
responsibilities of the CARs and the Urban Environmental Authorities (Autoridades
Ambientales Urbanas [AAUs]) and that requires the implementation of mechanisms for
greater institutional transparency; and (4) the implementation of a plan to adapt the new
structures of the National Planning Department (Departamento Nacional de Planeacion
[DNP]) and of the Vice Ministry of Environment (Vice Ministerio del Ambiente) to better
administer environmental policies and achieve the environmental targets of the 2006-201 0
National Development Plan (Plan Nacional de Desarrollo [PND]).

With regard to the integration of sustainable development principles in strategic sectors, the
following actions are envisaged: (1) the adaption of the Water Resources Unit of the Ministry
of Environment, Housing and Territorial Development (Ministerio de Ambiente, Vivienda y
Desarrollo Territorial [MAVDT]) in accordance with new reforms for water management, in




                                                   39

                                                                            Ministeriode Hacienda y Credit0 Publico
     Repljblica de Colombia                                              Departamento Nacional de Planeacibn DNP
                                                             Ministerio de Ambiente, Vivienda y Desarrollo Territorial


                                         libertod y Orden


order to assure an appropriate institutional framework that supports their implementation; (2)
the design and approval of a national policy for water pollution control, using the results of
the SEASon urban air quality; and (3) the strengthening of MAVDT's Climate Change Unit in
order to achieve the 2006-2010 PND targets.

The Government of Colombia's interest in assigning due importance to addressing
environmental problems has been highlighted in Law 1151 of 2007 dealing with the National
Development Plan ("Estado Comunitario 2006-201 0: desarrollo para todos") which for the
first time in the last three administrations contains a chapter dedicated exclusively to
environmental and natural resources issues, specifically Chapter 5, "Environmental and Risk
Management that Promotes Sustainable Development" ("Una Gestion Ambiental y del
Riesgo que Promueva el Desarrollo Sostenible"), which promotes proper coordination of
economic, social and environmental issues. In this regard, the Government highlights this
Program's importance in strengthening the country's environmental management agenda
and in formulating the recent PND.

The environmental chapter addresses the results of four (4) years of intersectoral
cooperation on the environment and seeks to move forward on including environmental
considerations in development planning processes, in order to promote sustainable
production and consumption modalities, prevent environmental degradation and its costs,
and assure development opportunities for future generations.

Chapter 5 of the PND also seeks to ensure the unanimity of proposals by SINA's various
actors. For this purpose, it presents a series of guidelines which, among other aspects, state
the following: (i) national environmental management should be structured around the
integrated management of water; (ii) this should contribute to reducing the vulnerability of the
poorest groups and creating opportunities to improve the population's standard of living; and
(iii) environmental management should help the country to make use of the opportunities
offered by a changing world.

Based on the above criteria, the PND states that management by SINA's public and private
actors should be aimed at the development of the following strategies: (i) environmental
planning in land management, incorporating environmental and cultural factors in decisions
on land use and occupation, and incorporating and managing natural and manmade risks in
land-use planning processes; (ii) integrated management of water resources, from planning
to efficient use; (iii) understanding, conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity; (iv)
promotion of competitive, sustainable productive processes that improve environmental
performance and facilitate access to national and international markets; (v) prevention and
control of environmental degradation, strengthening instruments that deal directly with its
principal causes and promote a culture of prevention; and (vi) strengthening and adjustment
of the National Environmental System, especially in the processes of planning, regulation,
monitoring, control and evaluation, of inter-institutional coordination, of the generation,
sharing and use of information for decision making on environmental policy, and in the
inclusion of environmental criteria in sectoral policies, as well as in the precise definition of
responsibilities andjurisdictions.




                                                   40

                                                                            Ministerio de Hacienda y Credit0 Publico
    Republica de Colombia                                                Departamento Nacional de Planeacion DNP
                                                             Ministerio de Ambiente, Vivienda y Desarrollo Territorial


                                         libertad Y Orden



The consolidated analysis of progress in environmental management shows significant
indicators in the international context. According to the world Environmental Performance
Index (EPI) prepared by Yale and Columbia Universities, together with the Davos World
Economic Forum, Colombia has moved from seventeenth to ninth place in a sampling of 149
countries and ranks first among countries with its same income level (middle income).

The policy reforms incorporated in the third phase of the Program have emerged from a
broad exchange of ideas between Bank and Government teams, including the Ministry of
Finance and Public Credit, the National Planning Department, and the Ministry of
Environment, Housing and Territorial Development. As a result of this dialogue, a program
has been designed to help the Government in achieving the Millennium Development
0bjectives.

In this context, with the aim of launching a system to monitor and evaluate national and
regional environmental management based on the sustainable development objectives of
Decree 1200 of 2004, in the past two years methodologies and protocols were prepared, in
conjunction with the CARS, for the regional monitoring of agreed indicators, an information
module was launched to monitor sustainable development indicators (MAVDT portal), and a
regional report on indicators is available to evaluate the implementation of policy guidelines
regarding sustainable development contained in CONPES document 3343 of 2005 (policy
document formulated as part of the first phase of the Loan).

One of the key measures considered in the third phase of the Program is the Urban
Environmental Management Policy, submitted to and approved by the National
Environmental Council on July 28, 2008. The objective of this policy is to establish guidelines
for the sustainable management of urban areas, defining the role and scope and identifying
the resources and instruments of the various actors involved, in accordance with their skills
and functions, in order to harmonize management and sectoral policies, to strengthen
forums for inter-institutional coordination and citizen participation, and to contribute to the
environmental sustainability of urban areas and the quality of life of their residents,
recognizing the regional diversity and types of urban areas in Colombia.

Moreover, as evidence of the strengthening of MAVDT to better administer environmental
policies and achieve the environmental targets of the 2006-2010 PND, the following working
groups of the Vice Ministry of Environment have been strengthened or formed over the past
two years: (i) formation of the Water Resources Group through Resolution 2160 of
December 7, 2007, composed of a group of experts specializing in subjects related to water
resources management; (ii) strengthening of the Sustainable Sectoral Development Bureau
(DDSS) for air quality management, with the support of the SDI Project (IBRD Credit 7335-
CO); (iii) strengthening of the Climate Change Mitigation Group; and (iv) strengthening of the
Bureau of Planning, Information and Regional Coordination with tools to monitor and
evaluate national and regional environmental management.




                                                   41

                                                                          Ministerio de Hacienda y Credit0 Publico
    ReDljblicade Colombia                                              Deparlamento Nacional de Planeaci6n DNP
                                                           Ministerio de Ambiente, Vivienda y Desarrollo Territorial


                                         Ubertody Orden


Finally, we should mention the design and approval of a National Policy for Air Pollution
Control, which stems from CONPES document 3344 of 2005, "Guidelines for the
Formulation of the Air Pollution Prevention and Control Policy: ("Lineamientos para la
Formulacion de la Politica de Prevencion y Control de la Contaminacion del Aire"). This
policy, approved by the National Technical lntersectoral Commission for Air Pollution
Prevention and Control (Comision Tecnica Nacional lntersectorial para la Prevencion y el
Control de la Contaminacion del Aire [CONAIRE]), addresses one of the environmental
problems with the greatest impact on Colombia in terms of social and environmental costs,
together with water, basic sanitation and natural disasters.

In terms of regulations for air quality management, MAVDT issued a new regulation on fixed
sources (Resolution 909 of June 5, 2008) which regulates the levels of pollutant emissions
with which all of the country's industries must comply. This updates the existing regulation
issued by the Ministry of Health more than 25 years ago. A new regulation was also issued
on the levels of air pollutant emissions for vehicles and motorcycles, which were in effect for
over 10 years. In addition, with resources from the SDI Project (IBRD Credit 7293-C0), 16
air quality monitoring networks have been strengthened in urban centers and priority
industrial corridors of Bogota, Bucaramanga, Pereira, Sogamoso, Cali-Jumbo, Barranquilla,
Jagua de Ibirico, the jurisdiction of the Aburra Valley Metropolitan Area, Barrancabermeja,
Ibague, Santa Marta, Sogamoso, and other cities. This represents 100% compliance with
the target established for the four-year period and 50% compliance with the amount of
available equipment compared to 2005. The target for 2009 is to continue strengthening the
monitoring networks, to conduct a review of the regulations established, and to aim for the
different sectors to implement the regulations issued in 2008.

The execution of the Third Programmatic Development Policy Loan for Sustainable
Development requires a significant inter-institutional coordination effort and the timely
available of technical resources for the execution of policy measures. Thus, it is relevant to
express the Government of Colombia's commitment to carry out this coordination through
the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, the National Planning Department, and the Ministry
of Environment, Housing and Territorial Development.

In light of the above, the Government of Colombia wishes to reiterate its commitment to the
Third Programmatic Development Policy Loan for Sustainable Development which is
presented in this document, and welcomes the technical monitoring of the established
reforms as well as the financial support of the World Bank through this standby credit.




                                                 42

                                                                         Ministeriode Hacienda y Credit0 Publico
  Republica de Colombia                                               Departamento Nacional de Planeacion DNP
                                                           Ministeriode Ambierlte, Vivienda y Desarrollo Territorial


                                       libertod y Orden


Cordially,




    OSCAR IVAN ZULUAGA ESCOBAR                         CAROLINA RENTERiA RODRiGUEZ
     Minister of Finance and Public Credit                          General Director
                                                         National Department of Planning




             JUAN LOZANO,RAM~REZ
     Minister of Environment, Housing and
               Territorial Development




                                                  43

                Annex 2: ProgramAchievement under SusDevDPLIand I1

The SusDevDPL Iand SusDevDPL I1 supported achievements in the policy areas of (i)
improving the effectiveness and efficiency o f the National Environmental System (SINA), (ii)
improved interinstitutional coordination and increased public participation in environmental
decisionmaking, and (iii)integrating principles of sustainability into key sectors. The
achievements supported by these two operations are presentedbelow.

A. IMPROVING THE EFFECTIVENESS AND EFFICIENCY OF THE NATIONAL
ENVIRONMENTAL SYSTEM (SINA)

A.l StrategicPlanningand MonitoringFrameworkfor SustainableDevelopment

SusDevDPL Ihelped develop the groundwork for the institutional strengtheningstrategies and
reforms for environmental management identified in the government's development plans.
Under SusDevDPL I,guidelines for a National Sustainable Development Policy were
approved by the CONPES. The CONPES policy document serves as the umbrella document
for the SusDevDPL Program and sets in motion a series o f actions to improve environmental
governance and urbanenvironmental management planning.

SusDevDPL Ialso helped develop a system o f indicators (Presidential Decree 1200 o f 2004)
to measure performance o f environmental investmentsinthe ten-year Regional Environmental
Management Plans (PGARs) and Triennial Action Plans (PATS) that each CAR i s required to
submit to the MAVDT. The PGAR provides the CAR's analysis of the principal challenges
facing the region, its strategy for managing environmental resources, investment priorities,
financial requirements, and sources, and its tools for monitoring and evaluation.

The Triennial Action Plan, prepared in consultation with stakeholders, municipalities, and
civil society representatives, details the CAR's strategy for achieving the goals set forth inthe
PGAR. Decree 1200 o f 2004 includes six sustainable development objectives and 15 impact
indicators to evaluate the CARS' environmental management. These sustainable development
objectives are directly linked with the MDGs and balance both urban and rural concerns. O f
these six objectives, four support improved natural resources management (e.g., forest
conservation, diminishing water shortage risks, optimizing the use o f renewable natural
resources, and increasing income and employment using sustainable production methods),
while the other two aim to reduce environmental health impacts and vulnerability to natural
disasters. These objectives and their corresponding indicators promote better linkages between
national and regional priorities and strengthenthe focus on results and impacts linked to the
environment.

Buildingon SusDevDPL I,the SusDevDPL I1supported MAVDT and DNP in establishing a
system of indicators to monitor and evaluate implementation o f the National Policy on
Sustainable Development (CONPES 3343 o f 2005). Inparticular, this indicator system helps
monitor the impacts o f environmental degradation on public health, the development o f




                                               44

instruments for integrated water resource management, improvements in environmental
governance, establishment and functioning o f the SINA working group, and improvements to
the environmentallicensing scheme.

Inaddition, under SusDevDPL 11a monitoring baseline was established for the six sustainable
development objectives o f Decree 1200 o f 2004 in order to improve data collection and
management by the CARs and other national and regional institutions which are responsible
for monitoring the 15 indicators associated with the sustainable development objectives.
These indicators include hectares o f protected area, deforestation rate, percentage o f
population at risk o f water shortages, water scarcity index, energy intensity, water
consumption in productive sectors, tons o f solid waste adequately disposed in landfills,
morbidity and mortality due to acute respiratory infection, morbidity and mortality due to
severe diarrheal disease, morbidity and mortality caused by dengue, and number o f people
affected by natural disasters each year, among others. To ensure that the CARs' data i s
consistent with data currently collected by the country's research institutes, information-
sharing agreements were established between these institutes and the National Institute o f
Health (inthe Ministry o f Social Protection).


A.2 ImprovedInterinstitutionalCoordinationand IncreasedPublic Participationin
EnvironmentalDecisionmaking

To increase transparency, improve governance, enhance intersectoral coordination, and ensure
that the most vulnerable communities have a voice in environmental decisionmaking,
SusDevDPL Isupported the definition o f roles and responsibilities within the CTA via the
issuance o f Decree 707 o f 2005. The decree set out the procedures for selecting CTA
members, indicated the minimum professional and academic standards required for CTA
members, and established issue-based working groups composed o f a broad cross-section o f
society (such as universities, user groups, private sector, civil society, indigenous
communities, Afro-Colombian communities, NGOs, etc.) to advise the CTA on specific
issues. In addition, SusDevDPL Isupported the issuance o f Presidential Decree 1220 o f 2005
to modify the environmental licensing scheme to improve transparency, accountability, and
public participation. Similarly, the decree clarifies procedures for environmental impact
assessments and the process for obtaining environmental licenses, and defines steps for
monitoring and evaluation o f licenses and environmental management plans.

SusDevDPL Ialso supported the formation o f a SINA working group, via Resolution 0449 o f
2004, to establish institutional mechanisms for periodic discussion o f the congruence between
national and regional priorities, continuous consultation and organizational learning,
assessment o f the effectiveness o f CARs, and conflict resolution between CARs and the
MAVDT. The working group represents the MAVDT within the Board o f Directors o f the
CARs, coordinates the provision o f technical assistance and financing from the MAVDT and
other SINA actors to the CARs, supports the development o f the regional Triennial Action
Plans, and reports back to the MAVDT on CAR performance vis-a-vis the progress made
toward PAT objectives. In addition, SusDevDPL Isupported improvements in environmental




                                              45

governance via the issuance o f Presidential Decree 3345, which represents a significant step in
improving procedures for the election o f CAR Directors and provides more accountability in
SINA by enhancing public participation and transparency. Decree 3345 defines the guidelines
to be followed for the election processes.

As part o f SusDevDPL I,the DNP and the MAVDT issued an action plan for strengthening
the design, implementation, monitoring, and evaluation of environmental policies. In2005, an
assessment was carried out to determine the institutional strengthening needs o f both the
MAVDT and the DNP to improve the design, monitoring, and execution of environmental
policies. It was determined that to improve the effectiveness o f MAVDT's new institutional
structure it was necessary to strengthen its organizational capacity for integrated management
o f environment, housing, water and sanitation, and regional development, its formulation and
articulation o f strategic policies, its implementation and oversight o f environmental and
territorial development policies, and its coordination with the entities responsible for
implementing policies and reforms.

Building on the actions o f SusDevDPL Iand in support o f the PND, which stresses the
implementation o f SEAs to support the sustainable development o f key economic sectors,
SusDevDPL I1 supported the execution o f policy-based SEAs on water quality, mining, and
fuel quality. To ensure broad-based support for these policy recommendations, interministerial
and intersectoral working groups were formed, with participation from the Ministry o f Social
Protection, the Ministry o f Mines and Energy, and the Ministry o f Transportation.

With SusDevDPL 11's support, the MAVDT and DNP implemented plans to strengthen the
design, monitoring, and execution o f environmental polices. MAVDT developed manuals for
internal procedures and guides for the formulation and oversight o f policies, strengthenedits
information system for monitoring the water and sanitation sector, and conducted five internal
training workshops on its environmental management information system. As part o f this
plan, DNP developed guidelines for conducting SEAs and strengthenedthe management and
oversight o f investments in the environment sector. In addition, DNP created an Intersectoral
Coordination Committee for          Environment and Sustainable        Development Policies.
Implementation o f the DNP and MAVDT institutional strengthening plans was a coordinated
effort by both agencies, along with research institutes such as IDEAM.

The SINA working group established within MAVDT has also supported coordination of a
national environmental policy between the ministry, the 33 CARs, 6 AAUs, and 5 research
institutes. This working group helped the CARs develop their Triennial Action Plans (PATS)
and ensure that they are consistent with the PGARs and Territorial Development Plans (POTS).
The working group also helpedthe CARs develop a uniform budgeting system so that they can
provide information on environmental investmentsand expenditures ina standardand consistent
format. The SINA working group also played an important role in helping the CARs develop
councils to jointly manage areas that span multiple CARs or that require collaboration between
CARs and other government entities.




                                               46

SusDevDPL I1also supported implementation o fthe government's modified licensing scheme to
improve transparency, accountability, and public participation in environmental licensing under
Decree 1200 o f 2005, Decree 2762 o f 2005, and Decree 50 o f 2006. Building on the actions
supported by SusDevDPL I,the government conducted national and regional workshops to
disseminate these new licensing procedures. As a result, a broad consensus was achieved among
regional and urban environmental authorities as well as sectoral ministries (Agriculture and
Mines and Energy)on the benefits o fthe new licensing scheme.


B. INTEGRATING PRINCIPLES OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INTO KEY
SECTORS

B.1IntegratedWater ResourceManagement

The government prepared and presented for Congressional approval a draft water resources
management law as part o f SusDevDPL IinApril 2005, which was ratified inits first debate in
June 2005 (the 2004-2005 legislature). The draft law addressed issues relating to (i)                 water
quality and control o f pollution from point and nonpoint sources; (ii)regulations for
management o f water runoff and urbandrainage; (iii)         allocation o f water rights; (iv) reduction o f
vulnerability to natural disasters; (v) management o f marine and coastal resources; and (vi)
conservation o f important water ecosystems. The draft law defined institutional responsibilities
(such as the National Water Council, which included participationfrom numerous governmental
institutions); planninginstruments (the National Water Plan and watershed management plans);
priorities inthe assignment o f water rightsand water use; lengtho fwater concessions; means for
controlling water pollution; rights and responsibilities over the use o f groundwater resources;
protection o f natural ecosystems, and inparticular coastal and marine resources; use o f economic
and fiscal instruments to support integrated water resources management (for example the
"polluter pays" principal and user fees); and means for promoting public participation in
decisions regardingthe water sector. For the law's approval, three more debates were required
duringthe 2005-2006 legislature.6

In May 2006, it became clear that these additional debates would not be completed due to
factors beyond the operation's control during that legislative period and the government
withdrew the draft law in May o f 2006. These factors included the congressional and
presidential elections that took place in 2006, as well as the long debates and approval process
centered on the Forestry Law.

Despite the delays, the government confirmed its commitment to meeting the objectives o f the
law through a series o f water resource management reforms supported under SusDevDPL 11. To
provide for improved planning and administration o f water resource management, SusDevDPL
I1supported (i)   issuance o f a Presidential Decree for watershed management and planning; (ii)


6InColombia, laws can only be considered duringtwo consecutivelegislatures, whichrunfrom July 1 through
June 30 each year. Ifa law is not approvedduringthe two legislatures, a new projectmust be presentedto
Congress. This was the second legislaturein which the Water Law was considered.




                                                     47

issuance o f a Presidential Decree for the planning and development o f a registry o f water uses
and users, with the objective of providing legally secure rights to users and information for
decisionmaking and planning; (iii)  issuance o f a Presidential Decree to establish an information
system; and (iv) MAVDT's issuanceo f a Directive requiring CARSto establish a water accounts
system that tracks the collection and use o f water fees. This water accounts system was a
requirement for 2007 budget authorizations; and (v) definition of limits on discharge of
wastewater into marineand coastal waters.

Decree 1713 o f 2002 required municipalities and districts to create Integrated Plans for Solid
Waste Management (PGIRs) that include the socioeconomic, environmental, institutional,
technical and operational information needed for long-term planning o f solid waste
management and disposal. Under this decree and associated Resolution 1045 o f 2003,
municipalities were required to submit their waste management plans for approval by their
city councils by September 2005. Resolution 1045 established a methodology for formulating
the PGIRSs, which must include objectives and specific goals and programs, and take into
account demographic projections o f waste generation, urban expansion, and soil uses for each
municipality. To support solid waste management efforts, SusDevDPL I,through Presidential
Decree 838 o f 2005, helped the government to promote and facilitate the planning,
construction and operation o f sanitary landfills and to establish norms for their operation.

SusDevDPL I1 supported the provision o f technical assistance to help municipalities
implement their PGIRSs and close open garbage dumpsites. Training workshops on the
preparation o f PGIRSs were provided to municipalities with less than 50,000 inhabitants. In
July 2005, the MAVDT launched the "Colombia without Open Dumps Program." In
conjunction with the Superintendency o f Public Household Services, the MAVDT provided
technical assistance to municipalities in identifying regional landfills to use inplace o f closed
garbage dumps. Although it was envisioned during preparation o f the SusDevDPL Ithat at
least 75 o f the country's 700 open dumps would be closed under the second operation, more
than 200 were closed, far surpassing the agreed target. This program supported the
implementation o f Decree 838 o f 2005 and associated Resolution 1390 o f 2005, which
facilitate the planning and operation o f sanitary landfills and establish norms for closing
and/or technically transforming inadequate disposal sites.

B.2 Improvingurbanair quality

SusDevDPL Isupported the approval o f a national action plan for air pollution control
(CONPES 3344) that emphasized (i)       measurement o f key pollutants that are associated with
significant health impacts (such as PM2.5); (ii)research to better understand the causal links
between health impacts (such as cardiopulmonary diseases and lung cancer) and pollutants;
and (iii)promotion o f measures to mitigate these health impacts. In addition, SusDevDPL I
supported the development o f a national policy and action plan (CONPES 3305) on integrated
urban environmental management that includes (i)an evaluation o f existing mass transit
systems, (ii) promotion o f new public transportation systems, (iii)land use planning to reduce




                                                48

urban sprawl and redensification o f municipalities to improve delivery o f urban services, and
(iv) reduction o frisks related to natural disasters.

Building on the national action plan for air pollution, the SusDevDPL I1 supported the
issuance o f one decree and two resolutions to support the implementation o f a new air
pollution control scheme. Decree 244 o f 2006 established the National Intersectoral Technical
Commission for the Prevention and Control o f Air Pollution (CONAIRE) to ensure
intersectoral coordination o f policies, plans, and program to prevent and control air pollution.
The commission has an advisory role and is responsible for recommending measures to
harmonize regulations and environmental decisions into planning and projects carried out by
economic sectors in order to ensure sustainable development. CONAIRE reviews urban
development and sectoral policies and regulations that impact air quality to propose necessary
modifications to prevent and control air pollution. It also reviews information needs and
technical requirements to strengthen the oversight o f health impacts associated with air
pollution. Lastly, it promotes the dissemination and publication o f environmental health and
air quality information as well as participatory processes.

Resolution 0601 o f 2006 established air quality standards with pollution limits for TSP, PMlo,
SOz, NO2,03, and COYwhile Resolution 0627 o f 2006 establishes national emission standards
for noise pollution, with a view to minimize the public health risks associated with ambient
air pollution. In addition to defining air quality standards, Resolution 0601 also defined
procedures for air quality monitoring and programs for reducing air pollution. In particular, it
requires environmental authorities to measure PM2,5 in cities where it poses probable health
concerns. The resolution obliges the monitoring o f air quality in accordance with the recent
monitoring protocol developed by IDEAM. The SusDevDPL I1 also supported the
development o f this protocol, based on a diagnostic study o f the country's monitoring
networks, which contains specifications for the location and design o f monitoring networks,
sampling techniques for contaminants, and monitoring conditions. Under the SusDevDPL 11,
this air quality protocol was validated and applied in four city air quality networks (Bogota,
Pereira, Sogamoso, and Bucaramanga).

To further strengthen air quality management, under SusDevDPL I1MAVDT and IDEAM
conducted studies to characterize particulate matter and develop a protocol for emissions
inventories. These studies provided greater understanding o f the impact o f meteorological
conditions on pollutant dispersion as well as the health impacts o f air pollution. The emissions
protocols were developed in parallel with the air quality protocols to ensure compatibility
between the two, as part o f an integrated air quality management system.




                                                 49


ze,

N
v,

m
m


                                      Annex 4: ResultsFramework Analysis

Indicator                          BaselineValue                   Target Value                  Actual Value at
                                       (FY2005)                       (FY2009)                      Appraisal of
                                                                                                  SusDevDPLI11
1. Improvedfunctioning of      Although National             Six sessions of National       Four council sessions have
existing intersectoral forum   Environmental Council         Environmental Council held     been held to date to review
(namely National Environ-      established, no meetingshad   to review environmental        environmental policies (2005
mental Council) to set         been convoked to support      policies. Processin placeto   -2008).
priorities and goals relatedto policy preparation.           reach consensus among key
sustainable development, as                                  stakeholders.
evidencedby preparationof
policy packages which are
based upon consensus
among key stakeholders.


2. Monitoring& Evaluation      Absence of M&E system         M&E systemestablished with     M&E system established in
system established and         supporting decisionmaking     Ministerial directive in place CY2008 with Ministerial
operational, providing timely  and of a processthat calls    requiring that M&E system      directive in place requiring
input into environmental       for CARs to record            be consultedduring policy      that M&E system be
management                     information on sustainable    preparation.                   consulted during policy
decisionmaking.                development.                                                 preparation.



3. National policies           Absence of policies in place  Water Quality, Air Quality,    Air Quality Policy approved
approvedon water and air       governing management of       and Environmental Health       in CY2008. Environmental
quality, environmental         climate change, air quality,  Policies approved.             Health Policy expected to be
health, and climate change     environmental health, and                                    approved in CY2008.
                               water quality.                                               Approval of Water Quality
                                                                                            Policy plannedfor CY2009.
I
4. Improved identification     7 CARs identifying goals      All 33 CARs identifying        15 CARs identifying goals
of national environmental      linked to MDGs and NDP in     goals linked to MDGs and       linked to MDGs and NDP in
priorities, as verified in     their PATs in CY2004.         NDP intheir PATs.              their PATs.
annual review of PATS.


5. Increased access to         Lack of disclosure of         Public disclosureof all CARs   Publicationof authorities'
information, as evidenced by   information.                  performancein meetingtheir     performancein meetingtheir
public disclosure of progress                                PAT goals on MAVDT             PAT goals, as well as the
toward achieving sustainable                                 website.                       publicationof MAVDT's
development objectives                                                                      overall evaluation of all
defined in PATs.                                                                            iuthorities' performance, on
                                                                                            MAVDT website scheduled
                                                                                            For November 2008.



6. Improved identification     SEAs and other instruments    Three policy-based SEAs        SEAs on fuel quality
of environmental priorities    had not been utilized to      carried out on fuel quality,   :CY2007), water quality
as a result of increaseduse    mainstream environmental      water quality, and             :CY2007), mining (CY2007),
of SEAs and other              and social considerations     mvironmental health to         and environmental health
instrumentsto mainstream       into policy formulation       improve identification of      :CY2008) used to identify
environmental and social       process.                      mvironmental priorities in     xiorities in these four areas.
considerations into policy                                   these three areas.
formulation process.

7. Approval of policies by     SEAs not utilized to support  Environmental health, air      'riorities identified in SEAs
CONPES basedon results of      policy development.           quality, and water quality     isedto design policies on air
policy-based SEAs.                                           policies developed, utilizing  quality and environmental
                                                             results of policy-based SEAs.  iealth in 2008.

                                                             55

Indicator                            BaselineValue                   TargetValue                  ActualValue at
                                          (FY2005)                      (FY2009)                     Appraisal of
                                                                                                   SusDevDPLI11
8. Improved accountability       Guidelines for urban-rural    Urban Environmental Policy     Urban Environmental Policy
and clearer definition of        environmental management      approved that clarifies roles  approvedthat clarifies roles
roles among CARs and             (LAGUR) set in 2002.          and responsibilities of CARS   and responsibilities of CARS
                                                               and MUS.                       and AAUs.




9. Improved environmental        Inquiries regarding status of Inquiries regardingstatus of   MAVDT has implemented
governance, as evidenced by      licensing requestsonly        licensing requestshandledvia   and maintaineda website on
increased transparency,          handled in person.            email.                         environmental impact
accountability, and public                                                                    assessments and licensing
participation in the process     Average number of weeks       Average number of weeks        processesand permits.
of issuing environmental         requiredto evaluate an EIA    requiredto evaluate an EIA in  Process for public
licenses under the new           inthe infrastructure,mining   the infrastructure,mining and  participationhas been
environmental licensing          and electricity sectors: 21   electricity sectors: 17 weeks  standardized in Presidential
scheme.                          weeks                                                        Decree 1220 of 2005.

                                                                                              Average number of weeks
                                                                                              required to evaluate an EIA in
                                                                                              the infrastructure,mining and
                                                                                              electricity sectors: 17 weeks

                                                                                              As of October 2008, MAVDT
                                                                                              respondedto 820 inquiries
                                                                                              regarding licensing requests
                                                                                              via email.
I
I O . MAVDT and DNP have         No systematic and periodic    Publication of periodic        MAVDT has issued
institutionalized instruments    reporting of environmental    reports on (i) environmental   guidelines for CARs'
for improved environmental       expenditures, sustainable     expenditures; (ii) sustainable selection of sustainable
management, such as              development indicators        development indicators; and    development goals, linked to
proceduralmanuals and            linked to MDGs, and water     (iii) water accounts.          MDGs and PND, and
monitoring systems of (i)        accounts.                                                    indicators in their PATS.In
environmental expenditures,                                                                   addition, MAVDT conducts
(ii) sustainable development                                                                  annual evaluation of CARs'
indicators linked to MDGs,                                                                    performance, which is
and (iii) water accounts and                                                                  publicly disclosed on
availability. To improve                                                                      MAVDT's website.
monitoring, environmental
management monitoring
systems also adopted by
municipalities.

                                 0 municipalities                                             InCY2008, 11 municipalities
                                 implementing POMCAs;                                         implementeda POMCA.
                                 In CY2006, 1 municipality
                                 (Guateque) with a high water
                                 scarcity index implemented a
                                 POMCA.


12. Increase in YOof             20.7% o f observed                                           Study being initiated to
children and mothers with        householdswash hands at                                      :xamine the percentageof
appropriate hygiene              xitical timesg                                               iouseholds that wash their
                                                                                              lands at critical times in order


  Skat - Swiss ResourceCentre and Consultancies for Development (2006). Investigacidn de Comportamientos de Lavado de
Manos en Colombia. Based on structured observations of 500 householdsthroughout the country with low socioeconomic status
and at least one child under the age of five.

                                                               56

 Indicator                        Baseline Value                                          Actual Value at
                                     (FY2005)                                                Appraisal of
                                                                                           SusDevDPL I11
 baseline                                                                             to gauge the effectiveness of
                                                                                      hygieneinterventions carried
                                                                                      out in 2007 and 2008 under
                                                                                      the associated Sustainable
                                                                                      Development Investment
                                                                                      Project.
 13. Decreasein the number   604 open waste dumps         453 open waste dumps        318 open waste dumps
 of open waste dumps by
25%, compared with
baseline.

 14. Decrease heavy metals  2,275,528.41 m3               1,706,646.31m3              1,011,217.05 m3
and toxic compounds in
leachates from solid waste
dump sites that are
discharged into urban and
periurbanwater bodies by
25%.

15. Regulatory instruments                                                           Resolution 0601 of 2006
inplace that promote                                                                 establishes air quality
reduction in transport-                                                              standardswith pollution
relatedTSP, PM25, and
ozone precursors in cities                                                           limits for PMlo,TSP, SO2,
                                                                                     NO2,03,and CO:
with more than 500,000
inhabitants.                No standardsfor PMlo         pM_,, Standard:             --- Standard:
                                                                                     PMIo
                                                        Annual average: 70           Annual average:70
                                                        micrograms per cubic meter.  microgramsper cubic meter,
                                                         24 hour average: 150        24 hour average: 150
                                                        micrograms per cubic meter.  microgramsper cubic meter,


                            TSP Standard:               TSP Standard:                TSP Standard:
                            24 hour average: 400        24 hour average: 300         24 hour average:300
                            microgramsper cubic meter   micrograms per cubic meter.  microgramsper cubic meter


                            SO, Standards:                    Standards:            So,Standards:
                            Annual average: I00         Annual average: 80          Annual average: 80
                            micrograms per cubic meter. micrograms per cubic meter. microgramsper cubic meter,

                            24 hour average:400         24 hour average: 250        24 hour average: 250
                            micrograms per cubic meter. micrograms per cubic meter. micrograms per cubic meter,


                            NO,Standards:               NO2Standards:               NO2Standards:
                            Annual average: 100         Annual average: 100         Annual average: 100

                            micrograms per cubic meter. microgramsper cubic meter.  micrograms per cubic meter.

                            No standard for 24 hour     24 hour average: 150        24 hour average: 150

                            werage.                     nicrograms per cubic meter. nicrograms per cubic meter.


                            3zone Standard:             3zone Standard:             3zone Standard:
                            3ne hour average: 170       3ne hour average: 120       3ne hour average: 120

                            nicrogrqmsper cubic meter.  nicrogramsper cubic meter.  nicrogramsper cubic meter.

                            Vo standard for 8 hour        hour average:&I           ihouraverage:80
                            werage.                     nicrograms per cubic meter. nicrogramsper cubic meter.


                            20 Standard:                20 Standard:                20 Standard:
                            h e hour average: 50        h e hour average: 40        One hour average: 40

                            niligrams per cubic meter,  niligrams per cubic meter.  miligrams per cubic meter.

                            3ight hour average: I5      light hour average: 10      Eight hour average: I O

                            niligrams per cubic meter.  niligramsper cubic meter.   miligrams per cubic meter

Indicator                         BaselineValue                 Target Value             Actual Value at
                                      (FY2005)                    (FY2009)                 Appraisalof
                                                                                         SusDevDPL I11
                                                                                I
16. Air quality monitoring    0 cities                    7 cities                  16 cities
networkfor PM2 fully
operational, with at least7
citiesmeasuringPM25.

17. Sulfur reductionprogram   1,200 ppm in Bogota         500 ppm in Bogota         500 ppm in Bogotaand 3,000
implemented,reducing          (4,550 ppm for the rest of  (3,000 ppm for rest of   ppm in Medellin
sulfur content in diesel from Colombia)                   Colombia)                 (Governmenthas set new
1,200 ppm to 500 ppm in                                                             target of 50 ppm for these two
Bogota.                                                                             cities: Bogotain 2010 and
                                                                                   Medellin in 2013.)




                                                          58

                  Annex 5: Potential Impact of the U.S. Financial Crisis on Colombia"



                                                                  Main Risks

                                  ~    ~~~    ~




           0    The main concern is the likely impact of the worldwide growth slowdown on the demand
                for Colombia's exports and a decline in the terms of trade due to falling commodity
                prices. Colombia is particularly vulnerable due to a high concentration o f exports in
                commodities and a high concentration o f exports for two destinations: the United States and
                Venezuela.

           0    Colombia faces an unfavorable external environment but the government has taken the
                necessary steps to mitigate it. Increasing risk aversion and liquidity hoarding by foreign
                investors may limit capital flows for the foreseeable future. To reduce external risks, the
                government has reduced the foreign currency share o f its public debt and overall external debt
                o f both the public and private sector is low at about 23 percent of GDP.               In addition,
                international reserves have increased substantiallv and now stand at over U S 2 3 billion.




                                                     Potential Impact on Colombia

Short-term impact

   0       An immediate impact of the turmoil has been an increase in stock price volatility and a
           significant rise in the EMBI spreads. The decline in the IGBC stock market index has been o f
           about 19.3% in the past month (similar to other countries in the region), but has seen a mild
           recovery in the last few days. The rise in EMBI spread is low relative to other countries in Latin
           America. The spread has started to decrease since end-October 2008. After having shown evidence
           o f a negative relation with the international oil price, the EMBI spread is presenting a path more in
           line with the behavior in international markets, unlike other countries in the region that are net
           exporters o f oil and which still show strong signs o f increase in risk like Ecuador.


                    Graph 1.Colombia: Stock Market Index, EMBISpread and InternationalOil Price


  10 600.
  10,600  c\
                                                                         ~



   9800.
   9,000 .
   8200 -
   8,200     y
   77,400 -
     400

   6,600
   6 600 -

   5,800  4                                                           ,I


                  -                                                         - ---
                                                                               EMBI Colombia    ,EMBlLAC
                     Indice Gral Bolsa de Valores de Colombia IGBC
                                                             -




lo
 This notewas written by Christian Gonzalezand MariaIvanovaReyes, November 12,2008.

                                                                   59

    1000                                                    1
     9004
                                                 I  .       i
     600
                             -
     500
     400
     300 - ...-.. .. ...- - -
                  I                                         i
     200
     1004




                                                                              -EM01     Colombia- - - -011Price (8 perbarrel)

   I
   Source: Banco de la Republicade ColombiaandLCSPEDatabase.


           A key concern for Colombia is the likely impact of the global growth slowdown on the
           demand for Colombia's exports and commodity prices.Colombiahas a relatively open economy
           (exports of goods and services are equivalent to over 17% of GDP while total trade amounts to
           about 45 percent of GDP). In particular, oil exports represent around 24 percent of total exports.
           While exports have become more geographically diversified towards other countriedregions
           beyond the US., the risk of a global slowdown heightens the probability that export volumes and
           prices may be adversely affected. Indeed, export volumes have decreasedsomewhat already in the
           second quarter of 2008, evidenced by a -0.8 percent real growth rate of total exports over previous
           quarter". This has translated into a deceleration in GDP, which grew by only 3.7 percent q-0-q
           duringthe secondquarter of 2008 (compared to 8 percent in the previousyear).

     0     Likely impact of the US deceleration. According to a recent analysis of the impact o f the US
           slowdown in the Colombianeconomy'2,the country seems to be relatively resilientto a recession in
           the US. The Colombian economy business cycle shows a small and negative correlation with the
           US business cycle. Indeed, the impact of a 0 percent growth rate of the US economy on GDP
           growth in Colombia is estimated to be 0.4 percentage points. In contrast, other countries like
           Canada, Mexico and Venezuela would experience an estimated growth loss o f more than 1
           percentage point. Naturally, ifthe U S slowdown has a higher impact worldwide, then the effect on
           the Colombian economy could be stronger as the country has strong trade relations with other
           regionslike the EuroArea.

           Pressures on the exchange rate. The peso/dollarnominalexchange rate hadappreciatedover most
           of 2008. However, more recently the exchange rate has shown signs of depreciationand a much
           higher volatility than the evidenced during 2007. As a result, the exchange rate since mid-
           September 2008 is more depreciatedthan duringthe same period of last year.




1 1This decelerationinthe pace of exports follows a -2.6 percent decline duringthe first quarterof 2008. Growthrates
refer to the variation respect to the previous quarter o f the seasonally adjusted export value in constant terms as
publishedby the Departamento Administrativo Nacional deEstadistica (DANE).
   See Bernal, RicardoandLuzFlorez. 2008. "Efecto de una Recesidn de la economia estadounidense sobre
Colombia". Banco de la Republica de Colombia: Reportes del Emisor, Numero 110,Julio 2008.

                                                         60

       Graph 2. Colombia: ExchangeRate (COL%/US%)and Exchange Rate Volatility, 2007 vs. 2008




Source: WB staff basedon data from Banco de la Republica de Colombia.



0  Limited capital flight. The recent U.S. financial crisis has not led to a substantial increase in
   capital outflows. Colombia holds a relatively low level o f portfolio investment. This combination
   reduces the risks o f potential market volatility affecting the economy.

   High level of reserves. The country holds a high level o f international reserves (Net International
   Reserves reached US$23.5 billions as o f end-October 2008) which increases its capability o f
   coping with a financial crisis affecting the economy.

   Low level of foreign denominated debt                               The Colombian economy currently holds an
   approximate o f 75 percent of its debt in local currency denominated instruments and only 25
   percent in foreign currency.                        This additional element serves as a cushion for the potential
   transmission o f the external financial crisis to the economy.


             Graph 3. Colombia: Short-Term Capital Inflows and Net International Reserves




           -Shofl.-terrn capital inflows (US9 Millions)

                                                                                   Net InternationalReserves (US0 Hllms)


Source: WB staff based on data from Banco de la Republicade Colombia.


   Remittances.          The level o f remittances received by the Colombian economy is yet to be
   significantly affected by the crisis; however remittances remain vulnerable to the impact of the
   global slowdown. As o f September 2008, remittances account to approximately 2.5 percent o f
   GDP.Recently, the remittances growth rate has been declining.




                                                                 61

     Graph 4: Remittances in Colombia: Level, Change and Share of GDP, 2001-2008

6,000 1                                                           ,35%I
                                                                         4.0  1                             RemittanceslGDP

5,000

4,000

3,000

2,000


1,000

   0                                                                          -
                                                                                     N                      *              a
                                                                              0      0           II                 0
                                                                                                                    10           0
                                                                                                                                 P          0
                                                                                                                                            CQ
                                                                                                 0          0
                                                                                                            0
     8                                                                                                              0      0                0
                                               IC                             N      N           N          N       N      N     0
                                                                                                                                 N          N
     ::                                        ::

Source: WB staffbasedon data from Bancode la Republicade Colombia.



     0  Interest rates and Inflation. The Central Bank has increased interest rates moderately to contain
        inflationary pressures. However, the price hikes the economy has been experiencingare expected
        to be contained as the international food prices, a major driver of price increases in the country,
        continue towards a stabilizationtrend.

     0  Liquidity and Lending. The country is not showingevidence of liquidity constraints as the share
        of liquid assets has not experienced sharp movements over the past months. Gross domestic credit
        to the private sector continues growing and, althoughwith a lower moderate growth rate over the
        past couple of months, keeps a strong pace. A potentialrisk is that current global conditions might
        leadto less FDIandto a decreasein liquidity inthe exchange rate market.


                                   Graph 5. Colombia: Financial Indicators and Inflation

                                                                        16 -   - - -,Headline Inflation (% changeyd-y)
                                                                           . -Food        lnflatlon (%change y-o-y)            Fwd Inflation

                                                                                     Core Inflation (%change y-o-y)
                                                                        12 -




                                                                              J F  M  A    M    J    J  A   S  O   N  D J F M  A M     J  J  A S    O

                                                                                                2U07                             20118


                                                                               ,
                                                                        130,wo    0GrossDomstlcCredittoPnvateSector(US$Million)t%Change         Is

                                                                        125,000                                                                 1000/

                                                                       120,wo
                                                                                                                                                5 0%
                                                                       115,wo
                                                                                                                                                0 0%
                                                                        110,ooo

                                                                       105,ooo                                                                   c no




                                                                       IW.W
            -   Cash/Less LiquidAssets
            . _ _ +CurrentAccount
                Cash                  DeposMLess Liquid Assets

     Source:WB staffbasedon datafrom Banco de la Republicade Colombia.

                                                               62

Medium-term outlook

0   The global financial turmoil could intensify pressures on Colombia's economic activity as the
    world economy slows down. A decrease in commodity prices (possibly driven by a decrease in global
    demand) will tend to reduce Colombian exports. An increase in risk aversion might lead to capital
    outflows, increased pressures on the real exchange rate, a decrease in international reserves and
    increasedin inflation. Inaddition, a decrease in global liquidity might leadto less FDIflows.

0   The government has taken the necessary steps to mitigate the risks from currently negative
    global environment. To reduce external risks, the government has reduced the foreign currency share
    of its public debt and overall external debt of both the public and private sector is low at about 23
    percent of GDP.13 Inaddition, internationalreserveshave increasedsubstantiallyand now stand at over
    US$23 Billion.


                                  Graph 6. Colombia: MacroeconomicFundamentals

                                                       7 9 0    2 0 -
                                                         8 0    1 0 -      I';
                                                         7 0    0 0 -
                                                         6 0   - 1 0 -
                                                         5 0   - 2 0 -
                                                         4 0   - 3 0 -
                                                         3 0
                                                         2 0   -40 -

                                                         1 0   -5 0 -
                                                                              U
                                                         0 0   - 6 0 -

      2000  2001   2002   2003  2004  2005 2W6     2007        -7 0 -

       oPublicDebVGDP(%)              +GDP  growih (%)                2000  2001   2002 2003   2004     2005   2006 2007

                                                                        W CABiGDP (%)      0 Fiscal Balance/GDP (%)

Source: LCSPE Database


    The economy is expected to slow even further in 2009. The fiscal position is projectedto worsen,
    with a possible increase of the non-financialpublic sector deficit (to 2.5% of GDP in 2009, the highest
    level in the last five years).        The Government already anticipates international funding (from
    multilateralagencies) for its financing needs in the order of US$2.4 billion for next year.. The impact
    in the external accounts would bring the current account deficit to as high as 3.5 percent o f GDP in
    2009




l3According to the recent debt reports published by the Banco de la Republica de Colombia, external debt of the
privatesector is estimatedto remainbelwo 8 percent of GDP during2008, and public external debt is approximately 14
percent of GDP. In addition, external public debt is less than 1/3 of total public debt. See September and October
reports on external debt and public debt.

                                                        63

Table 1: Medium-Term Outlook, 2007-11
                 Indicator                       2007     2008       2009     2010      2011
RealGDP (YO)                                      8.2      3.5        2.5       2.9     3.5
Inflation (%)                                     5.7      7.6        6.1       4.9     4.0
Current Account Balance (% of GDP)                -2.9     -3.4       -3.5     -2.8     -2.6
NFPS Balance(%of GDP)                             -1.o     -1.7       -2.5     -1.5     -1.2
Investment(% of GDP)                             24.4     24.3       23.7      24.1     24.5
  Public sector                                   7.7      7.6        7.5       7.6     7.7
  Private sector                                  16.7     16.7       16.2     16.5     16.8
External Debt (YOof GDP)                         22.8     22.0       20.4      18.8     18.0
Nominal ExchangeRate (e.o.p., Col$KJS$)        1,987.8   2,413.6    2,458.2  2,5 12.7 2,556.9
Oil Price (US$per barrel)                        71.1     105.0      79.3      81.3     82.1
FDI (Yoof GDP)                                    4.5      4.8        4.3       4.4     4.5
Portfolio investment(YOof GDP)                   0.11     0.06       0.02      0.09     0.11
Reserves(US$Millions)                          20,952.   23,02 1.   23,233.  24,125.  24,753.
                                                   0        3          9         2        1
Source: National authorities and WB staff estimationsbasedon R M S I-X mode

    SensitivityAnalysis. Two scenarios are evaluated: the first one shows the impact of a drop of the
    oil price to a low of $60 per barrel during 2009; and a second scenario adds a further
    deterioration in the external environment. As a result of these potential shocks economic growth
    could further deteriorate and the government balance would exhibit a higher deficit. The exchange rate
    will be significantly depreciated as a result of capital outflows pressures. Colombia has enough reserves
    to cushion potential shocks. None of these scenarios pose a serious problem to the public debt
    sustainability.


Table 2: Shock in Oil Price, 2007-11
                 Indicator                      2007      2008       2009     2010      2011
Real GDP (YO)                                     8.2      3.5        2.1      2.5      3.O
Inflation (%)                                     5.7      7.6        6.7      4.7      3.6
Current Account Balance (% of GDP)                -2.9     -3.4      -5.0      -3.O     -2.3
NFPS Balance(%of GDP)                             -1.0     -1.7      -2.9      -2.0     -1.5
Investment(YOof GDP)                             24.4     24.3       23.3     23.7      23.9
  Public sector                                   7.7      7.6        7.4      7.6      7.7
  Private sector                                  16.7     16.7      16.0      16.1     16.2
External Debt (YOof GDP)                         22.8     22.0       21.4      19.8     19.0
Nominal ExchangeRate (e.o.p., Col$/US$)        1,987.8   2,413.6    2549.7   2606.3   2652.1
Oil Price (US$ per barrel)                       71.1     105.0      60.0     65.0      70.0
FDI (% of GDP)                                    4.5      4.8        3.6      3.9      4.0
Portfolio investment(YOof GDP)                   0.11     0.06       -0.02    0.05      0.10
Reserves(US$Millions)                          20,952.   23,021.    19,600.  20,256.  24,808.
                                                   0        3          9         9       n

Source: National authoritiesand WB staff estimationsbasedon R M S I-X model.




                                                        64

Table 3: Higher Deterioration in Globa Growth 2007-11
                 Indicator                2007     2008    2009    2010    2011
Real GDP (YO)                               8.2     3.5     1.6    2.0     2.7
Inflation (YO)                              5.7     7.7    6.5     4.2     3.3
Current Account Balance(% of GDP)          -2.9    -3.4    -5.6    -3.5    -2.9
NFPS Balance (%of GDP)                     -1.o    -1.7    -3.2    -2.6    -2.2
Investment(YOof GDP)                       24.4    24.3    23.1    23.4    24.0
  Public sector                             7.7     7.6    7.4     7.6     7.6
  Private sector                           16.7    16.7    15.7    15.8    16.4
External Debt (% of GDP)                   22.8    22.0    21.7    20.1    19.3
Nominal Exchange Rate (e.o.p., Col$/US$)  1,987.8 2,413.6 2554.9  2602.2  2644.5
Oil Price (US$ per barrel)                 71.1    105.0   60.0    65.0    70.0
FDI (Yoof GDP)                              4.5     4.8    3.4     3.8     4.1
Portfolio investment(YOof GDP)             0.11    0.06   -0.10    0.04    0.09
Reserves (US$ Millions)                   20,952. 23,021. 18,831. 20,663. 23,645.
                                             0       3      6        3       0




                                                 65

                                      Key Commodities:Recent Trends and Prospects

 Commodity prices have been declining during the past months and expectations are that prices will
 continue to soften. This is particularly important for a country like Colombiawhere oil exports represent
 approximately 25 percent of total merchandise exports, followed by coal (12 percent), coffee (6 percent)
 and ferronickel (6 percent). The graphs that follow present the favorable recent trends that major
 commodities for Colombia have exhibited in the past years and how they are expected to behave over the
 mediumterm.

                                                            ifSelected Commodities
                                                                    RecentTrends,January 2007-October2008
                                                                     0
                                                                140 -      CrudePetroleumincurrent US$($/bbl)
                                                                120 -

                                                                100 -

                                                                 80 .

                                                                 60 -

                                                                 40 -
                                                                 20




                                                                 1
      140 -             Coal in current US$($/mt)             200              Coal in current US$ ($/mt)
      120 -                                                   180                                             h


      100.

       80 -




I 4.5 1           Coffee Arabica in current US$ ($/kg)
                         -
  4.0 -

  3.5 -

  3.0 -

  2.5 -

  2.0 -

  1.5 -




     40,000             Nickelin current US$($/mt)           60,000            Nickel in current US$ ($/mt)
     35,000
                                                             50,000
     30,000

     25,000                                                  40,000

     20.000                                                  30,000

      15,000
                                                             20,000
      10,000
                                                             10,000
       5,000

                                                                 0




       Source: WB staff based on data from DECDG.



                                                          66

                                                                    Attachment



                                                         Short Term Monitoring Daily Report

Colombia                                            Latest Data          180davs Ranee                  Chance Over Earlier Periods
07-hov-D8                                            Available         L O W       High         1 day   7 days    30 days        90 days  180days
Sovereign Spreads (bp)
 JP Morgan EMBl Global                          06-Nov-08        506         156       741         13       -63         71           289      307
 JP Morgan EMBl Plus                            06-Nov-08       506          156       741         13       -63         71           289      307
 Eurospread                                     07-Nov-08       477          133       718         -5       -69          -5          275      275
 EMBl Global Emerging Markets            EME    06-Nov-08       659          259       891         12       -61        128           341      374
 EMBl Global Regional                           06-Nov-08       708          268       914         14       -36        130           364      407
Credit Default Swag                             06-Nov-08                                                   -17         66           179      193
CorDorate Soreads
 JP Morgan CEMBI Broad                          06-Nov-08                                                    -9        177          468
 JP Morgan CEMBI Broad Emerging Markets         06-Nov-08                                                 -124         248           506
GBI - E M I% vield)                             06-NOv-08                   10.6                         -6.6%       14.7%        10.9%     17 4%
Interest Rates (Oh)                             31-Oct-08                                                   0.0         0.0          0.0
Policv Interest Rate (%)                        31-Oct-08                                                   0.0         0.0          0.0

Inter Bank Rate (%I                             31-Oct-08                                                   0.0         0.0          0.0
Stock Market Index                              07-Nov-08                  6,461                3 3%     -1.8%      -15.6%       -20.5%    -29 4%
Reserves (US$ mn)                               30-Sep08                                                               443         1,235    1,952
Exchange Rate (/US$) [Depres I-)/Apprec (+I1    07-NOv-08                                       1 4 %     2 8%        0.8%       -28.0%    -29 7%
One vear forward Exchanae Rate (/US$)           07-Nov-08                                                 2 8%       -4.0%       -29.0%




                                                                    MoodysRating             1Standar & Poor's        Fitch
        ColombiaSovereignRating(foreigncurrency)                           Bal**                   BB+**        II   BB+**
                                                                                                 BBB+***
        ColombiaSovereignRating(local currency)                          Baa3**  *         I                    I
                                                                                                                  BBB-***
        Memo:

        MinimumInvestmentGrade RatingCriteria                              Baa3                     BBB-             BBB-




                                                                       67

                                         Annex 6: Colombiaat a Glance


                                    Goloinbia at a glance                                                              9/24/08


                                                                  Lahn    LOWE-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Amenca    middle-
                                                     Colontbia (L Cartb, tnsome    D c v e b o m tdiamond'
2007
Populatlon,md-year(nu!l%*n&)                             46 1       563    3,437
GI41per capita (Masmethod>US%)                          3,250     5.540    1,881                  L+e expectancy
ON1(Absn~ttwd,US$ba~timsj                                                                               T
                                                        1499      3,118    6,485

Average annualgrowth, 2001-07

PQRUhbOn(%)                                                1 4      1 3      11
L a bforce f%)                                            2 7       2 1      1 5    GNI                                G N S
                                                                                    per                               primaw
Moatrecentestlmate(Istest year available, 2001-07)                                  caplta                          enrol'ment
P O W(%OfflO$7&8&Otl &&OW R8flOnc9!         Ima)
UrbanpOMIBatlon(Se oftotalpopw!c9&mJ                       74        78      42
LtBexwc(ancyat birth(rcrsfs)                                         73      &a
infantmortawyrwr r a m&we~ h s j                           73
                                                           1T        22      41
Childmalnutnnhon(46of&Wren under 5)                         5         5      -15         &ccessbo impravedwatef saurce
Access toan wnpmved water wurce (seofpopulSbm>             93        91      68
LiXeraey(% ofpopdabonage 15+)                              93        90      81)
O m pnmaryenrollment 6%     of s&&-sge  pop~f&~n)         111       118      -ill
   Male                                                   117       120      112
   Female                                                 115       116      109

KEY ECONONlKRATIOSand LONG-TERMTREMOS
                                                2987     1997     2006     2007    Economierams'
GDP 4USS &/kms)                                 364     106.1     1357     1720
Grosscapctslfmati5WGDP                          19 1     20.9      23 6     24 4
Exputsol@a      andsewicesiGDP                  17 0     148       22 5                               Trade
                                                                            194
GrowdomesticsawgSN3DP                           23$      150       21 1     133
Grossr~stwnsttsgnngsfGOP                        21 2     133       20 0                                 T

Cwmnt accountbalancei~GDP                       -of      -54       -2 3     -3 4
InterestpaymenMGDP                               3 7       1.6      18
Total debUGDP                                       6    29 9      20 3
Tats4 debt miaienports                              9    29.4      32 5
Presentvalue of dsbWGRP                                            30.3
Presentvalue of deWexports                                        1257

                                     1967-97 1997-07     2006     2007   2007-11
(0Wmg-eennusl growth)
GDP                                     40       3 0      6 6       7 5      4 8
GDP percapita                           2 1      1 4      5 4       6 2      3 3
Erpeftsa t w s andse~ices               7 0      4 5      7 8       14       5 2




                                                W67
i%  dGDPl                                                                          Growth of capftaland GDP (%t

bgricunure                                      187      137       120      105    EO

Iflawtry                                        36 0     294       357     193     40
  fdanufsctunng                                 21 1     149       167      126   2o
Services                                        453      56.9      523     EO 1
                                                                                    D
Householdfinafconsumptionexpenditure            6 8 2    64.6      61 1    634                          Od    OS    M     07
Generalgoy7final tansumpbon expendatme           & 7     204       '17s     133                      SCF     *GOP
Importsof poodsand cervices                     1 2 Y    208       249     ZO5


                                             1987-97 1997-07      2006     2007
~sver@ge ffnnuEigtowthj                                                          lbrowth of exports and imports (41)

&gncuRure                                       -1 1      0 6       23       2 4
lntlusby                                         3 2      2 7       9 2      4 3                                              II
  Wsnufactunng                                  137       3.0      10 '9     31
Servicer                                         4 9      34        5 5      4 4

HouseholdRnai consumptionexpenditure             3 6      2.5       6 7     -32
GeneralgovY final consumptonexpendhre            5 0      15        2.1      6 6
Grosscapdalformaton                              7 6      a 2      268     493
Impomof goods andsewces                         154       6 5      208      154                                               I
h t e 2007 data are preiim~naryestimates
Ths iable 'wasproducedfrom the DeveiopmentEconomncsLDE database
'ThediamondsshowfourkeyindimtomInMecounlry(inbold)emparedwthitsincome-groupaverageifdataaremlsungtheOi6mondwill
   be incomplete




                                                              68

PRICES sild GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                               1987     1997          2006     2007
Dornesricprrcas
f?? change)
Consumer pnces                                 240       177            4 5      5 1
lmpiicitGDP deRator                            234       I 6 6          5 1      3 6

Govwntnenrfmalnce
(%of GDP, mcructescurefft grants)
Currentrevenue                                  105      125           20 1      0 0
Currwit budget balance                          2 6       0 3           2 2      0 0    I                 GDP deflator  -CP            I
Overallswrplusldeficit                          2 0      -37           -0 6      0 0

TRADE
                                              1987      1997          2006     2007
(US$ rn~hJ0S)                                                                             Export atid import levels (US$ mrll )
Total exports :fob)                           5409    11549         23.930   25,049      3 t B 9 T
 Coffee                                       l,65?    2.2%          1,46 1   5,528
  Petraieumproducts                           1,369    2.707         6 326    6,949
 Manufactures                                 1,071    7.468         9,237    5,04%      ZC O S

local impts {OR                               4.228    4.083        23 976   26.214
  Food                                          215     1.673        2 332    2,236      lCO3C

  Fueland etrsrgy                               109      439           6.51     563
 CaQblgisod0                                  1.51%    5826          ?,I.%1056.1               c

Export pnceindex (2CiCiO=fOOl                    12        5s           47
Impart price:index (2clL747=10.01                12        57           38
Termsof tmde (20(30=1501                        104      102           125

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                              1987      1997          2006     2007
(Us%Ti%'f/JO/?SJ                                                                          Current account balanceto GDP (Sa)

Exportsof goods and ~f.wices                  6422    13690         27 303   30 072
Impartsof goods and sewices                   5751    17958         26.82'3  32 733
Reswrce balance                                 670   -4268            474   -1 862

fdetiiiconie                                 -1 692   -2312         4'383    -6.251
Net current transfers                         1.001      456         4,450
Curreidaccoui?tIsctlance                        -21   -5.751        -3,057   -5 i73

Financinqitems (net)                             43    5.474         3 034    7,632
Changfs in net resaves                          -22      277            23   -1,860      -41

Memo:
Reserves rnciudinggdd (US%mif>w?s}                     9.908        15,440
Conversionm e #DC 4ocaWS5J                    212.6   1,141.0      2,361 1  2,078 3

EXTERNALDEBT and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                              1987      1997         2006     2007
(US.$mdl/Otls)                                                                           Compositionof 2006 debt (US$ mill 9

To~QIdebt outsanding and dmbrirwd           17024     31.93?        39 698
  l8RD                                        4113     1.723         4 563   4 756
  IDk                                            17        to            3         2

Totat debt aenme                              2.815    4,511        10 640
  IERD                                          618      573           488      688
  IO*                                             1         1             1        I

Conrpoationof netresourceflows
                                                 17        69          245
                                                234     -452         f.114
                                              -318     4 194          -147
  Foreigndtrecttnvestnietrt (net inflows)       319    5.562        6.463
  Podfolioequtty(net inflows)                     0      278           -3                         F.23.219
Wudd Bank prograin
  Conimitments                                  160        75          683      632      A - 69D                          E. Bilateral
  DasDurzenients                                364      189           942      sE4      B                                    -
                                                                                             ~Ot,   0 Other mu libatera
                                                                                                       ~                  F Private
                                                                                                                             ~
  Principalrepayments                           299     437            259     432       C
                                                                                             ~IUF                         G Shorl-unr
  Ne1FOWS                                        65     -249           683      z 31
  Interest peyments                             319      137           210      256
  Net transfws                                -754      -385           473     -124


The World Bonk Group Thietable was preparedby country unit staff,figures mayd&r fmffl other Worfd Bank publasheddeta           '3124!05




                                                               69


                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 35509
      SAN ANDRES Y                                              75W                                                                        70W
        PROVIDENCIA
                                                                                                       Puerto Bolvar
             8140'    8122'
  1235'                                   Caribbean Sea
                    Providencia                                                             Rohacha
                                                                             Santa                              GUJIRA
   San Andres
                    1320'                                                  Marta                         LAMaicao
                                                         Barranquilla                       Pico
         0      2        0       2                                                     Cristbal Coln
                                             AT L  N T I C O           Soledad          (5,775 m)                                                  COLOMBIA
  1230'   MILES          MILES

                                                                              AGDALEValledupar
                                                                                    NA
                       8122'                    Cartegena


10N                                                                                    CESAR
                                                           Maganqu                                                    Lago de

                                                                             M                                        Maracaibo
                                                    Sincelejo
      PANAMA                                                                                     SANT NOR
                                             Monteria           SUCRE        El Baneo

                                                                                                                                          0        80        160        240              320 Kilometers
                                Acand


                                             TurboC RDOBA                        LVAR             ANDERTE
                                                                                       Ocaa               DE
                                                                                                                                          0      40      80     120       160            200 Miles
                                                                                BO                    Ccuta
                                                                  Cauca                                                                   R.B. DE VENEZUELA

                                                                                   Bucaramanga
                                                             Yarumal
                                                                                      Barrancabermeja
                                       Atrato       A N T I O Q U I A        Magdalena                Floridablanca


                                                                                        Socorro

   PACIFIC                                                 Bello                                                                 Casanare
                                                    Itagui  Medellin           S A N TA N D E R
                                                           Envigado                                            YAC          A R A U C A

                                                                                                                                                                             Puerto
                                                                                                                                                                            Carreo
   OCEAN                         Quibdo                                  Chiquinquir                        BO
                                                                                                                                                 Puerto
                                C H O C                     ALDAS                                       Sogamoso     C A S A N A R E            Nueva
                                                                                                 Tunja
                                                                          CUNDINA-                               Yopal
5N                                RISARALD              CManizales
                                                                             MARCA                                                                            Santa Rita                               5N
                                              Cartago      Dos Quebradas
                                                          Pereira                    BOGOT                                                  V I C H A D A
                                       QUINDIO            Armenia      Soacha                                         Meta
                                                                                                                        San Pedro
                                                            Ibaque                                                                                                                Atacavi
                                                                       Girardot                                                      Gaviotas
                                                                                            Villavincencio          Chaviva
                                                   Tulua                                                                                     Vichada
                     Buenaventura
                                                  Buga                             DISTRITO
                          VALLE DEL                                                                                                                                    Puerto
                                                 Palmira                            CAPITAL                                                                            Inirda
                            CAUCACali                       TOLIMA                                     M E T A
                                                                              San Juan
                                                                              de Arama
                                                        Neiva                                                          Guaviare                         G U A I N  A
                           C A U C A                    H U L A                                                                           Mapiripana
                                                                                                                San Jos                                          Tabaqun

                        Guap   Popayan                                                                         del Guaviare                                   Brujas
                                                          Garzon       San Vicente

   Tumaco         Pata                                                del Cagun                              Calamar
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ne

              N A R I  O                                  Florencia                                   G U AV I A R E                                                                               gro
                                                                       Ca                                                                                                                San Rafael
                         Pasto                                                                             Miraflores                  Mitu
                                              Mocoa                      gun                                                    Vaups
                            Ipiales                                           C A Q U E T                                                        Yavarate
                                    Puerto                                                                                     VA U P  S
                                     Asis      PUTUMAYO                                               Macujer
                                                                                     Puerto
                                                                                     Huitoto
0N                                                                       Puerto                                                                                                                       0N
                                                                          Leguzamo              Puerto                               Lrida
              ECUADOR                                                                            Pizarro              Caquet
                                                                                                           Puerto
                                                                75W                                  Santander
                                                                                          Ptumayo                                  Locas de
                                                                                                                                   Cahuinari

                      COLOMBIA                                                                                      A M A Z O N A S         La Pedrera

 DEPARTMENTS AND URBAN AREAS                                                                        El Encanto

                       URBAN AREA POPULATION:                                                                                                                          BRAZIL
                                 5,000,000 OR MORE

                                 2,000,000-4,999,999                           PERU
                                 1,000,000-1,999,999
                                 500,000-999,999
                                 100,000-499,999                                                                                                          This map was produced by the
                                                                                                                                                          Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                    SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                             The boundaries, colors, denominations

                    DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                                                                                                                   and any other information shown on
                                                                                                                                                          this map do not imply, on the part of
                    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                              Leticia
                                                                                                                                                          The World Bank Group, any judgment
                    RIVERS                                                                                                                                on the legal status of any territory, or
                    DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                 any endorsement or acceptance of

                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                              such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                            70W

                                                                                                                                                                                                MAY 2007

                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 35510

                                                                  75W                                                                            70W

                                                                                                              Puerto Bolvar
             8140'      8122'
  1235'                                   Caribbean Sea
   San Andres
                     CORALINA                                                                Rohacha
  CORALINA           Providencia                                                    DADMA
                     1320'                                          Santa Marta
   San Andres                                                  BAMA                           Pico              CORPOGUAJIRA
          0      2        0       2                        Barranquilla                 Cristbal Coln
                                                                                           (5,775 m)                                                     COLOMBIA
  1230'    MILES           MILES                         EPA        CRA
                        8122'                   Cartegena      CARDIQUE                                 Valledupar
                                                                                    AMAG
10N
                                                             CARSUCRE           CORP                                        Lago de
                                                                           Maganqu                                         Maracaibo
       PANAMA                                       Sincelejo

                                                                                El Baneo
                                              Monteria                                        CORPOCESAR CORPONOR                              0        80        160        240              320 Kilometers
                                 Acand                      CORPOMOJANA
                                                          CVS                           Ocaa

                                             Turbo                                                                                             0      40      80     120       160            200 Miles
                                                                                  CSB
                                       CORPOURABA                                                           Ccuta
                                                                     Cauca                                                                      R.B. DE VENEZUELA
                                                                                                        CDMB

                                                                                    Bucaramanga

                                       Atrato             CORANTIOQUIA dalena
                                                               Yarumal
                                                                                              Socorro
                                                          AMVA                  Mag
                                                                                         CAS
   PACIFIC                                                                                                           ACA               Casanare
                                                             Medellin           CORNARE                                                                                           Puerto
                                                               CORNARE                                                                                                           Carreo
   OCEAN                          Quibdo                                                Chiquinquir
                                                    CARDER                                                                                            Puerto
                                                                                              Tunja          CORPOBOY                                 Nueva

                                                           CORPOCALDAS                                                Yopal            CORPORINOQUIA
5N                             CODECHOCO                      Manizales           CAR
                                                                                                                                                                   Santa Rita                               5N
                                              Cartago       Pereira     BOGOT                                CORPOCHIVOR       Meta
                                                ArmeniaCRQ                                                    CORPOGUAVIO
                                                                          DAMA
                                                                                                                              San Pedro
                                                              Ibaque                                                                                                                   Atacavi
                                                                          Giradot                                                          Gaviotas
                                                                                             Villavincencio              Chaviva                  Vichada
                      Buenaventura                Buga     CORTOLIMA
                                      CVC                                                                                                                                   Puerto
                                                 Palmira                                                                                                                    Inirda
                                                                                               CORMACARENA
                                      Cali      DAGMA
                                                                                 San Juan
                                                                                de Arama
                                                          Neiva                                                             Guaviare

                                   CRC                                                                                                         Mapiripana              Tabaqun
                                                           CAM                                                       San Jos
                         Guap   Popayan                                                                             del Guaviare                                   Brujas
                                                            Garzon        San Vicente

   Tumaco          Pata                                                  del Cagun                               Calamar
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ne
                                                             Florencia
             CORPONARIO                                                                                                        CDA                                                                      gro
                                                                          Ca                                                                                                                  San Rafael
                          Pasto                                                                                  Miraflores                  Mitu
                                              Mocoa                         gun                                                       Vaups
                             Ipiales                                                                                                                   Yavarate
                                     Puerto
                                     Asis                             CORPOAMAZONIA                         Macujer
                                                                                       Puerto
                                                                                       Huitoto
0N                                                                          Puerto                                                                                                                         0N
             ECUADOR                                                         Leguzamo                Puerto                               Lrida
                                                                  75W                                Pizarro               Caquet
                                                                                                                 Puerto
                     COLOMBIA                                                                                Santander
                                                                                                                                         Locas de
             JURISDICTIONS OF                                                              Ptumayo                                       Cahuinari

        LOCAL AND REGIONAL                                                                                                                       La Pedrera

ENVIRONMENTAL AUTHORITIES                                                                                 El Encanto


                    AUTONOMOUS REGIONAL                                                                                                                                     BRAZIL
                    CORPORATIONS*

                    ENVIRONMENTAL AUTHORITIES OF
                    LARGE URBAN CENTERS                                           PERU
                    SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                  This map was produced by the

                    DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                                                                                                                        Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                               The boundaries, colors, denominations
                    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                           and any other information shown on
                    RIVERS                                                                                                                             Leticia this map do not imply, on the part of

                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                   The World Bank Group, any judgment
                                                                                                                                                               on the legal status of any territory, or
     * Includes the functionally equivalent categories of                                                                                                      any endorsement or acceptance of
     Autonomous Regional Corporations and Sustainable                                                                                                          such boundaries.
     Development Corporations.                                                                                                                    70W

                                                                                                                                                                                                     MAY 2007

