g s-£V&t    - C/v tK U"
Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 12987-RU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
NANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL TRAINING PROJECT
NOVEMBER 23, 1994
HUMAN RESOURCES DIVISION
COUTRY DEPARTMENT III
EUROPE AND CENTRUL ASIA REGION



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Unit of Currency = Ruble
December       1991    =      170
December       1992    =      420
December       1993    =    1229
March          1994          1700
November       1994    =    3085
TERMS & ACRONYMS
CF           -      Central Foundation
DC           -      Direct Contracting
EBRD         -      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EDI          -      Economic Development Institute
EU TA-CIS   -       European Union Technical Assistance for the Commonwealth
of Independent States Project
GAAP         -      Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
GAAS         -      Generally Accepted Accounting Standards
GKI          -      State Committee on the Management of State Property
IAB          -      International Accounting Board
IBRD         -      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB          -      International Competitive Bidding
IEC          -      Internal Evaluation Committee
ILO          -      Internat;onal Labor Organization
IMF          -      International Monetary Fund
IPK          -      Upgrading Institute
IS           -      International Shopping
LCB          -      Local Competitive Bidding
LIB          -      Limited International Bidding
LS           -      Local Shopping
MOF          -      Ministry of Finance
MUV          -      Index of Unit Value of Manufactured Exports
Oblast       -      Region
OECD         -      Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PPF          -      Project Preparation Facility
Raion        -      Sub-division of a region
RF           -      Regional Foundation
NTF          -      National Training Foundation
SOE          -      Statement of Expenditure
STF          -      Systemic Transformation Facility
STS          -      State Tax Service
TA           -      Technical Assistance
TOR          -      Terms of Reference
USAID        -      United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
MANAGEMT AND FINANCIAL TRANNG PRomm'
CONTENTh
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ...UMMARY..... .,                                                             i
1. INTODUCTrON                                             1. 
H. THE SETRAL SE7tNG                                                                               .  3
A   The Demand for Market-Oriented Training ...........................  3
B. Training Supply Issues ...........................   7
C. Plans and Programs ...........................    13
D. A Strategy for Market-Oriented Trang ...........................    15
m. LEsOm    OF ExPERC E AND BANK SRATEGY ..........................    19
A. Lessons of Experience  ...........................   19
B. Bank Lending Strategy ..................  21
TV. TrE PtoJEr .................................................  23
A. Project Objectives ..........................................  23
B. Program Descriptions ........................................  23
V. INTERMEDARY: THE NATiONAL TRAINNG FOUNDATION  ....... ..                          ............   27
A. Approach and Justification .................................  ...  27
B. Clients and Customers .....                                                               28
C. Organization and Staffing of the NTF                                                      28
D. Procedures ..............................................  32
E. Criteria .35
F. Financing and Cost-Recovery Policies .35
G. Legal Framework .37
VI. PRojcr COm, FINANCIG, MAGDmNAGEMENT AD    .IMPLEMENTAIG  N. .39
A. Project Costs .39
B. Project Financing .42
C. Managemea and Implementation .43
D. Procurement .45
1. Whs report is based on the findings of Task Manger Richard Johanson (1LO training specia) as well as Carolyn Ban
ublic admno     specialist), Robert Brinkcshof (staff development s hpecialst), Andret D asev (dis e
speciast), Ivan Habanec (implementbon specilist), George Knawaty (small business develpnmet pecia), Frank
Kenefick (procurement specialist), Irma Kichigia (legd specias), Peter Knight (mass media peci), Poetr Kowar
(mangement development speciali), Tatana Kylova (finance and accounting spociaist), Miln Kubr (managemnt
development specialist), Michael Maher (managemen deve      speiist), Marsha McGmaw Oive (Rusda ad public
finae specialist), Olivier de Messiers (roject costing and imlemenaion speciaist), Mohamed Momsa (finane end
accoung specias), Gathoni Mungai (i          specialist), Barbma Nunberg (public         se 4 it), Joao
B. Olveia (orgzaonal den  and distance education peci), Dmitry Pelrin (Russia spew-A', Robert Polderm
(oaizational design pecialist), Nalni Srinivas (EC3HR), and Mary Elizabeth Ward (bankini specislb-. Rlph Habiso
(EC2HR), Adriaan Verspoor (MSP) and Harold Wackma (EMTBG) were per reewers for d.iE project The supervisg
manger is Robert Liebendhal (BC3HR); the Director is Russell Cheethm  EC3).



E. Disbursements   ...........................................   49
F. Sustainability   ...........................................   52
VII. PROjEcT BENmE MR N)  SS              .....................................   53
A. Benefits ........................................... 53
B. Risks .        .............................................   55
VII. AGRMENTS REAC iED AN   RECOMmENDATiNS  ........................  57
Annexes
Annex 1. Action Program For Market-Oriented Traning .........................                    59
Annex 2. Management Development: Action Plan and Programs  ...................  63
Annex 3. Accountancy, Audit and Financial Management: Action Plan and Prograns .... ...  73
Annex 4. Banking Training: Action Plan and Programs .........................  87
Annex 5. Public Finance: Action Plan and Programs ...........................  93
Annex 6. Organzation, Stffing And Procedures of the National Training Foundation  .... ..  97
Annex 7. National Training Foundation Evaluation Plan ......................... 113
Annex 8. Monitoring and Impact Indicators ................................. 119
Annex 9. Subproject Appraisal Criteria .................................... 121
Amex 10. Projected Levels of Cost Recovery  ............................... 129
Annex I1. NTP Cash Flow Projections ....................................  133
Annex 12. Detailed Baseline Project Costing  ................................ 137
Annex 13. Summary of Technical Assistance Inputs ............................. 139
Annex 14. National Training Foundation Staff Development Plans ................... 143
Annex 15. Summary of Programs, Subprograms, and Subprojects ................... 149
Annex 16. Implementation Plan  ........................................  153
Annex 17. Detailed Procurement Plan and Schedule ............................ 161
Annex 18. Supervision Plan ...........................................  165
Annex 19. Documents in Project Files  .................................... 167
aim & Diagms
Diagram 5.1: The National Training Foundation (NTF) Network ....................  29
Diagram 5.2: Structure of the Central Foundation of the NTF  .....................  30
Chart 6.1: Disbursements Illustrated Per Semester and Cumulatively  .................  50
Chart A6. 1: Organizadon Chart-Positions of the Central Foundation ................. 104
Chart A6.2: Subproject Evaluation Process  ................................. 106
Tabkes
Table 5.1: Initial NTF Staff Estimates  ....................................  31
Table 6.1: Project Costs Summary by Project Component ........................    39
Table 6.2: Project Costs Summary by Category of Expenditure .....................  40
Table 6.3: Proposed Technical Assistance ..................................  42
Table 6.4: Financing Plan ............................................  42
Table 6.5: Types of NTF In-House Training                    .............    43
Table 6.6: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements.            .............  45
Table 6.7: Estimated Loan Disbursement Schedule  .............   49
Table 7.1: Financial and EconoLuc Benefits .............    54
Table A6.1: NTF Structure-Key Functions and Responsibilities ...... .......   99
Table A6.2: Relationships Between the Central and Regional Foundations of the NTF ..             102
Map IBRD No. 25948



THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL TRAING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECr SUMMARY
BORROWER        The Russian Federation
BENMCIARY       The National Training Foundation
AMOUN           US$40 million, equivalent
TERMs           17 years, including 5 years grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate
ROJECr
ORnC'v          The proposed project supports the first phase of a long term program for market-
oriented training. Its purpose is to increase the quality and supply of skills needed
to support the transition to a ma&ket economy in such areas as enterprise
restructuring, the financial sector re'orms and privatization. The project has three
principal objectives, namely: (i) to train practitioners in three core fields of
management, financial sector, and public finance; Qii) to develop an intermediary
institution, the National Training Foundation, to mobilize and channel resources for
high priority training investments; and (iii) to implement pilot projects in other key
market areas and establish the basis for a broader second-phase investment.
ftoiwr
DESCRIION       The project would finance programs within the following eligible fields:
(J)  Managem        Developmet.  Trainig managers in privazed eterpriss;
strengthening management training capacity in terns of policy, standards, resources
(earning materials and trainers); and development of professional supporting
infrastructure (management consultants, associations and networks).
Qi)  77we 15w5i  Secor.  Accounting, auditing and financial management:
Training of accountants, auditors and financial managers; strengthening training
capacities in curricula, standards, and training materials; developing existing faculty;
and upgrading training technologies. Banking: Training of bankers (chief executives
in sound bank management and mid-level managers and officers in credit risk
investment banking management, and international banking); training in bank
accounting; training of trainers; and development of teaching programs and material.
(iii) PbAc Pace.  Training of senior public finance officials in revenue
collection and budget processes.
(Iv) Phase 2 Pt Pmjecs. Developing and implementing subprojects of limited
scale in other important areas, such as small business, public administration and
market economics for the general public.



Page U                                                             Loan and Project Summarv
The project features the development of the National Traing Foundation (NTFI,
an intermediary, for selecting and funding subprojects in the above fields. The
creation of a new training foundation was justified by the massive scale of training
requirements, which exceed the scope of any existing agency; the present lack of
coordinating mechanisms; the need to involve non-government institutions and
employers in the process; the need to address regional requirements flexibly; and the
need for objective project selection and strict financial controls. The NTF is an
autonomous institution with half government and half private ownership. Its structure
includes a central institution with a network initially of three Regional Foundations.
The NTF would be the vehicle for defining strategies, identifying priorities and
allocating funds on a competitive basis to various locally-generated training projects
of high priority.
RATIONALE
FOR BANK
INOLVEMNET    The proposed project would make a direct contribution to the Bank's objectives of
promoting marke. based institutions and the private sector in Russia. First, it would
help develop the human capital necessary for the successful functioning of a market
economy and the implementation of economic reforms, particularly financial and
enterprise reforms. Second, it would assist in labor market restructuring and
employment creation by providing entrepreneurial and professional skills. Third, it
would help restructure key areas of the enormous training infrastructure and place
it on a more competitive footing. Finally, it would develop an institution, the
National Training Foundation, that would help rationalize training investments and
mobilize additional official and private assistance for training.
BENEFm           The project's immediate outputs would be (i) the creation of new and better training
resources in management, accounting and finance, banking as well as public finance,
including definition of teaching standards, curricula, learning materials, trainers and
networks; (ii) the creation of new capacities to deliver training, including the
development of a private training infrastructure, local training capacities, distance
learning and in-company training; and (iii) the development of an umbrella
organization able to define training strategies and to evaluate locally-generated
subprojects according to technical standards.  The ultimate output would be
substantial numbers of people trained to international standards in the core skills
required fbr a market economy. The outcome would be increased productivity and
more rapid labor redeployment which would contribute to an accelerated transition
to a market economy and greater individual and capital earnings.
RISKS            The project entails the creation of a new institutional structure in a complex and
changing environment. The principal potential risks include: (i) the quality and
incentives for NTF staff being sufficient to make the project work; (ii) a lack of
quality control when selecting subprojects; (iii) an inadequate application of financial
controls; and (iv) a possible dispersion of funds over too many programs with a
consequent loss of impact.  The project design has incorporated structures,
procedures and criteria specifically intended to minimize the above risks. However,
given the country context, borrower and donor staff must keep such factors under
close and constant review. In addition, the project entails basic development work
in terms of teaching programs, development of materials and training of trainers.
Full realization of the benefits of these investments depends on additional financing
for their dissemination and application.



Loan and Projea Swnmary                                                                Page iii
ESTIMATED PROJECr Cos0st
(Rubles billions)      (USS millions)
%  % Total
Foreign    Base
Local  Foreign  ?      Local Foreign        Exchange   Costs
Managem.ent Development       20.5    25.1            6.6      8.2 :         55        30
The Financial Sector           35.7    32.2 6        11.6    10.4            47        45
Public Finance                 6.9      7.3  4        2.2      2.4           52        9
Phase 2 Pilot Projects         4.2      2.9           1.4      0.9           41        5
Progwa,w Areas SS loJ    63.1    64.6 '        20.4    21.0   A        51        84
Nalo Tnd niaFowukion           11.7     4.7      .    3.8      1.5    %      28        11
Total Basdle Costs            79.0    72.2  t        25.6    23.4' 4         48        100
ndoeConoing es                 3.8     3.5            1.2      1.1           48        5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS    82.8    75.7                26.9    24.5  ' l       48
t Figures may not total due to rounding.
PRoJECr FINANCING PLANt
Total
Foreign Exchange       Local Costs         Project Costs
US$M       %       US$M        %                 Poject
Gnvenrment (Federal/Regional)         0      0          3.0      11                   6
National Training Foundation          0      0          1.0      4           &A       2
Subprqect Beneficiaries               0      0          6.3      23          4        12
Govemment of Switzerland            0.6      2          0.5      2           44       2
World Bank                         23.9      98        16.1      60        "         78
m02.,    =                2                         = 
TOTAL         24.5    100         26.9     100                 100
tFigures may not total due to ounding.



Page lv                                                                    Loan and Project S&unay
EhTED LOAN DisBuSRsNr SCHEDuu
D_bunement Over 48 Months
Bank Fuia Year            95              96                97                 98             99
Semester (6 mondhs)        1           2     3           4      5           6      7           8
Per Semester (%)          1.0         2.5   5.0          8.0   16.0        24.5  28.8         14.2
Per Semster (USS millions)   0.6      0.8   2.0          3.2   6.4         9.8   11.5         5.7
Cumulative (%)            1.0         3.5   8.5         16.5  32.5         57.0  85.8            .
Cumulative (USS millions)    0.6      1.4   3.4          6.6   13.3        22.8  34.3
Figum   may not total due to roundg.



TIRE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL TRAINLNG PROJECT
I. INTRODUCrION
1.1           The Russian government is in the process of making a massive, unprecedented shift from
a command to a market economy. The requirements for such a change include restructuring most
productive sectors completely, creating more service-oriented functions, establishing a labor market, and
wholesale restructuring of the government's role. Experience elsewhere, however, has shown that
economic reforms cannot be implemented adequately without trained human resources.
1.2           In recognition of the importance ox trained human capital for the transition, the Bank
started analyzing Russia's training requirements and supply ,onstraints in mid-1992. These analyses led
to the definition of a possible market-oriented2 training project in which the government showed interest.
With the assistance of a grant from Japan's Policy and Human Resources Development Fund, Bank staff
undertook comprehensive studies and prepared a project proposal in close collaboration with Russian
specialists. A notable aspect of this collaboration was a World Bank-Russian government workshop held
near Moscow in May 1993 during the preparation process, in which seventy-five Russian experts
participated in working out specific program proposals. Further collaboration took place in connection
with the institutional underpinnings for the project, including a Founders' Meeting on the proposed
instiutional intermediary. These preparatory studies and actions formed the basis for pre-appraisal in
November 1993 and appraisal in March 1994.
i.3           The proposed project recommends IBRD financing of US$40 million to establish the
National Training Foundation, an intermediary through which to finance high priority subprograms in
market-oriented fields. The proposed loan is recommended for Bank financing for the following reasons:
* it would address critical issues in the demand for and supply of market skills ftrough
a detailed strategy and action plan (chapter 2);
* it incorporates lessons learned from experience and would support the Bank's sectoral
and country strategy (chapter 3);
*  it would finance high priority training programs needed for the transition to a market
economy (chapter 4);
* it would create an innovative Russian intermediary to select, finance, and supervise
high priority investments in training (chapter 5);
*  its costs are reasonable and implementation has been planned in detail (chapter 6);
* it would confer important financial and economic benefits, and steps have been taken
to minimize the risks involved (chapter 7).
The following chapters of the report address each of these topics in turn.
2. "Markt*oriented as used here refers to fields and occupadons critial to a market economy; specificaly: enteprise
management; acounacy, finance, and audiding; bankng; small and medium-ie business; and new civil service and public
adminisaton concepts. wTraining" is used in this report to mean preparation for a specific occupation, as differentiated
from education, which refers to acquiring knowledge wihout reference to a specific job or occ ation. ^ReWaining" means
preparing someone who alreay has an occupation for a new one. "Upgrading means improving one's knowledge and sldlls
widhin an existng occupation. In-servicc training" means upgrding during employment, either on or off die job. The levels
of trainig covered in the report are for professionals nd technicians. This firmework explicitly excludes from
consideration technical subjects, such as engineering, in which Russian standards are reasonably high, and also manual or
vocational skills and occpatons.



TIE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
MANAGEMeNT AND 1ANANCIAL TRA1ING PROJECT
R. THE SECrORAL SETnNG
A. THE DEMAND FOR MARI-ORIETE  TRAING
2.1          Russia has begun major market-based reforms and has made an impressive, but uneven,
start in its transition to a market economy. Liberalizing the economy further will require deeper structura
reforms and a firm legal basis for private sector activity, which the government is beginning to undertake.
However, the reforms cannot be fully realized without a parallel effort to equip the county with market-
oriented skills.
2.2          Russia has had little exposure to market activity, even compared to other Central and
atemrn European countries. Foreign investmeent and private domestic activity have been lower in Russia,
the concentration of employment in the state system higher, and the period of command economy longer.
Consequently, the basic market skills that are taken for graned in industrial countries and in many
developing countries have been virtually nonexistent in Russia.
2.3          A successful transition to a market-based economy requires large numbers of people to
be trained in completely new commercial, financial, and management ski1ls. Millions of managers,
entrepeneurs, and administrators are restructuring enterprises, creating small businesses, opening new
bank, and transforming public finances and administration. Ihis is creating an enormous and growing
demand for market skills in many critical areas: particularly enterprise management, accounting and
finance, baoking, and public finance.
eWplIw Mwagemat
2.4          Economic reforms, restructurmg, and privatization are desdned to alter radically the
environment in which Russia's industrial and other enterprises operate. These changes will inevitably
establish new criteria for distinguishing achievement from failure, provide new opportunities and
incentives, and expose enterprises' decision makers to the discipline of the market. As tbs economy opens
up so as to increase exports and attract foreign investment, enterprise management will increasingly be
exposed to foreign competition, and its performance standards will have to be comparable to those in
industrW market economies. However, ineither privatization nor economic reforms by themselves will
guarantee the conversion of inefficient enterprises into excellent performers. Liberalizing trade and ;rices,
ntoducing competition, phasing out government subsidies, and rigorously applying bankruptcy legislation
can even undermine the pursuit of the reforms if managers are unabie to keep pace with the changes, take
advantage of new business incentives, and comply with the new regulations.
2.5          For seven decades the managers of Russian enterprises were sheltered from the direct
impact of market forces and were deprived of the possibility of learning from iternational management
experience and thinking. Ideology, distance, and language formed major barriers. This has resulted in
a unique context fnr economic reform, different in many ways from that in other reforming economies.
Virtually every report on Russian management points to the need for an array of new knowledge and
skills in areas that were nonexistent, underdeveloped, or distorted under the command economy. Such



Page 4                                                           Cahptr 11. The Sectoral Seating
areas include business strategy, marketing and selling, costing and pricing, financial management and
control, export promotion, and corporate governan".e. Equally important needs exist for skills in areas
that-on the surface-existed in command economy management, but in reality were driven by different
forces, applied different criteria, used different methods, and needed different cormpetencies from those
in a market economy. This explains the demand for training and retraining in production organization,
productivity and quality management, and human resource management. In all sectors, managers will
ha-ve to cope with radical enterprise restructuring, to be implemented at an unusually fast pace.3 Most of
the immediate, short-term skill requirements concern business and organizational diagnosis, business
planning, enterprise organization and restructuring, changing management and implementation, business
partner identification, forming strategic alliances, market development, changing employment and
motivation patterns, corporate finance, working with banks and financial markets. Profound sectoral
imbalances also exist that will have to be corrected by the process of restructuring, thereby creating
unprecedented management skill requirements in service sectors, including distribution, logistics, and the
financial and professional infrastructure of the market economy. The demand for new knowledge will be
high in all these areas. The need to change values and attitudes will be even more pressing. However,
in the short term few managers will be in a position to engage in educational and training programs of
general nature and longer duration. They will be looking for training and advice that is problem- and
action-oriented and has a direct and measurable impact on the improvement of their enterprises'
capabilities, competitiveness and business performance.
2.6           Russia's managers at all levels and in all sectors will be learning mainly on the job, by
seizing new opportunities and solving their firns' most pressing problems. However, learning on the job
alone will not suffice. Such methods of acquiring market skills could prove too difficult, slow, and costly
if not facilitated and supported by well-designed and effectively delivered training programs based on the
best international and Russian practice and experience. Virtually all Russian managers need at least a
short period of formal retraining. The target population for management training in industry and other
sectors is between one and two million. In addition, the public sector must not be overlooked as the role
of government changes. Enterprises and agencies that will stay under public ownership and control must
also undergo major changes regarding their objectives, performance criteria, and management patterns.
Managers of public enterprises will need training as urgently as their peels in the new private sector.
2.7           At the present time there is a major gap between already existing or emerging training
needs of Russian managers, and their expressed demand for training services. This is due to factors such
as poor experience with training to which managers were used to from the command system, a lack of
understanding of what can be achieved if training is modernized and becomes highly practical, shortage
of finance, and the managers' virtually exclusive concern with short-term survival, trouble shooting and
crisis avoidance. These attitudes are likely to change with progressing privatization and increasing
competition. It will be important, as well, to demonstrate in practice the contribution that effective
management training amd development can make to enterprise restructuring and performance
improvement.
3. Recent studies indicate Ihat lack of "managerial  u"    and the virtual noexistence of finncial and technic
experdse in the areas of commercial practice and market transactions," consXtt importn obstacles to the pace of
pnvatzaton. Privatzation in the Republcs ofthe Former Soviet Union: Framerk and til ResWu, World Bank, June
1993.



Chpter 11. The Secorul S&big                                                      Page 5
he FlWi  SecFor
2.8          Acwwuntng, AudWng, and Fnance. The embryonic marketbased economy has placed
massive new demands on Russia's accounting and finance sub-sectors. The accounting field and related
disciplines (auditing, financial munagement, budgeting. management accounting) are undergoing radical
change in Russia. Under the central command system accounting was used as a tool of central planning
and control at the national and regional levels. Under the market-based system, accounting identifies,
measures, and communicates fims' economic activities so that economic resources can be efficiently
allocated at the enterprise level.
2.9          This new role of accounting is unfamiliar to most practicing accountants in Russia, who
were trained in accordance with the techniques and procedures of the uniform Soviet accounting system,
as well as to top enterprise executives, government officials, ane other potential users of financial
information. Current accounting practices are still rooted in Soviet-era requirements for detailed control
and statistical book-keeping needs. Similarly, the focus of current audit practices are to establish
compliance with Russian statutory accounting and tax rules. According to studies in 1993, none of the
Russian audit firms has prepared financial statements in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting
rinciples (GAAP), and none has audited such statements in accordance with Generally Accepted
Auditing Standards (GAAS). The development and wide acceptance of Russian accounting principles and
auditing standards appropriate for a market-based economy are still some distance away. In addition, the
Russian audit firms do not have the resources to train large numbers of accounting graduates under
Russian stutory rules let alone international standards. In such an environment, there is considerable
need for establishing educational and training mechanisms ained at teaching market-based accounting and
auditing practices from the ground level to meet the new and emerging needs of business and management
in a market-based economy.
2.10         Tle scale of the demand for new financial skills can only be gauged in approximations,
but it will be huge. If chronically inefficient financial services are not to hobble the development of an
open eoonomy, the r -. iber of employees in the financial sector will have to double from 500,000 to I
million in the near future. These new staff will need training and most of the existing personnel will need
retraining. The demand for accouants and auditors is also massive and will grow progressively as
international standards are adopted. Estimates suggest that 300,000 new accountants and bookkeepers will
be needed annually for the next five years to serve newly created private enterprises, and that 2 million
bookkeepers will require retraining so that they can play a useful role in existing enterprises. More than
20,000 auditors will be needed annually. The training is complicated by the need for practitioners and
trainers to learn both a new accounting system and how to apply accounting to financial management.
2.11         B dang. The Russian commercial banking system has existed for at most eight years,
with both its structure and purpose changing at a fast pace. An in-depth transformation of the financial
system in Russia began in 1987 with the creation of a two-tier banking system with central banking
functions vested with the Gosbank and commercial banking functions separated and delegated to a number
of specialized institutions. Further liberalization of the system has proceeded at a rapid, albeit disorderly,
pace. New banks have proliferated, financial policies are precarious, the regulatory and supervisory
framework is still embryonic, accounting and auditing refo.ns are not yet complete, and the payments
system remains largely undeveloped and inefficient. Improved efficiency in the sector is essential for
banks to successfully execute their key roles in a market economy, namely, mobilizing financial savings,
allocating resources, and processing payments. Preparing Russian banks to operate in a market
cnvironment requires new methods for managing banks, marketing and delivering banking services,



Page 6                                                       Chapter M Te Seaoral Setting
controlling risk, ensuring banks' financial viability and performance, and carrying out basic banking
operations.
2.12         Estimates suggest that the financial services sector employs some 500,000 individuals,
which given a population of 160 million, indicates the sector's current state of underdevelopment.
Emerging banks which currently number about 2,000 with branches approximating 4,000 are finding it
extremely difficult to recruit staff with suitable qualifications and experience. They are resolving this
problem in part by hiring away some employees from older, established banks. There exists a high
demand, therefore, for the development of a wide range of banking skills, ranging from managerial
capacity to operational skills. Of particular need are skills in the area of overall risk management, credit
and financial analysis, and banking operations.
Pablic Financ
2.13         Public finance decisions critically affect the business environment by influencing levels
of taxation, savings and investment. The transition from a command to a market economy requires a
fundamental change in the management of public finances at all levels of government. Instead of
assuming secondary importance, the federal budget should now become the single most important tool
for the achievement of national priorities and goals involving the allocation of resources, their
distribution, and the stability of the macroeconomy. As it is, the Russian budget is inadequate as a tool
of fiscal management. The adaptation of the budget to the needs of a market economy has been
handicapped by the absence of trained skilled personnel in most areas of budgeting (including macro
quantitative analysis, expenditure control and reduction. evaluation and audit). In addition, regional
governments recently won budgetary autonomy and are now responsible for funding and implementing
a large share of investment and social programs. Public finance officials at the oblast and municipal level
are ill-prepared for their new functions. Likewise, important reforms in tax policy and administration
have been introduced without preparation of human resources to implement the proposed changes. New
revenue-raising measures will be critical to reduce the budget deficit and thus help stabilize the economy.
If public finances are not managed carefully during the transition to a market economy, there is a risk
of continued macroeconomic instability, resource misallocation and underfunding of critical social and
investment programs.
2.14         The demand for new skills by public finance officials is expected to rise significantly over
the next several years with the introduction of important reforms in budgetary and tax systems. Most
of these measures have been included in the Government's April 8, 1994 Statement on Economic Policies
to the IMF in connection with the second Systemic Transformation Facility (STF) purchase. For
example, the gradual adoption in 1994 of a new budget classification system conforming to IMF
standards, for full implementation in 1995, will require new expertise in budget preparation in the MOF,
line ministries and parliament. In addition, there is immediate need for training 1,500 managers and
20,000 specialists in the new computerized Treasury system. The transition in the execution of the
federal budget from the banking system to the Treasury is expected to be largely completed by the end
of 1994. The Government also plans additional improvements in tax policy and legislation, as well as
a special effort to increase significantly collections from the VAT tax. Both computerization of tax
administration and the training of up to 200,000 officials from the State Tax Service will be vital to this
effort. Finally, the financial position of local governments came under strain with the introduction on
April 1, 1994 of a new system of federal-regional budgetary relations. Several hundred senior local
govermment officials will require training in tax and budget policv in order to implement the new fiscal
federalist system effectively.



Chapter MLe Secral Seung                                                        Page 7
Other PloMiy SkAl Requments
2.15         The development of human capital and market-oriented skills is also important in an array
of other areas, including and in particular small business development, public administration and market
economics for the public at large.
*     Small enterprises mushroomed from a few hundred "cooperatives" when they
were first permitted in 1987 to nearly 700,000 at present employing nearly 20
million persons. These are important not only for the range of goods and
services needed in a market economy, but also for the generation of new
employment. In addition to policy, banking and financial support, there is also
an urgent need for appropriate institutional infrastructure to support the
development of small enterprises, in particular training and advisory centers to
train practicing and would-be entrepreneurs in business planning.
*     The transition from a command to a market economy entails a fundamental
change in the structure and functions of government at all levels with concomitant
changes required in the knowledge, abilities and skills of civil servants. Top
government officials at all levels need training in such areas as the changing role
of government in a market economy, including policymaking, economic
management and regulation.
*     For 75 years-more than three generations-the population of Russia was largely
cut off from contact with market economies. Reforms to create a market-
oriented economy are underway, but the population at large lacks an
understanding of how to live and work successfully, and of the proper role of
government and business, in such an economy. Full implementation of economic
reforms should be supported by massive education of the general public in the
basics of market and business economics.
B. TRAING SUPPLY ISSUES
2.16         Despite the presence of an extensive institutional network, the training system as a whole
requires thorough restructuring and reorientation to serve a market economy. It is not preparing enough
people with the necessary skills. Not only does the current training system produce too few graduates in
market-oriented fields, those it does produce are ill-equipped to meet the requirements of open market
practice. The present system of management and financial training is inadequate in four main respects:
*     It lacks a strategy for system-wide coordination and development;
*     Its content is not relevant to current Russian requirements for a market economy;
*     Its quality of instruction is low; and
*     Its throughput of students and practitioners is insufficient.
System  dcture and Management
2.17         Russia inherited an impressive institutional network from the command economy for the
training and development of management and financial "cadres". This training system features thousands



Page 8                                                                 Chapter .t. The Sectoral Seing
of technical colleges (technikuns), about 500 degree-level institutions (universities, academies and
nsrtitutes) including 220 management faculties and departments, plus an elaborate network of 100 sectoral
upgrading institutes (IPKs) and some 540 faculties of upgrading at universities. The system was geared
fully to the needs of a politicized and centrally-controlled economy. Senior and middle-level managers
had an obligation to attend periodically in-service courses at these institutions. Training establishments
had no problem in finding participants-government planning and financing guaranteed a steady clientele.
In addition, larger enterprises had their own training departments and centers to provide training for
lower and middle-level management and financial personnel.
2.18           The state training system was highly centralized, specialized and compartmentalized.
Over twenty ministries controlled parts of the system of higher education and post-degree training. Each
sectoral ministry established a large personnel departmnent one of whose functions was to operate its
training infrastructure of the sector-specific upgrading institutes. The main lines of communication were
vertical within each ministry. Decisions typically were made in Moscow. Policy-making and surveillance
were provided by the Communist Party, both centrally and in the regions. Management from the center
also included financing. The Government provided allocations through the national budget for both the
development and financing of the training system.
2.19           The collapse of the command economy has caused major changes in the state system of
training. Sectoral training institutes now get neither the customary financial support nor clear guidelines
on how to adjust to new conditions. Most enterprises have been unwilling to finance the training of their
managers under the traditional programs. As a result, some upgrading institutes have closed, some have
sought alternative activities and many have attempted to reform and modernize their service offerings.
University-based education for management and finance continues to be government financed' at the
degree level, but outside funding has to be sought for the training and retraining of practitioners. Despite
competing claims, no government organization or agency has the effective authority to coordinate traning
activities.
2.20           The most significant and visible reform efforts have taken place outside the traditional
institutional network through the establishment of new management and business schools, private or semi-
private, some loosely attached to existing public academic establishments. Some of these business schools
have become leaders and have been able to attract the best teachers and trainers available.5 Further
development of private training, however, is constrained by (i) the lack of a legislative framework
covering things as tax exemptions for not-for-profit training institutions; (ii) lack of capital to finance
4. Figures are not available on spending for mnagement and financial traimng wiin umversities. However, using
aggregat expenditur dat for higher educaton over the last few yeass as a proxy, spending dropped sharply between 1991
and 1992, but recovered in 1993 so that overall expendiures only declined 5% over the period. Expenditures were Rubles
109.4 billion in 1991, Rbl 94.7 billion in 1992 and Rbl 104.2 billion in 1993 (in constant 1992 Rubles). Since ovenll
enrollment also declined, spending per university student decreased only slightly over the same period, from Rbl 2763 in
1991 to Rb! 2624 in 1993.
5. In contas, hundreds of smaller private training centers and companies have been established in the last four years, in
the vast majority of cases, without compdent staff or adequate fities. 'Me main aim of these oppotic institutions,
in the absence of quality standards, has been to profit quicldy on the strong, but inexperienced demand for market-economy
skills.



ape IL The SetOr7 Setng                                                            Page 9
research and development work; (iii) lack of physical facilities in which to deliver training;" and (iv) the
lack of most people's ability to pay tuition for private training. Collective initiatives include the creation
of voltmary associations of business schools and management development establishments. They lack
power to coordinate and make decisions as regards the management of the whole system, but have started
a professional dialogue on common issues.
2.21         On the whole, the Russian system of management and financial training is far from
stagnant; efforts are underway to bring It in line with the requirements of the emerging market economy.
However, these efforts are sporadic and insufficient in the light of progressing privatization. They suffer
from inadequate resources and lack of policies on how to reform and improve the system as a whole.
There has been considerable fragmentation of efforts and little exchange of infonnation and collaboration
among institutions and individuals.
2.22         A new division of tasks and responsibilities has yet to be defined. In particular,
government must redefine its role in training and sector-specific training must give way to more generic
and flexible forms of training. Government and private sector must work together to organize supplies
of well trained professionals. A stra   for development of management and financial skills is needed
oulining the respective roles and approaches of government, academia, voluntary groupings and
privadzed enterprises.
2.23         In the past, the training infrastructure was geared toward technical fields and ideological
requirements. Engineering consfituted almost two-thirds of all enrollments in higher education. Market-
oriented skills, by definition, were not taught in a command economy, making the traditional training
infiastructure largely irrelevant to the economic reform.
2.24         The Knowle  Gap. A whole new set of subjects that have been mostly or completely
missing needs to be introduced. Examples are given below for key sectors:
*     Industry: genera management, including policymaking, decisionmaking, and
problem solving; privatization and business and taxation law; production
management, including product development, quality control, production
methods, cost reduction, and the use of information systems; marketing,
including market research, distribution, pricing, and export marketing; finance
and accounting, including financial management and cost accounting; and human
resource management, leadership, communications, and incentives.
*     Banking, financial services, accounting and auditing: accrual basis of accounting,
management accounting, bank accounting, market-based bank management with
emphasis on relevant risk management techniques, investment banking, corporate
finance, money and capital markets, stock markets, insurance, investment
6. Ample tig ifiltWs exist, but these are all virtufy owned and controlled by the govermen. Some directors of
private tainig   Uons colain of the large costs and of the control exerted by the government over the rent of these
fciwli"S.



Pa8e 10                                                            Chapter 11. The Sectoral Setfing
management, and advanced financial theories, for example, portfolio theory,
capital asset pricing, options pricing, and risk-hedging strategies.
*      Public finance: macro quantitative analysis, accounting financial management;
and budget and tax policy and administration.
The lack of foreign lanpgage skills is a problem that cuts across all sectors, but is particularly acute in
international business and finance. The list is by no means exhaustive, but illustrates the type of
knowledge currently lacking. An interesting feature of the list is the overlap.7 Almost every sector needs
skills in management, finance, accounting, and personnel management. These subjects need not be
developed separately for every sector. Substantial economies could be realized by developing standardized
training across sectors.
2.25          Not only must new teaching programs be introduced, they must pursue relevant
objectives. This seems to be missing in much of training in accountancy. Accountancy training is not
focused on developing skills that enable the practitioner to identify and generate the information needed
by the user for problem-solving purposes in a market-based economy. Instead, the training tends to be
limited either to mechanical application of detailed rules in narrow sectoral accountancy topics or to broad
theoretical treatment. Teaching programs also need to be adapted to Russian conditions. Teaching and
training materials from market-economy countries started being used recently in many institutions. Their
choice has not always teen judicious. Mere translations proved to be insufficient, but adaptation to
Russian conditions and production of original local materials have hardly started. It is difficult to obtain
taining usefiul for the work of Russian enterprises because conditions are so unpredictable and changing.
Standard offerings from the west simply do not reflect current problems of enterprises. Imported
blueprints tend not to be relevant. Despite the need, Russian case material has not been developed and
used widely for training purposes, either in management training or for training of accounts and finance
experts. Training tends not be rooted in diagnosis of real experience or needs analysis.
2.26          Trrab gforrPracUioners. Under the previous system, managers and technical personnel
were supposed to attend periodically courses at the upgrading institutes. The courses were mainly
technical, theoretical, and ideological. Part of this in-service training in industry related to economics,
including management. However, this was mostly devoted to a grounding in Party ideology and the
economics of production. The programs did not focus on enterprises' needs and did not provide practical,
lob-related skills. In-company training programs were rare except for blue-collar workers. In market
economies, managerial and technical professionals require training and development on a permanent basis
that cover the practical problems people face on the job. This mode of training is best given within the
firm, if it is iWge enough, or in institutions where the enterprise can influence the content of the training.
7. Undor a co_mand economy people could be tained in advance for a  tpecifo sector, and even for a specific occupation
witin the sector, wih somo assur   of acally enting and staying in tIe sector. Under a maiket economy sectoral
demund cannot eaily be predicted in advance and changes in one's career are far more frequent. A more general
preprton is required dth permits ransfer among sectors. Occupations that are transfeile across sectors include, for
example, accouants, budget speciaists, and umangers.



ampter M The Sectoral Seting                                                      Page 11
2.27         In certain fields, such as theoretical science and mathematics, the quality of Russian
education is second to none. However, this is far from true in other fields, particularly market-oriented
subjects. The incentive system under the command economy tended to ignore quality in all forms of
production and service, including training. The current education and training system inherited from the
past is based on an "institution-financing" approach. All education and traiDing institutions supported
from the federal or local budgets were-and still are-financed according to certain quantitative criteria
related to the number of students and professors, teaching space, number of courses-in short, based on
inputs. For example, management training emphasized the number of people trained rather than the
quality of what they learned.
2.28         Low quality is, first, a reflection of lack of standards. Accountancy and audit training,
for example, are not based on a professional framework that governs admission standards, content and
performance targets. In management training and development, Russia suffers from the absence of
recognized and widely applicable standards defining the content and length of training, the content and
level of learning materials, the training methods used, the competencies of the teaching staff and the level
of knowledge and skills that should be demonstrated after program completion. It is difficult to measure
program quality, compare various recently introduced programs and set targets for quality improvement.
2.29         Low quality is also a direct reflection of the competency profile of most Russian trainers.
Virtually all the teachers and trainers in the present system are products of the command economy and,
thus, lack training in market-oriented fields. They are deficient in theory, practical experience and
teaching methods. Generally they have been isolated and out of touch with their Western colleagues.
Teaching methods under the Soviet regime were formalistic, stressing theory, lecturing, memorizing, and
testing rather than understanding and application. Modem teaching methods, such as action-oriented
training and group work, are little known and seldom practiced. Without retraining this generation of
trainers will quickly become unusable. There is, then, an urgent need for major teacher and trainer
retraining efforts, covering both the substantial field taught and the methods whereby market-oriented
knowledge and skills are transmitted to adults. In addition, teaching aids, such as computers, video
players, and reproduction equipment, are not widely available. Physical facilities are more than adequate
in terms of space, but the state owns and controls many of them. A large number of facilities need
refiurbishing and renovation. Finally, most training does not provide for periodic evaluation of results
in relation to expectations and continuous adaptation of the training to the changing environment.
Throughpu
2.30         As already noted, the scale of demand is massive if Russia is to have enough qualified
people to function efficiently as a market economy. Formal training programs need to be redesigned to
ensure that new entrants to the labor market have the required practical skills. Informal and in-service
training needs to be expanded and modernized to keep pace with progressing privatization and economic
restructuring.
2.31         Managers. The former system for training and retraining managers for state enterprises
(para. 2.17) reportedly had an annual throughput capacity of 1.4 million persons. This capacity has
8. Qual is defined here as learnig achievement and the ability to make practcal applications of such leauning.



Page 12                                                               Chapter M  The Sectoral Setting
diminished significantly owing to several factors. Poorly controlled privatuation of training facilities has
often resulted in the conversion or use of facilities for other purposes. Shortage of curricula and learning
materials on management under market conditions also constrains output. However, the shortage of
competent trainers is the main limiting factor. A majority of the teaching staff cannot provide market-
economy related training meeting minimum standards. According to current estimates, the throughput
of management programs staffed by relatively competent and already upgraded teachers and trainers is
not more than 25,000 to 50,000 managers per year. The quantitative gap is wide by any standard. At
this rate it would take several generations to satisfy the requirements for managexrent retraining (para.
2.6). Concerted actions are required to develop relevant teaching materials, disseminate them widely,
undertake intensive trainer retraining programs and use distance learning methods to reach wide
audiences.
2.32          T7he finanil4 secdor. More than 200 institutes of higher education teach modules on
accountancy, banking and finance as part of a broad economics discipline, but-with the exception of
several apex institutions-the subject has been dealt with superficially. The throughput is about 10,000
acceptable accountancy and finance graduates, and about 5,000 practitioners, per year9.  This
approximates only about 5% of annual requirements. The challenge of providing effective training is
heightened because most trainer teaching accountancy and finance have had no practical experience. In
addition, attrition among trainers is high; many are leaving to work in finance outside academia, where
the pay is significantly higher. While several new institutions have been created with donor assistance
(i.e. International Finance and Banking School in Moscow and International Banking Institute in St.
Petersburg), their throughput and geographic reach are limited in comparison to the need. Other forms
of training for Russian bankers and accountants assisted by the West have been through short courses that
offer exposure to different banking and accounting cultures rather than intensive training. Russian banks
and accounting firms (except the "Big Six") themselves have been unable or unwilling to commit
resources to develop an in-house training capacity, and all but the strongest lack the critical mass and
know-how to devote to the task.
2.33           PMblc fiwnce specials. Owing to developments in tax and budgetary systems (para.
2.12) the demand for public finance training will begin to accelerate in late 1994 and rise significantly
in 1995-96. An accelerated training program is needed throughout this period. The present training
capacity and planned assistance is inadequate to meet the projected scale of demand. Public finance is
taught primarily in the Ministry of Finance regional system and three specialized academies in Moscow
9. 'he Financial Academy's anmnu outp is 170 grduates majoring in accounting taught by 36 professors with Ph.D. in
accounting. Moscow State University, over a tree-years period 1991 to 1994, grduated 2,575 trainees in its Moscow
Center. The Center has about 20 fill time professors with Ph.D. in accowuting. The Center has affiliates in Novosibirsk,
Pem, Ektnburg, Nizhny Novgorod, Omsk, Vladivostok, Smolensk, where they trained about 2000 tranees in these
areas over the same period. In and Academy of National Economy, tanng about 650 pratoners a year is delivered by
about 100 ful time professors with Ph.D. in accounting. The Financial Institute for Upgrading Skills tnined about 1000
trainees a year with a permanent staff of 30 Ph.D.s about 400 part ime insnucto. The All-Russia Corresponding Instiue
graduates between 600-700 graduates a year and taied between 300-400 graduates a year by 8 fu time accounting
prossors. The Open University issued 1884 cerficates and 32 Diplomas since its inception three years ago. The
Inratonal University graduates 20 master students a year.



Chpter AL The Secoraul Se.ng                                                        Page 13
and St. Petersburg.t0 Public finance in a market economy is not integrated in undergraduate economics
degree programs at the university level. A strategy is needed on three levels to meet present and future
demand for skilled public finance officials: retraining of existing practitioners (including both technical
concepts and practical on-the-job skills); training of master trainers; and the development of courses for
economics degree programs. With respect to the first, the MOF training system, particularly the IPK,
has made an impressive effort to retrain practitioners. However, it will soon face a severe challenge
when demand rises steeply for new skills in budget preparation and execution. Likewise, the IPK of the
State Tax Service will be overwhelmed by the demand for skilled new tax administrators in audit,
taxpayer programs and computerized processing. The training of a core group of budget and tax policy
experts in the Ministry of Finance, State Tax Service, Duma and sub-national governments will require
the development of new courses adapted specifically for the Russian system as well as more computer-
assisted training technologies to reach thousands of practitioners at low unit costs. This is essential
because traditional training approaches based on resident courses (requiring payment of travel and
subsistence) will simply be unaffordable. External assistance must be effectively paired with Russian
institutions to generate both the intellectual inputs needed for course development and the finance required
for computer-assisted training technologies. Marshalling appropriate and timely external support is
essential to meet the throughput and quality requirements of the accelerated public finance training
program.
2.34          Distance education. One important way to meet massive demands is through distance
education. Russia has a strong tradition with using distance education. Over one-third of post-secondary
students, or about one million people, have been following correspondence courses which have a tradition
of over 70 years. Participation is based mainly on sandwich courses, with emphasis on individual study
and formal classes which meet from 40 to 60 days per year. The major national correspondence school
for business enrolls about 30,000 students. Yet, the quality of the courses suffers from the same
problems of conventional education, particularly in relation to the quality of instructional materials,
teacher training, support to students and evaluation mechanisms. The existing delivery systems are fairly
rigid, inefficient in student throughput (dropout rates are high) and overly dependent on government
financing. Moreover, little use is made of modern telecommunication facilities, particularly computer-
based training, electronic mail and narrow- and broad-cast television, all of which are available.
C. PLANS AND PROGRAMS
The Govemment
2.35          The government is generally keen to promote training in support of economic reform,
but faces difficulties because of its lack of proper coordination, expertise and resources. Several
Government agencies are working on various programs and plans to promote training. Decree 65 of
February 1992, gave the Ministry of Labor responsibility for developing and coordinating new
government training programs. The government had been formulatir,g an intersectoral training program
for the market economy, "National Program on Employee Training for the Market Economy," for the
10. The MOF system includes dhe State Finance Academy, the Insatute of Skill Upgrading (IPK) and assoctd programs
at the Academy of National Economy, the Plekhanov Initute and the Institxte of Fnance and Economics in St. Petesburg.
'eMse imiiutions gmduate approximately 500 finane specialist annually and provide skill upgradg drough short corses
to about 3000 offcials per year.



Page 14                                                        Chapter 11 The Secoral Sening
past two years. The objective is to finance training in high priority subjects for people actively involved
in the transition to a market economy at the central, regional, and local levels. At least a dozen ministries
or agencies were involved. The approval process had been slow, but a government decree was signed on
November 1993, approving the program in general (though without financial support) and calling for the
Minister of Labor to chair an interministerial coordinating council to adopt high priority training
programs and find ways to finance them.
2.36         Meanwhile the State Committee on Higher Education is preparing its own program of
reforming the training sector. It recently proposed a plan for creation of a fund for "additional education"
(the official name of post-degree training). According to this proposal, the fund would draw resources
from a compulsory payroll tax and v' ild be responsible for strategy, standards and financing of state-
owned training institutions. The proposal has come under attack from various ministries, but it is still
under consideration. These government programs could benefit greatly from external expertise and
financial support.
Exterai Donor Ass tance
2.37         Most donors involved in Russia have identified training as important, especially training
in management, entrepreneurship, privatization, and the emerging financial sector. The European Union's
TA-CIS has been the largest contributor, targeting assistance to several key institutions. Among the
bilateral donors, the following have been the most prominent: Canada, Germany, Finland, France, the
Netherlands, the United Kingdom, and the United States. The Soros Foundation is also providing major
assistance, nminly in the fields of science and education. The World Bank's Economic Development
Institute (EDD) has been providing assistance for training policymakers and trainers, based on locally-
developed case studies, largely in market economics, banking and finance, and privatization. In addition,
many small private donors are active in developing programs, and often deal directly with local training
centers. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) is develuping new projects
to develop curricula and establish decentralized business training centers, and the Organization for
Economic Cooperatiois and Development (OECD) is working on ways to coordinate assistance to retrain
discharged military officers. Several training activities have been proposed under the new post-
privatization efforts to train managers of newly privatized enterp- ses. This initiative is being coordinated
by the Russian Privatization Center of the GKI.
2.38         Regarding public finance, until recently, only EDI, the IMF, and the Joint Vienna
Institute offered relevant training for public finance officials. This is now changing. The State Tax
Service (STS) with OECD technical support and financing from USAID, TA-CIS, Denmark, and the IRS
of the United States has opened the International Institute for Tax Administration in Moscow. It is
intended o provide training in tax administration and also some tax policy, but capacity is extremely
limited. No donors have identified to finance the delivery of training for the new Treasury system.
There is an immediate demand for courses adapted to Russian tax and budget systems supported by
strategies and financing to expand delivery capacity.
2.39         Overall donor assistance for training has several general characteristics. Much assistance
has proved to be extremely useful. With a few eAceptions, however, the assistance has been directed
toward specific institutions and, as a conseq 'ence, has tended to be dispersed. In addition, overall
strategies for assistance are often lacking. A comprehensive, global approach is absent. As a result, in
many cases assistance is piecemeal and haphazard. Much of the assistance is devoted to financing
inernational experts and study tours abroad. Much less is spent on providing training in-country,



aapw IJ. 7he &ctoria Setmg                                                      Page 15
developing Russian trainers, and adapting training materials to the Russian context. Some of the
assistance has been designed without adequate involvement by Russian experts or recognition of Russian
strengths, thereby compromising the long-term impact. Lack of provision for local finance limits the
number of Russian participants working under existing technical assistance programs. Quite often the
program will stop when foreign consultants leave. Nor has sufficient attention been given to
dissemination of results obtained.
2.40         The view is widespread, both among donors and in govermment, that training needs to
be linked more effectively to economic reforms, in prticular, to support emerging and newly privatized
enterprises. Usually the training programs are identified with the help of relevant Government agencies
which may not reflect the needs of the private sector. Emerging private enterprises and banks themselves
are frequently unable to articulate their own training needs due to the lack of understanding of their
requirements and underdeveloped professional infrastructure. Private professional and employers
associations could play an important role in needs analyzing and standard-setting, but lack access to
external technical assistance to develop their capacities. In the final analysis, the scale of demand for high
quality programs far outstrips their supply. Assistance being provided or pledged by the foreign donor
community, while impressive, falls short of the level required for high priority training needs. The
challenge is to develop a coordinated approach that addresses the needs, fills the financing gap, improves
the use of resources, yet avoids duplication. To make the best use of scarce training resources in the near
term, particularly for cri2ical skills like accounting, an agreed framework on course content and
professional development is needed, adapted to Russian conditions, that can be widely applied.
D. A STRATEGY FOR MAK-ORINTED TRAIIG
2.41         Based on a dialogue between various government ministries, employers' associations,
professional associations, and training institutions, an overall training strategy has been prepared to
overcome the problems inherent in the current system. The objective of the strategy is to organize an
efficient supply of the market-based skills needed for economic transformation and installation of the
market economy. The core strategy to achieve this objective has four principal elements, which are
discussed in the following paragraphs.
Resmacfw*fg Sys*= Mwaagemwt ad Taww
2.4_         Having recognized that training cannot be managed by command economy methods, the
government will have to redefine its role in training. The central government should not-and
cannot-supply the bulk of market-oriented training for reasons of cost and relevance. The central
government's role should emphasize coordination and policymaking. The government should also provide
central services, such as curriculum and materials devclopment and training of trainers, where such
activities could be carried out more efficiently centrally. Training should be decentralized to the regions
and municipalities. Local control of training will help stimulate new initiatives that relate the content of
training better to local problems. Regions and municipalities should develop the capacity to assess local
training needs and existing training capacities, initiate new programs, coordinate training offerings across
departments, and adapt and implement national training policies. Publicly-supported training centers and
institutions should become more autonomous by using local boards of directors and should be required
to raise some of their funds by selling services.



Page 16                                                        Chapter 11. The Sectoral Senmg
2.43         A major priority should be to develop a demand-driven training system. This involves
encouraging the growth of training markets and generally moving the control of training programs and
institutions closer to the customers. 'i'he government should establish incentives to encourage the growth
of privately-financed training by firms or proprietary training institutions. It should establish a 'light"
regulatory framework designed to ensure minimum quality standards without inhibiting initiatives.
Training by the private sector tends to be more responsive to users and is more likely to be paid for by
the beneficiaries. Development of a demand-based system can be done in several ways: (i) by ensuring
thatjoint ventures with foreign partners give due attention to employee training programs; (ii) by building
capacities for in-house training within larger privatized enterprises; and (iii) by encouraging professional
associations to take responsibility for setting professional standards, controlling quality, and providing
training for their membership.
2.44         Building new types of capacity to manage the training system will also be important.
Partnerships should be established between the government, enterprises, banks, professional associations,
and training institutions to develop training policies and initiatives. Coordinating mechanisms should be
established at the central level. A national training management board, council, fund, or organization
should be created to channel development funds into the system. Regional training capacities, lacking in
the past, must be developed along with the expertise to manage training institutions and centers
effectively.
Buildng Rekevant Training Programs
2.45         A key feature of developing a market-responsive training system will be to improve the
relevance of what is taught in the training system. The content of training must become less specialized
along sectoral lines. Training should be increasingly oriented toward generic occupations, such as
accountancy, rather than toward sectors. Training in disciplines important for a market economy, for
example marketing, must be developed and introduced. Initially the training should focus on short courses
to retrain current practitioners, but subsequently it should include courses designed for the formal
education system, for example, market economics for general education and entrepreneurship for technical
colleges. Employers, the consumers and users of skills, must be given a major voice in determining what
training is given and its content. Other key measures include (i) adapting foreign coursework and
textbooks to Russian conditions and generating local case studies and other training materials; (ii)
expanding the use of varied approaches to short training programs outside formal schools aimed at solving
practical problems in the local context; (iii) developing new services that training institutions can offer,
for example, research, information, and consulting activities; and (iv) encouraging professional
associations to upgrade their members' competence through a variety of shorter programs focused on
high-priority topics in support of the economic reforms.
Achivig QuaUty Stards
2.46         An effective training system requires that quality be built by (i) setting achievement
standards through voluntary accreditation of institutions, preferably by professional associations; (ii)
consolidating and rationalizing the currently overbuilt public training infrastructure and concentrating
resources on a few excellent institutions; (iii) using competition (that is, open evaluation of competitive
proposals by institutions according to standard criteria and transparent procedures) to channel
development funds to training institutions; (iv) developing a cadre of master trainers and management
consultants; (v) moving away from abstract and excessively theoretical training and introducing new,
active, learner-centered teaching methods; (vi) developing practical in-company programs by which to



Chaptw n. Te Secto,ra Se*ng                                                     Page 17
train managers and employees at work; and (vii) evaluating systematically the effectiveness of training
and providing feedback to training suppliers.
E&pd  Ddvery C4pacly
2.47         Given the massive scale of training requirements, it is vital to extend the delivery capacity
for market-oriented training by (i) fostering voluntary communicaton networks among training
institutions; (ii) developing or extending capacities for distance learning, for example, through television,
electronic mail, and open universities; (iii) using the mass media to raise general public awareness about
market econo'nics; and (iv) using the cadre of master trainers and management consultants to pass on
their expertise.
2.48         This broad strategy has been translated into a coherent set of acions. This action
program, outlined in detail in Annex 1, establishes a sequence for the necessary steps that need to be
taken. Annexes 2-5, respectively, present action programs in management development, accountancy and
finance, banking, and public finance, respectively.



T1E RUSSAN FEDERATION
MANAGEMENT AND FiNANCAL TRAIN G PtOJECT
mI   LESSONS OF ExpnCE ANND BANK STRATEGY
A. LESSONs OF EXPERIENCE
Setor       s kedenc
3.1          Experience in the design and implementation of training projects elsewhere points to the
need for sustained support over a series of in-estments foacssing on institutional development. Particular
lessons emphasize the need for:
a.    targeting of foreign training programs; careful selection of fellowship recipients;
planning of logistical arrangements for administration of training programs
abroad; and avoidance of brain drain or improper placement of returning fellows;
b.    using alternatives to training abroad, such as the development of local training
programs which can tend to be more relevant in content, avoid problems of brain
drain and be less costly;
c.    use of professional expertise, such as in accountancy, in project design and
establishment of a dialogue during implementation with members of the
profession;
d.    early and sustained involvement of enterprises, or the users of skills, in overall
direction of training programs (this does not happen automatically and incentives
must be provided for enterprise managers to participate); and
e.    strong instiutional management to support modernization programs.
3.2          Training funds managed by national training authorities, such as in Singapore, Chile and
Mexico, hve proved useful in financing new training initiatives. Such mechanisms have proved to be
eftcdve in adjusting training supply to meet changing needs and organizing training interventions to
facilitate economic chage. The fimds with broadest impact are those available to both public and private
training providers. Broadly based oversight by the public and private sectors, employers and NGOs has
helped to avoid problems in fund administration.
3.3         In sum, the characteristics of successful training programs include: carefully targeted
training; responsive, decentralized planning to take into account local requirements; strong linkages to
eanprise; quality through standards and on-going staff development with systematic evaluation of
resuts; a steady source of financing; strong institutional management; and sustained investment in
dweloping institutional capacities.



Page 20              _a_A  III Lessons of Merence and Ban  tratey
Expeience in Russia
3.4          There is litte project experience from which to draw guidance in Russia; however,
experience in Eastern Europe can be instructive. A shortcoming in the Bank's approach in transition
economies was to wait too long to deal with training issues. The initial focus on short-term social safety
net issues proved to be incomplete. As the transition took hold, there was litde strength or speed in the
supply response partly owing to constraints on market skills and institutional experience. Given the
required lead time, issues of market skills must be addressed early to ensure a vigorous supply response
when needed in 3 to 4 years. One particular lesson from previous social sector lending in Russia
warrants specW  mention. Implemenation of the Employment Services Protection Loan has been
hampered by lack of familiarity below the level of the head of the Service and points to the need to
ensure widespread understanding of, and commitment to, project objectives and mechanisms before loan
commitment.
Lendg Ixsmwnents Epestenw
3.5           Bank experiences with training funds, social investment funds and sector investment
projects (SECILs), somewhat analogous to the proposed project,"1 provide relevant lessons.
a.    Experiences with training funds point to the importance of (i) careful phasing to
match the pace and scale of the project to management cP-abilities; (ii) building
ownership and commitment through beneficiary particip&ion in the design of the
project; (iii) flexibility, particularly in countries with unstable political and
economic conditions, so as to be able to respond to changes at the macro level
and to locally diverse needs; and (Iv) the role of consumers and users of skills
in deciding on program priorities.
b.    Lessons from social investment funds show (i) their potendal to establish
partnerships between central government, private intests and local authorities
and build strong coalitions in support of reform; (ii) the importance of having a
clear understanding of the responsibilities of the various partners; (iii) the need
for transparent management and isolation from pisan politics; (iv) the potential
to build local capacity and distribute benefits widely through trainifig and
assistance in the fonmulation of small-scale projects; and (v) the general tendency
to underestimate procurement and disbursement issues during preparation.
c.    Experience with sector investment projects suggests that implementation can be
enhanced by a period of trial testing of the appraisal mechaism before loan
approval. All the project instruments menioned above stress the importance of
frequent and close supervision for these kinds of projects.
3.6          The proposed training project has incorporated these lessons in project design.  The
overall investment program has been divided into phases to facilitate manageability. The smaller first
phase would focus on a core program in four out of the seven priority fields of training. The project
11.  lese fuds typically ue a inrmediay to elect and financbprojew. However, the fands differ inat the
organiztons are usuaRy government opered and make gras her dan loa.



Chaper IIL Lessons of E&perience and Bank Strategy                                  Page 21
centers on the establishment of a training fund with strong institutional management. Enterprises
constitute a significant block in the boards of directors and this role should increase over time. The
project emphasizes local training programs and economizes on fellowships. It decentralizes much of
subproject selection. Systematic evaluation of results has been planned as an integral part of the project
from the start. Finally, extraordinary efforts were taken in project development to widen the consensus
and involve a broad range of Russian authorities in and out of government. Program proposals were
developed by teams of Russian experts assisted by international advisors. Proposals for the training
foundation and subsequently regional affiliates concept, and subsequently for each Regional Foundation,
were prepared by joint teams incorporating government agencies, non-government organizations and
international advisors. Thus, already in project development, an important dialogue has been created
between public and private agencies over sectoral issues and policy. The result has been a remarkable
degree of consensus and wide-spread commitment to the objectives and means of the project.
B. BANK LENDING STRATEGY
Triaing Sector Polic
3.7           Bank policy in the training sector is based on the premise that to the extent possible
beneficiaries of training-individuals, families, and firms-should finance the costs of training services.
Public support for training (in the form of financing for training, and only exceptionally provision of
training) is, however, justified where it is necessary to compensate for market imperfections, such as
distortions in the labor market; to capture external benefits; to offset weak private training capacity; and
to improve equity. The policy, accordingly, calls for Bank support for (i) strengthening employer and
private training capacity, (ii) improving the effectiveness and efficiency of public training, (iii) developing
alternative sources of financing for training, and (iv) providing long-term support for institutional
development. In particular, the policy explicitly recommends that consideration be given to support for
national training authorities and establishment of "training funds as a source of targeted grant and loan
assistance to employers and private and public training agencies." Further, the policy states that "Bank
operations should generally:
a.     Finance part of a longer-term investment and institutional development program
that supports a clear strategy for an evolving government role in training; and
b.    Seek to mobilize support from other international donors within an accepted
policy framework."'2
Radonale for Bank Involvement
3.8           The main objectives of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Russia are to:
(i) support the development of a market-oriented economy based on private sector initiatives; (ii)
encourage the redirection of public sector involvement in the economy toward the establishment of open
and competitive markets and the provision of physical, social, legal, and institutional infrastructure not
normally provided through the private sector; and (iii) finance high priority public sector investments and
policy advice on key economic and sectoral issues.
12. Vocauonal and Technical Education and Tranung: A World Bank Policy Paper," World Bank, 1991, pp. 69-70.



Page 22                                      Chapter IlL Lessons of &erience and Bank Strategy
3.9          Bank involvement in the proposed project is justified by the contribution of the training
project to the Bank's global objectives in Russia. The proposed Project is fully consistent with the Bank's
CAS. First, by developing the core skills required for a market economy to function effectively, the
proposed project would help accelerate the economic transition. As experience elsewhere has shown,
economic reforms cannot be implemented adequately without trained personnel. Second, the proposed
project would assist in restructuring the labor force. The project would contribute to employment
generaxion and more rapid labor redeployment by training people for new professions and self-
employment. Third, the proposed project would help to restructure key parts of the enormous training
infrastructure and place it on a greater market footing. It would encourage the expansion of private
sector training programs and innovations based on quality, standards for accreditation and increased cost
recovery, with important spill-over effects on publicly-finance training programs. Finally, the Bank's
support for strategic targeting of training investments and for the institutional development of a training
foundation should help create conditions conducive to mobilizing official and private assistance for
additional investment in priority training programs-a global objective of the Bank.
3.10         The proposed project complements other Bank assistance to Russia. It would provide
training pertinent to accounting, auditing, finance and banking, thus supporting initiatives in the Financial
Institutions Development Project (FY94). It includes assistance for management development that is
consistent with the aims and modus operandi of the Enterprise Support Project (FY94). It would also
coordinate assistance with the Employment Services Project (FY93), in part by participation of the
Federal Employment Service and regional services in the direction of the training foundation.



THE RUSSLAN FEDERATION
MANAGEMENr AND FINANCIAL TRAIIG PRoJECr
IV. THE PRoJEcr
A. PROJECr OBJECTIVES
4.1          The proposed project constitutes the first phase of a long-term program to implement the
strategy for market oriented training (paras. 2.41-2.47). The overall purpose of the program,is to
increase the quality and supply of skills needed to support the transition to a market economy. Within
this context the first phase project has three principal objectives, namely:
a.    to increase the supply of well-trained, market-oriented practitioners in three core
areas:
*     management,
*      ithe financial sector, and
*     public finance;
b.    to establish an intermediary organization, the National Training Foundation, to
mobilize and channel resources for priority market-oriented training programs on
a competitive basis (Chapter V). Through the NTF the project would help make
aid flows move more effectively and efficiently; and
c.    to establish the basis for a broader second-phase project by piloting effective
interventions in other key market areas, such as small business development,
banking, public administration and market economics for the general population.
B. PROGRAM DESCRIONS
4.2          Program areas for training have been selected because of their priority in speeding the
restructuring of key sectors vital to the accelerated establishment of the market economy, such as
enterprise restructuring, financial sector reforms and privatization. The three pmgroga areas are
management development; the financial sector; and public finance. Specific sbprograms have been pre-
defined for support within the three main program areas. These subprograms are further divided into
subprojects that are the principal packages to be financed under the project. Subprojeces are discrete
investment packages with objectives, specific activities to achieve them, and a fixed implementation
period. The subprojects would be of two basic kinds: (i) devlopment subprojecs whose objectives
would be to prepare the structure, content, materials and instructors for training activities; and (i)
deiveiy subproJects that would provide training for priority target groups (e.g. enterprise managers,
practicing accountants) using various modes, such as classroom teaching, on-the-job training, fellowships
and study tours, and distance teaching.) Loan proceeds would finance expert services (both external and
Russian); the acquisition of books and other teaching materials; fellowships abroad; and the costs of
organizing and delivering media programs as in distance education (including some equipment), local



Page 24                                                               Chapter IV The Projea
training programs, and studies. The eligible program areas are summarized below. Detailed strategies,
action plans, specific subprograms, subproject definitions and pilot projects are presented in the annexes.
Magement Deeopment (US$14.8 million of base costs) (Annex 2)
4.3           The strategy for assistance to management development would assign first priority to
reforming and upgrading enterprise-based management, relating the training of practicing managers to
the main objectives of economic reforms and enterprise restructuring. Enterprises would be directly
assisted to implement management development policies and programs that meet the needs of the reform
and to retrain managerial staff in high priority areas. In this context, it is expected that the proposed
project would collaborate with the Russian Privatization Center and Local Privatization Centers to identify
specific enterprises for assistance. Second, external training programs for managers would be
strengthened. The restructuring and modernization of both enterprise-based and external training systems
would be supported in the critical areas of developing new programs and learning materials, training of
trainers, and improving quality. Nonconventional training and learning rnethods, would be promoted,
including distance learning and the use of mass media, and management consulting and information
services would be strengthened. All programs would stress effective application of the best international
and Russian experience.
4.4          Assistance would be structured in five subprograms supporting developments in the
following areas: (i) policy framework and quality standards for management development; (ii) enterprise-
based management development; (iii) learning materials, trainers, and teachers; (iv) management
consulting; and (v) networking and information. Project activities would be started through four pilot
projects focused on (i) identifying and removing the barriers hampering management development; (ii)
assessing the priority needs of enterprises and preparing for enterprise-based, action-oriented training;
(iii) collecting, developing, and distributing recent Russian case materials on management during the
transition period; and (iv) designing a database and compiling the first Russian management development
directory.
4.5           The project would finance international and national experts and advisers; fellowships for
study abroad; contracts with enterprises, institutions, and associations for developing new programs and
materials; publication and dissemination of the materials produced; purchase of training equipment and
teaching aids; and the delivery of selected in-country training courses for training trainers and consultants.
Ike flndl  Sector (US$22.0 milon of base costs) (Annexes 3 & 4)
4.6          Accowtanc, auditng, and Jinance (Annex 3). The proposed project, developed in
consultation with the Intrnational Accounting Board of the Russian Federation, would finance the
implementation of a comprehensive, integrated training strategy focusing on (i) a "top-down" sequence
attending first to higher levels of enterprises and ministries; (ii) the adaptation of international accounting
and auditing standards; (iii) a focus on income determination, cash flow, and related concepts; (iv) the
collaboration among training constituencies; (v) achieving a balance between immediate results (e.g.
problem solving for practitioners) and long term institutional development (training of university faculty
and curricula revision); and (vi) leverage through self-training and distance teaching to achieve a
multiplier effect.
4.7           The principal emphasis would be on building training infrastructure, producing relevant
training resources, and developing human resources with programs developed and delivered to senior and



chapter IV The Project                                                          Page 25
chief accounting, auditing, and finance practitioners. In addition, training programs would be mounted
for senior executives of enterprises in accounting and corporate finance. The project would also support
revision of curricula in accounting and finance at the university level, development of teaching faculty
within these fields and the preparation of computer-based training courses for distance learning.
Implementation of the proposed project is expected to make an immediate impact on the financial sector
in Russia. During the three year project period, some 750 trainers and master trainers would be
developed as a means to train over 7500 practitioners. Also 100 senior executives as well as 80 faculty
members would be trained, in addition to the production of 100 Russian case studies, 4 computer-based
self-training courses and 4 adapted advanced textbooks, about twenty modules each. The program would
be initiated by one integrated pilot project to (i) develop relevant training materials, (ii) train trainers, and
(iii) build training capacity through the establishment of one information technology training center in the
first six months of implementation. The project would finance international experts, fellowships, Russian
experts, equipment, and teaching materials.
4.8          Banking training (Annex 4). The overriding goals of the banking program are to
strengthen Russia's banking profession by focusing on staff skill development and to increase student
throughput so as to respond better to industrial demand. The principal emphasis of the banking program
is on training practitioners. The proposed banking program would help implement overall strategy (Annex
1) by financing subprojects under a banking operations subprogram including: (i) training chief
executives in bank management (strategic planning, risk management, financial management, human
resources management, and compliance and control systems); (ii) training mid-level managers and officers
in credit risk management (credit evaluation, lending policies and procedures, financial analysis); (iii)
training mid-level managers and officers in international banking areas (trade finance, foreign exchange,
and correspondent banking relationships); and (iv) training managers and officers in investment banking
areas (underwriting, securities analysis, securities trading, risk management, investment policies and
procedures). A second major subprogram would cover training accountants in bank accounting and
managers in how to use this information as a decisionmaking tool. In addition to training the practitioners
indicated, each subprogram would emphasize the training of trainers and the development of resource
materials, including the 'Russification" of international source materials The program would commence
with the initiation of one pilot project to train chief executives in bank management.
ublic Finwe T1aIning (US$4.6 miion of base costs) (Annex 5)
4.9          The proposed project is divided into two main subprograms designed to enhance
Government capacity to manage public finances efficiently and effectively. The aim of both would be
to train civil servants at the federal and regional levels in sound fiscal management practices. The first
subprogram would be designed in modular format to provide parliamentarians as well as senior and mid-
level officials with relevant training in budget and taxation policy. The second, which would be developed
in collaboration with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development (EBRD), would train new Treasury officials in the Ministry of Finance in budget
execution. Each subprogram would involve a limited amount of overseas training for senior federal and
regional managers and for master trainers. Both subprograms would begin the process of developing
capacity within universities and technical schools in public finance policy to create a talent pool for future
recruitment into the civil service. Implementation of the two sub-programs is expected to train an initial



Page 26                                                                Chapter IV 7he Project
cohort of 20,000 Treasury officials in budget execution and 4,500 senior and mid-level managers who
require training in budget planning and tax policy over the next 3 to 4 years.-3
Phase 2 Pilot Projects (US$2.3 mion of base costs)
4.10          In addition to the above three priority areas, the proposed project would build a
knowledge base on appropriate interventions in other critical areas for a possible second pbase project.
Pilot projects and preparation studies would be financed in such areas as small business, public
administration and market economics education for the general public. A pilot project would be financed
for the creation of two small business training and support centers. A national strategy would be
developed for civil service training. Assistance would be provided on a limited basis for senior federal,
oblast, raion and municipal officials in training for public administration. Support for market economics
education includes training of journalists in market economics and pilot efforts at popular programming
via such mass media as television.
4.11          Dstance education. To be fully successful the project needs to reach large audiences in
a short time. If limited to conventional teaching methodologies, the project would likely reach only a
few thousand beneficiaries. Distance teaching can help expand this audience exponentially without loss
of quality. Even though distance education is not conceived as a self-standing program, all the other
subject-matter programs may finance distance education subprojects either as additional or alternative
delivery mechanisms or as self-standing subprojects. Distance education activities may be provided
through instructional packages for individualized instruction, electronic-mail based systems, narrow- or
broadcast means or through teleconferences based on existing technology centers. In the case of
individualized instruction, distance education programs may incorporate a range of technologies,
particularly printed instructional materials, video-tapes and computer software. These programs may
incorporate student support in specified learning centers. Narrowcast or broadcast visual materials can
be delivered to support distance-based training activities. Teleconferences could be primarily used for
self-standing, short-training activities.
4.12          During negotiations the Government provided assrnces, and the negotiated Project
Agreement states that any major change in the definition of the programs described above or addition of
new programs would require prior approval by the Bank.
13. A separate stand-alone project would finance administrative modenzton, computzaon and taig programs to
improve the revenue collection capacity of the Stae Tax Service. Development and preparation of the project is presendy
in progress with the assistance and fini support of the IMF.



THE RUSSIAN FEDERAIMON
MANAGEMENr AND FINANCIAL TRAINNG PRoJEcr
V. INTERMEDIARY: THE NATIONAL TRAINING FOUNDATION (ANNEX 6)
A. APPROACH AND JUSTIFCATION
5.1          Faced with myriad and urgent needs for market skills in the above areas, the question is
not so much what to do as where to begin and how to manage the process without being overwhelmed.
The choice is complicated by Russia's size and the number of sectors, institutions, and levels of
administration involved. The project strategy to cope with this complexity is to focus on the development
of an intermediary for channeling funds to the beneficiaries. The intrmediary is the Nadtonal Tlbig
Foundadon (NTF) (US$5.3 million of base costs), including a central institution with a network of
regional analogues. The NTF would be the vehicle for defining strategies, identifying priorities and
allocating funds to various locally-generated training projects of high priority.
5.2          The NTF is an independent legal entity, wholly owned by its members. It is located
outside the government to avoid vested interests of the sectoral training infrastructure and weak
implementation capacity and to cement the involvement of the private sector in its management. A semi-
independent agency is less affected by changes of government and would be better at mobilizing resources
from the private sector and other donor agencies. Moreover, the NTF is more manageable, in terms of
financial control and external donor support, than would be assistance for individual, disparate projects.
In sum, the National Training Foundation has been established on the basis of the following
organizational principles:
a.    it is a partnership between government and the private sector;
b.    it is a non-governmental, independent organization;
C.    it involves clients, or 'users' of skills (i.e. employers) in establishing priorities
for training;
d.    it is partially decentralized to respond to diverse local needs; and
e.    it is non-profit, but operates on sound financial principles in managing its
investments, resource allocations and in recovering costs.
Jakluason
5.3          The central training organization is, in fact, consistent with the need to decentralize
training initiatives. The national foundation is intended to be a vehicle to promote training outside the
central government. It plans to channel resources both to private training activities, for which
development finance is acutely lacking, and to regions in support of decentralization. Regions would
select subprojects for financing independendy.
5.4          The creation of a new organization to finance training development and delivery was
justified by the following reasons. First, training needs are massive and exceed the scope of any current
agency. No single institution currently exists in Russia that has the mandate or ability to deal with the
broad range of issues and cross-sectoral activities envisaged by the project. None has the organizational
effectiveness to carry out an objective project selection and supervision. In addition, there is a need:



Pare 28                                 Chapter V. Intennediay: the Natonal Thninlng Foundation
a.    to involve a wide variety of entities from the private sector as leaders in the
overall process, to create a partnership between government agencies and private
consumers of training (employers, enterprises, professional associations), so as
to make it demand-driven;
b.    for a vehicle through which to provide support flexibly and on a large-scale to
the different requirements of the regions;
c.    for a body that would function as an investment bank in terms of an objective
operating and financial culture, which is capable of generating income and
operates on a basis of cost-recovery, providing loans as well as grants;
d.    for a vehicle through which other donors, public and private, could channel funds
to high priority projects; and
e.    for maximization of financial benefits through coordinated activities.  No
mechanisms existed to coordinate training programs to ensure that priorities are
covered and duplication is avoided.
lbe NTF is intended to do these things. The NTW is unique to Russia, but has been patterned after
succfssful international experiences elsewhere, such as western private foundations, training funds, or
govement-sponsored institutions (e.g. the U.S. Science Foundation, or the French Foundation for
Mamagemn Development).
B. CLNS AND CUSOMERS
5.5          The clients of the NTF, those who are eligible to apply for financing to undertake
development work or training projects within approved programs, are restricted to the following:
a.    educational and training establishments (public and private);
b.    companies and banks (state and non-government);
c.    government administrations (central, regional and city); and
d.    associations (employers, professional, educational).
lhese clients may include Russian entities, joint-venture firms or exteral agencies in partnership with
Russian organizations. The NWT would not deal with individual applicants.
C. ORGANIATION AND STAFFING OF THE NTF
Sweuh and Orgmadon
5.6          The National Training Foundation would operate at two levels: a Central Foundation (CF)
and Regional Foundations (RFs)-initially in three regions (Moscow, St. Petersburg and Nizhny
Novgorod). The criteria for selecting the initial ihree regions were: (i) population coverage; (ii)
commiment to economic reforms; (iii) commitment to the project; and (iv) ease of access for supervision.
See Diagram S.1.
14. EveatuRy, some 8-10 Regional Foundati would be needed to cover the entie county and could be consdered for
odfAldl uas a hlow-on phase to the project



Chawer V. Irmendiaiy: Th Nadonail Tinlng Foundaton                              Page 29
Diagram S1: The Nationl Training Foundation (NMF Network
C;entral Foundaion (CF)
R0810801        Pegiong           F-dR                FURTeEin
Foundation      Foundsaon         Foundation           REGIONS
am     (RF)              am(R1             OVER TDE
SL            MM"ow             Niziny
Pl wsbug               ,Novgorod
5.7          The principal activities of the Central Foundation are to (i) mobilize resources within
Russia and abroad for the foundation's work; (ii) set standards, accredit regional affiliates and approve
new programs; (iii) provide central services; and (iv) select and manage national projec. The principal
acvities of each Regional Foundation would be to (i) mobilize resources from within the regions; and
;ii) select and manage regional projects to pre-defined standards. Within agreed programs, criteria and
procedres, Regional Foundations would be able to allocate funds from resources earmarked specifically
for Regional Foundations. The relationship of the Central and Regional Foundations would be one of
specialization by type of project.
5.8          The NTF would funciion as a network. Regional Foundations would apply to the center
for accreditation. The accreditation review process would ensure consistency of principle objectives and
procedures, but would leave much autonomy for flexibility and local initiative. Even though
dependty chartred, each foundation would share common characteristics, such as a general assembly
comprised of mixed goverment and non-government members, a board of directors, a small pemannt
staff and ad hoc experts for project analysis and evaluation. In addition, the Central Foundation would
have a Consultative Council comprised of external donor organizations, to advise on policies, programs
and performance, and to serve as a catalyst for external funding. Diagram 5.2 shows the organizatonal
structure for the Central Foundation.



Page 30                                 Chapter V. Intermediay: The Natonal Training Foundaion
Diagram 5.2: Structure of the Central Foundation of the NTF
50% Govemment p                         50% Non-government
Assembly   I
jBoard of
Directors
Consultative                                             Ad Hoc Expert'
|Council (Donors)   . . . . ..------------- Advisory Panels'
Executive
Director
External Relations  |        Programs           I Administration and
Finance
- Extenxal Donors        - Management Development
- Russian Business Community  - Financial Sector
- Regional Foundations   - Public Finance
- Phase 2 Pilot Programs
5.9          The major function of the general assembly would be to nominate the board of directors,
analyze their reports, give advice, and help ensure that theNTF handles its financial affairs in accordance
with its mandate. The assembly would have the authority to appoint independent inspectors to review
operations, and to make its finding public. In the case of the Central Foundation, the voting power on
the general assembly is equally split between government and non-government organizations. The non-
government representation includes banks and industrial firms, employers and professional associations.
No individual training institutions are permitted as a member because of potential conflict of interest.
Membership at the regional levels would follow similar principles; participation would be through
regional and city administrations, local companies and associations.
5.10         The boards of directors, elected by the respective general assemblies, is the main policy
making bodies of the NTF and has overall responsibility for its fund-raising, operations and financial
performance. The Directors have a fiduciary duty to members to ensure that funds are spent in
accordance with the NTF's mandate. Regional boaras of directors are justified by the need to raise
finance from local sources, to ensure that local priorities are established and met, and to appoint staff and



apter V. Intermtedary: The National Training Fowdoii                             Page 31
supervise regional operations. There is a cleardivision of responsibilities between the centerand regions.
The board of the Central Foundation would set overall policy for the NTF, approve programs, establish
guidelines for operations, accredit Regional Foundations, set financing procedures and operational policies
and would select the Executive Director of the Central Foundation. Regional boards would have
considerable autonomy-within national policies, programs and procedures-to establish regional
priorities, 5 raise external funds, and manage their own internal activities. Coordination would be sought
through cross membership: the three Regional Foundations would each have full voting membership on
the Central Foundation, and vice versa. The boards would also take decisions concerning the financing
of specific categories of subprojects. Boards of directors are expected to meet quarterly or more
frequently in the first year of operations. The central Board of Directors, thus, has a total of twenty-one
representatives, nine from the Government, nine from non-government and three from Regional
Foundations. The nine Government members are the Ministries of Finance, Economy, Labor, the State
Committee for Higher Education, the State Committee on Management of State Property (GKI), the State
Comittee on Anti-Monopoly Policy and Support of Entrepreneurship, the Office of the President, Office
of the Government, and the Central Bank.
5.11         The Central Foundation is managed by an Executive Director, responsible for overeeing
planning, management and overall operations. The functions of the Executive Director include providng
a secretariat for the general assembly and for the board of directors. The Executive Director is also
responsible to advertise programs eligible for assistance, provide adequate information to potential
bidders, evaluate subproject proposals, decide on certain categories of projects (e.g. those below
$100,000), monitor project execution and evaluate results.
*a ffg
5.12         A basic aim is to make each foundation efficient, lean and flexible. Keeping staff
umnbers down is an imperative, and ad hoc experts would be mobilized to help with technical activities
which do not justify a permanent staff. A total of about 20 employees is foreseen for the initial operation
of the Central Foundation, and 6 employees are envisaged for each of the Regioal Foundations, as
shown in Table 5.1.
Table S.1: Inital NTF Staff Estimates
Central        RF            RF        RE Nizhny      0TOAL
Lewe         Foundation    St. Petersburg    Moscow   Novgorod       Stff
Management            1             1             1            1            4
Professional          9             2             2            2            15
Support               10            3             3            3            19
TOTAL                20             6             6            6           38
The NTF would need to rely on outside experts to evaluate subprojects and provide overall advice
through informal technical advisory committees. Such committees already exist in the management and
accounting fields. The numbers of permanent staff required by the NTF would be kept under constant
review and adjusted according to actual implementation experience.
15. Regional boards would need to obtain central approval to add new programs, but may select those to be emphasized
locally from among centrally spproved programs.



Page 32                                Chapter V. Intermediary: The National 7Traiing Foundaon
5.13         During negotiations the Government provided assurances, and the negotiated Project
Agreement states that the following would be acceptable to the Bank: (i) NTF's accreditation of each
regional entity; (ii) NTF structure and organization; (iii) NTF staffing policies, and (iv) employment of
key NTF management staff.
D. PROCEDUREs
5.14         Transparent and effective allocation of funds to relevant, high quality projects is the
principal NTF rationale. The NTF's procedures, there.fore, would follow a clearly defined project cycle,
including identification, preparation, appraisal, selection, implementation, supervision and final
evaluation. An operations manual has been prepared for the NTF incorporating the main features.
Adoption by the NTF of an operations manual acceptable to the Bank is a condtion of Board
presentation of the proposed project. The key steps in the process are presented in Annex 6 and are
summarized below.
5.15         The Central Foundation of the NTF is responsible for selecting and overseeing the
implementation of national subprojects. National subprojects have national scope and applicability, and
typically contain components such as training of trainers, curricula and materials development, studies
and activities related to national policies or issues of national interest such as professional standards, pilot
testing of new project components as well as projects which require or would benefit from national
coordination such as mass media or distance education. While managed through the Central Foundation,
a substantial share of the products produced by these national subprojects would be implemented outside
Moscow, i.e., in the regions. The Regional Foundations select and oversee the implementation of
regional subprojects, mainly the training of practitioners in training of trainers and training of
practitioners within the region, as well as studies and activities of local scope. In all cases, the actual
implementation of subprojects would be done by the winning bidders from the process of competitive
selection. The central and regional staff coordinate all decisions relating to implementation of national
projects in a region, and would monitor implementation and evaluate results of subprojects in their
respective spheres.
idendflcation
5.16         The various eligible subprograms have been formulated by Russian experts in
collaboration with international experts. Apart from several pilot projects within each category, the
specific subprojects that would be financed under each program have not yet been identified. These
sub-projects would be decided during the course of implementation. Subprojects could be identified by
the NTF (and its donors), training institutions and enterprises. Generally, subproject identification falls
into three categories:
a.    Pre-identfd. These are pilot projects that have already been defined in detail.
Proposals for their development and execution would be solicited from a limited
number of pre-qualified suppliers. Pilot projects would absorb about 10% of
project funds.
b.    Solited proposals. The NTF would make program announcements about the
availability of financing, the requirements for applications, the items eligible for



Chapter V. Intemtediwy: 7he National Training Fowndation                         Page 33
project financing and would solicit applications. Potential beneficiaries interested
in working with the NTF and possessing sufficient capabilities for this purpose
would be preselected and short-listed. Proposals would be submitted mainly by
training suppliers and end-users, e.g. enterprises. Proposed subprojects in this
category would be evaluated competitively and would account for about 80% of
all project funds.
c.    Unsolicited proposals. To stimulate innovation and creativity, the NTF would
entertain unsolicited proposals for subprojects on any worthy topic within the
defined areas of the project. Such proposals, by their nature, would arrive at
irregular times and could not be submitted to competitive evaluation. Clear
norms have been developed for the evaluation of such proposals. The financing
of such subprojects would not exceed 10% of project funds.
PrWaration
5.17         Entities wishing to apply for funds under eligible programs would be responsible for
preparing their own subproject applications. Standard forms have been developed for this purpose,
setting out the important information and analysis required. However, most institutions, particularly at
the start of the project, could not be expected to have the technical competence to prepare applications
of acceptable quality. Consequently, the NTF would offer training in proposal preparation to interested
organizations. The training would include short seminars, repeated frequently, and the preparation of
handbooks and guidelines. The training effort is expected to be heavy initially, but could gradually be
reduced as potential applicants gain experience with the system.
5.18         Securing sufficient qualified institutions for bidding for the subprojects included in the
project is a key ingredient in overall project success. Potential qualified domestic contractors come
basically from two sources and are estimated to be sufficient for project purposes. First, the growth of
private training institutions has been substantial. Many of the 200 members of the Russian Association
of Business Schools, which sets high standards for its membership, have the potential to do quality work
on curricula and materials development and training, but cannot do so largely because of insufficient
financial resources. Many talented recent graduates are choosing these institutions rather than foreign
universities or private companies. Second, external assistance programs implemented during 1992-94
have enabled some Russian educational institutions to establish good working relations with foreign
partners thereby forming the basis for establishment of consortiums and joint ventures for bidding under
NTF programs.
Appralsal
5.19         The program staff of the NTF would screen subproject applications initially to determine
whether agreed criteria have been met. Applications that meet agreed criteria would undergo a two-stage
review. Proposals would be divided according to category, as specified in Annex 6. Proposals costing
less than US$50,000 would be sent to two outside reviewers for a written appraisal; proposals above that
amount would be evaluated in a panel review meeting of about five experts, dealing with a group of
similar proposals. Each reviewer would receive intensive training in project evaluation techniques and
application of the criteria. For very large proposals, the program officer and two experts would visit the
applicant's site to check facilities, interview managers, analyze the financial data and probe ability to



Page 34                               Chapter V. Intermediaiy: The Nati'onal Training Fowdation
repay. The program officer would pass the results of the reviews to an Internal Evaluation Committee
(IEC) comprised of the Foundation managers.
Approval
5.20         The IEC would consider the recommendations of the outside reviewers and decide
whether to support the application or request revisions. For those subprojects costing less than $100,000
the committee would make the final approval. Subprojects above $100,000 that the IEC deem worthy
of support would be sent to the Board of Directors for approval. General conditions for financing, terms
and rates would be pre-defined by the Board for eachi type of subproject, and would not be a matter for
case-by-case review. During negotiations the Government provided assurances and the negotiated Project
Agreement states that all subprojects estimated to cost more than $250,000 would be sent to the Bank for
prior review and approval. The levels for Bank prior review would be adjusted upwards as the NTF
gains experience in project selection, so that the Bank would review in advance about 10 to 20% of all
subprojects. The vank would make random ex post reviews of smaller sub-projects during supervision
visits. The World Bank would evaluate the first 5 subprojects from each entity before official approval
regardless of size to verify that the NTF's capacity to undertake subproject appraisal and exercise quality
control.  The program officer would provide feedback to all applicants whose submissions were not
accepted, explaining the reasons. The internal evaluation committee or Board would pass approved
proposals to the Administration Manager who would be responsible for signing a performance-based grant
or loan document with the beneficiary.
Inpkmenaton, Monitoalag and Superision
5.21         The basis for monitoring and evaluation of the contractor's performance would be
explicitly included in the forirulation of the contract. The contracts would include, inter alia, definitions
of: (i) objectives and scope of work; (ii) milestones of key steps or intermediate outputs necessary to
achieve overall objectives; (iii) outputs expected to be delivered; and (iv) criteria that define satisfactory
output. The contractors would be provided with guidelines and training on project execution. Monitoring
of contractor performance would be the responsibility of the program officer, using a computerized
subproject monitoring system (under development). Contractors would be responsible for submitting
monthly progress reports on subproject execution using standardized NTF forms. The program officer
responsible for checking implemenation, would review the progress reports, visit key subprojects
periodically and would prepare quarterly summary reports on the status of the NTF implementation
portfolio for the NTW management, Board and for Bank supervision missions. The project monitoring
and control system would aim to identify implementation problems and deviations from plan as early as
possible. Payments to contractors would be based on verification of achievement of agreed milestones
or outputs. Contracts would provide for revisions, reductions in payments or-in cases of irredeemably
poor performance-cancellation of the contract. Arbitration would be provided to resolve disputes.
Evalnaton
5.22         The proposed project includes provision for evaluation at several levels, from the specific
to the general, as follows: individual subprojects, clusters of subprojects with similar goals within a
program area, the impact of the NWF programs on Russian needs, and the operations of the NTF itself.
Evaluation of individual subprojects would be designed and managed by subproject leaders. These would
be self-evaluatibns using NTF guidelines for the purpose of improving subproject performance, and would
be supplemented with data provided by program officers collected during their visits to subprojects.



Chapter V. Intermediary: The National Training Foundation                          Page 35
Highly targeted 'cluster" evaluations of program areas would be conducted occasionally by NTF staff
or outside experts across a sample of projects. The purpose would be to inform and guide future
strategies, policies and objectives of the NTF. Evaluations would also be made periodically about the
effectiveness of the NTF's policies, procedures and operations, based largely on feedback from NTF
customers. Project impact studies would document the aggregate achievements of the NTF's financing.
Annex 7 explains the project evaluation plan in greater detail. Annex 8 presents a set of indicators for
monitoring and evaluation of impact.
E. CRImERmA
5.23         The NTF would work according to objective technical criteria agreed with the Bank.
Essentially, the NTF would select subprojects for financing through a process of evaluating competitive
proposals for pre-determined programs. Various sets of criteria would be used, including:
a.    eligibility criteria, i.e. definition of the kinds of programs and recipients that
would be able to apply for financing;
b.    appraisal criteria, i.e. norms and standards that any successful proposal would
have to meet; and
c.    approval criteria, that is, definition of the basis on which the Board or IEC
would accept proposals for funding.
5.24         The NTF would evaluate and approve subprojects on the basis of four (4) major criteria:
(i) relevance to NTF goals, (ii) effectiveness, (iii) efficiency in using resources, and, where applicable,
(iv) financial capacity. The first criterion, relevance, addresses the extent to which the goals and
objectives of subprojects would meet the overall objectives of the project and promise the most direct and
worthwhile results in meeting the needs of transition to a market economy. Judgments of relevance
would be based on an assessment of the immediacy of impact, and whether projects aim to provide
urgently needed skills to high priority target groups. Effectiveness deals with the likelihood that the
proposed project would work. Assessments of effectiveness would be based on analyses of clarity, the
completeness and feasibility of the proposed design, degree of innovation, mechanisms for customer
involvement, the qualifications of staff and consultants involved, strength of management experience,
institutional support and provision for leveraging results. The third criterion of efficiency assesses the
extent to which projects are designed to produce intended results with the least expenditure of resources.
Judgments of efficiency include assessment of training unit costs, utilization rates for equipment and
physical facilities, security provisions, and integration of cfforts with other projects to avoid duplication
and increase cooperation. The fourth criterion, financial capacities, focuses on the ability of the
sub-project to repay loans (if applicable). generate revenues, provide sufficient financial or in-kind
resources, and financially support other needs and commitments of the subproject. Annex 9 provides a
listing and further explanation of sub-points under each criterion.
F. FiNANCIG AND CoSI-REcovERm  POLICIES
5.25         Contributions to NTF resources. The NTF would operate as a financial institution and
would adopt the accounting structure and financing policies typically found in financing institutions. The
members of the NTF system would be expected to provide statutory capital equivalent to US$1.0 million
over the life of the project. Initial paid-in capital by the foundere would be nominal. The NTF would
undertake a vigorous membership campaign in the first three years to enlist support of the private sector



Page 36                                 Chapter V. Inteirmediary: 7he National Training Foundation
undertae a vigorous membership campaign in the first three years to enlist support of the private sector
and expand statutory capital. In addition to inquiries by Russian firms, a feasibility study has indicated
interest in the NTF by foreign business corporations, which could participate in the work of the NTF
through their association with Russian legal entities. Regional and municipal governments would also
contribute in "kind" to the costs of the project, e.g. by providing premises and facilities, or by financing
training programs and by budgeting resources for NTF operations. These governmental contributions
are expected to total US$3 million equivalent in the project period.
5.26         Cost sharing. The project would engage in various forms of cost sharing and cost
recovery. Recipients of funds for the execution of subprojects would be expected to contribute at least
15% to the total cost of the subproject. These recipients would usually be training institutions and their
contributions would include use of facilities, utilities, supplies and staff. In aggregate, subproject
recipients would contribute about $6 million in cash and kind to the financing of total project costs.
5.27         NWT revenues. The NTF would have three principal sources of income: fees, tuition
recovery and loan repayments.
a.    Fees. The NTF would charge modest application fees to help finance the costs
of processing applications and to discourage frivolous requests. In addition, it
would develop mechanisms to collect "user fees," a commission charged to
subproject beneficiaries on the funds it disburses. The NTF would aim at
financing an increasing share of its own operating costs through income from
these fees.
b.    Captue  oftuition. Participants in training programs developed and financed by
the NTF would be expected to pay a share of the costs through tuition fees. Part
of these revenues would be returned to the NTF by the organization delivering
the training.
c.    On-lending. The NTF would develop mechanisms for on-lending to qualified
beneficiaries, such as enterprises or private training institutions for various
development programs, including staff training. Loans for this purpose would
be repayable in 3 to 4 years in hard currency at a two percentage point spread
over the cost of borrowed funds from the Bank.
5.28         The criteria for determining whether a subproject would be a grant or would require
partial or full repayment as a loan would be, first, the nature of the project, and second, the nature of
the income stream to be generated by the investment. For the most part, subprojects for practitioners
or enterprises would be subject to cost-recovery, while those benefiting the wider public (e.g. curricula
development, training of trainers) would be grants. Partial cost-recovery would be imposed on
subprojects in which income generation is expected, such as development of textbooks for sale. The
training foundations would enter into contracts with subproject recipients specifying terms of repayment.
Annex 10 projects possible levels of cost recovery from tuition sharing and on-lending using two different
methods. During negotiations the Government provided assurances and the negotiated Project Agreement
states, that the NTF would consult with the Bank on the financial terms of the grants and loans provided
to subproject recipients.



Chapter V. Intermediary: The National Training Foundation                         Page 37
5.29         NTF repayments. The various means of cost-recovery by the NTF would enable it to
repay the government about 20% of the total loanw funds it receives under the project,'6 with higher
repayment percentages in any follow-on projects. Annex 11 presents cash flow projections for the NTF.
The Regional Foundations would channel repayments to the Central Foundation for final repayment to
the Govenunent. During negotiations, the Government and the Bank agreed in principle on the terms
for financial transfers from the Government to the NTF. The terms of financial transfers are to be
specified in the Subsidiary Loan/Grant Agreement, including repayment of US$8 million within eight
years at the cost of World Bank borrowing plus 0.5%, including a four year grace period. Under this
formula, about 80% of the funds transferred to the NTF by the government would not be repaid. This
is justified because the project is the first phase of a larger program and concentrates on capacity building
(curricula, materials development, training of instructors) for which there is little scope for immediate
financial return. In a broader sense, government subsidies for this kind of training are justified by the
enabling or supporting role of market oriented training for wider economic reforms (i.e. externalities)
and by the fact that labor market imperfections prevent full cost recovery. Submission of a letter from
the Governmlent confirming the negotiated terms for the Subsidiary Loan/Grant Agreement to the NTF
was a condition of Board presentation and it has been met. A condition of effectiveness is signature of
the Subsidiary Loan/Grant Agreement acceptable to the Bank between the Government and the NTF.
G. LEGAL FRAMWORK
5.30         The NTF, in the absence of a federal law on non-profit organizations, was established
by means of registration of its charter with the Ministry of Justice. Because of the gap in the existing
Russian legislation governing activities of non-profit foundations, the NTF's charter and internal
regulations were drafted in such a way as to provide detailed guidance on the institutional structure and
operational procedures of the NTF. The following steps were taken for legal establishment of the NTF:
(i) a founders' meeting was held on September 7, 1994 resulting in the signing of a founders' agreement,
adoption of the charter and statutes, approval of internal regulations and election of the Board of
Directors; (ii) the NTF was registered as a legal entity with the Ministry of Justice on September 29,
1994; and (iii) the NTF has opened a bank account. Legal establishment of the NTF in form and
substance acceptable to the Bank, and election of the Chairman of the NTF's Board of Directors
following procedures acceptable to the Bank were conditions for negotions of the project. During
negotiations the Government provided assurances, and the negotiated Project Agreement states that the
NTF would maintain internal rules and regulations acceptable to the Bank. The two additional condiions
of Board presentation were met: (i) appointment of an Executive Director of the Central Foundation
acceptable to the Bank following procedures acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) adoption of an Operational
Manual by the NTF acceptable to the Bank.
5.31         Under the project the Russian Government would channel funds to the Central
Foundation, and then the Central Foundation would channel funds to the Regional Foundations in
accordance with the allocations specified in the Loan Agreement. In addition to the Loan Agreement
between the Bank and the Borrower (the Russian Governent), the Govermnent would sign a Subsidiary
Loan/Grant Agreement with the Central Foundation; and the Bank would have a Project Agree.ment with
16. Calculated on the basis of expected returns of loan funds received for the components on which some cost recovery can
be expected, i.e. mainly management development ($14.3 million of pro-rated loan amount) and the financial sector ($22.0
miltion). See Annex 11.



Page 38                               Chapter V. Intermediary: The National 7aining Foundation
the Central Foundation describing the project related covenants and conditions. To ensure the Borrower's
control over effective allocation of project funds, the representative of the Ministry of Finance in the
Board of Directors of the Central Foundation would have veto power over any decision concerning the
use of loan funds from the government considered incompatible with the rules of the Foundation. Upon
signing of the Subsidiary Loan/Grant Agreement, the Central Foundation would conclude Subsidiary
Financing Agreements with three accredited Regional Foundations on allocation of funds for regional
programs to be selected and financed by the Regional Foundations. Concluding a Subsidiary Financing
Agreement acceptable to the Bank with the Central Foundation would be a condon for disbursements
to each Regional Foundation.
5.32         During negotiations the Government provided assurances, and the negotiated Project
Agreement states, that the NTF would maintain procedures, guidelines and criteria for subproject
processing, approval, implementation and evaluation acceptable to the Bank. Assurances were also
obtained at negotiations that the NTF entities would submit annual work programs and budgets for the
following year to the Bank for review and approval by December 1 annually during project execution.



T1E RUSSIAN FEDERATION
MANAGEMeNT AND FINANCIAL TRAINING PROJECr
VI. PROJECT CosTs, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AND bLEmENATION
A. PROJECT Casr
SuMMary of Project Cost
6.1          The total project cost is estimated at about US$51.4 million equivalent (158.5 billion
Rubles), including contingencies amounting to US$2.4 million which represents 5% of the base cost
(US$49.0 million). The project costs include the provision of technical assistance (both foreign and
local), fellowships, equipment, training materials and software, minor refurbishing and furnishing of
facilities, in-country training, and incremental operating costs incurred during the implementation period.
The estimated costs by component and category of expenditure are shown in Tables 6.1 and 6.2,
respectively, and are futher detailed in Annex 12.
Table 6.1: Project Costs Summary by Project Componentt
(Rubles billions)     (US$ millions)
%  % Total
For-eign    Base
Locl             F Lreign        g          xcn    Costs
Management Development       20.5   25.1           6.6     8.2,          55       30
The Financial Sector         35.7   32.2   ,      11.6    10.4    k    47         45
Public Finance                6.9    7.3   I       2.2     2.4           5 52     9
Phase 2 Pilot Projects        4.2    2.9           1.4     0.9 4         41       5
Program Areas Subotl   63.1    64.6         20.4    21.0           51       84
Nadtnal Trn     7 Foundaion  11.7    4.7           3.8     1.5           28       11
Totald sadine Costs          79.0   72.2 7        25.6    23.4           48       100
Pdce Conatgendes              3.8    3.51.2                1.1           48       5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS    82.8   75.7              26.9    24.5           48
tFPigores tay not total due to rounding.



Page 40                                Chapter K1. Project Costs, Financing, Mawgement and Implmenation
Table 6.2: Prject Costs Summary by Category of Exedltr'
(Rubles billions)        (USS millions)
'§'; i   % Tota
Foreign     Base
Local  Foreign p        Local  Forign            Exchange    Coas
I. Ipavslae  Cosw
A. Technical Assistance
1. Consulting Srvices
Foreig                   0.0      240        .   0.0       7t8     Z          1oo         16
Local                   304                      9.9       00                   0         20
&ubotl Cosuing Svnices    30.4         24.0    4      9.9       7.8     ?           44         34
2. Overseas Felowships        0.0      19.0           0.0       6.1                100         12
Subtotl Tedhical Assistance       30.4     43-0    V       9.9      13.9   s            59          48
B. Eqipmet                         0.0     18.9            0.0       6.2                to 10       13
C. Production and Disiibuton       6.2      0.7            2.0       0.2                to 10        s
D. Training Delivery              38.6      9.6           12.5       3.1    *            20         32
Totl hawveme  Cot                     75.2      72.2 |  t      24A      23.4    4            49         97
II. Reelorre  CAWz
Operatg  Costs                     3.8     0Q0             1.2       0.0    $            0           3
TtalW Reciu   Cats                     3.8       0.0            1.2      0Q0                  0          3
Toa Back" Cost                        79.0      72.2                                         48 25.6  23.4    4S  100
Pfice Contigenis                   3.8      3.5            1.3       1.1                48           5
TOTAL PROJECT COSS    82.8             75.7   f       26.9      24.5                48
'Figures may not total due to rounding.
Bass of Cast E3dha
6.2              Project costs were estimated as follows:
a.      Base   est,.   All project costs are based on November 1994 prices and
conversions from the local currency at the market rate of 3085 Rubles per US
dollar prevailing on November 4, 1994. Technical assistance (TA) costs are
derived from recent fees quoted for comparative specialized services in Bank-
financed projects in Russia and are estimated per person-month at US$20,000 for
external specialist services, US$2,800 for local specialist services, and US$6,000



C%ater VI. Project Cots, Financing, Management and Ihplementation                    Page 41
for overseas fellowships.  The person-month costs of TA  include fees,
recruitment/relocation costs, housing and subsistence, and overheads. Equipment
unit costs are based on recent quotations from suppliers of equiprmt and
software; staff unit costs are based on current competitive rates for local staff in
the private sector.
b.     Contngency allowances. Price contingencies for domestic prices increases are
calculated at projected Ruble inflation rates of 72.2% for 1995; 29.1 X for 1996;
and 15.7% for 1997. International inflation rates are included at 2.0%, 2.5%,
and 2.7% for 1995, 1996 and 1997.17
c.     Foreign exchange component. The foreign exchange component was estimated
as follows: (i) foreign expert services and fellowships - 100%; (ii) local expert
services - 0%; (iii) equipment - 100%; (iv) production and distribution - 10%;
(v) training delivery - 20%; and (vi) incremental recurrent costs - 2% of base
costs. The total foreign exchange component is estimated at US$24.5 million
including contingencies, or 48% of total project costs.
d.     Customs dies and taxes. Project costs include taxes at 33% on local salaries,
and customs duties of 20% on equipment imports (computers, software and
service). Taxes and duties are estimated at US$2.8 million.
e.    inremental recurrent costs.  Incremental recurrent costs are estimaed at
US$1.2 million and include cost elements such as local staff salaries and facilities
operations expenses, and include proportionate contingency allowances.
Technial Ass _tance
6.3           The proposed project would finance a total of about 33 persons-years of external expert
services, 293 person-years of local expert services and 86 person-years of fellowships abroad. Annex
13 gives a detailed picture of technical assistance included in the project. Table 6.3 summarizes technical
assistance by category.
17. Source: Index of Unit Value of Maufactured Exports (MUV); 3    ...rter. 1993



Page 42                         Chapter VI. Project Costs, Financing, Management and Implementation
Table 6.3: Proposed Technical AssistanW
(staff/years)
_ peit Senlces
Category                      Foreip         Local         Fellowships
Policy"                         0.4           3.6              1.1
Project SupportY                3.6           16.6            7.4
Institution Development        28.5          273.1            77.2
TOTAL            32.5          293.3            85.7
d'Subprogram on -Policy Framework and Quality Standards" under the Management Development Component
hi Half the planned assistance to the NTF plus Phase 2 pilot projects.
B. PROJECT FINANCING
6.4           The proposed Bank loan of US$40.0 million would finance 78% of total project costs.
Of this, US$23.9 million would finance 98% of the foreign exchange costs of the project and US$16.1
million of local costs (excluding taxes and duties), or 60% of local costs. The Government of
Switzerland would finance US$1.1 equivalent (2% of foreign exchange costs and 2% of local costs), or
2% of project costs. The members of the National Training Foundation would finance US$1.0 million
of the project's local cost requirements, or 2% of project costs, through financial subscribers to the NTF;
Russian subproject beneficiaries would finance US$6.3 million or 12% of project costs; and the Federal
and Regional Governments would be responsible for US$3.0 million or 6% of project costs. Table 6.4
outlines the distribution of financial responsibility.
Table 6.4: Thiann Plant
Total
Foreign Exchange      Local Costs        Project Costs
~~%
US$M      %        US$M       %                Project
Government (Fedeal/Regional)         0     0          3.0      11                  6
National Training Foundation         0     0          1.0      4                   2
Subproject Beneficiaries             0     0          6.3      23                 12
Govemment of Switzerland           0.6     2          0.5      2                   2
World Bank                        23.9    98         16.1      60                 78
=~    =.- =
TOTAL        24.5    100        26.9    100   --             100
t Figures may not total due to rounding.



Chapter VT. Projed Costs, Financing. Management and Irplementation                Page 43
6.5           The effort by the central and regional governments to fund the project during a time when
traintng resources and GDP are collapsing demonstrates a clear conumitment to the project objectives.
The justifications for local cost fmancing by the Bank are: (i) the project follows a strategy of
concentrating training development and training delivery in Russia so as to build local capacity and
economize on project costs; inevitably this makes the local cost component high as a proportion of total
cost; (ii) pressures on federal and regional budgets at this time preclude a full govermnent contribution
to these local costs; and (iii) the Bank's participation is necessary, as an extraordinary measure, to
establish the NTF and start its preparations and training activities with significant expenditure on local
costs.
6.6           The Swiss Govermment intends to cofinance the project with USS$1. I million equivalent
for an integrated pilot project in the field of accountancy, audit and financial management. In addition,
several donors have indicated an interest in parallel financing for specific NTF subprojects that require
foreign experts or fellowships. These resources are not likely to become available until after the NTF
is operational and subprojects are tendered.
C. MANAGEMET AD IMPLEMEATON
6.7           The proposed project implementation would be monitored and supervised by the staff of
the entities of the NTF. Subproject execution would be implemented by winning bidders.
Stff Seletion
6.8          The NTF would be almost entirely dependent on the quality of its staff. There is not
likely to be a ready-made reservoir of people experienced in the work of the Foundation and an
exhaustive process of staff selection is needed to ensure recruitment of the right talent. The Executive
Director, eventually assisted by a committee of managers, is responsible for staff recuitment. The
intention is to advertise available positions widely, followed by a seminar for applicants on Foundation
activities, written tests and interviews by the selection panel.
Sfff Developmen
6.9           Training of NTF staff, consultants and clients is essential for project success. Various
training programs would be implemented, as shown in Table 6.5
Table 6.5: Types of NTF In-House Training
Target Group                            Content
1. Board Members                        Role and Functions of NTF
2. NTF Staff, Board                     State-of-the-Art in Program Fields
3. NTF Staff, Clients                   Project Preparation Requirements
4. NTF Staff, Consultants               Project Evaluation
5. NTF Staff, Clients                   Subproject Evaluation Design
6. Clients                              Subproject Execution



Page 44                       Chapter VI. Project Costs, Finandng Managemen and Implementation
The proposed project would finance these training programs both for entry-level and in-service on a
continuous basis. Training would include a variety of methods, namely: seminars, simulations, structured
feedback to participants, self-learning packages and audio or video tapes for subjects that need to be
repeated. Annex 14 provides details on the NTF staff development plans.
Implemenaion Schedule
6.10         A detailed and reasonable schedule for implementation of the proposed project has been
prepared. The number of subprojects to be approved under the pro,ject can only be tentative at this stage,
but it is estimated that the program would encompass about 120 subprojects (Annex 15). Approximately
half of the subprojects would deal with the development of training programs and would be managed and
supervised by the Central Foundation. The balance of 60 subprojects pertain to the actual delivery of
training programs and would be managed largely through the three Regional Foundations. However, to
speed project start-up, the Central Foundation would be allowed to engage in the delivery of training to
practitioners in the first year of project implementation.  The implementation schedule allows
implementation procedures to benefit from experience in processing the initially approved subprojects.
Pilot projects have been prepared so that implementation may begin early. Announcements for eligible
programs have been phased so that the volume of applications would not exceed staff capacity.
Implementation of approved pilot subprojects would begin within three months of loan signing, all
subprojects would be approved within two and a half years of signing and implementation of the last
subprojects would be completed within three and a half years. The Completion Date and Closing Date
for the proposed loan would be June 30, 1998 and December 31, 1998, respectively. Annex 16a shows
the overall implementation schedule for the project and Annex 16b presents the steps necessary for the
start up of the NTF.
6.11         Status of Preparation. The project is at an advanced stage of preparation. The NTF has
been established by its Founders and has been registered as a legal entity. A Board of Directors has been
elected by the NTF membership. The Board has elected a Chairman and has appointed an Executive
Director for the Secretariat. Regional Foundations in Moscow and Nizhny Novgorod have already been
created and managers appointed, although these need to be accredited by the Central Foundation. A
detailed and extensive operations manual has been prepared, consisting of administrative manual and
operational guidelines. Pilot projects have been designed in detail in accountancy and management
training and the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) has been provided to finance initial project start-up.
D. PRocuREmENr
6.12         Procurement under the project would be mainly the responsibility of subproject
contractors, i.e. individuals, firms, agencies, consortia, etc. winning competitive bids to execute
subprojects. The Central Foundation would also purchase goods and services for itself and the Regional
Foundations.
6.13         Primary responsibility for overseeing implementation of procurement procedures would
rest with staff of the Central Foundation. The Central Foundation would communicate with the Bank on
procurement matters and actions requiring clearance. Staff of the Central Foundation would provide
technical guidance to Regional Foundations regarding the organization of procurement activities,
documentation and administration of contracts. NTF personnel involved in procurement would be guided
and trained by technical assistance hired by the NTF, by specialists engaged in companion, Bank-financed



ataper VI. Project Costs, Findnng. Managemt and Impl_bme ion                                   Page 45
programs, and by standardized Foundation procedures, manuals and standardized contracts already under
development. Technical assistance personnel would provide intensive, recurring training acceptable to
the Bank for staff.
6.14           Table 6.6 summarizes the procurement approach envisioned by category of expenditure
and approximate funding amount. Procurement in all categories would be implemented in accordance
with relevant World Bank Guidelines and standard bidding documents (SBDs) and contracts, as
appropriate.
Table 6.6: Summary of Proposed PrKurenent ArraDemnentst
(US$ milion)
Procuremeut Method
tnurn_dwal       Local
Competive    Compeive                     Not Bank
Bidding       Bidding      Other        Pinanced       MI
A.Tefhnlcal Assistanem
F_ndaEonxpeu                      -              -        2.9"           0.2
and Staff                                               (2.7)
Trining Delivesy/Services         -              -       27.3a           8.1
(25.S)
Fellowships                       -                       6.3" .''.
(6.3)
S. Equlmmt                          1.5            -        10             0.6
(1.5)                   (1.0)
C. Maerals Producto                 -             0.70' 0.8"               02            1
(0.7)    (0.8)                      (4
D. NTF Opeatins is0.9"                                                     0.2
(0.9)
F. PPF                                                      0.6"           0.          *
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ___________ (0.6)
TOTAL.                              1.5            0.7     39.8            9.4   .
(Dank portIons)         ~~~~(1.5)      (0.7)    (37.8)
tPms may ot tota due to rounng.
Fgres   parenhss are the respective amounts fnanced by dte World Bank.
I Services ($36.5 millon) would be procured in accordance widh Wodd Bank Guideline.: Use of Consultants, 1981.
bI bcudes DC (propriebuy) training inpuft (US$0.4 mlion) for comuter sysem and software upgrades, and IS purse for
off4he4ielf items (US$0.6 milion).
d Goods and mateials (uding soue ancila  instlaio sevice) prowured locally, usig advertised, mpetve bidding,
total $0.7 million.
' Local Shopig for taiing materis and supplies (US$0.8 million).
Expenditur  (US$0.9 million) will be effcted using Loca Shopping and SOE diburswment procedures, per following *lt
"A Poet Praration Facility (PPF) of $0.6 milion is intended to be used for initid consuling services ($0.3 million) for
sWt-up equipent ($0.1 million), and for opeating coss ($0.2 million).



Page 46                       Chapter VI. Project Costs, Financing, Management and Implementation
6.15         Overall approach. The loan would finance about 190 contracts for subprojects and
equipment and services procured by the Foundations. Three-fourths of the loan funds would finance
contracts for training development and training delivery services, including fellowships. These consulting
services would be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines: Use of Consuiltants by World Bank
Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency, 1981. Solicitation methods and terms of reference
for all consulting services procurement would be subject to prior Bank review. Tender documentation,
contracts and amendments for consulting services valued at greater than US$100,000 would be subject
to Bank prior review. Also, tender documentation, short lists, contracts and amendments for the
engagement of individual consultants would be subject to prior Bank reviews, as indicated in the
Guidelines (Appendix 1, paras. 2-4), for all actions expected to exceed US$50,000 per transaction.
Consulting services contracts below these levels would be subject to ex-post reviews during supervision
missions and as part of annual procurement implementation reviews. Contracts below US$50,000 that
are paid by withdrawals from the loan on the basis of Statement of Expenditures do not have to be
submitted to the Bank for its records. Procurement and contracting would use standard Bank formats
wherever possible or Bank-approved Foundation procedures and documentation for the smaller-value
purchases. Some of these training delivery services might also be performed under requirements-type
contracts to cover repetitive courses for similar target audiences. The implementors would be responsible
for acquiring all the equipment necessary and otherwise provide the complete training services referred
to in the contracts for which they are responsible. One subproject would require ICB procurement for
computer technology centers that would be handled by procurement staff of the Central Foundation. The
Central Foundation may also do some minor materials procurement for subproject contractors if they are
not, in the view of the Foundation, able to manage the procurement process. Procurement of services
and goods are expected to be undertaken within the following categories.
6.16         Consulting services. Consultant services for training development and training delivery
subprojects would be packaged in about seventy contracts, averaging US$364,000 each and totalling
$25.5 million. Procurement of fellowships would involve about fifteen contracts, totalling about US$6.3
million. Subproject contracts would be structured to minimize contract administration and duplication
of training activities within and between regions. For example, curricula, teaching programs and training
materials would be developed only once in any given subject area. Subproject services would be tendered
on a competitive basis and using short-listing of qualified firms as provided for in the Bank's Guidelines
for the Consultants. Subproject contracts would utilize either a lump-sum approach according to pre-
established payment milestones or, when appropriate, use a time-based schedule of services paid for at
rates specified in the contract. Advertising of contract opportunities, applying Bank-approved short-list
competitive selection procedures, and proposal evaluation criteria would ensure access to a qualified
service providers and participation of a variety of institutions, both local and foreign. Partnerships, joint
ventures and other forms of association would be encouraged. Potential bidders would be encouraged
to combine technical expertise with local and/or international experience for handling the more complex
training activities. Within a subproject, the winning contractor would be responsible for providing the
resources, including executing subcontracts, if needed, with other firms or individuals to purchase goods
and services to carry out the defined work.
6.17         Procurement of services by the NTF. The Training Foundation would also procure
consulting services for itself, e.g., analyses, evaluations, advice on curricula development and training
of Foundation staffs. Three types of services contracts would be solicited. The first group of larger
contracts would be with firms or individuals for technical advisory services to the Foundation or for
subprojects directly managed by the Foundation. A total of about fifteen such contracts is envisaged,



Chapter Vl. Project Costs, Financing, Managemen! and Implementation             Page 47
averaging about US$180,000 per contract and totalling about US$2.7 million. The second grotup of
services would be obtained via smaller contracts with firms or individuals to help Foundations administer
the program while minimizing the number of permanent employees. In accordance with this principle,
the Foundation would enter into consulting contracts with individuals or firms for specific tasks, such as
evaluation of subproject bids, supervision of training delivery and evaluation of results. These contracts
are expected to number about fifty, but would be relatively small, averaging under US$36,000 each and
totalling about US$1.8 million. The NTF would also do some small-value purchasing of services, such
as plant repairs and maintenance, in connection with its office operations budget.
6.18         Procurement of goods. International competitive bidding, direct contracting, local
comipetitive bidding and local shopping would be utilized, as appropriate, for the procurement of goods
and perhaps small-value supporting services required for the program, facilities upgrades, and operations
of the Foundations. Loan-funded procurements are expected to total about forty actions and would
amount to about $4.3 million. ICB procurement will be in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated May 1992. The NTF might assist subproject
entities by procuring services on an aggregated basis where it would be more efficient to do so centrally.
6.19         International Competitve Bidng. International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures,
outlined in the above mentioned Guidelines, are expected to be used for the purchase of computer
equipment for the proposed accounting skills technology centers. These procedures would apply to all
such purchases that would exceed $300,000 per contract. Of the total of $1.5 million scheduled for these
purchases, there would probably be four individual tenders to support the centers' installation schedules.
These procurements would be administered by Central Foundation staff to ensure compliance with the
Guidelines and Bank standard documentation and approvals. In the comparison of bids for ICB
purchases, Russian manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin of 15% or the existing customs
duty that a nonexempt importer would have to pay, whichever is lower, over the competing price of
imports, providing domestic value-added is at least twenty percent. Bank staff would review and clear
these ICB procedures, documentation, evaluations and resulting contracts on an ex-ante basis.
6.20         Direct Contracting. Direct Contracting (DC) may be used for the procurement of some
proprietary computer system upgrades, spare parts, audio-visual equipment, and vendor specific training
technologies. It is expected that Direct Contracting documentation, awards, contracting and, if any,
amendment actions would be subject to prior Bank review and approval. Direct c ontracting is expected
to involve about three purchases, averaging $133,000 each.
6.21         International Shopping.  International Shopping (IS) may be authorized for readily
available, off-the-shelf purchases under US$300,000. IS will be based on quotations from at least three
suppliers, from at least three different Bank-member countries. Training activity International Shopping
is expected to total about US$600,000 and involve six purchases averaging US$100,000 each. Bank
reviews of IS actions will be conducted on an ex-post basis during supervision missions or procurement
reviews.
6.22         Local Competitve Bidding. Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures would be
established by the Central Foundation for its own use and that of the Regional Foundations and would
be cleared in advance by Bank staff to ensure such purchases will be carried out in a manner acceptable
to the Bank. These procedures will be used for actions that are expected to result in contracts of less than
US$300,000 that would not likely be of interest to foreign competitors, such as minor works that are



Page 48                       Chapter VI. Project Costs, Financing, Management and Implemenation
labor intensive, i.e., modifying office space to accommodate computer networks and equipment. LCB
actions (about five) are expected to total about $700.000 and would be subject to Bank prior review.
6.23         Local Shopping. Local Shopping (LS) procedures would be primarily used for purchases
under US$50,000 of locally available, off-the-shelf itemis of small value and standard specification. This
method may also be used for small value transactions for simple equipment installation work. Local
Shopping purchases to support course development and training delivery would total about $800,000 and
involve about twenty contracts. Most of the US$900,000 of NTF operating expenditure purchases would
use local shopping procedures for obtaining office supplies, consumables and some minor, off-the-shelf
equipment. Utilities and similar periodic expenditures would be paid as invoiced and included in NTF
Statements of Expenditures. Small value operating expenditure purchases would number about twenty-
five actions and be subject to ex-post documentation reviews, with payments probably being effected
under the project's Special Account.
6.24         Procurement implementation  The NTF would be responsible for overseeing a total of
about eighty-five medium-sized and about one hundred small contracting actions under the project. This
is a sizeable number, particularly for a new organization. However, steps have been taken under the
project to ensure that it is a manageable workload for the NTF. (i) The total number of medium-sized
contracts for subprojects averages out over the life of the project to about eighteen contracts for the
Central Foundation per annum and about five contracts per year for each Region. In addiction, the
approximately fifty small contracts entered into by the Foundations for local expert services would be
limited in scope (similar to 'work orders"), would follow standard terms of reference and formats, and,
being mostly fixed-price, would not be difficult to administer. (ii) The Foundation would have a
procurement advisor and several full-time, permanent staff responsible for initiating procurement planning
and administration. (iii) External technical assistance, both long and short-term, would also be retained
in the Central Foundation to assist with development of a procurement procedures manual and
implementation plans. These expatriate specialists would help Foundation staff develop personal skills and
institutional capacities, via intensive coaching and site visits, and establish required reporting systems.
(iv) There would also be extensive recurrent training of program staff, including the development of
actual terms of reference and discussions with Foundation staffs on the implications for solicitations,
proposal evaluation, negotiations and monitoring. (v) Given the nature of services to be procured, the
project would make extensive use of standardized procedures and standardized contracts. Sample
operational documents, terms of reference and criteria to identify potential participants are being
developed by experts currently in place. In view of the above, the number of contracts is considered to
be manageable.
Bank Procurement Oversight
6.25         In summary, all terms of reference for services, subproject and consulting services
contracts over $100,000 and with individuals over US$50,000, and ICB and DC purchases of goods
would be subject to prior Bank reviews and "no objections," as outlined in the Bank's respective
procurement Guidelines. Prior reviews of the Foundations' LCB procedures and standard documentation
would also be required. Bank reviews of subproject and other consulting services procurements would
cover an estimated eighty percent of total Bank funding for these inputs. The procurement plan would
also result in the Bank's prior reviews of approximately seventy percent of direct NTF purchases of
goods. Given the nature and value of the contracts and because standard bidding documents will be used,
this percentage of prior Bank review is justified.



Chapter V7 Project Costs, FOnancing, Managemem and Implmation                     Page 49
6.26         The Bank would monitor procurement activities, contract management and project record-
keeping during periodic supervision missions. To assist wihi implementation of the project, the Bank
would recruit a full-time local staff menber to work at the Resident Mission. The main function of this
Implementation Specialist would be to provide close reviews of the procurement process, including the
review of documentation in Russian. In addition, the Bank would undertake a focussed project launch
workshop and an intense mid-term review of project progress; both activities would place emphasis on
procurement matters. Additional information on procurement supervision can be found in Annex 18.
Procurement Reponing
6.27         As outlined in relevant guidelines, NTF managers would promptly inform Bank staff
regarding procuremnent plans, solicitations, proposed contract awards and progress in the implementation
of their procurement activities. NTF contracting and purchase actions would also be summarized in
periodic submissions and operations reports prepared for the Bank by the Central Foundation.
E. DISBURSEMENTS
6.28         The proceeds of the Loan are expected to be filly disbursed over a 48-month period, with
most of the disbursement occurring in the last two years. Funds disbursed under the PPF would be
repaid from the proposed Loan funds at effectiveness. The estimated disbursement schedule is shown
in Table 6.7 below.
Table 6.7: Estmated Loan Disbusement Schedulet
Disbursements Over 48 Months
Bank Fiscal Year       95            96              97               98           99
semester (6 mondhs)     1         2    3           4    S          6    7           8
Per Semester (%)       1.0       2.5  5.0         8.0  16.0       24.5  28.8      14.2
Per Semester (US$ millions)  0.6  0.8  2.0        3.2  6.4        9.8   1 1.5     5.7
Cumulative (%)         1.0       3.5  8.5        16.5  32.5       57.0  85.8
Cumulative (US$ millions)   0.6   1.4  3.4        6.6  13.0       22.8  34.3      $
t Figures may not total due to rounding.



Page 50                        amChpter VI. Projea Costs, Flnandng, Management and Imlementation
Chlart 6.1: Dlsba       M lustrated Per Semester and Cumulatively
(Dank Fia Years)
40
35
30          *Pet5em
aS          OQmnutaie
20
S~
FY9S-2  FY9E-1  PY96-2  PY97-1  FY97-2  FY8-i  FY9-2  FY99-1
&emeowm
6.29         Disbursements would be made as follows:
Amount Allocated         PerceAge of Exendtu
Ca£eQorv               (US$ milnion)             to be Financed
1.    Subprojects               US$ 22.1              85%
2.    Goods                     US$ 4.3                100%   of  foreign
expenditures; 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost); and 75%
of local expenditures for
other items procured
locally
3.    Technical Assistance      US$ 9.7               100%
4.    Operating Costs           US$  1.2              100%  of expenditures
incurred during the first
year and second year;
75% of expenditures
incurred during the
third year; and 50% of
expenditures incurred
thereafter
5.    Refinding the Project     US$  0.6              Amount due according to
Preparation Advance                          PPF Agreement
6.    Unallocated               US$ 2.1



Chapter VI. Project Costs, Financing. Management and implementaton             Page 51
6.30         Funds for subprojects to be administered by Regional Foundations would not be pre-
allocated to each region in the disbursement schedule. The reason is to give regions an incentive for good
performance. Those regions that can commit and disburse funds for sound subprojects would be able to
absorb additional resources above their nominal shares.
Documentation
6.31         Disbursements would be fully documented, except that contracts for goods and training
under US$50,000 equivalent, and operating costs, would be made on the basis of certified Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs). The required supporting documentation would be retained by the respective
foundations for at least one year after receipt by the IBRD of the audit report for the year in which the
last disbursement was made. This documentation would be made available for review by the auditors and
by Bank staff on request.
Special Accounts
6.32         To facilitate payments of small amounts and payment in local currency, the Government
would initially establish one Special Account denominated in US dollars in a commercial bank acceptable
to the IBRD. The selection process and qualifications of this bank are described in pam 6.33. The
authorized allocations of this Special Account would be US$800,000. All requests for replenishment
would be submitted to IBRD through the Central Foundation. Documentation requirements would follow
the same procedures as described in para. 6.31 and in the Disbursement Handbook. In addition, monthly
bank statements of the Special Account which have been reconciled by the Foundation would accompany
all replenishment requests.
6.33         The commercial bank holding the Special Account would be selected from a number of
acceptable banks. This bank would also collect repayments on loans from sub-borrowers. The cost of
the services provided by the commercial banks will be compared. Some commercial banks in Moscow
have already received IBRD approval and the names of those banks will be communicated to the
Borrower once the Loan is signed. The bank selected to hold the Special Account should (i) be
financially sound as demonstrated by their latest accounts, as audited by an internationally recognized
auditing firm; (ii) have a significant foreign correspondence network covering all major currencies; (iii)
have a reasonable capacity and experience for issuing letters of credit, for making direct foreign payments
and other international transactions with appropriate arrangements for the training and development of
their staff; (iv) be capable of performing a wide range of local banking services, including cash payments,
transfers to other domestic banks, issuance of debit notes, application of conversion rates from foreign
currencies, and maintenance of adequate accounts for the Special Account; (v) preferably be a member
of Swift and should routinely use or plan to use this facility to expedite payment transfers; (vi) be willing
to issue a Comfort Letter to assure that amounts deposited in the Special Account will not be set off or
otherwise seized or attached to satisfy amounts due to the commercial bank by the Borrower; (vii) be
willing to maintain adequate accounts as required by IBRD, provide montfly bank statements to IBRD,
and any other information considered necessary (copies of all transactions would be routinely submitted
to the foundations); and (viii) be willing to charge reasonable rates for their services and provide
reasonable interest on balances held from time to time.



Page 52                         ater Vl. Project Costs, Flnandng, Management and Implementation
Project Accownts and Audits
6.34         A single set of project accounts would be maintained by the Central Foundation for the
Project. The project account, including the Special Account, would be audited in accordance with the
"Guidelines for Financial Repordng and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank" (March
1982). During negotiations assurances were be obtained from the Govenunent that the IBRD would be
provided, within six months of the end of each Govermnent fiscal year, with an audit report of such scope
and details as the IBRD may reasonably reques, including a separate opinion by an independent auditor
acceptable to the IBRD, on disbursement against certified SOEs. The separate opinion should mention
whether SOEs subniitted during the fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawal applications.
Bank Supervision
6.35         The proposed project focuses on the establishment of a new institution, the National
Training Foundation, through which many small subprojects would be implemented in high priority
fields. Intensive Bank supervision would be required to help identify and solve problems, and to ensure
that the activities of the NTF conform with plans and agreements. The Bank's supervision strategy would
focus on early and frequent supervision of the institutional development of the NTF. rhe Bank's
supervision of subproject activities would concentrate on the monitoring and review processes of the NTF
as the first-line supervisor of subprojects. Steps have been taken in the operational guidelines to require
adequate reporting procedures by the NTF. A total of 30 staff weeks has been budgeted for the rest of
FY95 and about 40 staff weeks for subsequent years. Such close supervision by the Bank would also be
a likely requirement of other potential donors. A major mid-term review of the project and the NTF's
operations is planned for about 18 months after loan signaure. See Annex 18 for the supervision plan.
F. SusrAINABILITY
6.36         The aim is to put the NTF on a permanent, self-sufficient, financial foundation that could
finance its activities in the long run. In the short run, the NTF would finance some of its operating costs
through user charges to subproject beneficiaries. It would also generate revenue by receiving a share of
tuition payments collected by training providers. In the medium term, the NTF also needs to develop
on-lending arrangements for its commercial clients. Any spread between its income from repayment of
loans by sulborrowers and its repayment to the central government could be applied to operating capital.
In the long run, fill self-sufficiency in its financing activities would require an endowment fund and/or
sustained contributions from outside donors. These can only be defined and realized on the basis of the
NTF's actual performance. Technical sustainability of the NTF would be sought through staff training
programs, counterpart training by technical assistance experts and maintenance of a competitive salary
structure for staff.



THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL 1TAINING PROJECT
VII. PROJECT BENS AND RISKS
A. BENEFITS
7.1          The project's immediate outputs would be (i) the development of an umbrella organization
able to define training strategies and evaluate locally-generated subprojects according to technical
standards; (ii) the creation of new and better training resources in management, accountancy, banking and
public finance, including teaching standards, curricula, trainers, teaching materials, and networks; (iii)
the creation of new capacity to deliver training, including the development of a private training
nfrastructure, local training capacities, distance learning, and in-company training. The ultimate output
would be substantial numbers of people trained to standard in the core skills required for a market
economy. The outcome would be increased productivity and more rapid labor redeployment. The
benefits of the project would be accelerated transition to the market economy, greater individual and
cital earnings and increased tax revenues.
7.2          The financial and economic benefits of the project are shown in Table 7.1.



Page 54                                                        Chapter VII. Projea Benefits and Risks
Table 7.1: F1nandal and Economic Benefits
Financial Benefits                                 Economic Benefits
*      Generation of income in two ways:           0      Comprehensive and integrated cover-
age to achieve a massive and coordi-
- In the short term, the project would             nated attack on building the human
generate revenue from  repayment of                resources needed for installation of the
tuition  fees for training  programs               market economy.
enabling the NTF to pay back part of
the loan to Government.                     0      Critical support for market reforms in
key sectors by providing the quality
- In the medium term, increased pro-               trained human resources needed for
ductivity and incomes of trained indi-             privatization, for financial reforms and
viduals and their employers would                  for the reform of public administra-
lead to increased tax revenues.                    tion.
*      Substantial substitution  of training       0       More  rapid  labor  redeployment
within Russia for training abroad,                 through training for new occupations
saving foreign exchange for use in                 and self-employment.
other priority areas.*
*      Adoption  of a  strategic  approach
*      Use of competitive tenders to ensure               whereby critical issues are analyzed in
effective and efficient use of project             depth  and  strategic  priorities  are
resources.                                         chosen  to  guide  investments  in
training.
*      Mobilization of substantial additional
donor resources.                            *      Immediate impact by concentrating on
practitioners already employed in key
*      Better coordination of donor assis-                occupations for the market economy,
tance, avoiding overlaps, and making               e.g. managers and accountants.
more efficient use of resources.
*      Medium  to longer term  impact by
placing the training industry on a
greater market footing and by helping
restructure the content and delivery of
higher education in economic and
financial subjects.
* Another of the benefits of the project would be to demonstrae the results obtainable through a 'product-flnancing' approah.
In contrast with the curnts 'input-finncing" approach (pam. 2.19), the NTF would finance the delivery of specific products,
like textbools, courses, curricula, selected on a competitive basis. This would promote competition and market forces in
training, would ensure the most effective use of limited resources for training, and would exemplify possmble reforms in
education finaning.



Chapter WI. Project Benefits and Risks                                             Page 55
B. RISKS
7.3          Any project focusing on institution development and dealing with multiple sectors, levels
and agencies is subject to substantial risk, particularly in a country undergoing massive economic and
social change. The main instrument of the project, the National Training Foundation, is expressly
intended to address project complexity and permit flexibility to respond to changing conditions. Other
significant risks may be lack of quality control in the NTF and lack of quality content and innovation in
the projects it finances. Pressures undoubtedly would mount to use personal or political, rather than
technical, criteria for allocation of project funds by the intermediary. Resistance to these pressures and
ultimately the quality of the NTF's work would depend-above all-on the quality and incentives of its
staff. Project design includes careful, competitive selection procedures for staff and intensive in-service
training programs along with competitive wages. Moreover, the NTF, through the development of its
evaluation and supervision capacities, could help ensure that prior failures of training would not be
repeated. Another risk concerns potential leakage and loss of funds because of inadequate financial
controls. Detailed financial procedures have been designed to minimize this risk. Additionally,
insufficient demand for loan funds by potential sub-borrowers from the NTF, or failure of sub-borrowers
to repay loans, could undercut the reach of the project and its financial self-sufficiency in the long run.
These matters have been studied in depth, but, given current rapid changes, they must be kept under
constant review by the borrower and Bank staff. There is a risk of dispersion of funds across an
excessive number of subjects and regions such that impact is dissipated and diffused. Careful strategic
selection of priorities and phasing of activities would be required to avoid this risk. Finally, the project
entails development work such as curricula and materials development and training trainers. Full
realization of the benefits from these investments depends on additional, as yet unsecured, financing to
support their dissemination and application.



THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL TRAINNG PRoJEcr
VHI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMmNDATIONS
8.1          During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Govermnent and the NTF and
were incorporated in the negotiated Loan and Project Agreement regarding: definition of NTF programs
(para. 4.12); maintenance of structure, organization and staffing policies and appointment of senior staff
of the NTF acceptable to the Bank (para. 5.13); accreditation of Regional Foundations acceptable to the
Bank (para. 5.13); consultation with the Bank on the financial terms of grants and loans to subproject
beneficiaries by the NTF (para. 5.28); maintenance by the NTF of intemal rules and regulations that are
acceptable to the Bank (para. 5.30); subproject processing by the NTF entities in accordance with the
approved Operational Manual (5.32); submission of the each NTF entity's annual budget and work
program for Bank review annually (para. 5.32); prior Bank approval of subprojects over $250,000 (paras.
5.20); and audited accounts by independent auditors (para. 6.34).
8.2          The following conditons of Board presentaton were met: (i) receipt of a letter from
the Government confirming the negotiated terms of the Subsidiary Loan/Grant Agreement between the
Government and the NTF (para. 5.29); (ii) appointment of the Executive Director of the Central
Foundation acceptable to the Bank following procedures acceptable to the Bank (para. 5.30); and (iii)
adoption of an Operational Manual by the NTF acceptable to the Bank (paras. 5.14 and 5.30).
8.3          A conditon of effectiveness is signature of an acceptable Subsidiary Loan/Grant
Agreement between the Government and the NTF acceptable to the Bank (para. 5.29).
8.4          A condton of disbursement for each Regional Foundation is conclusion of a subsidiary
financing agreement satisfactory to the Bank between the Central Foundation and that Regional
Foundation (para. 5.31).
Recommendaton
8.5          The proposed operation is suitable for an IBRD Loan of US$40 million equivalent to the
Government of the Federation of Russia, for 17 years including a 5 year grace period, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
EC3HR
November 23, 1994



T1E RUSSIAN FEDERATION
MANAGEMENT AND FWANCiAL TRAING PROJECr
ANNEX 1. ACtION PROGRAM FOR MARKEr-ORIENTED TRANING
PROBLEMS                           ACTIONS                        INSMRUMENTS
1. Weak Mwngaent and              No                                Near Term
lanal Capaety
*  Encoure the provision of aining  * Create an autonomous truining
Problem: Coordination of atitdjg    by the private sector, e.g., foreign  organiztion and fund with
inhtiatives missibg, leading t exc  joint venturwa; private, fee-paying  government representation (but not
capacity in somo. areas and glpS in  training; in-company trai'ng, and  control) to attract foreign resources
others. Excessive sector specilization    by private professional associations    for triining and invest in priority
in training s iutions  inew cizaai tior   * Redefine central government  projects
mobility. Excessive direct          responsibilities for training to focus *  Use the taining fund to finance
government control of taining       on policy development and          private initiatives
insditutions inhibits initive an    coordination                    *  Establish local boards and control
reform. Tradtional provision of   * Establisb partnerships between     for training institutions
trining by the state inhibits financial  government, enstprise,     * Introduce occupation-oriented
reform, relevanc. Exstng big        professional associations and      programs in place of sector-
capacity is shriig  due to lack of  traimng institutions for guidance  specific training
finacing by government and by       and initiatives
eneprises. private atining        * Restructure ministry-sponsored
uamgulaed.                         ftraining by requiring institutions to
be self-managed and increasingly
self-financed
* Devolve responsibility for
management of trng to loalities
and trainng institutions
* Reduce sector specializaton in
favor of training for generic
occupations trnsferrable across
sectors
* Introduce cost recovety from
students and/or companies
Medium to Lone Term               Medium to Long Term
* Develop dual public/private training e As private self-financing
sytem with freedom to choose      institutions develop, gradually
*  Establish reguly and              reorient the role of the fund as a
supervisory authority and         source of finance for training
accreditation procedures for private   towards encouraging special
instiutions                       initiatives and odher selective
* Divest governmtent of all direct   interventions
management of training institutions, * Increae administrative role of the
except for skill-upgrading for    fund as a faciitator of private
government staff                  training
* Build regional and municipal    *  Develop nanagement programs for
capacity to assess training needs,  heads of training institutions and
supply and initiate programs      local admdnistations



Page 60                                              Annex 1. Action Programfor Market-Oriented Training
PROBLEMS                            ACTIONS                         INSTRUMENTS
2. hytelrance of training to       Near Term                          Neat su|
maket re rMents
*  Introduce training in new          E Establish working groups of
Problem: System not training for     disciplines impwoita for the market    government, private and
market economdis or jobs of the      economy, e.g.. management.          iternational experts to authonze
fuwte.                               accountancy, private-sector banking    new intewnectoral curicula and
*  Reduce sector specialization in    teaching nuatrials in core subjects
training                        * Provide technical assistance for
*  Ensure supplies of teaching material   establishinglstrengthening
by translating foreign textbooks and    professional association in key
adapting them to Russian conditions    professions
*  Develop case materals based on    *  Finance the pVeparation of Russian
Russian experiences                based case materials
* Adapt the pattern of in-service
training programs
Medium to Long Term                Medium to Lore Term
*  Revise training programs in the  *  Institutionalize lnkages between
formal system of education         domestic and foreign institutions to
*  Upgade members through             ensure infusion of new ideas
professional associations       *  Implement results of above study
*  Decentralize control of training
content to regions and institutions
*  Develop new services by training
institutions, e.g. research and
conulting



Annec 1. Action Program for Alarket-Oriented Training                                              Page 61
PROBLEMS                            ACTIONS                         INSTRUMENTS
3. Low Quality of                  Near Term                          Near Term
Instruction
e  Establish voluntary systems for  e  Provide twchnical assistance for
Problem: Teachers trained in         accrediting institutions            developing of accreditation systems
command economy with old-style     *  Acquire effective teaching rooms    e  Provide fellowships and overseas
teaching methods constrains rapid    and aids, e.g., computers, video    training for master trainers
dissemination of relevant skils.     players, etc.                    *  Develop center(s) in Russia to train
Private training expanding, but much   *  Retrain teaching staff in modern  trainers
of it is low quality.                teaching content and methods     *  Use competitive ptoposals to
*  Establish light regulatory         allocate investments to training
framework for private training, to  institutions through a training fund
encourage tmimmum standards     *  Renovate and equip key training
without inhibiting initiatives     institutions
e Provide technical assistance on
alternative methods of regulating
private training
Medium to Lone Term                Medium to Lone Term
* Concentrate resources in a few key  e  Select and develop rgional cens
institutions or centers of excellence  of excellence
c  Introduce systematic evaluation of  *  Provide technical assistance of
learning achievementc              evaluation methods



Page 62                                              Annex 1. Action Programfcr Market-Oriented Training
PROBLEMS                            ACTIONS                         INSTRUMENTS
4. Limited Capadty to Deiver   Near TermNe  Te
Market-Oiented Training
*  Develop cadre of master trainers to  *  Provide technical assistance for
Problem: Trairing needs for the      pass their expertise on to other    instructor training
matket economy are massive, yd       trainers                         *  Provide assistance to expand
supply capacity is limited and even    * Expand the capacity of distance  programs employing:
shrinking due to financial cotraints.    learning systems                - open universities
Macro economic refomsa            *  Use self-stdy methods, such as      - distance learning by
hampered by skills gap.              computer-based training             correspondence
*  Encourage the provision of quality  - TV/media
training through private providers,  *  Develop computer-based training
e.g., joint venture, fee-paying    programs
institutions                    *  Decenb-alize authority to regions
*  Foster voluntary communication     and local institutions
networks among training institutions *  Develop policies on private
training and programs to assist the
expansion of private training
insXtitons
e Provide assistance to establish
communication networks
Medium to Long Term                Medium to Long Tern
*  Expand the capacity for in-company *  Assist companies to develop in-
training programs                  house training capacity
*  Expand publishing capacity for  *  Assist professional associations to
booklmaterials on the market       develop training programs
economy
, Build capacities of professional
associadons to train members
*  Advise company and bank
management on methods of
enhancing training through joint
ventures and twinning arrangements



TaE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
MANAGEMENT AND FINANCL TINIG  PRoJECr
ANNEx 2. MANAGEMENT DEVELoPmENT: AcorON PLAN AND PRoGRAMS
A. ACTION PLAN
1. Overaa Relvawe and Orientaion
PROBLEMS                         OBJECTIVES                          ACTIONS                        INSMRUMETS
1. Major changes in thinking and   1. Enhance relevance and make    1. Organize government-private    1. Formal strategy and policy
behavior of managers are         an effective contribution to the   sector dialogue and conceptual    stements adopted and
urgently reqmured by current      reform process, by reorienting    work on strategy and policy       published.
economic reforms.                and upgrading management           issues, both short- and long-
Management development           development, both enterprise-      term.                          2. Strategy and policy reflected in
needs to be restructured and     based and external.                                                  govenment decisions and
reoriented to provide                                            2. Develop a research agenda and     legislation.
knowledge and skills for       2. Define short- and longer-term     program on current practices,
managing   under market          strategies and an effective        problems and priority needs of   3. National Training Foundation
economy. A new strategy and      policy framework for               Russian management.               guided by segy and policy
policy framework should be       restructuring management                                             choices in selecting specific
defined in order to facilitate   development and focusing it on   3. Assess and reassess priority     projects.
reforms, encourage initiative,   national, sectoral and regional    needs by sectors and regions.
stress priorities and avoid      priorities.                                                       4. Periodic (annual) report on
waste.                                                           4. Revise legal texts hampering      state and prospects of
3. Create a dynamic and              improvements in management        management development in
competitive market for            developmnt.                       Russia.
mangement development
services.                      5. Establish and operate          5. Information services on
information system on            maagemet training and
management training and          development opeated on
development.                     commercial principles and
widely used.



Page 64                                                                                                Annex 2. Managemem Deveopme
2. Management Development in Enterprises
PROBLEMS                        OBJECTIVES                          ACTIONS                       INSTRUMENTS
2. Enterprises are slow in       1. Achieve major change in       1. Inform senior managers on      1. Workshops for managers in
adapting management              attitudes of managers to         current trends in management      problem/need identification.
development to new needs and     enterprise-based management      development.
conditions created by the        development.                                                    2. Pilot projects in enterprises.
economic reform. Urgent                                        2. Train human resource and
training needs of most        2. Increase the role of enterprise-  personnel managers from       3. Joint programs of enterprises
managers and specialists are     based and action-oriented        private and public sector.        with Russian business schools.
not met. Action is delayed due   management development in
to lack of perspective,          enterprise restructuring and  3. Help enterprises to upgrade    4. Training of Russian managers
information, role models,       improving the management of       their management development      in foreign enterprises.
experience, finance and policy   privatized enterprises.          approaches and programs.
support from the top. As a                                                                       5. Networking of human resource
result, the role and                                           4. Train human resource              managers for experience
contribution of enterprises to                                    consultants for assisting        exchange.
management development is                                         enterprises.
below their real potential.                                                                      6. Brochure on best enterprise
Major resources are wasted                                                                         experience with management
and time lost.                                                                                     development.
7. Participation of users in
central bodies to orient and
promote management
development.



Annex 2. Management Develoj ment                                                                                             Page 65
3. External Management Trining and Development Sernices
PROBLEMS                        OBJECTIVES                         ACTIONS                       INSTRUMENTS
3. Most existing training       I. Make external management      I. Review and evaluate the       I. Voluntary associations of
institutions were created to    development services relevant    existing institutional base for  institutions serving their
serve the command economy       to priority needs of economic    management education and         common needs and interests.
system. Adjustment to market    reforms.                         training.
economy needs is difficult.                                                                    2. Training workshops for
Centralization prevails, many    2. Modernize, rationalize and  2. Assist inst.tutions in devising  directors, deans and other
regions are poorly served.      decentralize the institutional   and implementing strategic and   managers of institutions.
Privatization is progressing,   base for external management     performance improvement
but many obstacles have to be   education, training and          programs.                     3. Advisory services on auditing,
ove,c3me. The whole             development.                                                      restructuring and developing
institutional network needs to                                3. Train managers of training       individual institutions.
become more relevant and     3. Make management                  institutions.
efficient.                      development institutions                                       4. Information services on
increasingly self-supporting,  4. Organize voluntary co-          existing institutions and
demand-driven and able to        operation through networking.    program offerings.
operate on commercial
principles.                   5. Help to create new institutions   5. Twinning with excellent
to meet the needs of poorly     foreign institutions.
served regions.
6. Individual co-operation
arrangements within Russia
with other institutions and
with eI_erprises.



Page 66                                                                                                 Anne 2. Management Deveopment
4. Leandig Resorea for Mangew         t Dewdopmt
PROBLEMS                         OBJECTIVES                         ACTIONS                        INSITUMENTS
4. A shortage of suitable        1. Provide the Russian            1. Identify priority needs, develop   1. Plans and programs for
crricula and learning            mangme  development and           a work program and produce        concerted action in curricula
materias is a serious problem    traning system  both in-          needed curricula and materials.   and mateials development.
of both enterprise-based and     company and external) with
extenal training. Materials      modern curricula and leaming    2. Carry out research into specific  2. Joint projects, author teams,
addressing issues of transition  materials, reflecting best        problems and practices of         consortia and other forms for
are lacking. So are materials    international experience and      Russian management to ensure      producing specific materials.
for self-development and         specific condidons of the         adaptation of translated
distance learning. Little serious  countty, with special regard to  materials and generate original   3. National bank and information
work has been started to         needs of economic reforms.        Russian materials.                system on learning materials.
reform curricula to adapt them
to specific Russian needs while  2. Achieve a major shift from  3. Design and install distance-   4. Series of textbooks, case
making best use of               academic to active, problem-      learning and self-development     studies and other materials.
international experience.        oriented methodology.             systems.
Foreign materials are used                                                                        5. Series of publications for self-
without adaptation and their                                    4. Design and operate                development and distance
selecion is often arbitrary.                                       information banks and services   learning.
Active and action-oriented                                         on curricula and learning
methods are rarely used.                                           materials.                     6. Distance-learning facilities as
Modern teaching aids are                                                                            regular service for
lacking.                                                        5. Ensure publication and wide       management education and
distribution of new materials to  short-term retraining
increase impact.



AnnA 2. Management Developmwun                                                                                                 Page 67
5. hwan Resowres for M         a_Wmnt and Devdopment
PROBLEMS                        OBJECTIVES                         ACTIONS                        INSMUMETS
S. Human resourcs (teachers,     I. Achieve substantial           1. Retrain existing and ta-in new    1. Workshops, courses,
tainers, consulstas, anig        improvements in competence,      teachers/tainer  using various    fellowships and other
managers and organizers,         motivation, terns of             models and program types.         programs for teachers/traines
human resource managers,         employment and performance                                         development.
researchers), are the main       of teachers/trainers and other    2. Train enterprise trainers and
factor affecting quality of      professionals active in         training directors.             2. Handbooks and guides on how
management deve!pieent,         management development.                                           to teach particular topics and
both in-company and external.                                  3. Organize special training in      on methods of instruction.
With few exceptions, their    2. Improve competence,              new market-related topics and
competence is insufficient.     intervention methods and          subjects.                      3. Guidelines and information
Reasons are the heritage of      performance of management                                         materials for trainers to assist
the past system, poor            consultants.                  4. Organize programs on use of       their self-assessment and self-
knowledge of foreign                                              case method, action-learning,    development.
languages,low motivation for                                      computer-based instruction and
achieving excellence and weak                                     other active methods.          4. Networking facilities for
links with industrial practice.                                                                    individuals by areas of
Intake of young                                                5. Provide briefings on how to use  common interest.
teachers/trainers is                                              new curricula and leaming
insufficient.                                                     materials.                     5. Special program for
management consultants and
6. Train management consultants.    trainers keen to improve
consulting skills.



Page 68                                                                                                 AnnFe 2. Managemm Development
6. QuaUy &andals
PROBLEMS                        OBJECTIVES                          ACTIONS                        INSTRUMENTS
6. Quality of management         1. Achieve major improvements     1. Develop and apply quality      1. Legislation and guidelines on
development is a serious         in the quality of management      measurement, assessment,          quality standards and
problem due to a number of       development both in               certification and improvement     certification.
reasons. Many suppliers and      enterprises and at university-    programs.
users of training services are   based and other management                                       2. Certification bodies and
unaware of the problem due to    education and training         2. Assist enterprises and            procedures.
the absence of recognized        establishments.                   institutions in self-assessment
standards and comparison                                           of their training and          3. Peer audits and advisory
bases. Some progress has been   2. Promote the use of certification  educational program.            services on how to assess
made to assess quality and       to set and achieve high                                             program quality and make
introduce certification. Actions  standards and help suppliers to   3. Inform users on certification  improvements.
and programs to enhance          meet these standards.             and quality improvement
quality and meet international                                     criteria and practices.        4. Directories and information
standards have hardly started.                                                                       services on programs meeting
4. Harmonize work on quality        quality standards.
improvement with production
of learning materials and      5. Workshops for human
teachers/trainers development.   resource managers and heads
of institutions on quality
assessment and improvement
issues.



AMa 2. Management Develapnt                                                                                                     Page 69
7. Use of In*e_nI    Expmfle_
PROBLEMS                         OBJECTIVES                         ACTIONS                        INSTRU   IENTS
7. Access to international       1. Improve selection, transfer,   1. Choose suitable sources of     1. Workshops on technical co-
management development           adaptation and use of             expertise, co-operating pattners  operation project design,
experience has been liberalized  international management          and transfer channels.            partner selection and methods
and an impressive number of      development expertise.                                              of implementation.
projects aims to channel it to                                  2. Design and implement studies
Russia. Yet the results       2. Give priority to transfer of      comparing Russian and foreign   2. Information services on
achieved fail to meet needs      practical management know         practices in selected areas of    important operational and
and requirements due to          how before transfer of            management.                      programmed actions of
reasons such as lack of co-      elementary knowledge.                                              technical co-operation and
ordination, overlapping or                                      3. Compile and circulate            their results.
poor adaptation. The results                                      information on suitable
achieved do not match the                                          expertise available locally and    3. Twinning and partnership
resources used.                                                    internationally.                 arrangements with selected
foreign sources of expertise.
4. Organize collaboration of
Russian and foreign experts for  4. Active participation in
producing new learning           international networks and
materials.                       meetings where important new
expertise can be acquired.
5. Mixed author teams for
learning materials.



Page 70                                                    Annex 2. Management Development
B. SUBPROGRAM DESCRIPTIONS
1.           PolW frmework and qudaly stdards (US$1.2 million of base costs). Management
development in the Russian economy requires a new policy framework encouraging initiative and change,
improving the motivation for training and development, ensuring the utilization of scarce resources and
increasing quality. Improvements are needed in legislation, taxation, financing of training, principles and
methods of government and private sector support, trainers' terms of employment and motivation,
resource allocation to priority areas and the definition and application of quality standards. The objective
would be to remove major instituticnal and legal barriers hampering modernization of management
development in the country, assess and improve the policy framework and set and apply high-uality
standards for management training programs. The project would finance studies of demand, supply and
the state of the art of management development, the development of specific proposals for necessary
changes in legislation and government policies, an assessment of current quality standards and the
development of new standards, the design of effective certification procedures and assistance in applying
the standards that would be adopted.
2.           Enerpie-based management devlopment (US$5. 7 mIion of base costs). In preparing
Russian enterprises for operating and surviving under a market economy, a substantial improvement and
reorientation of enterprise-based management development and training is a top priority. This training
must focus on key issues of enterprise restructuring, privatization and efficiency and help enterprises to
appreciate the need to change and count on their own resources above all. The subprogram would assist
some 25-30 larger and medium-sized privatized enterprises in implementing action-oriented management
development programs using recent market-economy experience. It would be fully decentralized to the
participating regions. Local training institutions and consulting firms would be strengthened to provide
support through advice and training. Internships in foreign companies would be organized for Russian
manarers in collaboration with industry and trade associations. Training guides would be produced and
a wide dissemination of best experiences organized in order to stimulate enterprise initiative in human
resource and management development. The project would finance diagnostic and program development
work, training of human resource managers and trainers from enterprises, training of management teams,
management internships in foreign companies, the production and dissemination of practical guides for
enterprisebased management development and workshops for sharing experience. Individual proposals
would seek to incorporate alternative delivery modes, including distance education, to expand the reach
of training programs.
3.           LIng  materials, tndne,s and teachers (US$S.1 mfilon of base costs). The
development of high-quality training for management under a market economy is seriously hampered by
an acute shortage of suitable learning materials and competent trainers and teachers. Initiatives already
taken to overcome this shortage have been fragmented and of limited impact. A major systematic effort
is required to fill the existing gaps, produce and disseminate a wide range of materials on various aspects
and functions of management, retrain the existing management trainers and teachers and start preparing
their succession. The objective of the subprogram would be to develop 17 sets of learning/training
materials covering management topics where the needs are most acute due to the profound differences
between a command and a market economy (entrepreneurship, strategic management, marketing, business
finance, innovation, change management, enterprise restructuring and others), retrain 100 trainers in each
subject area covered (1700 in total), and provide further training to selected trainers willing to serve as
master trainers in various regions of Russia. Materials for distance learning would also be produced.
This work would be based on a thorough assessment of existing materials and projects pursuing similar



Annex 2. Management Development                                                    Page 71
objectives to avoid overlapping. Emphasis would be put on sharing learning materials and experience with
their use. Translations of foreign materials would be combined with adaptations and the production of
original Russian materials as necessary and feasible. Special training in managing training establishments
and programs would be provided.
4.           Management consulting (US$1.4 million of base costs). In adapting to market economy
conditions and standards, Russian enterprise managers will increasingly require the support of
professional services, including management and business consulting. However, the currently available
Russian consulting services are short of market-economy experience and their knowledge of consulting
principles and methods needs to be improved. The objective would be to strengthen and upgrade the
emerging Russian consulting profession, increase the consultants' competence in substantive areas of
management know-how and consulting methodology, improve the management of local consulting firms,
help enterprises to build their internal consulting services and train managers in the use of consultants.
The target is to train 370 consultants and managers of consulting firms. The project would finance the
training of consultants and their trainers, internships in foreign consulting firms, the training of founders
and managers of Russian consulting firms, the translation and production of professional consulting
guides, and advisory services for structuring and developing the consulting profession. Proposals would
attempt to maximize the effectiveness of this training program by using various means of delivery
including distance education.
S.           Networking and nfonnation (US$1.4 mion of base costs).  A major issue of
management development in Russia is how to overcome the current fragmentation of efforts and enhance
the sharing of experience and information without imposing uniformity and stifling initiative. There is
an urgent need to improve the collections, evaluation, distribution and utilization of information on best
Russian training programs, materials, and institutions and on the results obtained from the numerous
technical assistance projects. Major benefits could be drawn from collaborative networks established as
voluntary associations or using other convenient collaboration formulas, through which enterprises,
institutions and individual management development professionals could exchange experience, help each
other, coordinate activities, organize joint programs, acquire information and learning materials and deal
with other matters of common interest. The objective would be to increase the impact and the multiplier
effect of current and future management development initiatives and investments by ensuring circulation
of information, sharing experience and resources and working jointly on issues that exceed the
possibilities of one single organization. The project would encourage the development of voluntary
professional associations, including employers' associations, pursuing speciftc objectives consistent with
the objectives of their members. Rather than providing general unspecified support to associations, the
project would finance specific technical services required by members. It is hoped that strengthened
voluntary associations would become eligible for implementing other subprograms of the project. In
information services, the project would finance the development of databases, directories and clearing
houses on programs, institutions, training and learning materials, technical assistance projects and their
results and other information essential to effective management development.
Piot Projects
6.           Study of barriers of management development. Work on a new policy framework and
quality standards would start by a pilot project aimed to identify the critical barriers hampering the
modernization of management development and its rapid adjustment to the requirements of the emerging
market economy. This pilot project would identify the main legal, institutional, administrative, financial,



Page 72                                                       Annex 2. Management Development
cultural and other barriers and formulate specific proposals for needed changes. The proposals would be
reviewed in workshops with government and private sector representatives.
7.            Hundred Russian cases. The pilot project "Hundred Russian Cases' has two main
purposes: (i) to compile and disseminate the valuable case studies on the management of Russian
enterprises under the current economic reform. which have recently been produced in various Russian
institutions, often with the support of foreign aid projects; and (ii) to stimulate the production of original
Russian training materials reflecting the current conditions and needs of enterprise management. The
project would finance the collection, evaluation, selection, editing, reproduction and dissemination of
some 100-150 case studies and train several groups of teachers/trainers in producing and using cases.
Video-based cases and dissemination of cases and teacher training through distance learning will also be
encouraged. It would serve as a launching and testing activity for developing Russian learning materials,
trainers and teachers. The first collection of cases would constitute a nucleus of a Russian clearing house
of learning materials on management and business.
8.            Managementdevelopmentdatabase and diredtory. The purpose of this pilot project would
be to design a data base for the Russian management development sector and compile the first directory
of relevant institutions and programs. The data base would be an important element of the whole program
and would include information on institutions, programs, services, learning/training resources and
materials and technical assistance activities. It would be available for wide use in Russia and by foreign
partners interested in supporting the sector. A directory of principal institutions and programs should be
the first product of this information service. It would help to identify organizations eligible for support
under this project and capable of carrying out various project activities under contracts granted by the
Central Foundation and/or the Regional Foundations of the NTF.



THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL TRAMNJG PROJECT
ANNE 3. AccouNTANCY, AUDIT AND FINANAL MANAGEMENT: ACTION PLN AND PROGRAM
A. ACTION PLAN
PROBLEMS                            OBJECTIVES                              ACTIONS                     . ITuMNT. 
1.1 Lack of awareness on the part of    Incresse awarene of de top        Deign tang   programs for tp          Offer twelve-week tring programs
top execuives in tbe enrdprise ad    execuives in the enterprises and      executives in the enpres and         to 27,500 to 45,000 chief p
minsries of the nw  role of coate    ministries of the accounting and finance  minisbtries focusing on the role of  in the first year of operton. Three
accounting and finance as decision   roles as decision naking tools.       aecouning and finance as decision-   types of programs in this categoty are
maidng twls.                                                              making tools in the mket-based        to be offend to:
economy.                             - pracficing accouts
- practicing auditors
Develop and offer additional tramng  - senior financial mamgers
programs to accomodat specalized,
sectorial or regional needs.
1.2 Lack of undersanding of the new    Increase the understanding of the  Cover the roles of account  and       Offer a four-week training progam
role of the accountant in a market-  pracitioners of their new roles in a  financial mana    in a market-driven  for 5,000 technicians in basic
driven economy.                      market drven economy.                economy in enough depth in taining    accounting and auditing skills using a
programs and in the curricula.       compuer based distce learning
technique. The traming matrial would
be based on the intenatoral
accouning and auditing standards and
the Revised Russian Chart of
Accounts.
1.3 Insufficient exposure of leading  Expose tainees to subject mats of a   Inclde in the curricula and tring   Develop and offer a training pogm
pro&Wonls an enpis                   market-based econonmy.               programs an appropiate potion on the  to seior executives and expert in
managt to subject matters related                                         fures and functons of a market-       public finances.
to a market4msed ecoy.                                                    based conomy.



Page 74                                                                                     Am= 3. Accou mcy, Audit and Finanal Managment
PROBLEMS                            OBJECTIVES                             ACTIONS                          INSTRUMEET
1.4 Inability of managers at various  Increase trainee's abiity to use the  Include quantitaive and qualitative  Develop and offer a training program
levels to make decisions at the     decision making procss in making     tools of deciion making in die training   for senior executives and expets in
enterprise.                         decisions.                           programs.                            the Treaswy.
1.5 Inability of management to think    Increase tainee's ability to think  Make extensive use of case studies,  Develop and offer two-week iteive
critically about issues.            critically about issues, undertake   simulation games, discussion analysis   training programs to 300 top
necessary analysis to define a problem,  and role play.                   executives in the enrprises and
identify alternatives, and formulate a                                    ministries on the tole of accounting
solution.                                                                 and finace in implementing the
market-based economy.
1.6 Inadequate numbers of specialists    Train adequate nunbers of speciasts    Offer adequate numbers of training
to seive the new needs of a market-    to serve the new needs of a market-  programs in critical accoundng and
based economy.                      based economy.                       finance areas that did not exst under
the oentral planing economy. Adopt
appropriate channels of training such as
distance learnng and sdfbased, self-
paced programs.



X~ I iii |[s0  
1:1   1.     E.g.~~11 
.~~a   -- [0    # -gl1
lilt  11Wt1jht



Page 76                                                                                   Annx 3. Accowtaney, Audit and Fancial Managm t
PROBLEMS                           OBJECTIVS                             ACTIONS                         INRUMETSIM
2.5 Insufficient trining in the practical  Train taners in the prtical aS  of  Stu e tainr' programs to
aspects of accounting and finance.  accounting and fianc.              emp tasize   pracetical aspects of
accouting and finance. Provie
oqporities to those trins to have
on-de-job waining for an appropriat
lengL of ime in aprpat western
insti"tons.
2.6 No attention to ehical issues in
accounting edcaton.                Incorporate ethil issues in accounting  Incorporae ethical issues in accounting
education                           education and training. Employ
innovative approaches using case
studies, role play and situational
analysis. Incorporate ethics as a
component of the required examinton
for certfiaton and entrance to the
accounting profession.
2.7 Deficient on-the-job tining on    Incorporate taining componens  on the   Provide opportunities for internslips in
accounting an finance.             objecives of each audit step.       accounting firms in Russia and in the
West. Encourage the use of practice
ses in accounting and auditing
curricula.
2.8 Lack of exposure to western    Expose traneus to western experiences   Develop opporturuties for on-t-job
countries' experiences in accounting    in accounting and finance.     taning in western counties.
and fnce to fuincton as role models.



Annex 3. Accoutancy, Audit and Finaciat  Managem                                                                                           Page 77
PROBLEMS                           OBJECTIVES                             ACTIONS                          INSFTUE
3. TRA G                C
3.1 Lack of rolevsot acounng        Revise acc       and fince curicula  Develop new  curicula to   _        Generate upt-date reevan taining
curricula to accommnodat the needs of  to uake them relevant to the Russan    the needs of a madket-based econoy.   resources to acconmodate te pi
a maket-based economy.              mawket-based economy.                Adopt a long-term concept of inome,   projects and prioty pogrm
cash flow and rated concepts as dhe    sbedul  for offering in the _a
cent of accouing education ad       tm  includig
frang.                              - self sandg   aning modes;
- local case suies;
- authored and a'apted textbok;
3.2 Lack of relevant text books in  Pubis new and up-to-date txtbooks    Commission prominen individuals     - video-audio taining aids;
accountng and finance to meet the   in accunting and finacee to meet the    from Russia and the West to wrting  - trainers' manud
neods of a Russian mket-oriented    needs of the Russian economy.       needed texs.                         - work-snady and workbooks
economy.                                                                                                     - self-study muaerial
- computer-bsed simuaion games.
3.3 Lack of sufficient              Comniission the tanslaon/adaptation    Estabish a publishing program for a
translationladaption of western books    of western textbooks and reference  list of well-chosen western texxooks
and training materials in accounting  materials in accounting and finance.  and traiDing materias to ensure the
and finance.                                                             availability of sufficien translao
andtor adapttion of traioing resources
in accounting and finance.



Page 78                                                                                        Amum 3. Accowntwny, Audit and Finacual Managmen
PROBLEMS                             OBJECTIVF                               ACTIONS                           INSIIuMENTS
3.4 Shortage of _ppr%iate foreign    Acquire appropriae foeigp txtbooks    Colaborat with sedleed wesetrn         See above.
tetbooks and reference maerials for    an   re e materials in accntig       universiies to develop a lst of
research and eaching.                and finance.                           appropiat refe e book,
pridics, data boos an other
resources tht are relevant to the
current economic condition in Russia.
3.5 Nonexistence of locally deveoped   Create locally developed case studies  Deveiop poSam for writing case
case studies reflecting major issues  rflectg major ise ad chalenges    stdies on issues 6cing the economy
facing the Russian economy.          facing the Russian economty.           through the colwabo n of
pact t       academicias and western
3.6 Inappropriate and out-daed       Develop and aque up-odte               Set up a program to acquire, develop
teaching aids in accouning and       teaching aids. Materials include study    and adapt sludy guides, intructors
finane for trainers and tranees.     gudes, insiructor's  nuas,             manuals, computer pro"ets and self
workbooks, computer projects,         study modules.
smulation games and self-paced, self-
study manuals.
3.7 Lack of a distibution system to   Establs a ditbution system to         Establish a dstibution system to
disseminate informaton to fculty,    disseminae informain in a timey        disseminate iformation in a timely
trainers and students in a timely    maner.                                 manner.
manner.



Anex 3. Acountny, Audit and Financsd Manageme                                                                                                 Page 79
PROBLEMS                            OBJECTIVES                              ACIIONS                           INSMTUMEIES
3.8 Lack of use of computers and     Establish support systm  for the     Develop programs to assess the        See above.
inron tchnology as:                  desig, devlopment and offeing of     integration of computer and
-ngated systems      the cucula    ta      g mals and programs.          ination technology in taining.
* teaching and learning aids by                                           Help trainers to equip tainees with
saukb  and ficuly;                                                        computr skils.
- practal toos to autmate accounig
functiot to relieve the massive ned
of a cadre of accounting and finance
para-rofessoals andlor tehnicians,
- vehicle of mass communication in
deivesing training progams via
disLnce leang tools and technques.



Page 80                                                                                      Annex 3. Accountancy, Audt and Financial Management
PROBLEMS                            OBJECTIVES                             ACTIONS                          INSTRUMENTS
4. TRAINING ENVIRONMENT
4.1 Lack of coordinad efforts in    Coordinae the current and            Take inventory of current and         Use computer-based programs and
strucuring a comprehensive system for  contwlepd diverse training efforts by  contemqlated training activities by  distance learning to disseminat
taining,                            structuing a comprehensive system for  different instiutions. Solcit the  accounting and finance techniques to a
trang pacitoners.                    cooperaion of hose institutions to   u.Sz of technicians.
develop a coordied action plan.
4.2 Emphasis on technical sectoral  De-enihai  teaclhng and tnimng in   Shift tning and teaching from a       Form a Technal Advisory Commitee
accounting procedures rather than   sectoral accounting and emphasize    sectoral-bad to a discipline-based.  to the Natonal Training Fouaon
i nterdisilry and concepual         teaching and trainig in the different                                      (NTF).
training.                           specialized disciplines such as                                            - Membership to represent
budgeting, financial an management                                        professional orgaizons academc
accounting, and corporate finance.                                        institutions, entpises, government
and die NTF;
- Safegard to prevent conflict of
inrest between those who approve a
project and those who implement it.
4.3 Predominate use of traditional  Abandon die traftional tanumng       Develop new training approaches and    The Commission:
approaches in teaching and taring in  approach where the trainee/student is a   training resources. Train qualified  - Recommends criteria for proposal
content, deivery and objective.     passive party in the learning process    trainers on these new approaches.  evaluation and participates in
and turn to interactive modes where the                                   screening proposals submitted for
trainee is an active participant in the                                   funding to the NTF;
process.                                                                  - Monitors the activities of other
donors that may affect project's scope
4.4 Insufficient understanding of the    Increase understanding of the role of    Train top executives in the enterprises   and functions;
role of accounting and finance as   accounting for efficient allocation of  and the ministies on the roles of  - Observes and coordinates activities
means for efficient allocation of scarce  scarce ecoomic esources.       accounting and finance.              of the eisting and emerging academic
economic resources in a market-based                                                                          and professional organizations in the
economy.                                                                                                      fields of accounting andfinance which
may impact



Annex 3. Accounay, Audit and Financial Management                                                                                           Page 81
PROBLEMS                            OBJECTIVS                              ACTIONS                          INSTRUMENTS
4.5 Inefficient use of available finds    Use available resources efficienty and   Develop a flexible trainig strategy it    Training to ensure that a proposed
from different donors,  us scattering    coordinae training efforts.     concert with the current stage of    project or one of its elements is not
taining efforts and forced usable                                        development in the accounting        being performed by other entties
trinng aproaches, someimes                                               professions dtat is capable of changing   within the accouiting and finance
conflicting.                                                             with the environment. Set training   fields;
priorities in light of existing      - Ensures that p     ,  in terms
consraints.                          of environent and/or irastructure,
dth are necessary for successfil
4.6 Lack of accounting and auditing  Establis accounting and auditing    Help accelerate the development of the   utilization of the output of a proposed
standards.                          standards to guide training. In the  accounting and auditing standards. In    project exist and that the results wil
interim, use interational accountig  the  teim, tansate the intenaional    have a positve and needed nmpact;
an auditing standards.               accounting and audting standards and    - Initates and/or n _mages, subject to
use them as guidelines for training and   the approval of the NTF, activities to
teaching.                           implement the program of action
specified in this proposal.
4.7 Lack of admissioo standards to the   Establish admission standards to the  Establish admission standards for the
accounting professions.             profession including entance         profession (exams, experiece and
examtions, experience and            educational requrement.)
educational requrementa, ethics and
licensing.
4.8 Lack of sufficient analysis of  Analyze ainig needs to accommodate   Analyze the training needs for each
training needs in the different regions    differences in the educational  group of tranees of different
of Russia.                          backgrounds and the diverse needs of    backgrounds.
different regions.



Page 82                                                                                       Awn  3. Accomag, Auda and Funancial Managemet
PROBLEMS                            OBJECTIVE                               ACTIONS                           INSTRUMENTS
4.9 Acute shortage of spciist in     Develop pecalsts in budgeting,       Develop  tng programs and
u aggmaa_  wwacung,        finwana and managemat accounttg,   mmaseri  for vanous leves of
financial ma_ment, auditing and      auditing ond fimme.                  qeialists in budgeting, finnia and
pubHc finance.                                                            managea  accounting, and public
finance.
4.10 Lack of crteria specifying      Establish citeria pcifyin quali      Set up enforceable quality stndards for
standards for contes of training     standards for contents of trang      contets of anig programs, aines'
programs, qualcatio  of triners,     proms, taines' quaifications,        quaficas, taing rsources and
minimum resources ad issuance of    training resources and issuance of    issuac Of licnses.
aditing lHenses.                     auditing licenses.
4.11 Absence of special systems for  Develop specialists for the Treasuy to   Develop a system for training
trainng speciasts for tde Treasuy to   cope with dh new envoent in the    specas for dle Treasury.
cope with dte new role of the Minstry   Minsy.
of Finance.



Annex 3. Accouorwwy. Audi and Finacial Management                               Page 83
B. SUBPROGRM AND  LoT PRoJcr DFscRimoNs
1.          The principal emphasis in the proposed subprograms and pilot project for phase one will
be on producing locally developed training materials; adapting software programs for developing
computer-based self-training courses; establishing information technology training centers in existing
institutions; and training managers. In addition, training programs in accounting and finance will be
mounted for senior executives of enterprises. The program will also design and develop new curricula
in accounting and finance at the university level, and develop teaching faculty within these fields.
Implementation of a the proposed program is expected to have an immediate and long-term impact.
2.           The accountancy and finance program will be initiated bv one integrative pilot project.
The pilot will build training capacity and training infrastructure through (i) developing 20 local case
studies, (ii) establishing one information technology training center, and (iii) training 45 trainers and
master trainers in the areas of accounting, auditing and finance.
Development of Rdevwa Trhuin g Resources incLudJng the PMot ProJect Component on Case Studies
(US$2.8 million of base costs)
3.           The existing educational environment in the acceunting field is almost void of relevant
training resources. The required reform in the content of the curricula and training necessitates careful
incorporation of computer-based training, the use of locally developed case studies, the appropriate
selection of adapted textbooks, and the introduction of innovative and up-to-date delivery methods and
resources to meet the current and emerging needs of the new environment. This subprogram calls for
the, development, testing, and publishing of training materials, including 100 case studies, four advance
text books with teaching aids, and four computer-based self-training courses that are relevant to the
Russian economy which focuses on problem solving and developing decision-making skills. The objective
of the pilot project component integrated in this subprogram is to develop 20 case studies in the St.
Petersburg region.
Budig Tnn t)  bwtruu   n8u&Wg a Component of the P     Project of Builng One
4fomaon Teclnolog Center (US$2.8 millon of base costs)
4.           The reform of accountancy and financial training requires the use of more effective
information technologies. Under the project, eight information technology centers would be established
and equipped. The purpose of the centers would be to:
a.    support the automation of enterprise accounting systems by training practitioners
in the use of information technology;
b.    pilot the application of new interactive teaching environment for greater
effectiveness in learning accountancy and finance concepts; such new training
tools would include computer-based self-teaching programs; business simulations
and accessing global networks and data bases; and
c.    extend training to larger numbers through mass training. As a distance learning
facility, each center would be set-up as a receiving and a broadcasting station
ready for satellite hook-up with Western institutions and with in-house training
programs in the Russian enterprises within the regions, establishing a network of



Page 84                                   Annex 3. Accownancy, Audit and Financial Mawagem
training facilities capable of collaborating, coordinating, and expanding training
activities, achieving a multiplier effect.
5.           This subprogram on building training infrastructure will upgrade selected existing training
facilities and establish eight information technology centers capable of delivering up-to-date computer-
based training in the three regions, Moscow, St. Petersburg, and Nizhny Novgorod. Each of the eight
centers will be equipped with forty net-worked, high-capacity work stations each with a CD-ROM and
a modem/fax; two laser jet printers; overhead and slide projectors, a multi-media project, a plotter, a
scanner, two monitors, 2 VCRs; a video camera, a screen, white boards, a photocopying machine, a
software library, furniture, and a security system. Each center will be designed as a receiving and
transmuting stations and ready for satellite hook-up for distance learning in the second phase of the
project. Each center will be headed by a qualified computer technician assisted by support staff. A
component of the Pilot project is to establish a leading information technology training center in the
Moscow region.
Develop ag and Trainng Human Reswurces (Pra oners and Senior Executives) induig a
Component of the Plot Project on Trainng Trainers (US$6.3 million of base costs)
6.           This subprogram on developing human resources includes two main components: (i)
training practitioners and (ii) training senior executives.
7.           Tranin prac*toner. The component on training practitioners will offer selected
practitioners three-months o, class room training in Russia. The training program wIll be composed of
twelve modules in two main segments, a core segment that is applicable to the three groups of
practitioners, i.e., accountants, auditors, and financial managers, followed by a specialized segment for
each of the three groups. The newly developed training infrastructure of eight information technology
training centers will train about 7680 practitioners including 765 new trainers and master trainers in the
two-year life cycle of the project. The pilot project includes a component of this subprogram, i.e.,
developing trainers. The pilot project will train 45 carefully selected practitioners, i.e, accountants,
auditors, and financial managers, over a 16-week period. Those selected for the pilot project will be
screened for technical ability and potential for becoming trainers upon completing the training program.
The pilot project would be assisted by an equivalent number of carefully selected Russian professions
and/or academicians. Upon the completion of the training program, the top 20% would be sent abroad
for intensive, 12-week. on-the-job training in western firms. The objective of this internship is to develop
the newly developed trainers into master trainers. This process of training trainers will be repeated once
during the first year of operation, as part of this subprogram on training practitioners.
8.           Accoung and iancefor senior execives. Russian economic restructuring will be
thwarted if the top officials of the enterprises and government ministries do not understand or appreciate
the role of accounting and financial management in developing a viable economy. Without the support
of this group, appropriate and effective policy changes in accounting and financial management will not
be possible, and the technical skills learned by accountants and financial managers will be ineffective.
The objectives of this component of the subprogram are to (i) provide senior executives with a better
understanding and appreciation of the use of accounting information as an effective decision making tool
at all managerial levels and (ii) support the establishment and the functioning of effective accounting and
financial systems in the enterprises. These objectives will be accomplished through offering a variety of
short-term training programs and conferences to accommodate the time pressure of these executives.



Annea 3. Accoumancy, Audit and Financial Management                              Page 85
DevelPi  Accowdlng, Audding and Finane Faculty (US1.3 million of base costs)
9.           The objective of this subprogram is to develop existing accounting, auditing, and finance
faculty with the necessary skills and tools to build strong academic institutions capable of producing
graduates that function effectively in a complex environment. Upon completion of this training program,
these faculty members will become catalysts in initiating and implementing changes in curricula, in
adopting new delivery methods, and in introducing new approaches in accounting and finance education.
To ensre the achievement of this objective, ! minimum of 50% of the faculty of any selected institution
will go through the training program. This training program will be designed through a meticulous
planning and implementation process. Alternative faculty training modes, including sandwich courses
and distance learning will be encouraged. For each faculty member, there will be a statement of
measurable objectives that is attainable at the conclusion of the training program.
RevIon of Accoting and Finance Cunicda (US$1.4 miion of base coss)
10.          This subprogram will design and develop an up-to-date relevant national accounting and
finance curricula at the university level. The purpose of the new curricula is to provide professional
finance professions in the twenty-first century and who will be working in public accounting, private
businesses, or government. The outcomes of this subprogram would specify the scope, content, and the
structure of future education in accounting, auditing, and finance in Russian universities and institutes a
basis for accreditation of accounting and finance academic programs. The national curricula will specify
standards, objectives, and requirements for content and approach of curricula including a syllabi of
required core courses, specialized courses, business courses, and general education courses. Standards
for qualifications and activities, admission and retention for students, budget requirements, library and
computer facilities, and administrative structure of the accounting and finance programs will also be
specified. The national curricula will be available for adoption and adaptation by selected universities
in the second phase of the project.



THE RUSLAN FEDERATION
MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL TRAINING PROJECT
ANNEX 4. BANNG TRAINIG: ACTION PLAN AND PROGRAMS
A. ACnON PLAN
1. Sectordl Consftints
PROBLEMS                           OBJECTIE                               ACTIONS                          INSIRUMENTS
1. While liberalization of Russia's  1. Develop a comprchensive strategy    1. Tighten prudential banking regula-   1. Train a core group of Central
financial system has proceeded      for the fnancial sector to push      tions. Improve the capacity of the  Bank supervisors to improve
rapidly, the appropriate regulatory  forward Russia's trarsition to a    Central Bank for conducting both    regulation and supervision of
and supervisory frameworks are      market economy.                      off-site surveillance and on-site   banks. Develop appropriate
still at an embryonic stage.                                            examination of banks.                supervisory material and
2. Undertake reforms to enable the                                          procedures.
2. Bank acconing and auditing          banking sector in Russia to       2. Support the introduction of new
standards are lacking which         become more efficient in            accounting principles for banks.  2. Retrain and upgrade existing
measure the condilion of            mobilizing financial savings,                                            accountants and accounting ffrns
enterprises and banks               allocating resources, and        3. Increase understanding of basic      in banking issues, based on the
transpareotly and consistenty.      processing payments.                concepts such as credit risk,        establishment of a chart of
collateral, liquidity, financial    accouns in general consistency
3. One of banking's chief roles, the                                       discipline and bankruptcy to         with international accounting and
processing of paywents. is severely                                     facilitate the establishment of an   auditing standards. Train bank
bhanpered by the lack of a                                              appropriate legal framework.         managers how to use bank and
developed or efficient paymeots                                                                              enterprise accounting informaton
system.                                                                                                      as a decision tool.
4. A flal legal framework is not in                                                                          3. Promote passage of new
place to protect private property                                                                           legislation and continued
nghts and the effcient transfer of                                                                           legislative reform covering areas
such rights; to support debt                                                                                including insolvency, secwurity,
recovery, liquidation and bank-                                                                              property ownership, company law,
ruptcy; and to enforce the law.                                                                              and banking law.
-~                                                               . I  I                    ..I



Page 88                                                                                                                  Anme 4. Bankang Traning
2. Insuffiient S&Wply of Tained Rank Staff
PROBLEMS                           OBJECTIVES                             ACTIONS                          INSTRUMENTS
1. Preparing Russian banks to       1. Strengthen the banking profession    1. Develop programs in both core  1. Organize and deliver seminars for
operate in a market enviromnent    in Russia by focusing on              skills and in more sophisticated    senior management to develop
requires new methods for            managerial and technical skill      banking areas. While a large         strategic, tactical, financial
managing banks, designing,          development for senior and          percentage of banking personnel is   planning and risk management
marketing and delivermg banking     middle-management. Increase         almost totally unprepared to carry   skills to orient or reorient the way
services, controlling risk, ensuring  student throughput to better      out the banking activities the new   banks are managed.
banks' financial viability and      respond to industry demand.         roles require, the pace of change is
performance, and carrying out                                           fast, and certain parts of the    2. Organize and deliver seminars for
basic banking operations. With   2. Link development of a banking       market are increasing in             middle management and lending
over 1900 banks in operation,      training strategy to current and     sophistication rapidly.              officers on credit, since this is at
banks are finding it extremely      planned institutional/structural                                        the core of banking and is the
difficult to recruit staff with     development work.                2. Forge a firmer link between banks    area of highest risk.
suitable qualifications and                                             and provders of training in
experience.                      3. Introduce financial sector          banking; as ultimate users, banks    3. Extend the curriculum to include
qualifications as part of a career  need to take a more pro-active       topics such as international
2. Most Russian banks have been        development process for banking     role in specifying to educational    banking. trade finance, marketing.
unable or unwilling to comnmit      employees. This would involve       institutons the type of training     capital markets and retail
resources to develop an in-house    coordinadon between associations,   they require.                        banking.
training capacity, all but the      training institutes, and universities.
strongest tier without the critical                                  3. Encourage bank-based trahiing,
mass and/or the know-how to                                             with bankers' associations playing
devote to the task.                                                     a lead in this effort.
4. Create training which is interactive
and which provides for flexibility, a
requirement when undertaking
training within a famework
undergoing radical transformation.
5. Create programs to twin Russian
banks with leading foreign banks
where staif from foreign banks
provide ad' ice on strategic
planing, organization, daily
management and operations
through on-the-job advice and
_ _ _       _.__ _           __                                             traini._ g. _ _                           _    __               __



Anna 4 Banking Training                                                                                                                  Page 89
3. Inadequate Supply of Appropriate Trainers/Effectdve Tranl g   Insdiudons
PROBLEMS                           OBJECrIV                               ACTIONS                         INSTRUMENTS
1. Russia's current education and  1. Improve quality of basic financial    1. Enhance the qualifications and  1. Organize and deliver training of
training network is inadequate to  education at the university and     capabilities of a core of master    trainers programs for master
supply aned  staff to the rapidly  institute level and banker training  tawiners by exposing them to       trainers, and on-going programs
emerging fiancial sector.          at the professional level.           Westemn practices. This training    for subsequent waves of trainers.
Although more than 200 institutes                                       core must include a combination     Coordinate all training of trainers
of higher education teach modules  2. Involve bankers more in the       of professional educators for skills  offerings directly wth professional
on banking and finance, in most    training process to improve          upgrading and practicing bankers   training covering the same topics
cases the subject is dealt with in a  relevance and usefiltness of the  who can participate in and          and related materials
cursory fashion.                   educational product.                influence training at their          development. The training of
respective institutions.           trainers must focus primarily on
2. The majority of trainers teaching    3. Encourage consutative                                               content and secondarily on
banking have had no practical      arrangements between trainers at    2. Revamp university curriculum to  teaching methodology.
experience in the field,           educational institutions and banks.  include courses of study relevant
compounding the difficulty of                                          to basic financial education for a    2. To provide a cost effective and
teaching a new subject even if re-                                     market economy.                      broad venue for making training
training is undertaken.                                                                                     available to all banks in Russia, a
3. Increase the geographical spread    network of banking institutes
3. While several new institutons                                          of available training locations to   should be developed. Wbile a
have been created with the                                             key regional centers throughout      number of initiatives have already
assistance of donor aid (IF&BS,                                        Russia.                              been made, this effort must be
Moscow; EBI, St. Petersburg),                                                                              rationalized and extended through
their throughput is limited. Other                                                                          the nation. Ideally, bankers'
fonrs of training for Russian                                                                               associations would play a pivotal
bankers assisted by the West have                                                                           part in their design and
been through short courses that                                                                             implementation to ensure
offer exposure to a different                                                                               relevance.
banking cuhure rather than
intensive traiing.
4. There is a high degree of atrition
of trainers imo the fmancial work
place where compensation is at a
significandy higher level than in
academia. Also, participating in
the industry boom is. in and of
itself, a strong enticement to make
the shift.



Page 90                                                                                                                Annex 4. Banking Training
4. Lack of Sufficient Relvant Training Materials
PROBLEMS                           OBJEC_TVES                            ACTIONS                          INSTRUMENTS
1. The curricutum for the teaching of  1. Produce a capability to develop  1. Create a clearinghouse of     1. Initially  anslate relevant
finance and banking which is       indigenous training materials,       information on financial training   Western training materials. Using
based largely on command           including case studies, exercises,  materials. Contact all active        data from Russian banks and
economy disciplines is widely      ineractive computer programs,       donors to identify available         enterprises, create case studies
regarded as out-of-date and        videos and textbooks.                resources for inclusion.            and examples to bring added
fimdamentally irrelevant.                                                                                  relevance to program materials.
2. Leverage Western and 'Russified                                         Involve banks directly to the
2. While isolated training programs   fnancial training materials already                                      greatest extent possible.
from the West have generated       availble in Russia.
some effective banking training                                                                          2. Develop multimedia training
material. in general there is                                                                              resources (tapes, video, television
inadequate supply and distribution                                                                          programs) on various banking and
of materials covering the activities                                                                        finance topics for use in tramiing
of market-based banks,                                                                                      activities and through distance
particularly in the Russian                                                                                 education.
language and tailored to Russian
realities.
3. The magnitude, character, and
speed of chunges in the
commercial banking system is
unprecedented, making it difficult
to *Russify material and have it
maintain usefuhless.



Ann" 4. Bankng Training                                                         Page 91
B. SUBPROGRAM AND PIR= PROJECr DESCRIMONs
Banking Operations (US$317 milon of base costs)
I.    Traii  of chief executves in bank management. This subprogram, as well as the following
subprograms, includes components for training of practitioners, training of trainers and materials
development. Each subprogram would be vertically integrated in this manner in order for the parts to
form a cohesive whole. Oriented to senior executives, the objective of the subprogram is to introduce
banking as practiced in developed narket economics, with a focus on areas for managerial decisions.
Topics would include planning (strategic, tactical and financial), risk management, financial management
(capital planning, asset/liability management, information systems), human resource management
(optimizing staff mix, recruitment, work culture, compensation), and compliance and control systems
(auditing, internal controls, asset quality reviews). Focus would be on the basic procedures, practices
and functions essential to sound, efficient and competitive banking. Over the three-year project period,
the subprogram contemplates training 2800 senior executives and 850 trainers.
2.    Trahing of msnagers and transadors in credit manaegement. The initial thrust of this
subprogram would be on credit risk management, as lending is a core bank activity representing a key
area of risk. The objective of the subprogram is to articulate the key elements of effective credit
management and provide useful information and methodologies for managing credit risk. Topics would
include credit policies, directives and procedures; credit origination; borrower analysis, including risk
rating of loans and repayment source analysis; loan structuring; credit approval; loan documentation;
collateral and guarantees; loan supervision; problem loan management; and reserving against potential
loan losses. Organizing the credit function including staffing the credit policy, lending, loan
documentation, and loan review areas would also be included. The subprogram must be focused on the
short-term lending characteristics of the Russian economy, and the operation of banks in the absence of
reliable financial information and a legal framework supporting loan recovery. Over the three-year
project period, the subprogram contemplates training 4500 mid-level managers and credit officers and
1300 trainers.
3.    Trainn of managers and transactors In  ternational banking. The principal objective of this
subprogram is to strengthen the capabilities of banks' international departments to respond to their clients'
requests for transactions involving the international sector. Specifically, this subprogram would focus
on trade finance (the mechanics of trade, collections, letters of credit and bankers' acceptances; interbank
funding and syndicated loan facilities), foreign exchange (spot and forward exchange markets, price
determination, hedging techniques), and international correspondent banking (developing correspondent
relationships, products and services of correspondent banks, credit and informational requirements of
foreign correspondents). If the lending profile of banks significantly lengthens and Russian banks begin
participating in more term financing, training could extend to include international project finance
(structuring financial packages, identifying and mitigating project risk, countertrade, government and
private insurers). Over the three-year project period, the subprogram contmplates training 2800
managers and transactors and 1400 trainers.
4.    Train of managers and transactors investment banking. Private-sector Russian banks have
adopted the "universal" banking structure found in most western countries. The inclusion of an
investment banking department and investment banking activities within the overall scope of the bank's
services is considered a vital element of the banking industry's ability to adequately meet the financial



Page 92                                                          Annex 4. Banking Training
needs of the enterprise sector. The current lack of both managerial and technical competence in this
highly specialized area is widely viewed by the banking community as a matter of considerable concern.
This subprogram would focus on the organization of an investment department, the securities
underwriting finction, financial analysis techniques, securities trading and market making, investment
risk determination and management, and internal control. Over the three-year period, the subprogram
contemplates training 4,000 managers and transactors and 1,200 trainers.
TiWing In bank accowing (US$3.7 mloen in base costs)
S.    This subprogram would have two major thrusts: training accountants in the mechanics of bank
accounting, and training of bank management in the use of accounting information as a decision tool.
Main weaknesses in the current Russian accounting system for banks relate to the fact that the current
statements do not present a fair appreciation of the return to shareholders, do not ensure depositors and
other third parties of the soundness of banks, and do not demonstrate that their capital base has been
maintained and that they satisfy prudential criteria. With World Bank and European Union support, the
introduction of new accounting principles for banks is being carried out in a staged process, with a new
chart of accounts and detailed instruction manuals to be introduced not later than 1994/95. Over the
subsequent two to three years, a detailed reform of the accounting system would be carried out, pertaining
to financial accounting, regulatory accounting, and statistical reporting. Management accounting would
also be introduced, once these transformations have been effected. It is envisaged that the bank
accounting subprogram would adopt the materials and other resources currently being developed, and
those already developed within the accounting and auditing component of the Bank's Financial Institutions
Development Project being implemented in Russia at present. Over the three-year project period, the
subprogram contemplates trainiing 2500 accountants, 1500 bank managers and 1600 trainers.
PAo Prject
6.    Trvlg of chief executves in bank manageen.  The pilot project covers the early
commencement of three levels of activity related to the subprogram described in point 1: the direct
training of senior executives of banks, the training of trainers, and the development of required training
materials. This particular project was selected due to the desire to initiate training using a 'top down'
approach; achieving senior management's participation in and endorsement of a program of training,
followed by more in-depth staff skill-based training. Refer to point 1 for a detailed description of the
subprogram's coverage.



Ths RUSIA  FVD3AION
MANAGENi FAND MNL TRAWG Paojucr
ANNEX S. Pwuuc FeUNCI ACnON PLA AND PROGRAM
A. ACrIaN PLAN
ft.lenu                         Objective                          Acdoas                         Inat.umets
Budgutad Tai r Pdiq
1. lhe demise of ental planning   1. In the near tem, increase the    1. Identify the primary modular  1. Cooperat with EDI, tie IMF,
placed new responsibility on the    undertanding of pariamentaria  courses needed (e.g., accountng,   the OECD and Fiace Ministries
MOF, line ministies and the Stae  and senior and mid-level officis    financa management,          in OECD counies in the
Tax Senrice to plan and evaluate    of the impact of tax and budgetay   macroeconomics, budget and  deveopmnt and delivery of
the budget and design and rase   policy on mareconomic            budget process, tax policy and   training courses, both for
revenues. In addition, in 1992   stabili2ation and the production and  administion) and the target  practitioners and master trainers.
Rusa rapidly decentalized many   allocotin of goods by the private   audience (approximatly 4,00) to
exnditure aigments and           and public sects.                receive a given course or        2. Establish traiing of traines
revenue responsibilities to                                       combination of courses. (Note    prog_m  at leadig financial and
sub-federal levels of government.   2. Provide specific skils needed to  some would aso receive the  sildl upgrading institutes in
Officials at the federal and egional  implement new tax and bWdget  modular course in budget execution  Moscow, St. Pewesburg and
levels are ill-preped to assume  reforms.                         desiged for Trasaiy officials.)  Nizhuy Novgorod.
ese new tas.
2. In the medium term, develop   2. Upgrade the capacity of existing
2. Without adequate trig,        capacity in universities and     institutes to delver the modular
there is a danger of resowee    teial sools to delver core        courses by imprvinghe skills of
misallato and under-funding of  subjct in public finane in a      naster traines.
cdrl social and ivestment       mnketx- d economy, to ensure a
pogrm  if public finances are not  flow of civil sornts for future
-ed carely dwring te             recuinm
trmianion to a milstet4bued,



Page 94                                                                                                      A4n  5. PmNb Finanoe
Problems                        Objectives                        Actions                        Indr _
Sarbproga:.-
Tminng of 7Naswy Qfcas
1. The former system of fiscal  1. Reatign govermment financial    1. Establish a Working Group   1. Under the PPF, prepare the
mnanagement, in which Gosplan   operations to reflect the needs of a   with MOF, IMF, EBRD and Bank   training strategy and begin training
allocated the budget and the    market economy, adapted to       participation to agree on the    of up to 100 top MOF and oblast
Central Bank maintained         Russian conditions.              substantive parameters of required   officials and master trainers from
expenditure and revenue accounts,                                training both for managers and   Moscow, St. Petersburg and
collapsed in 1992.              2. Contribute to formation of a  staff.                           Nizhny Novgorod.
competent managerial class to
2. With IMF assistance, a new   execute the federal budget       2. With the participation of     2. Employ twinning arrangements
Treasury has been designed within  effectively and efficiently.  distance tearning experts, design a   with Finance Ministries in OECD
the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to                                 training strategy appropriate to  countries to provide senior
manage the financial operations of  3. Train staff in operation of the    managers (in budget execution plus  officials and master trainers with
the federal system.             computer-based Treasury system   appropriate modular courses      experience in practical Treasury
(EBRD to partially finance      mentioned above) and to staff (in    operations.
3. Senior Treasury officials in  hardware and software           computerized applications.)
Moscow and in Finance           development.)                                                     3. Use master trainers and
Departments of all 89 oblasts                                    3. Mobilize donor support for    dictance leamning to begin
require training in budget                                       overseas training and for foreign  disseminating skills to 1500
execution. In addition, at least                                 specialists to provide initial training  managers and up to 20,000 staff in
20,000 Treasuty staff must be                                    h Russia.                        four years.
trained in the operations of the
IMF designed computerized
system.



Annex 5. Public Pinace                                                          .age 95
B. SuBPROGRAM AND PILOT PRojECT DESCRIONS
Subprogow  BSdguS and Tax Polcy (USS1.6  illon of awe costr)
1.           More reliance must be placed on fiscal management in Russia as direct economic control
mechanisms weaken. Under central planning, the budget merely provided financing to carry out the plan,
while revenues were mobilized by redistributing resources generated by the enterprise sector. The system
focused on the correctness of fund appropriations, not on the efficiency of public expenditures. With the
transition to a market economy, the budget will become the most important instrument to mobilize public
resources and allocate them among competing uses according to national priorities. Sound public finance
means confining (or extending) public expenditure to those areas in which the public sector can act
efficiently; it also means raising the necessary revenues in ways that distort prices as little as possible.
Decisions on these issues critically affect all areas of economic activity. To carry out the transition
effectively, improvements will be needed in all phases of the budget process-preparation, execution, and
evaluation and audit. Many important reforms were recently initiated, for full implementation in 1995,
including the introduction of a new budget classification system based on IMF standards. Tbis will entail
new expertise in budget preparation in the MOF, line ministries and parliament. In addition, considerable
effort has been made to reform tax policy and administration. Legislation passed in 1992 introduced a
value-added tax, excises and taxes on enterprise profits and personal income. However, the new taxes
were introduced without affording the State Tax Service sufficient time to prepare appropriate systems,
accounting procedures, training or information programs. In addition, with the inception of a new fiscal
federalist system in 1994, regional governments will have greater responsibility and opportunities to make
fundi'ng decisions and levy new taxes. These could have adverse effects on enterprise activity if not
developed and executed properly.
2.           The objective of this subprogram will be to provide public finance officials at the federal
and regional levels with the specific skills needed .br these new tasks. Two primary fields are
contemplated. The one on budget and budget process would include modular courses on: (i) budget
structure and interaction of federal and regional budgets; (ii) budget process (classification and
preparation, execution, evaluation and audit); (iii) budgetary expenditures foi social programs; (iv)
revenue sources; and (v) for selected staff, computer applications. The contents of the second field on
taation policy and tax system would include modular courses on: (i) basics of taxation; (ii) taxation
policies and systems in Russia and abroad; and (iii) operations of the State Tax Service in tax collection.
In addition, a core group of senior executives, parliamentary officials, and master trainers would receive
modular courses in macroeconomic policy analysis, accounting and financial management to put the more
specific concepts above into a conceptual framework.
3.           Master trainers will also participate in the subprogram. This will begin the process of
developing capacity in universities and technical schools to deliver core subjects in public finance over
the longer term. The second phase of the Training Project could support the further development of such
capacity, to ensure a flow of civil servants for future recruitment.
Supngrw      afl       of laswy Offidals (US$3.0 ndilon of base oo&)
4.           The former system of fiscal management, in which Gosplan allocated the budget and the
Central Bank maintained expenditure and revenue accounts, collapsed in 1992. The Ministry of Finance
created a Treasury Department to assume these responsibilities that is modelled on federal systems in
market economies, but adapted to Russian conditions. It will address major weaknesses in the present



Page 96                                                            Anna 5. Public Finne
system of government financial management. With IMF assistance, a computerized system has been
developed to help the Treasury manage the financial operations of the Federal Government. The system
will permit the MOP to minimize disruptions in government programs caused by fluctuations in revenues,
and to define priorities more appropriately in the event of expenditure cuts. The successful work of the
Treasury depends on the generation of about 20,000 qualified personnel in Moscow and every oblast.
This subprogram was selected in view of the very high priority attached by the Government to
development of an effective Treasury system.
5.           The objective of the subprogram is to train up to 1500 senior executives and professionals
of the central apparatus of the Federal Treasury, trainers in academic institutes, and chief executives and
experts of the regional treasuries in budget execution, i.e. in exercising control over timely receipt of
revenue and the efficient and rational use of budget-allocations. In addition, preparatory activities would
be undertaken for up to 20,000 staff to receive instruction in application of the computerized system.
After designing and developing course requirements and a training strategy in collaboration with IMF and
EBRD experts, training would begin in Moscow with the intensive preparation of a core group of up to
100 federal and regional managers and master trainers. These would then receive practical experience
in treasury operations under twinning arrangements with finance ministries in OECD countries.
Additional training of trainers would continue along with development of distance learning techniques to
enable the completion of the project within two phases over four years. The training would take plp ne
in a pre-identified Russian institution with the participation of local and foreign experts and instructors.
Master trainers would trained along with executives. The training subprogram would be designed and
developed with the participation of the MOF, IMF, EBRD and World Bank, coordinated by the Institute
of Skill Upgrading of the Ministry of Finance. The contents would include: (i) the organization and
functions of the Treasury; (ii) the execution of the federal and regional budgets (revenues and
expenditures); (iii) relationship of the Treasury to the Central Bank of Russia and State Tax Service; (iv)
for selected senior participants, issues related to a market-based economy, including modular courses
prepared for the public finance program (tax and budget policy, accounting, macroeconomic, capital
markets); and (v) for staff and selected professionals, accounting and operation of the computer-based
system.



THE RUSSIAN FEDERATiO:.,
MANAGEMENT AND EINANCIAL TRANG PROJECT
ANNEX 6. ORGANIATION, STAFFING AND PROCEDURES OF THE
NATIONAL TRAING FOUNDATION
A. INmRODUCTION
1.           The main objective of establishing the National Training Foundation (NTF) is to support
the restructuring of the Russian economy from a planned to a market-oriented system. It aims to do this
exclusively by financing training activities undertaken elsewhere; it would not provide training itself. It
would be a new form of institution for Russia which combines features of western private foundations,
training funds and government-sponsored institutions such as the U.S. Science Foundation. It is intended
to be permanent with a mix of government and non-government Russian shareholders, increasing
participation of the non-government sector, and it aims to generate sufficient revenues from its cost
recovery to cover its operating costs. It is designed to operate as a network in which all accredited
participating foundations work on a not-for-profit basis with common, sound policies and practices
concerning matters such as finance, project analysis, project approval control and auditing. At the same
time, the individual foundations would work independently and be autonomous in decision making.
Initially the NTF network would consist of a Central Foundation (CF) and three Regional Foundations
(RFs) in Moscow, Nizhny Novgorod and St. Petersburg. The benefits generated by the NTF would be
for the economy as a whole as well as for the generation of direct and indirect financial income. Efforts
have been made to keep the NTF operations simple, but some complexity is inevitable in processing and
analyzing applications and financial operations. In addition, this type of financing activity would be new
in Russia. A publicity campaign and training efforts would therefore be necessary to disseminate
information about the NTF and its operational procedures to its potential members, staff and beneficiaries.
B. MEMERsI AND FNDING
2.           In order to achieve a high degree of participation and independence, the composition of
members include a mix of government and non-government members. Each participating member entity
would contribute a subscription fee (to be determined by the Founders). This amount would be large
enough to require serious commitment from all shareholders, but small enough to be affordable for
organizaions that are financially constrained. Annual fees would also be assessed from members. In
addition, government members would be asked to contribute in-kind (e.g. the physical space for the
Foundations at the regional levels). A non-voting Consultative Council formed by non-Russian
organizations would be created, in whicb participants would pay an entry fee of US$25,000 and annual
membership fees to be established. Moreover, the Board of Dikectors, the Executive Office and the
members of the Consultative Council would be actively engaged in fund-raising. The funds raised under
such mechanisms would be used for increasing its direct operations. Finally, each successful applicant
for funds would be required to contribute about 15% of total subproject costs in counter-part funds.
3.           The intention is to establish, over time, a membership basis which reflects the demand
("users") for trained personnel. Hence government bodies, enterprises, banks and professional
associations would be invited to join the General Assembly. Individual training institutions (i.e.,



Page 98                                     Annex 6. Organization, Staffing and Procedwres of dhe N
suppliers of trained personnel), as the principal recipients of the Foundation's funds, would be excluded
from membership on grounds of conflict of interest.
C. ORGANIZATION AND STRUCTURE
4.            Controls and lines of command are clearly spelled out in the Charter and the structure
of the organization. The General Assembly is ultimately responsible for the Foundation, and appoints
its Board of Directors. The Boards of Directors appoint the Executive Directors of esch Foundation.
The Executive Director of the CF is responsible for the executive office, for supervisLkig the regional
training foundations, including for the replenishment of special accounts. The General Assembly and the
Board of Directors receive auditing reports from external auditors and are further supported by the
recommendations of the Consultative Council. The Minister of Finance's representative has veto power
over mars concerning the misuse of project and other government funds allocated to the Foundation.
Some of these key functions and responsibilities are summarized in Table A6. 1.
5.            GewiwAssembly. The ultimate authority of the NTF is the General Assembly made up
of all its members from both the government and non-government side."9 The Assembly meets annually
and the government members comprise half the voting power of the non-government side (no matter how
many members) also has half the total votes. The functions of the Assembly are to admit new members,
elect the Board of Directors, monitor operations of the NTF to ensure compliance, review and approval
annual reports and, if necessary, amend the charter.
6.            Consuaive Co'u *1, External donor organiations to the NTF would each have the
right to place a representative on the Consultative Council. The functions of the Council would be to
review the plans and performance of the NTF, advise the Board and General Assembly on policies, assist
in fund raising and give specific advice on relevant topics as requested by the Board. The Council would
come into, and remain in, existence when a minimum of five members join. It would meet at least
annually, usually before the meeting of the General Assembly.
19.  Founders of the NTP include the following:
ypGe:nt (1) GKI (Goveamnt involvement in the establishment of a non-governmta organzaion is rricted
to dhe GKI by Russian law).
oleQvanmet (1) Chamber of Trade and Commerce; (2) Al-Russia Association of Ptivatized and Private
Bnteprise; (3) Russian Union of Industrialists and Enteprener; (4) Assocition of Russian Banks; (5) Bank
Assoiation Russia; (6) Association of Consukats on Economy and Management; (7) Assoiaon 'Support to the
H;ighe Edcational Instisutionse; (8) Russian Association of Busne Schools; (9) Association of Management
Devaepment; (10) Credo Bank; (11) Incombank (12) Bank Stolichnyi"; (13) Mosbjizesbank; (14) AKB
*Stga"; (15) MAPO-bank; (16) ANPO ONaukaw; (17) NPO hrei Lavotchkina; (18) Electro_echnical
Manufactur in Saonovo; (19) Eergia; (20) Joint Stock Company ParfuimFlakon'; and (21) Joint Stock Company
Tat"r.
Subsequet to the esblhmen of the NTF, the foUowing Goverrment agencies became members of the Foundaton:
(1) Minisry of Labor; (2) Minity of Economy; (3) Ministy of Finance; (4) Office of the President; (5) Office of
the Govr _ment; (6) GKI; (7) State Commitee on Anti-Monopoly and Support of New  conomy Structures; (8) State
Conmnitee on Higher Education; and (9) the Cental Bank.



Ame 6. Organidn, Stffing and Procedures of the NTF                                                Page 99
Table A6.1: NTF Struen -Key Functions and Resporulblles
General           Consutative            Board of             secretaria           Technical
Assembly              Councl               Direcors                Staff             Experb
* Elct the Bod     * Advisw on     *       Promote NT's       * Do main operan    * Do teccal
of Directors        potential pograms    goals and              and suppot            evaluation of
* Docide on critea  * Avalyze suateg        objectives            f wctios (pam. 6)     projects to
and admitne of      and annual plans    * Approve sategy,   * Selct expetsa for       pibed
new nmem            of oe NTP and        policy, aSiwal         teculial review       criteria
* Amend the            subm                 plans and          * Screen subprojects
Foundaon's          recommendations      programs            * Decide on
Charter             to Board and       * Expand NTF's          financing
* Decide on            Assembly             resources though      subprojects below
liqudation of th    * Contbute fnids    fiad-rasing             $100,000 (neral
Foundatko           and promote fund-  * Accredit Regional      Evauation
* Monitor             .aising               Foundations           Coee)
compline of       * Review other       * Approve structural
operaions with      matters as           operaig nles of
mandate and         requestd by the      fhe secretadiat
polcies             Board              e Appoint die
. Reviewand                                EBxecutve Director
approve annu                           * Decide on
rePors                                   subproject
financing if above
$100.00
* Liaise with
Consulatve
council
* Appoint
auditor
* Submi anna
reports to General
Assemblyions
* Appmrove sucu
operaing rules of
the secreoariat
* Appoint the
Executive Director
* Decideon
msbproj
financing if above
$100,00
* Lisise with
Consulaive
Counci
* Appoint
auditor
* Subnit annual
reports to General
_   Assembly



Page 100                                    Annex 6. Organzation, Starffing and Procedures of the NWF
7.             Teucld Advisoiy Cemmiftee. In addition to the above, to maintain a continued open
dialogue with the users and the suppliers of management and financial training services and to keep
informed about current trends and issues, the Central Foundation would establish and use technical
advisory committees in their principal substantive areas of activity. The committees would include
leading Russian experts invited in their individual capacity, coming from enterprises and academic and
non-acaderic training and research institutions. The work of the committees would be informal and their
agenda highly flexible. Experience with the groups of Russian experts who helped to prepare the
Management and Financial Training Project and in other meeting would be utilized
8.            The CF has a Dowd of Diectors, comprising 18 members elected by the General
Assembly (I seat is reserved for each of the 3 Regional Foundations and will be filled once they are
accredited).' The Board's major functions would be to ensure the survival and development of the
Foundation. Specific functions embrace strategy and planning, programs, general policies and guidelines,
financing decisions for certain projects specified in the internal regulations. The Board would be assisted
by external auditors, and would meet at least three times a year (more frequently if necessary). The
Board would also rely on the advice of an external Consultative Council.
9.             Each Regional Foundation would have its own independent charter and organizational
procedures, but to be accredited, it would need to meet basic criteria set up by the Central Foundation.
These requirements include common goals and scope, explicit rules concerning the constitution of board,
election and voting procedures, transparent and objective criteria for competitive selection of projects,
regular reporting and external auditing and ovaluation. All documentation should be of public access.
D. AcTIvI  AND FuNcTIONS
10.           The NTF would finance several categories of projects within the three main programs
covering management development, the financial sector, and public finance. These project types include:
a.     development of policy and standards;
b.     curricula and materials development;
20. The first Board of Directors, eleced on September 7, 1994, includes the following organizations:
a. Government (9 representatives)
1. Ministy of Labor                     6. State Committe of Higher Education
2. Ministy of Economy                   7. State Committee on Ani-Monopoly Policy
3. Ministry of Finance                  8. State Property Agency (GKI)
4. Office of the President              9. Place reserved for the Central Bank
5. Office of die Government
b. Non-Governent (9 representatives)
Financial Instttions
1. Incombank                            6. All Russia Assoon of Privatized and Pdivate Enterprises
2. Bank -Stolishyi-                        Professional Associations
3. Association of Russian banks         7. Russian Association of Business Schools
EnterDrises                          8. Association of Accountants and Auditors
4. Chamber of Trade and Commerce        9. Place reserved for a professional association
5. Russia Union of Industialists and Entrpreneurs



Anne 6. Or.gar4don, Staffng and Procedures of the N7F                          Page 101
c.    training of instructors;
4.    training of practitioners; and
e.    distance learning projects.
11.         In order to undertake these projects, eligible beneficiaries (which include training
establisbments, companies, banks, government bodies and professional associatiom) could apply for
assistance. These applications would be reviewed on the basis of an objective selection process (see paras.
15-24 of this Annex).
12.         In the initial four training foundation entities (CF and three RFs) a number of main and
support activities would be undertaken. Some of these would be centralized for efficiency reasons, others
decentralized to allow local control and accountability. Broadly speaking this would be as shown in Table
A6.2. Relationships between the Central and the Regional Foundations would be such that the Regional
Foundations, at the regional level, would prepare and approve annual work plans and annual budgets;
select, approve and supervise subprojects; sign contracts and approve payments. The CF would review
these matters and give 'no objections", prior to the Regional Foundations proceeding with the activity.
In addition, the CF wou'd maintain a single Special Account, authorize payments, apply for replenishment
of the Special Account to the Bank, and maintain accounts and audit expenditures. The regions would
repay a part of the Loan proceeds they receive to the CF, according to the subsidiary financing
agreements between the Central and the Regional Foundations. The CF would bear the sole responsibility
of repaying the Loan amount, interests and commitment charge to the Borrower.
13.          The interaction of the regions and the center should be one of network and close
coordination. It would be a relationship based not so much on hierarchical control but more on
specialization. In the key areas of program design and project formulation, it would be expected that the
CF would specialize mostly in projects of national interest and scope which should, for efficiency reasons,
be done only once for the Russian Federation. This includes materials development, training of
multipliers, distance learning and mass media projects. Ivioreover, it would accredit and monitor the
Regional Foundations, encourage the creation of additional foundations later on and be responsible for
training and developing its own staff and that of the RFs during the early stages of development. In
contrast, the three RFs would specialize mostly in projects which need to be adapted to local conditions,
such as training of consultants, practitioners and training of trainers. In both cases, however, information
exchange and coordination are essential as several types of projects would occur within one program and
fiurthermore a central project in any area such as materials development may be implemented within the
regions. Such coordination and information exchange would work in several ways: through accreditation
and monitoring procedures; submission of annual plans and reports of the Regional Foundation to the
Central Foundation; ad hoc external evaluation of regional projects by the center; cross-representation
at Board level, through working relationships of the general managers and program officers and through
the centralized data center.



Page 102                                 Annex 6. Organizaion, Staffing and Procedures of the NTF
Table A6.2: Relatoubips Between the Central and Regional Foundations of the NTF
Undertaken In same
way at Regional and
Central Levd (with
OPERATIONAL TASK                   close coordiation)    Mostly Centralzed
Strategy and policy formulation                    V
Accreditation of Regional Foundations    __                _
Resource mobilization                                           __
Program design                                                                        l
Subproject proposal review
Financing decisions                                V                                 l
Drawing up operational procedures                                        V
Staff recruitme  an management
Training of staff, review panels, Board members
and applicants, i.e. proposal writers
AdministrationVt_                                                    _____
Information technology and communication   r                             V
Data center and information exchange                                     If
Legal                                     __
Public Relations                         __                _
Accounts                                           V
Asset/Liability management* 
Planning and budgeting                             V
Collections and disbursements*           _
Financial consolidation for reporting                              i     ft
* Aspects of these functions may be subcontracted to a commercial bank for efficiency reasons.
E. MANAGEMENT ANI) STAFF
14.          The quality and efficiency of the staff of the Training Foundation will be crucial
determinants of project success. The following points are relevant.



Annm  6. Organfzcaion, Sqffig and Procedures of the N1F                           Page 103
a.    Management. The Board of each NTF would appoinm a capable Executive
Director, selected from a multiple list of candidates, who would be supported by
competent staff chosen under his personal responsibility, but based on explicit job
descriptions and profiles.
b.    Jnternal evaluation commiee. For purposes of decision about specific projects,
the senior managers and program officers would meet as an Internal Evaluation
Committee, chaired by the Executive Director.
c.    S and recritment. Each entity would recruit all staff through transparent,
competitive processes described in the Operations Manual. The staff would combine
senior staff in management posiWions ano -elatively junior staff capable of being trained
in new approaches and techniques without being set in old ways.
d.    Nunbers. A basic objective is to make each RF entiy efficient, iean, and
flexible. The RFs would use external panelists and local consultants to provide
professionalism on project analysis and minimize the permanent staff payroll. Keeping
staff numbers down would be financially imperative and would make the NTF more
acceptable to existing institutions and potential members. There would be limits on
spending for operations and for the payroll.21 The challenge would be to avoid creating
a large, bloated new entity, but at the same time to make it substantial enough to handle
a significant volume of project applications with professionalism, thoroughness, and
objectivity. Initially, the suggested staffing numbers to be progressively phased-in during
the first phase is suggested in Chart A6. 1.
e.    Staff development. Training would be a key feature of the NTF. It would be
primarily performed through pre-service training for staff, coaching through experienced
consultants, and on-the-job training through frequent interactions within the staff and
between the staff and the consultants. In addition, the Foundation would also train
consultants and clients in project preparation, analysis and evaluation techniques. (See
Annex 14.)
f.    International advisors and consulants. A full technical assistant program to
support the NTF's start-up and initial operations has been planned. A senior advisor
directly subordinated to the Executive Director would help coordinate all external
technical assistance to ensure maximum effectiveness and consistency. To ensure
uniformity and cross-fertilization, the same consultants would, whenever possible, assist
the Regional Foundations as well. In addition, national consultants would work directly
with international advisors, in order to facilitate their understanding of the local reality,
facilitate communication and language barriers, be developed as senior consultants and
provide services to the foundations in the network. (See Annex 13.)
21. Ie% target would be to keep operating expenditures at or below 10% of outlays for SUbprojects, which compans
favorably wid the most efficient foundations in the West.



page 104                                 Annex 6. OtwAn on, Stfing and Putedam qf *e NiT
Chart A6.1: Organizaton Chart-Positions of the Cetral Foudllom
EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR
OFFICE        11                        .     i    Secretary
Logistcs
EXENA     EGOALOEATOSADMINISTRATION
_COordwor
. ~     ~       -   '
Receptionislr
Tel& fax operator
DEPARTMENT          11DEPARTMENT                                   DEPARTMENl       |
COOXrRDINATREIONA    .              OPERATIONS                    ADMINISTRATION    I
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
l nformabon Officer                   Pro gram Offieromn                Accou-tart
I S ^ B ~~~~~~Mg. _ 
1        1             |   ~~~~~~~~~Program Offcer  |              Compute
Personal Assistnt                 AccountnglFinance             |      pecadta
Program Officer                  Procurement
I  Banidn     I                   SpeciNst      I
Program OffeLrI
Public finance &                  Secretary
PFot1p
Secretary       L          Secretary                             Pawn
I  L   I                 S                            .~~~~~~~OML



Anney 6. Organia , &4Lng and Pocedures of the NF                              Page 103
g.    Ad-Ie consuts. In addition to the permanent staff, the NTF would use
professional review panels to provide external review of competitive project proposals.
Use of such expertise would be a cornerstone of the review process and a key element
in ensuring that objective and professional criteria are consistently applied to project
financing decisions.
h.    Rera*on would be at competitive levels to attract qualified people on a full-
time, exclusive contractual basis and to minimize staff turn-over in a high-inflation
environment.
F. PROJCCT CYCLE EVALUATION PROCESS
15.          Ihe management and program officers would be responsible for the project cycle
activities. Those span at least eight stages (the first five of which are summarized in the following
diagram), and are elaborated in Chart A6.2.
16.         Stage 1: Program Annowecemet
a.    Develop program guidelines, including description of eligible projects;
b.    Specify funding mechanism-grant or loan or both, with an indication of the
merit and financial criteria used for review;
C.    Develop definitions of eligible institutions and organizations; and
d.    Develop timemble and set deadlines; these should be included in program
announcement.
17.         Stage 2: Issue RequWest for Project POp4als (Project ldnbtcation)
a.    Draw up list Af institutions or consultants to be invited to submit project
proposals (in the case of restrictive bidding);
b.    Issut official announcement, using press and other media where appropriate,
ensuring maximum transparency, and access to information by all intersted
pardes;
c.    Respond to requests for information; and
d.    Offer training in proposal preparation to potential bidders. This would Initially
be extensive and require detailed handbooks, guidelines, etc. but this function can
be phased down as potential proposers gain experience with the system.



Page 106                                              Ann= 6. Organization, Staffing and Procedures of the NTF
Chart A6.2: Subproject Evaluation Process
NTF provides
PrTFlm ~                                              training to potential
Pmgram                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~bidders and
annourncement  |                 x      >applicants   3
APPLICANT/                 Retum to applicant
-No          ~~~BIDDER                   with explanationl 
submits proposal to              Instruction
No   *        ~~~NTF     4 *               ntudo 
7
No
Program officer1.
Receies and
checks proposal
|pAppraisal by                                                  Yes
|    -   -   ~~~independent    4    *
Program Officer.         Central or Regional |/
~~~~~~~~~~peae                                     ntemlEauto                                      No-*
NoN
IfNoYes-  roet     No
No                                                      Yes
zM* Oi~~MUII Board Review
Yes
review
World Bank piior          No



Annex 6. Org xaion, Staffing and Procedres ofthe NF                              Page 107
18.          Sage 3: Project Pw-Appraol
a.    Receive project proposals in accordance with announced deadlines and record
receipt.
b.    Check proposals received for compliance with NTF format and other conditions
including application and register all applications received; and
c.    Examine applications and return those not in compliance to the clients with clear
information about reasons. For example, proposals may be deemed unsuitable
for review on different grounds:
*   The proposed activity is not responsive to requirements, as specified in the
program guidelines;
*   The proposed activity is clearly not of sufficient quality;
*   The proposing organization is clearly incapable of delivering the project; or
* The proposal is incomplete or does not comply with the formal requirements
of the NTF.
19.          Stage 4: Project Appraisal
For this stage, the program officer should divide projects into different categories, according to the
operational procedures.
a.    For smaller projects (i.e., those under US$50,000), two independent reviewers
from the roster of approved reviewers would be selected for independent review
appraisal of each project. If needed, a third independent reviewer could also be
asked to present comments, at a later stage.
b.    The project officer would ensure that reviewers have no conflict of interest and
receive clear guidelines (and training, initially) about ethical issues, the content
of the review and the format in which they should send their comments. The
reviewers should also receive specific instructions about postal deadlines and
payment of fees.
c.    The project officer would formulate his recommendations to the internal review
committee, which would then deliberate.
d.    For projects over US$50,000, the steps are similar, except that a panel review
meeting would be convened to discuss the relative merits of a large batch of
proposals under a same program.
e.    At the end of the deliberation, the review panelists would present a summary
with their views, using a standard format.
f.    The evaluation officer would add any further comments and submit the proposats
to the consideration of the Board of Directors, through the Executive Director.



Page 108                                Annex 6. Orgaaon, Sqfing and Procedures of the N7F
g.    At any time during appraisal, the program officer may contact the proposer to
ask for additional information, clarification or undertake on-site visits or
inspections. He can also commission experts to undertake such visits. In any
case clear terms of reference should be specified beforehand, and detailed records
of these visits should be attached to the project document.
20.          In the case of loans, and simultaneously with technical appraisal, the program officer
would submit the institution's financial data to the Director of Administration and Finance to process the
information and decide on the ability to pay. Projects with no financial ability would not be submitted
for further decision, and proponents would be informed of the reasons through a standard letter.
21.          Stage 5: Projet Financing Dedsion
a.    The Internal Evaluation Committee (IEC) would review all subprojects. Any
deemed unsuitable would be rejected and returned to the proposer with an
explanation of the reasons. If the subproject is below $100,000, the IEC could
approve the project. If above $100,000 the proposal would be sent to the Board
of Directors with the recommendation of the IEC. Special considerations are as
follows:
*     first, have the first stage procedures and criteria been applied during
appraisal?
*     second, are there any broader issues of "fit" of the proposal with other
NTF objectives?
*     third, are there any further benefits (externalities) of the proposal with
other NTF activities?
*     fourth, has the ability to share costs or re-pay been convincingly
demonstrated?
b.    Based on this analysis, the internal evaluation committee or the Board of
Directors decides whether to approve or reject the financing. Loan and grants
terms of conditions should be decided before hand, and any particular conditions
should be incorporated to the written terms of reference.
c.    For projects t!at are approved, those which are greater than US$250,000 would
be translated into English and sent by the Executive Director to the World Bank
for prior review and approval. Those below this limit and those approved by the
Bank you be passed on to the Finance and Administrative Manager for signing
a legal, performance-based contract.
d.    Finally, formal, standard communication will be sent to all proposers, stating the
reasons why the project has not been approved. The program officer would be
responsible for giving this information while protecting the anonymity of the
reviewers. This information should be as clear and detailed as possible to
encourage rejected bids to be resubmitted if future occasions arise.
22.          Stge 6: Projeed Impkmenti



Am= IL OrpnkAgon, Sting and Procedres of the N7F                               Page 109
a.    The administration manager would receive the approved proposals from the
internal evaluation committee or Board (depending on project size) and would
responsible for signing a grant or loan document with the beneficiary and
providing regulations on disbursement and procurement.
b.    Once signed, the treasurer and finance manager receives the file with loan or
grant information and would be responsible for disbursements and the r mitoring
of procurement in accordance with the rules and regulations (alternaaLvely, if a
suitable commercial bank can be identified, these tasks may be subcontracted).
c.    The program officer would be responsible for checking that the implementation
is proceeding smoothly and should assist if necessary to clear any difficulties.
23.          Ste 7: Project Superirion
Once disbursed and operational, the supervision process requires the program officer to:
a.    Collect information (covering training, administrative and financial aspects) in a
regular reporting format and assess performance;
b.    Visit projects according to a schedule of implementation approved by the
Executive Director and taking into consideration size of subproject to check on
implementation (such visits can also be delegated to outside consultants and be
performed using standard terms of reference and forms); and
C.    Provide corrective advice if there are problems and keep record of such
activities.
bm finance department would be responsible for collecting the loan and dealing with repayment
problems. Appropriate collection mechanisms, as well as legal and other sanctions and penalties, would
be stated in the contract (alternatively, if a suitable commercial bank can be identified, these tasks may
be subcontracted).
24.          Stage 8: Tual Evaluaaon
The program officer would need to undertake a final evaluation report to:
a.    Measure achievements against plans and targets;
b.    Quantify the impact by using adequate performance indicators; and
c.    Draw lessons from past projects to improve the design and appraisal of future
projec.
The program officer could commission evaluation studies of specific subprojects to collect data about
project impact. The internal auditor should do an independent review of all such final evaluation reports
on a sample basis.



Page 110                               Annex 6. OrganizaWon, Stqffhg and Procedures of the N7F
G. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
25.          Absolute financial integrity and professionalism are essential for the NTF. Some of the
key aspects of its financial management would include the following.
a.    Sowd prinies. The NTF would have detailed financial policies based on
specific principles, including that it would operate as a financial institution,
would try to match assets to liabilities to the extent possible and would cover
operating costs with its own income (based on commission fees).
b.    Endowment fld. In the long run the Foundation would need to establish an
endowment on the basis of resources through donations and other sources. The
Board of Directors should oversee the operations and management of the
endowment fund, and would be advised by the Executive Director and the
Manager of Administration and Finance.
c.    Alloaton of fieu. Initially the World Bank line of credit would be divided
into two categories: one allocation for the CF and one for the three RFs. Each
RF would have an incentive to commit and spend funds expeditiously. Delays
could mean sacrificing funds to other regions that are more effective in funding
subprojects.
d.     fanct ,.nsacdons. In order to minimize the amount of financial transactions
within the four NTF entities, one Special Account would be created, under the
supervision of the Executive Director of the CF.
Coa RtcoV*ei
26.         In its initial phase, most of the subprojects would be in the form of grants. Yet, during
the initial phase, three types of cost-recovery would be possible by collecting:
a.    Commssion and other fees pid by the subprojed beneficarks;
b.    Pafpation fees from trainees participating in training activities sponsored by
the Foundation; and
c.    Loan rexnbwsenenw and Interest paid on loans. Projects submitted by
individual firms would also be reimbursable according to a schedule previously
approved by the Board of Directors.
TMe decision on whether to recover costs would be driven by the type of project. Development projects
(e.g. standards or curricula development) would genera!ly qualify for grant financing. Some development
activities, e.g. teaching materials and textbooks or even teacher training, might yield partial cost
recovery. The income stream of the activity would need to be examined for such activities and decisions
made accordingly. Other activities, such as delivery of training to commercial clients or participants,
would-as a rnle-be subject to substantial cost recovery through loans or payback of participant fees.



Anna 6. Oe?ad*on, &nSg and    J oedmu  if the NM                               Poge III
EL QUAUJTrY CONRtOL
Accwtabl
27.          Mechanisms built into fth suctue of the project allow for accountability and quality
control, summarized as follows.
a.    lhere would be a clear line of command flowing from the General Assembly to
the Board of Directors to the Executive Director. Each of theso levels have clear
responsibilities, mandates and authority over the lower level.
b.    There would be a clea definition of the system in th form of a network, with
explicit criteria for membership and strict contols over program, procedures and
actual disburseme, under the supervision of the Executi  Director of the CF.
The Executive Director enjoys considerable autonomy, but would be totally
responsible and accountable for the operations of the Foundation
c.    There are two outside performance moniorng bodies, the exteral auditors and
the Consultative Council, which would report dircdy and independenty to the
Board of Directors and General Assembly.
d.    The Ministry of Finance retains veto power over specific allocation of resources
considered as inconsistent with the projects agreemen.
e.    Members of the Boards and the Executive Drector are chosen through a set of
criteria aumed at ensuring objecivity and fairness, and at avoiding direct political
interferc or patronage.
f.    The Executive Director is chosen through mulple names and short-lists, to
ensure a collegiate decision and responsibility of the Boart for this appointmn.
He would be responsive at the Board as a whole, not to any individual member.
g.    Staff are selected on the bases of clear job description and following procedures
which maximize transpareny and quality.
Saqevbkn wd Mon*tortng
28.          It would be a challenge to launch the NTF activides successfilly and a significant learning
process would be required. Consequently, close supervision would be needed throughout to monitor the
quality of the activities. From the World Bank perspective, there are a number of prime components in
a supervision  rategy:
a.  frequent supervision visits-probably every twotr  months initally;
b.  prior review of the first five sub-project appraisls from each NTF entity, i.e.
twenty in total;
c.   prior review of any subproject greaer than US$250,000; and



Page 112                                Am=z 6. Orgadizauion, Si   and Prcedrm of du NIT
d.   conuc to expaud the membership base, strengthen the Consultative Council and
interaction with the Board of Directors as we!l as key players in the General
Assembly.
(See also Annex 18.)



THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL TRAING PRojEcr
ANNEx 7. NATONAL TRAIG FOuNDATION EVALUATION PLAN
A. LEVES OF EVALUATION
1.           Evaluation in the NTF is designed and implemented at four levels in order to best serve
the interests of the multiple NTF shareholders:
a.    NTF impact (overall, program area, project results);
b.    NTF operations;
c.    "subject" area learnings; and
d.    individual subproject operations and results.
2.           Except in the case of individual subproject evaluation, evaluation studies would be carried
out by independent third-party experts contacted specifically for this purpose. Subproject evaluations
are carried out in part by NTF program officers as a part of their monitoring role, and in part by
sub-project management, using a self-evaluation approach.
Leve Om - NT  Ipd
3.           Evaluation of NTF impact should be focused to serve three purposes: (i) to be accountable
to NTF sponsors for faithfully addressing NTF objectives and mission; (ii) to guide decisions by the NTF
Board and senior executive staff regarding overall NTF policies and goals in order to strengthen the NTF
contribution to the establishment of a market economy; and (iii) to provide progran area leadership
(program officers, advisers) with information needed to judge program effectiveness and strengthen
program and project performance. NTF impact is defined as the impact, in aggregate, of each of the
several programs mounted by each regional and the central NTF, NTF impact evaluation would be
designed and implemented by program, where each major NTF program (i.e., management development,
the financial sector) would be the unit of analysis.
4.           TraItg  Iact isdicators. Evaluation at this level assesses the extent to which the NTF
program impacts and contributes to strategic business and economic development goals. Assessment of
impact would include measurement and assessment of the following sorts of indicators:
a.    numbers of needed professional personnel trained by sub-projects (by
categories and level of credentials);
b.    numbers of managers trained in market-economy skills;
c.    numbers of public officials trained;
d.    numbers of training professionals with upgraded credentials;
e.    numbers of trainers of trainers trained;
f.    the extent to which shortages of personnel in the above fields have been
reduced;



Page 114                                                        Annex 7. N7F Evaluation Plan
g.    increased capacity for training needed personnel enabled by infrastructure
achievemlents, such as training partnerships, financing of market-oriented
programs, professional association programs established, etc.;
h.    nature and scope of curricula and curricular materials produced, revised,
pilot-tested, disseminated, etc.; and
-   i.    nature and scope of policies, standards, guidelines, etc. produced or revised to
support training of needed personnel.
5.           More detailed, specific, and relevant evaluation indicators would be developed for each
program and project area prior to evaluation studies. These would be developed by the evaluation
contractors in consultation with the pertinent advisers, local and foreign experts as necessary, and the
NTF program officer responsible for the program/projects being evaluated, and other key shareholders
(e.g., sub-project managers).
6.           OveraUNlFIads dkatens. Impact evaluation also includes assessment of the extent
to which the NTF has achieved its goals of strategic positioning. This assessment includes the following
questions:
a.    To what extent has the NTF funded projects in the aimed for proportions in each
of program areas?
b.    To what extent have subprojects achieved relevant and important outcomes; and
to what extent have they achieved quality comparable to leading institutions in
the country?
C.    To what extent is the NTF perceived among Russian training and development
opinion leaders as a fair, open, and equitable agency that makes merit-based
decisions and, in general, adheres to high standards of professionalism?
d.    To what extent has the NTF mobilized resources from key lenders, investors, and
donors?
7.           Data sources at this level are (i) aggregated project results, (ii) NTF operation, (iii) third
party policy and impact evaluation studies, (iv) program officer reports, and (v) special "subject" area
evaluation studies. Impact evaluation of the NT1F includes all regional results in aggregate; it is not
differentiated by region.
LUv  Two: NW Operadons
8.           Evaluation at the NTF operations level assesses the effectiveness and efficiency of
foundation operations and organization. Conclusions would be drawn about the entire foundation in
aggregate, and about each individual Regional Foundation site. Again, purposes are twofold: (i)
accountability to NTF sponsors and shareholders, and (ii) improvement of NTF policies, procedures,
and capacities.
9.           Evaluation at this level should include systematic 'customer' feedback from those who
are the recipients of NTF funds and services, and those whose role is provision of technical guidance and
services, such as review panels and technical assistance councils.



Ann  7. Z   F EVuaudon Plan                                                       Page 115
10.          Measurement and assessment at this level would Include:
a.    adherence to NTF guidelines, policies, and expectations for funding
operations, fiscal integrity, accounting procedures, etc.;
b.    integrity, efficiency, and practicality of proposal review and selection
procedures;
c.    internal and external communications;
d.    staff qualifications, selection, training, and other personnel procedures; and
e.    quality and efficiency of services provided by NTF.
Level Three: Subject Areas
11.          Evaluation at this level is primarily intended to produce learning that would shape future
NTF objectives and strategies. Inquiry is across carefully formulated samples of funded projects with
similar missions, target audiences, delivery strategies, and so forth. A program area evaluation might
seek to learn, for example, what training strategies are most effective in decentralization of training
expertise, or what curricular development projects have learned about linkage with professional groups
and other customers.
12.          Subject level evaluations are sporadic and highly targeted, being commissioned and
designed as needs and NTF experiences dictate. They should be conducted by independent evaluation
and subject-matter experts, but should involve subject-area project staff in instrument design, data
collection, analysis, and interpretation. Subject area evaluations would typically incorporate staff
development methods, employing workshops and seminars to formulate evaluation approaches, and
interpret results.
13.          Results from subject area evaluations are used to shape NTF program area goals and
policies. These evaluation results should also be widely disseminated to inform the profession at large,
and thus incorporate dissemination strategies into the evaluation design.
Leve Four: Evaluaom of lnvidaal Fnded Projects
14.          Subproject level evaluations serve both an accountability and a subproject improvement
function. Subproject level evaluations are conducted from two perspectives. First, the NTF program
officer conducts basic accountability evaluations for each project within his/her purview, to assure
adherence to NTF guidelines and sound professional practices. Secondly, sub-subproject managers are
responsible for designing and conducting subproject level evaluations according to NWT guidelines and
supported fiscally from subproject proceeds; they may, at the discretion of subproject managers, employ
external expertise.
15.          For accountability purposes and to enable estimates of aggregate results across
subprojects, subproject level evaluations designed and conducted under the guidance of sub-subproject
managers must include mandatory NTF evaluation odestions. These questions are tailored by
sub-subproject managers to be specific to their individual subprojects, but take the generic form of:
a.    To what extent have subproject terminal objectives been achieved?
b.    What progress has been made toward achievement of terminal objectives
(enabling objective achievement)?



Page 116                                                       Annex 7. Nh  Evmwadin Plan
c.    To what extent have target groups benefited, primary or secondarily, from
subproject activities?
d.    What program-area learnings has the subproject achieved?
16.          The remainder of the subproject level evaluation is driven by individual sub-subproject
improvement needs. These evaluation questions would vary by individual subproject, but overall
guidelines would recommend that certain dimensions be assessed, such as:
a.    "customer" feedback and impact on "customers";
b.    effectiveness of managerial operations;
c.    progress on quality improvement efforts;
d.    results of and learnings from innovative methods, pilots, and trials;
e.    comparisons of alternative approaches; and
f.    follow-up and feedback from "graduates" or their employers (where appropriate).
17.          Evaluation of individual subprojects from an accountability perspective is supplemented
by regular site visits conducted by the NTF program officer. During these visits the program officer
would interview subproject staff and clients (as appropriate), r.view subproject records, and conduct other
inquiry as necessary to determine that NTF expectations, policies, guidelines, and procedures are being
adhered to. Program officers would file a share a draft of their site visit report with subproject
management prior to filing the report with the NTF, and would incorporate subproject management
reactions into the final report as appropriate.
B. SELF-EVALUATION PIOSOPHY
18.         Individual subproject level evaluation policies and procedures embody a "self-evaluation'
philosophy that views evaluation as an essential element of organizational learning and effectiveness. The
NTF would provide guidelines for evaluation design and implementation, and would also make available
training and other technical assistance to support funded subprojects in effective evaluation. However,
designing, conducting, and using the subproject level evaluation are the responsibility of the subproject.
Funding requests should provide budget specifically for evaluation, and a portion of funding proceeds
should be used specifically to support subproject evaluation.
19.          The overarching purpose of subproject-level evaluation is to inform decisions by
subproject management that would guide continuous improvement of subproject quality and impact. This
self-evaluation approach is based on principles of individual and organizational learning, and recognizes
that evaluation for self-improvement must be differentiated from and balanced with evaluation that serves
an auditing or external accounting function. Subproject level evaluation that is used, or is perceived to
be used, as a "policing" function by the funding agency, suppresses the risk taking that is critical to
learning and development, and otherwise invites bias in evaluation reporting.
The Foundation approach to subproject self-evaluation is to:
a.    Require that effective evaluations be conducted;
b.    Clarify the key role that evaluation plays in subproject development and
improvement;
c.    Provide support for evaluation, in the form of clear policies and guidelines, and
training and technical assistance;



Anna 7. 17 Emwlaaon Plan                                                     Page 117
d.    Require evidence that evaluation has been conducted and used to
i.    make important subproject improvement decisions;
ii.   support the development of subproject staff;
iii.  incorporate customer needs and impa into subproject planning; and
iv.   demonste accountability to key stakeholder groups.
20.          Only evaluation data on the mandated subproject-level evaluation questions must be
reponed to the NTF; internal evaluation repots for subproject improvement are not intended nor required
to be provided to the NTF. The subproject must report, however, on the nature and scope of internal
subproject evaluation, and provide evidence that such evaluation results have been inrpreted and used.
21.          EZwladi  Advsi Boyrd. An evaluation advisory board comprised of independent
evaluadon experts would be formed to advise NWT evaluation policies, procedures, and criteria and would
sere to coordinate and guide subject area evaluation studies. The aim of the advisory board is to assure
that NWT evaluation approaches are effective in furnhering the goals of the foundaion.



THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL TRAINNG PROJECT
ANNEX 8. MoNwIoRING AND IMACT INDICATORS
I1.          The impact indicators for the project and measurements of its success have to be derived
from the purpose of the project and its major objects.
The purpose of the project is to contribute to the successi transition of the Russian
economy from the command to the market by increasing the supply and qulity of
necessary sklls.
The purpose wIll be fulfilled by the attainment of three main objectives as outlined below.
A. INCREAsiNG THE SUPPLY OF wELL TRAIED MANAGERs MD PROFzSONAts IN
MANAGEMENT, ACCOUNTANCY, AND PUBLIC FINANCES
Indicators                                Measruenwit
1. Develop suitable policy framework for training in the    Specific proposals formulated and
defined areas.                                     submitted
2. Develop and have accepted quality standards for    Standards produced and accepted
training
3. Curricula, study guides and text-books prepared    Number of subjects covered
Number printed and sold
4. Self-development materials designed, produced tested  Number of subjects covered
and used.                                          Number of packages produced
5. Trainers selected, full trained and used for training  Number of trainers/instutors
practitioners                                     traiined
6. Number of practitioners (managers, accountants,    Subject covered
bankers, public finance professionals)             Number of practitioners trained
7. Existing faculty members retrained in new          Number retrained
finance/accounting system                          Number of schools covered
8. Training Center for Finance/accounting training set,  Number operational
equipped and made operational



Page 120                                             Anna & Monkorang and lact Indk*on
B. PREPARING FOR PHASE 2 OF THE PROJECT AIMING AT EFFECWIVE IRVENRTON TO
INCREASE KNoWLEDGE/SKILLS AND DEVELOPMENT OF CO ciVE ArUDES FoR OTnER
MARKET-ORIENTED FIELDS.
btt#aatos                                 M
I. Preparing two pilot projects for the area of small  Project defined and implemented
business development
2. Prepare two pilot projects for public administration,  Project defined and implemented
e.g. top executive program and preparation of regional   Number of executives trained
training
3. Preparation of pilot programs for market economics:  Projects prepared
training of journalists and design of system      Number of journalists trained
C. SEFNG UP AN EFECTVE OPERATION OF THE NATIONAL TRAING FOUNDATION AS TH
MAIN INSU ONAL INSTRMUMET FOR TRAINNG ACrlVITIES/PROJECrS IN THE DSEFD ARES
hndkators                                 Measwvne*
I. Effective organization and systems for NTF designed  Organization chart, job descriptions,
and out into practice                             operations manual produced
2. Effective project plhning and monitoring system in  System designed and operational
operations (computer-based)
3. Quality staff recruited, trained and highly motivated  Performance review
4. All operations in compliance with strict ethical  Assessment
standards
5. Additional financial resources from donors tapped  Amount of external funds raised
6. Clearing-house function for training resources and  Data-base in operation
activities operational                            Number of users
7. Inplementation                                    Numbers of subprojects supported
Financial outlays



THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL TRANIG PROIET
ANNEx 9. SuBrPoJECT APPRAIAL CRITRI
1.          lThe NTP would support subprojects that are (i) most responsive to NTP development
goals and strategy, (ii) are most likely to produce results, (iii) are efficiently designed, and (iv) have the
financial capacity to suppOrt proposed operations and pay back loans, where appropriate. These four
major criteria are described in more detail in the following explanations and lists of sub-criteria.
2.           The criteri in this amex would be furher defined prior to their application to a specific
programlsubproject proposal review effort (i) specifically for each progran area (such as mauuzgement
development), and (ii) by he NTF program officers worldng with the technical advisory board and other
experts in their program areas. These draft review criteria would then be recommended to the advisers
for their review, as a part of the program development process.
IrW    Screening of OveraU Proposal
3.           Proposals must be effectively organized and clearly wntten so as to facilitate the review
and award process. Proposers should follow NTF guidelines, and take other steps as deemed useful to
assure that their proposal accurately represents their inenions, and directy responds to NTF needs. The
initial reviewer would assess:
a.    Clai*y. The proposal should be clearly written, using direct and jargon-free
language.
b.    Organization. Proposals should be effectively organized so that reviewers can
clearly understand intent, while readily assessing the proposal against NTF
guidelines and criteria.
c.    Internal consistency. The several parts of the proposal should clearly fit together
in a logical and consistent manmer.
d.    Ecency. The proposal should be direct and straightforward, clarifying
intentions and critical information in the least complex and most concise manner
possible. No extraneous information should be provided.
Analytia Framework
Analytical FramEwork
C.                        B.              A.
Criteria:  Effifiney     Effectiveess     Relvae
0 _n 3~1    4- Supr;pff



Page 122                                                 Annex 9. Subproject Appraisal Criteria
4.           The criteria work backwards from "needs' through objectives and outputs to inputs. The
first criterion, relevance, addresses the extent to which the goals and objectives of subprojects would meet
the overall objectives of the project and promise the most direct and worthwhile results in meeting the
needs of transition to a market economy. Judgments of relevance would be based on an assessment of
the immediacy of impact, and whether projects aim to provide urgently needed skills to high priority
target groups. Effectiveness deals with the likelihood that the proposed project would work. Assessments
of effectiveness would be based on analyses of clarity, the completeness and feasibility of the proposed
design, degree of innovation, mechanisms for customer involvement, the qualifications of staff and
consultants involved, strength of managetnent experience, institutional support and provision for
leveraging results. The third criterion of efficiency assesses the extent to which projects are designed to
produce intended results with the least expenditure of resources. Judgments of efficiency include
assessment of training unit costs, utilization rates for equipment and physical facilities, security
provisions, and integration of efforts with other projects to avoid duplication and increase cooperation.
The sequence of analysis is highly important. For example, if subprojects are not deemed relevant it does
not matter whether they would be effective or efficient.
A. RELEVANCE-TH  RELATIONsIP OF SUBPRoJECT OwECTIVES TO PRIOURTY REQUIREMENTS
5.           The basic questions pertaining to relevance are: Should this project be done? Is it a
priority? Would it help achieve goals of overriding importance? The goals and objectives of proposed
subprojects nmst be relevant to identified NTF strategies and priorities. Subprojects receiving preference
would be those that promise the most direct and useful results i meeting the needs of transition to a
market economy. Judgments of relevance would be based on the extent to which the subproject's goals
promise:
a.    Criticalfields. Production of demonstrably critical market skills. Subprojects
mnust target specific skills and knowledge that are in clear demand for transition
to a market economy. Sklls must be specifically defmed, and evidence should
be provided to support the rationale and need for these skills.
b.    Poriy ty  et groups and coverage. Meeting needs of target groups in priority
fields (management development; finance; public administration). The NTF has
identified specific target groups that most urgently require skills and knowledge,
particularly practitioners in each field. Subprojects that promise quality service
to the greatest numbers of these groups are preferred.
c.    T1meiness. Immediate impact on and utility for skill production. Preference is
given to subprojects that can deliver the most immediate impact on critical skills
production. Subproject cycles should be as brief as possible to assure timely
results. Subprojects that have overly extended time-lines would not be considered
as important as those that assure quicker delivery.
d.    Mulier effect. Creation of capacity for continued production of needed skills
over longer term. While rapid transition creates urgent needs for immediate skill
production, the longer term requires capacity to continuously provide needed
sldlls. Subprojects that aim to create expanded capacity and continued skill
production while meeting immediate needs are preferred.



Anna 9. Subproject Apprisal Criteria                                           Page 123
3. Lw    CNVfTHE RELATIONSHIP OF OuruTs TO OBwECnvEs
6.           The basic questions concerning effectiveness are: Can it be done? Would it be able in
fact to adcieve its intended outputs? Does the proposed subproject provide all the inputs necessary? Are
these organized into a coherent design? Subprojects must be capable of producing high impact and high
quality results, and must be supported by sufficient resources to achieve those results, i.e. proposals must
clearly and completely represent sufficient plans and resources to achieve objectives. Judgments of
efficacy would be based on the following considerations:
a.    Avaiabiy of inpats. Would subproject inputs likely be available in the
quantities and qualities required, as and when required? Are there any gaps in
the proposed inputs?
i.    Trainers, instructors and subproject staffing. The qualifications and
credentials of project staff must be relevant to, and sufficient for, the
proposed activities. There must be assurances that identified staff are
available for subproject duties, or that staff to be recruited can be readily
located and recruited.
ii.    Teaching curricula and program content. Do modern, tested teaching
programs already exist that could be used?
Mii.   Teaching materials. Do textbooks and other materials exist that are
relevant to the Russian context?
iv.    Qualfied trainees. The bidder should be able to demonstrate that
sufficient qualified trainees, with sufficient educational and professional
background, work experience and language skldls and, if relevant, ability
to pay would have incentives to participate in the proposed subproject.
V.    Project management. The management structure must be clearly defined
to demonstrate adequate procedural guidance, constructive controls, and
clear delineation of responsibility and authority. Managerial staff must
be assured in appropriate number and qualification to lead the subproject
successfully. Past experience of the institution in managing subprojects
of the sort proposed should, where applicable, be demonstrated.
vi.   Erpert serices Oca and eternal). Are qualified experts available and
wiling to work for agreed rates of compensation?
vii. Support senvces. Where support services (.edrical, accounting, computer
maintnance, for example) are critical to subproject operation, there must
be assurance that sufficient and high quality services would be available.
viii.  Physical facilies and security. The subproject must assure adequate,
consistent, and upto-date facilities, space, equipment, and technology to
support subproject operations. The subproject proposal should define
and descnbe appropriate procedures to safeguard the personnel,
equipment, and information involved in the subproject.
ix.   Local cost financng and finanal resources. The potental contractor
sholdd be able to demonstrate an ability to finance all necessary inputs,
including a 15% share of total costs, and to pre-finance activities for
subsequent reimbursement based on results.



AVge 124                                                Annax 9. Subproject Appraisal Criteria
b.    Subproject design. Is the subproject well designed to achieve the intended
outputs?
i.    Overall design. To what extent is the subproject design clear and well
thought-through?   The subproject design must contain carefully
articulated activities and sub-activities that are based on knowledge of
best practices in training, curriculum development, adult leaming, and
so forth. Activities must be of sufficient scope, duration, and potency
to meet subproject goals, and must be articulated in a logical work-flow.
Evidence that plamned activities are capable of achieving objectives (such
as pilot tests, past evaluations, research data) should be provided to
support plans.
ii.    Linkage to customers. There must be evidence that subproject customers
have been, and would continue to be, involved in subproject design,
operation, and evaluation. Clear and effective linkages to customer
groups, such as review panels, provisions for customer feedback, and so
forth, should be part of the management plan.
iii.   Training strategy and mehods. Is the training strategy in the subproject
the best way, under the circumstances, to achieve the training goals? To
what extent would the subproject test, develop and disseminate effective
tring methods?  The present training profession tends to practice
outdated and narrow methods (e.g., theoretical lectures, memorizing).
Subprojects that aim to contribute professional knowledge and research
about promising methods (such as action-oriented simulations, case
methods, group learning, etc.) while producing immediate skill impacts
are preferred.
iv.   Anticpation of obstacles. The subproject design should demonstrate that
planners have considered and accounted for systemic obstacles to and,
enhancers of impact. Subprojects should include, as appropriate,
activities that would assure and support adoption, integration, and
nurturing of new market-oriented practices in the workplace.
V.    Cutural adaptation.  The subproject must be staffed, designed, and
managed to assure consonance with the Russian context in general, and
the specific cultural context of the subproject's customer group. Where
subprojects aim to adapt foreign materials or methods, procedures to
integrate and accommodate Russian needs and cultural particularities
must be articulated and assured.
vi.   Evaluaton plan. To what extent are targets clearly identified and
quantified with milestones established for their achievement? To what
extent has a satisfactory plan been prepared for monitoring and
evaluation of the subproject and provision made for corrections for
deviations during execution? Subprojects must incorporate an adequate
evaluation design that is ethical, useful, practical, and accurate. The
evaluation plan should provide for the systematic collection and
interpretation of information that subproject management can use to
improve continuously subproject operations and impact.



Ann  9. Subprojec Appraisal Citeria                                            Page 125
c.    Implementadon capacity. To what extent does the bidder have the ability to
carry out the subproject as intended and produce quality results?
i.    Does the subproject management have sufftcient experience in
implementing similar subprojects.
ii.    To what extent has the bidder identified adequately the staffing
imnplications of subproject execution and has assigned the neesary
technical and managerial capacity and expertise to carry out the
subproject effectively?
iii.   To what extent is the detailed implementation schedule realistic and to
what extent are the resources provided for its attainment?
C. EFICIENCY-THE RELATIONSHIP OF INPUIS TO OUTrPUs
7.           The efficiency criterion involves two basic alternative questions: (i) to what extent would
the subproject produce the intended outputs at least (or reasonable) cost?; or (b) to what extent would the
suIIroject, given a fixed level of costs, maximize outputs? Subprojects should produce the effecdve
rsuts with the least possible resource expenditure. There should be assurance that the subproject
pposers have planned for reasonable costs and considered needs for efficiency such as cost controls,
linkages to other institutions that can achieve savings, methods of extending impact, and other means that
can assure the greatest possible returns for a given expenditure. Judgments of efficiency would consider:
a.    Let-cost approah. To what extent have alternaive means to achieve program
objectives that cost less been considered and adopted?
i.    Unit costs. Have proposed capital and recurrent unit costs (i.e. costs per
trainee) been identified accurately? Are they reasonable? Do they
conform to national and regional norms? To what extent have sales of
economy been realized?
H.    Utilization rates. Have proposed utilization rates for staff, physical
facilities and equipment been projected and are reasonable and within
nonns? Use of space, capital equipment, consultants, and so forth,
should be reasonably intensive and budgeted (e.g., sharing expensive
equipment, renting rarely used equipment, outsourcing special services)
so as to control costs and maximize returns.
iii.   Integration and coordination of efforts.  To what extent has the
subproject proposal been identified and taken into account work already
done on the proposed topic? To what extent does the proposal make use
of existing and newly developed training programs by other donors?
There should be evidence that subproject planners have explored their
context to identify similar or compatible efforts in order to form alliances
and partnerships where feasible, and to avoid duplication, overlap, and
interference of planned subproject outcomes with those of other efforts.
iv.   Administrative overheads.  To what extent is the proportion of
expenditures on overhead (administration and services) reawonable in
relation to expenditures on actual development or delivery of training?



Page 126                                                Annex 9. Subproject Appraisal Criteia
v.    Sustamnability and replicability. To what extent are the project recurrent
costs of the subproject financially sustainable over time? Would the
subproject generate sufficient revenue to becomne self-sufficient? To what
extent is the subproject a model that could be afforded and replicated on
a wider scale?
b.    Maximizing results. To what extent would the subproject, at given costs,
multiply benefits?
i.    Multiplier effect. Training and other methods should be designed so as
to maximize the audience and coverage for a given level of expenditures.
Training of trainers is one method to have a "multiplier effect." Another
is the use of distance learning methods. Distance learning technology
can reduce travel costs in comparison with central-site training and have
the potential to reach vast audiences with effective training programs.
Subprojects incorporating distance learning methods would, therefore, be
given priority in the approval process.
.t.    Dissemination and leveraging. Subproject proposals should provide clear
indications of how the results would be disseminated to wider audiences.
The subproject should, where possible and appropriate, incorporate
means to extend results beyond immediate objectives. Inclusion of
methods to extend and multiply subproject outcomes would increase
likelihood of NTF support.
D. FINANCLAL CONTmiUTION AmD CAPAC]TY2'
8.           The institution housing the subproject should demonstrate capacity to maintain operation
of high quality subprojects such as the one proposed. This would include the capacity to service debt, to
raise funds and to provide accurate accounting. In cases where student fees and/or loan funds are
insufficient to produce impacts, sources of additional funds must be adequately assured. Preference would
be given to subprojects able to assure customer or other stakeholder group funding, such as matching
grants and in-kind contributions. Judgments of financial capacity would be based on the following
criteria, which would be variably applied to subproject proposals as determined by the extent to which
the subproject entails a loan, a grant, or a combination of a loan and grant.
a.    AbiW  to rey the loan. There should be evidence that the institution
accommodating the subproject, and/or the revenues to be generated by the
subproject, would be sufficient to repay the loan according to the terms specified.
b.    Accowing faciities. The subproject should assure that appropriate accounting
facilities and procedures are available and would be used to track subproject
accounts.
21. Applies mainly to loans for subprojects.



Anna 9. Subproject Appraisal Criteria                                          Page 127
c.    Conbution of resosrces. The proposal should include identification of speciflc
financial or in-kind contributions to support the proposed subprojet. The
contributions should comprise at least 15% of the total subproject budget.
d.    Addional criteria. To be added.
E. SUMMARY EVALUATION
9.           Taking into account all the above factors, should the subproject be financed and under
what conditions?
a.    Risks. What are the key subproject risks and what has been or should be done
to minimize them? After these actions, to what extent are the risks withim
manageable levels?
b.    Prioty. To what extent is the subproject a priority, sound and implementable
investment for scarce national resources?
C.    Conditions. On what conditions should be subproject be ec   d   for
financing?
F. PRoPOSAL RgEVw PRoCURE
10.          The proposal review process would be impartal, fair, and accurate. NTF management
would ensure that reviewers selected have no conflict of interest with subprojects being evaluated.
11.          External reviewers would present their written comments on a standard form which would
reflect the general crteria outlined in the previous sections (A-D) as they apply to the specific subproject.
External reviewers would be asked to present any additional comments beyond those preseuted in the
form, and list the positive and negative characteristics of each subproject. It would not be the role of the
reviewers to recommend, classify or rate any individual subprojects.
12.          When reviewers meet as a panel, a single appraisal form would be submitted to reflect
the consensus of the group. Individual reviewers should be encouaged to present additional or dissenting
views, if they consider it important.
13.          Assessment of financial capacity (when applicable) and analysis of costs would be
conducted directly by the NTF staff.
G. SCORING PROCEDURE
14.          Scoring procedures would be the same for decisions submitted to the Intenal Evaluation
Committee (EC) or to the Board. Two general situations would arise, depending on the type of
subproject.



Page 128                                               Annex 9. Subprojec Appraisal Critena
15.          Type A Subproject or NTF-ln&ed Subprojeds. These are subprojects in which the
NTF would make the detailed specifications, and institutions would bid on a competitive basis. Over
80% of the subprojects in the first phase would be in this category. For some subprojects, or elements
within subprojects, the NTF would have developed basic cost parameters. Subprojects would be
competing with each other, and typically only one proposal would be chosen. If there is more than one
proposal, a rating would be required. These proposals would be decided upon by the Internal Evaluation
Committee, unless their value is over US$100,000, in which case the IEC decision would need to be
reviewed and ratified by the Board.
16.          Type B Subproject or User-Iniwated Subprojects. These are subprojects in which the
NTF would present basic criteria for financing and individual finms or consortia would present requests
for funding, according to previously established guidelines. Cost parameters would be known to the
NTF. Subprojects would be evaluated on their own merits, and typically several subprojects may be
chosen. If there are enough resources at a given evaluation session, all subprojects may be approved if
they meet NTF requirements. If resources are limited, a scoring of individual proposals would be
required. These proposals would be decided by the Board of Directors, regardless of the amount
requested.
17.          The decision on individual subprojects would consider the following preliminary steps:
a.    All proposal submitted to external reviewers would be submitted to the respective
decision body.
b.    For each proposal, a detailed price analysis would be undertaken by the
Foundation staff. Unit costs should be compatible with the Foundation's
parameters. Total subproject costs should also not exceed the Foundation's
maximum allocation for that specific set of proposals. Subprojects which exceed
the maximum amount of resources available or which exceed the Foundation
amount of resources available or which exceed the Foundation parameters would
be rejected.
18.          Decisions would take into consideration an overall quality evaluation. In the cases in
which there is no competition among individual proposals (type B) and when resources are sufficient,
there is no need for a scoring, and the Board would only approve or reject a subproject. The judgment
would take into consideration the comments of the external reviewers and the overall evaluation of the
decision-making body. Reasons for rejection should be stated, as they would be communicated to the
proponents.
19.          When proposals are competing with each other and only one proposal would be financed,
(type A subprojects) an overall quality score would be required. Decision-makers would give their
individual overall ratings on a scale based on the same criteria used by the reviewers, and reflected in
the standard evaluation form. This would be a single score, based on their overall judgement of the
quality of the subproject. The subproject with the highest mean score should be approved.
20.          When proposals are not competng with each other, but resources are limited, the
decision-making body would first rate individual subprojects as above. The final decision on which
subprojects to approve would take into consideration other aspects beyond individual scores, such as a
hierarchy of priorities, cost considerations, number of subprojects to be approved, as defined by the
Board on the basis of the lot of proposals being considered.



TIlI RUSSAN FEDERATION
MANAGEMENT AND FNANCIAL TRAING PRtoECr
ANNEx 10. PROJEc ) LEvEl OF CoSr RECovERY
A. GROSS REPAYMENT POTETA  BY SUPROGRAMt
Swiss Grtat    Total Foreign                     Rpaynme
Loax Amunt         AmouNt        Conmirifion      Repaymen         Poteal
(UmS Milions)   (US$  illons)   (US$ mons)    Potential (%)    (USS mos)
1. Mangemet Development
a. Policy Framework                           0.5                              0.5              0               0.0
b. Etrpris Based Managenent                   4.6                              4.6              30              1.4
c. Learing Matras                             4.1                              4.1              10              0.4
d. Management Consulting                      1.1                              1.1              40              0.4
e. Networking
2. Financial Sector                                    6     w    _     _    _      8      2A             _     L._
a. Training Maeas                             2.0              0.2             2.2              10              0.2
b. Infrastuur                                 1.9              0.4             2.3              10              0.2
c. Training Practitioners                     4.5              0.5             5.0              40              2.0
d. Trainig Facuty                             1.0                              1.0              0               0.0
e. Dedoping Curicula                          1.1                              1.1              0               0.0
f. fanking Accountacy                         3.2                              3.2              S0              1.6
g. Banking Operation                          12                                                             -_J_s__
3. Public Finmce                                    3.7                              3.7              0              0.0
4. Phawe 2 Pilot Proects                            1.8                              1.8             10              0.2
S. National Traning FoPdatim                        4.2                              4.2              S              0.2
Contugencies                                        2.0                             2.0              10              0.2
TOTAL                                              40.0             1.1             41.1            18.5             7.6
tFues iag y nyot tota due to rounding.



Page 130                                                                        An= f1. Proeced L.w& of Coil Recovey
IL Pum   -U"SS,000000LOW,
-nI         1.        Wa        Usam            N.      v        .sa               l.        Rat.      Rh'_
M~~~ lady                           -    -~~~~Ud      -:             -  -                    -          --
Pt.cddt                               T _ii          TIM0       510   51.125.000        6.         Stu2     S1112.913       4.815      U9S      5475343
SmarEauds                             t_vmu            300      S22W      S67.500         W51      Sl91       ia769 .s                S4t4       $StJ19
ReiewCtc,                             COOuN          SA          $10     5200.000       4.0         134      1442M0         3.250     S16        584.500
COMPAqdbwedCam                        Cord.          1.000       530      130.000         850       VA6      521,67          450       S20       $12.675
Tcaoceb2                                             7.5110      S10      S5000         6.3          Sp9     M5411S         4A75        S7       511.662
Can                                    so            7.0          $7      $s5O0         6.           56      S37.931        4.67$        $5      S.SI6
CwM  Ram.-A.u.aag. A.*i,fg..Mi m                                          Slm.                               51.119 I                              56s5.lfs675
_awr_bf
chjatUsgE u                           Talus          250    S1.100 t    2.750.000       2.125      S935   W1K6S 7                     $715   S1.161.875
Mw4Id Zampu                           T1W  _         3.000      ISO    S450.000        2.         5128     5325.125        1.950      S9S    S190.125
kms. But - D           bmm1Ru         Taju_          3.000     S10       S300.=0        2.0         SW      S216.750        t.950       s65     $126.750
SmIckAMOMh                            Ta1u           6.OD       S50      S3.000         5.100       S13     S216.75D        3900       S33      S126750
Bak Moos                              T _l           SA0N       S50      $250.00        4.210           $1S4  10625         320        S3u      S105.6U
Gus  huue*UaIgsu v f                                                      SCe*sg12.50.125                                                        $1.711.125
ohm &t mus.2bs1h,.a d&a                                                      $5A00.-                          -S4.06.1 00                           52,366.0
m_     uD .wlud TDd                                 I10w0      117s5   11.925n000       9.350     5149 W   11390.13         7,150     $114      S813313
S m  du                               S%            It=0         m7      S 150,00D      80          S64     SS41,S75        6M00       S49      5316M7
?aft  rams       iqu                   FMs           1000      5275      S275.000          5       S234     $196,6           650      S179      S116.1SS
aIoSVos                               Sa             7.0       S275   S1I.925.000       5.90       S4   S1390,83           44M0      S179      SS13.313
Ta-IDICU.VA-                          Tar_s            750    50        5450.00          638      SS0      53.125           488      $390      S190.125
i%wRomw-MwwmMDnd*nW                                                          5325.00                            53.84313                            3232tS13
s Rem mdw Admf.
e2P1o ePtm                                                                     S225.000                           S191L250                           $146250
NmslTbkftag11                                                                  S2S5.810                          S2.99                              S185.77m
P Ws                                                                    S260.000                           S221.0                              S169.O0
w           wm         r @s770.S10                                                                                 655189                             S501S.27
?TAL&3WDVU0OUtIIONE                                                 1;                                 5.
A120818 01  AN                                      540.80.00                          "M0 AW00                           140.80.80
RWIUN3ONWANR"Bt                                                   291.%                              21.37%                              12.79%
'Figures may nsa toW  due to rou          g.



Am  lQb. hQJECEd Uvk Of CON ReVoY                                                                                              paoe 131
Thu Two-USS8,w,ooo  Lon'
IWUUMAWRA4S_U)                                            3UW4U)
dd-S-                                                                             - -                                  -         -
P,a00dcum                             T,v1          17.000      5300   $3,00.000        14.410     S21   S3.684.7$0        31.050     St"f  52.134.750
Sg1Exi Rt dv                           C "             x2o      S1         4 530.000      170      S        5130.00           130      55        576.0o
R*w CM.                               Capl            200        551    s57.00D          3.100      57      5122.825        100         Ws5      57,82
C        _inpuZar.bueS Cow=           C9             1,000       530      53.0W0          on0        26      521,A5          65d        10       5)2.6S
T_x6cob                                eab          17.0         510     5170.000       14,450       59     5t22           11.050        57      571t
Can.                                   Sas            1.N0      5t1      5170.000       14.10        59     5122,S         1,00          57      571.2
Gaa &seAagabAa*Ifm                      _ ad5m                             5.820.000                          54*15                              52,850-
cdutEs.n                              Tam            4.000    S.500   56W. I0O           3.400   S.275      A35N000        2,00      S975   S2WAII0
Ml4.l3 maum5Om                        Tulm           7.0        $25    S.1 0             50        SW1    SIA               4,510      St       573 X7S
hWr* 3uk .ll 33g 0Rh                   f _           S.00       5300   Sl.S00A0         4.210      S231   S.83710           3.210     s59       S63.750
s=k*Acaft                             T.Iu           4000       StOO      MA00N00       3.4a0       s85     SU9A00          2,600      5W5      SW6=,0
aku       =                            t u           3.000      5Ws5    S225.00          2.0        S6u     S213             90.        549      S9WA6G
Gas, RuaeBab    wba                                                  9875.000                          S7,t3.63                            54.372.18
-    ;binDwdqmm                        ?.mt_         8A0        S200   SI30.            6.800      5170   Sl,31X0           53200     S130      566.D0
SeacttMg                              sm             8.0SIIIIO,C00 5110  SU0.0          6.80        594    S558O0           5350       sn      S5i0
P31.yFuinwwkudQ y                     FePN            5D        Soo       S0.000          425       568       WM900          325       512      5s160o
hl.inehaaServI..                      sm             8.I00      $41      S360.N00       6500        538     5260.10O        520D       S29      S5112100
?aiaheC.miiaau                         Twba.           s        5100        0.000SID      425      595f     S2.7              325      545   5 147.811
G'vn&waeMaqumDw ir                                                           53.230.00                          52.333,671                          51364.675
-- Sudnm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                                   S.A
SawUp-Ttalnhng                               7.500      5100     S750.00         6,375      so       Su41           4,875       56      S316
Su-poD.L                                                         $I500  51  S112.00     6375        513      531.21 *    4,875         510      S5733
&aa4p-T.K                                                                 50.000            0        50           S0           0        SO           SO
_W*qm w        .                                    1400        S5       S210.00        100         So      Sw.725          9.100      S30       51.2
zumv=   =3aD.L                                      14.000        15     $210000        11.90       513 S    5175.5        9.100        t10      S8.725
_aTpas-?.M.                                                                M50A0            0        So           SO           0        SO           SO
A.dsimySawu                                            150      5460      567.10          125      535       548.169          #4      525        528,59
aIut       _a-Sowasb                                                         S1,440.0                             S95.375                            V57"5
Tn1                                                  40        5200      S900W0I        3.8,      s51o      S56020          2.925     S130      V380W2=0
T?wuyOOias                                           3*         S120      M10.N          IZ25      510      S13000           975       Vs        57650
Staff lm                                            2000         51S      M0I           11,000      513     S2t6.5         13.000      S10      S126.150
o      4wn _ea- A s                                                          SJtk Smmo                            SF.W.0  5997.050                   5
10  1_ Sa                                            8.000       S3       S24A.         6.800       S3       517.30        5.200        S2      S10.140
s         _wmi6sm3w                                              55W S5,9  S250           425        43     S53,s63          325       533       510,56
*wa&smu* .MiaIau.UiNSW*                                                         549.00                             513.403                             S20.703
TOTAL RIVUNJ Of ALL                                   '      CT57                                        3800 m9.6
AMMMOII     LOWMEN.3A 2                                       s55.0000                           M55.0A000                          558,000t0
R3ff    O  N LOAN .1- M32                                         37256%                             27.04%                             13.81s
R3M3t ON TOMAL LOAN -15A83 1  2                                              34.17%                             24.72%                              134%
'Rwaus I * lei b ad..  abyIdaaq iU              U* adI _
-lb dWap b 65% eAt0u3 OftM tdl a
"Ten_Is    ..1   _fa ~ isu                 m



THED RUSM4 FIDAITON
MANAGMENT AND FINANaAL TRAINNG PROncr
ANNEX 11. NIF CASM FLwW PtojWrONSo
..puaIh.      ?a.I            2      1w)            wd               S         yw6 .YWl ..,6                        iwO    I  .ul .
,Lam __ us tDaVl   ,I-MA     I                                                   ah6wu.ustt                )  I.0. _                 t     .
ANIedulmm  .301                                           t2M40D                   2.4          6.D         9.400        9w                                                                                 2
utJ' Fa -I                                               2A7.400                   37.AM       9370        028.4010
T w$7.  000*                                             9M.0                      90.750  t   36.0l      S0l5          0*t            901s        74           a2          54.4S3       4.32        3,2
_tf*iovmp                                              7.607.500                  740.750    0,71.125    1.561.30    t.171.t2S       70WM,73                   .525        4 450 MMM   31005        392.t5
C       _AvaS wS*     2f2t00.0                                                    200M        250.00       ".0         30             3WMD          7.00       200.0        00D MM1m m
_       b l.ua6 faIC _*V"eGy 2PiD.00                                               mm3         06.00       300          400            30.4C       2D.00        10.00           0           0            0
1...      an No Cut itm c                               1.4114                                 35.         VK74.73     32U4.114       32C0         20.0        It7D0        14.            43         saw'
bmhvmmtca Pa40cw                                         7A400                     0.k40       S.00          0.         m.m00          sR0D        30.0D        3D.00C      Am           ado0        am=0
I   0w6.oIineaSo=mPFIuo6  Loom n im6 (OS)                  236759                   037.22       41.00        5700 
I) CAmI LOW 9304 CtERAflflG AC? wino  1430)40               3404719      3   003         223     291070         I 649762    0            0020710      0090DO       616I490 707 03
todi WH OIJDt CaM m:T
F _ *u    . 0moCm:                                                    OpevU abs oduclt,. t 7Ffd4 phrn I- hb_                                        Op.   sddoh.d NI? .hpO   lw boe                          £
I Te*AdcAbmA g                                                                  do A Ih &mwotowe. sh e ?ebrn*i0rn                                  1.1 001%4,456va b ane  to de K Tb pbm I.£
P.    C.                                                                                      IS Cam
DI    C                                                                                                                                                                                                    2c
24 _d __  __O__                          _  a_ed to_                                            d a_ d_  _                                                                                                    __ . _Is_  ,4 M
2 __________________________                                             boj  th42 116ds4h _     1 u p 05 *p _.
27Mup.t  Dc       -5pe Sot.                                 00.00D                                                                      211.CtD      200.00      £3.00        £3.0        801.0        00.0,02
Fba.SadSeix                                             1.206, 00D 0                                                                              25A.         70.00       70.0      00 1M.00        50.002
29  ,t P _:                                               3 .00                                                                              20.000  30,0       05.0         05.00       1 to.0      0.
3 3
22(S  vWWLWsVmOoA4M                                    2L000                                                                           4 001 OO    42000       250         2500        20000          )00KOD    321
33                                                                                                                                                                                                              3
tS e0iElqm m OIedP  dtLo                               3,4W00                     57.40       265.400      5A0.40      617.408        511.4D      47.40        367.40      367.40       MA9          S9.403
_0 Iumwszly... U4f*dMMLmaftm                             780                      S00W         21.00        C.M03
3o  AWT  Qm2~ruP,Nsu  _                                                          ......2.0A ,         0         11.40    1        _       S7t4        471F Mm01 CM =59                               _ ,,4,j 31
39                                                                                                                                                         39~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
4     Oc WPWOWFRaOAERAITNOAcM'tT5          ,                                       Wk41X       20A0         MA3.401   -      6 b                                2        1              j0.4, 7-40        --*- f j0,37* 40
4£                                                                                                                                                         49~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
42PSQ4M ?DFO   1. OW MGr   ACIl SIIS                     $.P206.111                                       2.156.963    1.%3            SU3          M5.125      2",          MUG54    .,,j      .....    2  42
M4 C^NErCASBFIO PW US ROI 0N0 AC          V                              -           1.206.370    UM          3.100.913    OI3    7_.891.AM          t7           7.6.1it7         "                   "ma 44
46 PA                          _        _          MIt                                          -        -  -             -o   ittllC _ 2,F                                    -Sz         -_  40
4                                  CWILAIUI? PAOAt                                           _                                                       4.DW       f      =                 &wD         IL      47
3   tLM cu QMc  FWW fM   OTtB An= rA AC-                                          t,Z&3t4r    2.9S9t       It§.93      If3M            .t9t33   35745 .   112ti                 9        2D2,454      "M3 _rA



Page 134                                                 Amnex 1Q. NwT cash nlow Projecions
ASsUMPwONS AND EXmATIoNs UNDERLYNG THE
PA  nATION OF TIE STATEMENr OF CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATION
Line 2       Applcon Fees. The application fees is based on an estimated number of applications
as outlined in the NTF project report dated October 1993. The number of applications
were reduced to reflect the activities of phase one of the project.
Line 3       Users' Fees. Users' fees is estimated to be $179,760 and is distributed over the life
cycle of phase one based on Table 6.7 'Estimated Loan Disbursement Schedule."
Lines 4, 5    Revenues from Tining Materials, Training rogtams, and Consulting Services. Sale
and 6        of produced items, fees from training programs, and consulting services for all other
activities of phase one are based on the estimates provided by the negotiating team during
negotiations. The revenue covers the life cycle of phase one and assumes continued
performance of traming activities in years 5 to 10. It is also assumed there will be a
demand on these activities during the entire period.
Line 9       Interest Income on Net Cash From Operahon. Interest is calculated at the rate of 8%
on net cash flow from operations of the previous year plus 8% on the average net cash
flow from operating activities in the current year (Line 44).
Line 10      Interest Income on Paid-In-Capital. Interest is calculated at the rate of 8% on cash
contributions from 15 NTF founders at the rate of $2000 each and on funds received
from private enterprises at the rate of $10,000 each (35 members in year 1, 32 members
in year 2, and 30 members in year 3).
Line 11      Interest inome on Excess of Al Proceeds from iton-Operating Activities Over All
Disbursements. Inte    is calculated at the rate of 8% on the access of the average of
all proceeds from financing activities over the average of all disbursements on non-
operating activities.
Line 15      Cash Outfows - Foundatin Operations. As explained in the body of the Annex, the
cost of running the Central and Regional Foundations in year 1 to 4 is assumed to be
included in the cost of setting up the foundations. The cost of operating the foundations
in year 5 to 10 are assumed to be included in the additional investments for phase two
of the training project.
Line 32      Cash Flow - Subprograms - Operatons. This is the total cost of running the training
activities from year 5 to year 10. The cost of conducting training activities for the first
four years is part of the initial investment in setting up the subprograms as explained in
the body of the Annex.



Ana 11. NTF Cash Flow Projealons                                               Page 135
Line 3S      Interest Expense on Disbursed Porion of the Loan. Interest expense is calculated at the
rate of 8% on the accumnulated disbursement portion of the loan as of the beginning of
the year plus 8% on the average disbursement of the loan for the current year decreased
by the payback amounts starting in year 5.
Line 36      Interest Expense on Undisbursed Loan Balance. Interest expense is calculated at the
rate of 3/4 of 1% on the balance of the undisbursed portion of the loan at the end of each
year within the life cycle of the loan.
Line 40      Cash Outlow from Operating Activities. This is the total of row 32 and 38.
Line 42      Net Cash Flow from Operating Actvides. This is row 13 minus row 40.



THE RUSSUIN FEDERATION
MANAGEMENT AND FiNANCIAL TRAINIG PROJECT
ANNEX 12. DETAILD BASELI N RoJMr COSINGt
(US$ million)
MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMh I                      TEIE FOANCAL SECrOR
~~~I I                                     TOT~~~~~~IAL PBDOJW
PUU         FILOT        U 9  SE2  MAtINGL  CosR"
Cv4ai Cods
Technucat Assinc
F&orign Expens                      0.7   1.7    13    0.4   0.1    0.4    0.1   OA   0.1   0.3   0.4   0.4            0.7         0.3           0.6              7.8
Local Bxpers                         0.1    1.2   1.0   0.2   0.2    1.4   0.02   1.2  0.03   OA   0.4   0.4           0.S         0.4           2.4              9.9
Overeas Fetowships                  0.07    1.4   0.3   0.2   0.07    0.5   0.3   0.6   0.6   0.3   0.4   0.4          0.6         0.3           0.2              6.1
SnbwsaredakasaW ce                    09    4.3   2.6   0.8   0.4    2.3    03    2.2   0.7   1.0   1.2   t.2            1.8        1.0            3.2             23.7
Bquipnt                                0.0    03    0.4   0.1   0.3    0.1    1.8   0.7   0.0   0.1   O.S   OS           0.2         0.2           0.5              6.1
P"rductionandDlstibution               0.1   0.1    0.7   0.1   0.4    0.0    0.0   0.2  0.01   0.0   0.1   0.1          0.2         0.04          0.2              2.3
Tran   Deivery                         0.1    0.9    t.3   03    0.3    0.4   0.7   3.1   0.5   0.4   1.8   1.8                 1.8  1.1            1.2             15.6
TOWe fMm Cogs                             1.1   5.6   5.0   1.3   1.4    2.8   2.8   62    1.2  1.4   3.6   3.6             4.5         2.3           5.1             47.7
Rewo Cosb
operadog CosIs                        0.10   0.10   O.to  0.03   0!03    0.04   0.04   0.10  0.03  0.04  0.10  0.10      0.10        0.05          0                121
Tad dlsweucosts                          0.10   0.10   0.10   0.03   0.03    0.04   0.04   0.10  0.03  0.04  0.10  0.10    0.10        0.05          0.25             I.2
TAL BASEL ECOMS   I.2    S.7   5.1   1.37   1.A    2.8   2.6   6.3   1.3   A.4   3.7   3.?                  4.          23            5.3             49.0
NW. C      _dqmieu      2.40
TOtAL  MI COWS                SIA
Fpt=  my   toW do to ro4-h.



THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIL TRAINIG PROJECr
ANNEX 13. SUMMARY OF TECNCAL AsSisrANcE INPUTS
Naeonal lTwining Foundaion
1.           Technical assistance would be provided to support project implementation. It includes
both technical assistance and training to foundation staff, managers, ad hoc experts and board members
as well as training and technical assistance to potential proposers. Training would be offered in project
preparation, appraisal and evaluation. Ttaining and technical assistance would also be offered in the area
of altemative delivery media, particularly individualized instruction, computer-based and other media-
based distance learning approaches. In addition, direct consulting and advice services would be provided
to the staff of the central Regional Foundations. Even though essential, technical assistance needs to be
commensurate with the local absorption capacity. It would also need to be designed in a way to avoid
advisors being involved in executive matters or providing conflicting advice. The current estimate
follows.
srTMATED TECNCAL ASSrSANE
REQUEErMs (NTh
Staff/Month*            Total (US$)
General Advisor                          24                     480,000
Finance/Procurement Advisor              06                      120,000
plementation/Training Advisor            09                      180,000
Other Advisors                           12                     240,000
Local Advisors                           48                      134,400
Total                                                          1,154,400
* All advisors costs estimated at US$20,000 per staff/month including travel, local travel and per diem when
applicable. Local advisors costs estimated at US$2,800 per month. Notes following this section present details on
the technical annex presents details on the technical assistance component including an addition US$600,000 for
technical support for distance education activities to be undertakn under the various components.
2.           The technical assistance component includes training and other direct advisory services
to the Foundation and its clients. It involves external and local consultants working directly with the staff
of the central and Regional Foundations, as well as training and other technical support activities in the
area of distance education.



Page 140                                       Annex 13. Summary of Technical Assistance Inputs
3.           The consulting services would be provided as follows:
a.    A general advisor, whose major task would be to advise on the general strategies
of the Foundation and to provide general managerial advice to the Executive
Director of the Central and Regional Foundations. The senior advisor would be
hired for a period of 24 months, including 18 consecutive months and the
remaining 6 months being phased out progressively. The senior advisor would
also help coordinate the activities of all other external advisors. He would report
to the Executive Director and submit quarterly reports to the Board of Directors
and the World Bank.
b.    The finance and procurement advisor would advise the Administration and Fiance
Manager on matters pertaining to finance and procurement. He would also be
involved in training staff and clients of the foundation on project implementation
issues. He would be hired for a period of 6 months and report directly to the
Administration and Finance Manager.
c.    An implementation and training advisor, to be hired before the actual installation
of the NTF, and with two major functions. The first would be to advise the
Executive Director on all implementation details, help prepare routines, manuals,
procedures and forms. The second function would be to organize the initial
training activities for the staff and clients, including detailed training programs
and materials, training delivery, preparing terms of reference for production of
tramiing materials and for hiring training and participating in the supervision and
delivery of the initial training activities. The implementation and training advisor
would be hired for a period of nine months, starting as soon as possible.
d.    Three foreign program  advisors, one in management training, one in
accounting/finance training, and a third one in bank training to advise the
respective program managers of the central and Regional Foundations all aspects
related to planning and implementation of the respective subcomponents. The
advisor on management would be hired for 30 months, the advisor for accounting
and finance for a period of 12 months, and the advisor on banking for 18
months. All three would report to the general advisor.
e.    Two national assistant program experts, who would work closely with the three
foreign program advisors, with the purpose c. assisting the foreign program
advisors in technical, institutional matters, facilitating communication with local
staff and other experts, while at the same time developing their own consulting
skills. These experts would be expect to continue providing advice to the
Foundation after the foreign program advisors finish their contracts. They would
be hired for 24 months each and would report directly to the respective technical
advisors or the general advisor.
f.    Other advisors. Up to 12 months of foreign assistance has been retained for
hiring advisors on an as-needed basis. It is expected that the Central Foundation
would need advisory services in areas such as fund-raising and for establishing
its own clearinghouse.



'p
i~~~~~~~~;  
I
lii-                         p   
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
}~~~l j   
}lii iii fuj i  ii  wSS        Jl    I      fii,'  iin 
j III    I l                   111111!Rb    Eti a@  2*§0   "
5 t ~~~i3 :I    |e  R  |  |    I R| 



ThE RussmAN FEDERATION
MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL TRANNG PROJECT
ANNMx 14. NATIONAL TRAINING FOUNDATION STAFF DEVELOPMENT PLANS
1.           All NTP staff would receive training in overall NTP goals, policies and procedures as
well as in NTP evaluation concepts and methods, before and during their several NTF jobs. All NTF staff
would also receive general orientation to their specific roles and responsibilities. This training would be
organized by the NTF director. New NTF directors would receive training from World Bank concerning
its policies and procedures, and in general exemplary foundation and training practices during overseas
visits.
2.           Training for program officers and other professional roles (such as financial analysts)
would be organized by the NTF director, and would include visits to exemplary foundations, visits to and
training from World Bank professionals, local training workshops, and on-site technical assistance from
foreign and local experts as needed to effectively carry out their roles and responsibilities.
3.           Several related staff development efforts are necessary in order to support NTF evaluation
operations. These are summrized in the chart below (NTF Staff Development Summary), then described
in more detail in the following sections. Training recipients are listed separately only to clarify their
training needs. They may be grouped during training with other training recipients to add efficiency and
improve cross-functional awareness and cooperation.
NTF Evaluation Taning Summar
7hulnee Growp                  Topics                        Metods
Potenta Proposers      * NTF goals and mission         * self instructional package (audio
* program/project goals          tape, manual, annotated
* proposal procedures             proposal example)
* proposal requirements and    * regional workshops by NTF
rating criteria                staff (design techniques)
Winning Proposers      * project design                * initial regional workshop
* project evaluation philosophy,  (design & start-up)
procedures, requirements    * manual, job aids
* project management           * regional workshop (data
* project accountability          collection, reports, evaluation
procedures                     usage)



Page 144                                                Annex 14. NTF Staff Developmem Plan
NTF Evuation Tmining Summary (Continued)
Thanee Group                   Topics                         Methods
N    Proposal Review    * proposal criteria             * workshop & simulation
Panel Members           * review procedures             * manual & job-aids
* NTF evaluation approach       * rating sununaries & analysis
* program area needs and goals    data
N7 Program Officers     * NTP evaluation approach       * initial workshop
* evaluation fundamentals       * follow-up seminars
* site visit procedures         * manual & job-aids
* monitoring and reporting      * video/audio tapes
procedures                   * visits abroad
* how to manage the review
panels and process
NTF Staff               * NTF evaluation approach       * workshop
* site visit procedures         * manual
* exemplary foundation operations * visits abroad
NTF Board               * exemplary training approaches  * workshop seminar
- NTF evaluation approach      * visits abroad
- NTF goals and mission
* fundamentals of foundation
leadership
AdWsors                 * NTP goals and mission         * workshop/seminar
* NTF evaluation approach       * train-the-trainer
* innovative methods and research * briefings by foreign and local
in program areas               experts
* needs data in NTF region
* how to be a project manager
w.ikshop
Subject Group Evaluation  * NTF evaluation approach     * initial workshop
Teams                   * subject evaluation procedures   * subject seminars
* subject-specific evaluation issues * manuals & job-aids
Subproject Stff Involved  * NTF evaluation approach     * initial workshop
in Subject Evaluation   * subject evaluation procedures   * subject seminars
Projects
Potential Subject       * NTF evaluation approach       * NTF sponsored seminars and
Evaluators and Other    * general evaluation concepts      workshops
Evaluation Professionals   * exemplary evaluation practices



Anne 14. NiF Staff Development Plans                                           Page 145
P1tentla Proposers
4.           Brief training would be provided to potential proposers so that they can construct
complete and responsive proposals that include a reasonable evaluation overview. Subsequent, more in
depth and detailed training would then be provided to winning proposal project staff, to enable them to
design complete and fully effective project management and evaluation plans for their proposed project
after it has been revised and fully approved.
5.           Initial training to potential proposers is best provided through self-learning packages, to
reduce NTF costs, and to make training readily available and more convenient to the broadest possible
population of proposers. A "hotline" could be employed in addition so that proposers with questions
can quickly resolve their concerns with a telephone call.
6.           The NTF would make available (on request) a self instructional package to all potential
proposers. This package would be as brief and as simple as possible, and should include (i) an
introductory video (or audio) tape overviewing NTF goals, mission, and procedures, (ii) a listing and
explanation of proposal review criteria, (iii) a flow-chart of tbe proposal preparation and funding cycle,
and (iv) an exemplary proposal annotated to demonstrate the criteria. In addition, this package would
include one or more annexes-to be requested by the proposer-explaining the goals and objectives, and
any special proposal review criteria, for the program(s) or project(s) in which they are interested on
competing.
Wn7ning Ptoposers (new subproject managers)
7.           Funded project staff would receive training in three stages.
a.    The project manager and an assistant responsible for evaluation would attend an
initial 3-day workshop in their region where they would learn in detail about
NTF project design, evaluation, management, and accounting procedures. At this
workshop, participants not only learn how to design evaluation, but actually
produce evaluation design materials during the training, so as to maximize
feedback from NTF training leaders (preferably program officers) and
commitment to plans. These workshops would be offered regionally, and should
be organized and scheduled (if possible) such that like-project types are trained
together. Participants would fund their travel and other attendance costs from
their project loans or awards, but other than this, there would be no charge to
receive the training. Attendance at such workshops is not mandatory, but would
be recommended, as it clearly would help projects be more successful, and thus
improve their chances of receiving renewed funding.  Trainers for these
workshops would be selected from among NTF advisers and program officers,
who would first have been trained by foreign experts.
b.    The project staff would receive (at the first workshop) a manual and pertinent
job-aids explaining and demonstrating in detail the NTF evaluation approach,
design criteria, report formats, and so forth. The manual would include annotated
examples of all documents, checklists for instrumentation and data collection
criteria, and other materials supporting exemplary evaluation practices. This



^Age 146                                               Aner 14. NTF Staff Developmen Plas
manual would serve as a detailed reference guide to NTP sub-project managers
and staff for project evaluation.
C.    A second 2-day workshop would be conducted for project staff to give them the
skills and guided practice needed to support their implemenation and usage of
effective evaluation. This follow-up would be timed to allow project staff to have
gained some experience with their projects, yet not too late so as to reduce their
opportunity to redirect the project and its evaluation; about 1-2 years after project
start-up would be workable for most projects. Topics addressed in this session
would include instrumentation and data collection, data analysis, interpretation,
reporting, and using evaluation information to improve project effectiveness.
N17 Pioseal Rvew Pand Members
8.           Proposal review panelists would attend a 2-day workshop intended to provide them with
the skills needed to reliably and consistently reach effective decisions on proposal approvals. This
training would include:
a.    review and discussion of NTF goals and strategies
b.    review and discussion of the review guidelines and criteria
c.    simulations, in which assessors evaluate, then discuss and compare results, for
mock proposals (training of this type is crucial to developing inter-rater
reliability)
9.           Following the workshop, reviewers would receive a "Reviewer's Mamnal" that
summarizes the training content, explains the criteria, and contains worked examples of each review
docm t (rting forms and checkists). An appendix to the manual would include 2 mock proposals with
ascid review forms completed. This appendix would be annotated to explain the rationale for the
rating decisions reflected in the mock proposal review forms. This manual is intended for self-study prior
to proposal review panel meeting, and should be used again by each reviewer as a guide during the
proposal rating review process. Amiexes to these manuals would be customized for particular NTF
program and project areas, as prepared by special working groups constituted of NTF program officers
and advisers.
10.          In addition to the workshop and manual, the assessors should receive reports to reflect
and _mmarive their individual rating performance analyzed both over time from the same rater, and as
compared to other raters. These reports should be followed by facilitated small group discussion of
trends, issues, and problems. This sort of training is crucial to developing intra-rater reliability.
NTFPigem Officer
11.          Program officers will serve as the primary ongoing contact with sub-projects after they
have been funded. As such, program officers need to understand NTF evaluation approaches and
procedures, and must be able to assess whether subprojects are proceeding effectively. Program officers
would receive the following training:



An=ex 14. NfTf Staff Developmen  Plans                                           Page 147
a.    An initial three-day workshop in the NTF evaluation approach and essendal
evaluation concepts, principles, and methods.
b.    visits to overseas training foundations
c.    follow-up seminars in special evaluation topics (such as interview skills) as needs
and NTF experience indicate
d.    A 2-day workshop in site visitation procedures and report formnas.
e.    A manual and associated job-aids, checklists, etc., that were covered in the
workshops to serve as a reference guide to program officers when they make site
visits. This manual would include exemplary (annotated) reports and other NIF
forms.
Subject Goup Ealuaos
12.          Subject evaluators are chosen because they have established evaluation expertise. Thus
they need only training in NTF approaches in general and subject-evaluation purposes in particular, plus
training in the specific issues and concerns that drive the subject evaluation in which they would be
involved. This training includes:
a.    an initial 'qualifying' 1-day workshop in NTF evaluation principles
b.    a 2-day subject-specific evaluation preparation seminar to be conducted prior to
each subject evaluation effort.
c.    a subject-evaluators guidebook that summarizes workshop content and contains
exemplary, annotated reports and documents, deists, and other matrials
needed for effective subject evaluation.
SUProject Staff Involved in Subject Evauaton
13.          Selected project staff would attend
a.    the 2-day subject-specific session anended by subject evaluators, and
b.    a 3-day follow-up workshop led by the subject evaluator team to discuss
evaluation findings, interpret results, and formulate conlusions and
recommendations drawing from the subject evaluation. Reports would be
prepared for two primary audiences:
i.    NTF leadership, with implications for NTF policy; these are privat
reports to the NTF only.
ii.   training leaders in the same field as the subject projept, wih
implications for professional practice. These are public reports for broad
dissemination, and may be published as books or monographs.



Page 148                                              Annex 14. N7T7 Staff Development Plans
NTF Professional and Selected Sppoat Stiff
14.          All NTF staff need awareness and understanding of NTF evaluation policies, philosophy,
and procedures. This would be imparted at a regularly scheduled 1-day workshop.
Potendtal Sjet Evaluators and Other Evaluaton  raing Leaders
15.          The NTF should engage in a progranmnatic effort to develop evaluation expertise and
resources in parallel with, and as a part of, NTF supported projects. The purpose of this training is to
develop a pool of evaluation expertise and resource persons whose services could be used to support NTF
evaluations. These evaluation resource persons would design and conduct subject level evaluations,
provide training to funded project staff, and provide other training and technical assistance as deemed
necessary by NTF to support the development of effective evaluation within NTF, among funded projects,
and throughout the Russian training profession in general.
16.          This training would most often take the form of workshops and seminars, but might also
include higher level symposia, targeted research and dissemination, and publication of manuals, case
studies, and so forth.
NTF Board
17.            flie NTF board should receive a several workshops and seminars as needed to thoroughly
acquaint them with NTF goals, strategy, policies, and procedures. They should also receive special
training to make them aware of the NTF evaluation approach, and of the most exemplary training models
and approaches available. This latter topic could be best achieved from overseas visits to exemplary
training institutions.
Advisers
18.          Advisers should attend an initial workshop to thoroughly orient them to NTF evaluation
approaches, goals, strategies, and needs. Selected advisers with special training skills and interests would
be selected to become trained as workshop leaders for subproject nanager training (as explained above).
This training of advisers as trainers would be conducted by foreign experts, who would design and
conduct, as a pilot and as a train-the-trainer session, one or more of the initial subproject managers'
workshops.



THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
MANAGEMENT AND FINANciAL TRAIIG PRoCr
ANNEX 15. SummARY OF PROGRAMS, SUUPROGRAMS, AND SuInwEROS
1. PROGRAM: MANAGEMEN  DEVELOPMENT (FAtmated Totl: 56 Subprojects)
1)    Subprogram: Policy Framework and Quality Stdards (US$1.2 mlUion)
Subprojects (5)
- Study of supply/demand
- Proposals for change in legislation
- Assessment of current quality standards
- Design of certification procedures
2)    Subprogram  Enterprse-based Management Development (US5. 7 mon)
Subprojects (25)
- Initial seminars on post-privatization management
- Enterprise-specific management development programs
- Internships in foreign companies
- Training guides
- Strengthening local training institutions/finns
3)    Subprogramn Learning Materials, Trainers, Teachers (US$5.1 mon)
Subprojects (17)
- Develop 17 sets of materials in priority subjects
- Retrain 100 trainers in each subject
- Further training of master teachers
- Development of distance learning packages
4)    Subprogram: Management Consulting (US$1.4 milion)
Subprojects (5)
- Training of management consultants
- Internships in foreign firms
- Training managers of consulting firms
- Production of professional consulting guides
- Advisory services to consulting firms
5)    Subprogram. Networldng and Informaton (US$1.4 miion)
Subprojects (4)
- Assistance for development of voluntary professional association
- Development of databases, clearinghouse



Page 150                            Annex 15. Swnmary of Programt Subprograms, and Subpjecs
II.    PROGRAM: THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
Accounting, Auditing and Finance (Estimad Total: 22 Subprojects)
1)    Subprogram: Development of Training Resources (US$2.8 mOilon)
Subprojects (7)
- Adaptation of computer-based training programs
- Adaptation of textbooks
- Development of Russian case studies
- Training in modem delivery methods
2)    Subprogram: Buing Trainng lfrastucure (US$2.8 milon)
Subprojects (8)
- Creation of eight information technology centers
- Training in automated accounting systems
- Introduction of computer-based self-teaching
- Development of distance teaching programs
3)    Subprogram: Training Human Resources (US$6.3 mnlion)
Subprojects (12)
- Developing trainers
- Training practitioners in modem accounting methods
- Awareness programs for senior AAF executives
4)    Subprogram  Developing Faculty (US$1.3 millon)
Subprojects (5)
- Staff training through modular programs, sandwich courses and distance teaching
5)    Subprogram: Revision of Curricula (US$1.4 mon)
Subprojects (3)
- Development of standards
- Development of syllabi and teaching content
Banking Tnaning (Dsimated Totl: 23 Subprojects)
1)    Subprogra   Banking Operations (US$3.7  illon)
Subprojects (19)
- Training of chief executives in bank management
- Training in credit management
- Training in international banking
- Training in investment banking
2)    Banking Accouancy (US$3.7 mon)
Subprojects (4)



Anw  IS. Swnmay of Program, Subprograms, and Subprojects                        Page 151
IM.   PROGRAM: PUBLIC FINANCE (timated Total: 9Subprojects)
1)    Subprogram   Be    and Tax Policy (US$1.6 mWion)
Subprojects (3)
- Staff training in budget, budget policy
- Staff training in taxation policy and tax systems
- Training of trainers
2)    Subprogrm  TuWdng of Tasury Offld s (US$3.0 mUIlon)
Subprojects (6)
- Staff training in budget execution
- Training in application of computerized systems
- Training of trainers
- Development of distance leaming techniques
IV.   P}AS  2 PILOT PROJECTS (Estimated Total: 7 Pilot ProJects) (US$ 2.3 millon)
1)    Small Biness (2)
2)    Pblic Admtbdon (2)
3)    Mo*et Econemls (3)
Totals:     3 Progrm
14 SubpraS
120 Subprojects
7 Phase 2 Pilot Projects



..... .......    . ...
..      .......    .   ...
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
re



01~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ...    .......                                                .....................                 ..        .....             ..  .  .  ...
0* 0
4X1    !          #                              -g1                                                              1          ---------------.. .-...... ..... .................  ........-......   .... .
E ...................... ....... ...       .      ......              g               ..  ..... ........... .............. ......  ............................. ........................... .....
: A t-tm---------.........-.                                                                                                    ........
Jb  _                                    a                                                                    I
a~~~~~~~~~1                                                                        1I                                   x$
4.,~ ~~~~Ini                                          nI   NI                                      sI                      I-xit si-i                                                     



: :           }E J_ Z,
m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m
l              l  ~~~~~0   m 
§  I                     3.1t aI1S
'C.  0~~~~~~ ~~~ ~~~  2  -    ~~~~~~  I 1



Page 156                                                                                                                                           S1nae  iI6b,       e   s,-J''- I' :
National Training Foundation
Startup schedule
QIr 1 I994      Qtr 2, 1994    _Qr  J, 1994      I ar 4, 1994 1   Qr 1 . 1995   I  atr 2. 1995      01
_ID_ Task Name_                                          _Ja_________________                  Ji Tun   Jul]7AugJSep   o4J                 No JanrebM             AprLM      J F un  Jul
1  PROJECT PREPARATION                                                                                           -
2 Min of Labor Working Party. - project preparation
3        Preparatory work on implementaton ptans and protect systems -          _ __ ___ _=                    _=    _= _
____    tech_asIsisance__                 ____________
4        World Bank Slall Appraisal Mission                                            11]
6        Decide on final composJit  of founders                                                                         * 06 Sep '94
6        Prepare NTF lnternalwownregutlon(1sidrafl)
I        Founde  orfiial meerng                                                                                              07 Sip'94
a        First rmeeDg of the Board of Diretors                                                                          *  07 Sep 94
9   'ROJECT STARTUP
10       NTF REGISTERED AS LEGAL ENTITY                                                                                      +  29 Sep '94
11       Search tar candidaes tor Executive hd(*or
12       APPOINTMENT OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR                                                                                   07 54p 94
113      Loan negoiation
14       Agreent of Terms of Payback and Special Accounts                                                                           21 Oct'94
1t       PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY StGNED
Is       Executve Diredors slarts wdng                                                                                                01 Nov '94
17       Intl bW ein of ED by consuant                                                                                           i
11t      offce premises
19           ObIn lemporary office for NTF stat  team
20            Work of startup team In temporary offices
P3ag 1



N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. . ... 
4:
CD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
c       .....   ...    .....  .. .....  ..   ..   ..  .=
_IL
.~~~~~~~ In ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   I
.So.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5;.
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~i
(U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  1L.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
Iu.c,) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
-  -                               -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F
I       I                     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n             I



C r m    tF 5 ff-   I   r ;, j
1~~~ [                                                                                 k 'I       |   I
S~~~~~~~~~~~ 17 -  --''-'''''"''''"-   
b                       i di    |e
l   Th _  _         ttr
'n~~~~~T~j
CL
..   ........    ..                                 .   
'4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z
Ca~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C



2*
ifi~~~~~~h
CL0
CL
a.
-0
U.... ....
..............    .......   .



THE RuSsIAN FEDERATION
MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL TRAINING PROJEcr
ANNEX 17. DETAiLED PROCUREMENT PLAN AND SCHEDULE
. .
Category          # Contracts    Loan Funds      NBF          Total
______________________    ____________   (US$xOOO)  (US$xOOO)  (US$X000)
Equlment & MateI_ _         40           4,300          900         5,200
(ICB)                4            1,500         400         1900
(DC)                3             400           100          500
(IS)                6            600           100          700
(LCB)                5            700           100          800
(LS)                20            800           100         900
(IS - PPF)             2            300           100          400
Subproject Tech. Services   70           24,300        9,900       34,200
Fellowships     15           6,100          0          6,100
RTF Consultant Services    15           2,700         300         3,000
RTF Services (Small Value)   SO           1,800          100         1,900
operations Exp.    na                          200         1,000
.rgwn 'hl   ''0                      40,000.      ''W l1$0     3IE



Page 162                                                                                        Annex 17. Detailed Procurement Plan and Schedule
Category of        Lot /                                     Estimated         Proc.                      Wor Activities Schedule (Dates)
Procuremnent        Itet n        Nature of Package         Cost ($ x 000)     Method      Issue of Docs. SBidtProp. Recdt Contract Signat    tart Date I
Issue of Docs. Bid/Prop. Recd. Contract Signat.  Begin Delivery
Foundation Expertsants                                                                     .    11/15/94 -       1/10195         3/15/95 -        5/01195 -
Staff             1      Program Consultants and Experts    2,700      Reg Short Lis      6/15/97         8/10/97         10/20/97        12105/97
_  I I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~11 0(95  -                                     3/1 0/95  -      5/05/95  -      6/25/95 
2     Staffing and Operations Services    1,800      Reg. Short List  61/1598         8/10/98          10/2098 -        12/05/98
Subproject Consultancies                                                                          1110/95 -      3/10/95 -        5/05/95 -       6120/95 -
and Fellowships        3        Management Development           12,400     Reg. Slior List    6/15(98        8/10/98         10/20/98         12/05198
4  Financal Sectr       12,500     Reg. Shn Lists 1/10/95 -         3/10/95 -       5(05/95 -        6/20/95 -
4  Financial Sector    12,500      Reg. Short Lists   ~~6/15/98      8/10/98         10/20/98         12/05/98
2/20(95 -      4/10/95 -       5/25/95 -        6/25/95 -
5             Public Finance              3,700      Reg. Short Lists    7/1/98        9(10/98         11/20598         12128(98
6              Pilot Projects             1,700      Reg. Short Lists   8/1/98      9531/95           7/25/95         912/5/9
':i.u. :, . \j., v .',...                                                                       ''' ' ', 
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~819    9/09    IIl9    12 5E9



Annex 17. Detailed Procurement Plan and Schedule                                                                                   Page 163
Category of        Lot                                       Esdimated      Proc.                   Major Acdvities Schedule (Dates)
Pro|uremnent       i              Nature of Package         Cost ($xOOO0    Mediod  Is s .. __e  Do
Foundatiot Equip. &                       . & R   Oc   u2                                 10/15/94 -      11/30/94        1/15195 -       2/20/95 -
Materials          l    Cntal& Rgina Ofic.Euit                 290          IS         6/15/95        8/10/95         10/20/95        12/05/95
11/20/94 -     1/10)95 -       3/15/95         St520/95 
2       Foundation Training Equipment       200          LS       6115/195        U/10195         l020195         120/0595
4I   11595 9   5/2/95  -      7125195 -        9/12959
3       Foundation Training Equipment       250          DC         8/1/95        9/10195          7/1t95          8/15/95
10/15/94 -     11130194 -      1/15t95         2/20/95 -
4        Fboundation Office Operations      900          IS6/15/97                 8/10/97        10120197        12105197
Subproject EqApip. and   S       Accounting Technology Centers      1.500        ICB        1/15/95         6t3/10/95 -   5/15/95         6/25/95
Materia_s                                                                              4/15/97        6/20/97         8/20/97         10/5/97
6      Subprojects Equipment I Materials    150          DC        3/15/95        4t20/95         6/20/95          8/5/95
7      Subprojec  Equipment / Materials     610          is       12/10/94        1/31/95 -      3/30/95         5/10195
8/15/96        9/30/96        11t25/96        12128196
I ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ 5  09                   109            8/25/95  -      I10J05/95-
8      Subprojects Equipment / Materials    700         LCB       5/10/95        6/30/95  -        7J95           8/15/97
9  Subprojects Equipment / Materials   600          LS       12/10/94       2/05/95-        4/20/95         5 5/25/95
Subprojects Equipmen / Materials  600  IS9(20/97   j 10/15/9'7             11/10/97         12/15/97
_                                                     1J1
v ~~~~. :,'                                             . aTr;



THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL TRA1           IG PROJEcr
ANNEX 18. SUPERVISON PLANt
PWS-30 sw (of which 20 sw on mission; 5 in headquart  review; 5 at resint missio)
Mission Dates         Nature of Mission   Requrd Personnd                  sw/ea.    Toal sw
1. January 1995       Project Launch     Task Manager                         3
Foundation Specialist               3
Procurement Specialist              3
Disbursemnt Specialist              3        12 sw
2. April 1995         Supervision         Task Manager                        3
Foundation Specialist               3
Management Traiing Specialist       2        8 Sw
FY96-4o sw (of whikh 24 w on mssion; 8 in headpate  t0ie; & at *addnt miMis)
3. July 1995          Supervision         Task Manager                        2
Foundation Speciist                 2
Accountancy/Finance Specialist      2        6 sw
4. October 1995       Supervision         Foundation Specialist               2
Procurement Specialist              2
Public Finance Specialist           2        6 sw
5. January 1996       Supervision         Foundation Specialist               2
Disbursement Specialist             2
Management Training Specialist      2        6 sw
6. April 1996         Supervision        Task Manager                         2
Foundation Specialist               2
Procurement Specialist              2        6 sw
P 7-39 sw (of which 24 sw on mission; 7 in headquars  rteview; 8 at resident misin)
7. July 1996          Midterm Review     Task Manager                         3
Foundation Specialist               3
Management Training Specialist      3
Accountancy/Finance Specialist      3
Public Finance Specialist           2        14 sw
8. December 1996    Supervision           Foundation Specialist               2
Procurement Specialist              2        4 sw
9. March 1997         Supervision         3 Specialists                    2 sw/ea.    6 sw
sw = staff week
t Note: Loca Russian specialist would be recruited and trained to work at Moscow Resident Mission to handle
day-to-day supervision and procurement issues (8 sw equivalent per annum).



THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL TRAINNG PROJECI
ANNEX 19. DOCUMENTS IN PRoJECr FILES
1.           Staff Appraisal Report
2.           Project Prospectus
3.           "Russian National Training Agency: An Organizational Proposal" submitted to the
World Bank by John H. Moore (April 1992).
4.           "Russian National Training Agency: Organizational Alternatives" by John H. Moore
(April 1992).
5.           "Russian National Training Agency: Merit Review-A Decision Mechanism" by John
H. Moore (April 1992).
6.           "Survey on Business Schools in Russia" submitted to the World Bank by International
Business School (September 15, 1992)(In English and in Russian).
7.           "Investment in Training for Transition to the Market' submitted to the World Bank by
R. Kapelusbnikov, 1. Albegova, T. Leonova, and R. Yemtsov (September 28, 1993) (In
English and in Russian).
8.           "Structural Economic Reform: Its Impact on the Development of Management Potential"
by G. Melikian (1993).
9.           "Russian Television and the Market Economy" submitted to the World Bank by Igor
Malashenko (May 7, 1993).
10.          "Economic Training Books in Russia: Present State" submitted to the World Bank by
Boris Bagarlyatsky, Nachala Press (May 21, 1993).
11.          "Investment in Training for Transition to the Market" submitted to the World Bank by
R. Kapelushnikov, I. Albegova, T. Leonova, and R. Yemtsov (September 1993).
12.          "Potential Loan Demand for Management Training in Russia" submitted to the World
Bank by International Business School, Moscow (November 1993).
13.          "The Role of Employers' Organizations in the transition to a Market Economy in Russia"
submitted to the World Bank by Dr. Alexander Posadsky (April 1994).



fBRD 25948
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL TRAINING PROJECT
f     Central Found-ion aof th^ RTt
*     Regionat Foundoair, of tie RTF
Oblast, kri, or republic boundories
Autonomous oblst, okrug, or republic boundo,ies                    84
International boundories                                           8
80
83
St! Petersbuwg                                                               75                                                                                         79
(10    9    8                                2
87
20          6
19          23                        4 
16   MOS5COW                                 .67 
4w1   l23  o    12  14
7 21 1522    Nissny                                                                     ,..  76
30  7     18    8°Navgovad2s    56 N
31          28       25                             66
2      32          2426    58        55 0                                                                                                             81                  86
33       36   40    35
48     41             3         1       1647                                                                                                       78
45                                                                 6
049    363 62                                                                                                                           69                            8
443                                                                                        7                       270
42                                                                             60
__200_A_O_60    0                                                               The boundaries. color-so denominations ond any other intonnotion
Mrm ,                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~shrosnr on tt,is map do niot imnply, on the part of The Word Bank
OJOOre. any judgmsen' on the Il status of any territory, or any
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
1.Arkhangelskoia oblast              1 7. Orlovskaio oblast             33. Voronezhskaia oblost          48. Rostovskoia oblast              63. Omskaia oblest                75. Taimyrskii (Dolgono-NenetskMil
2. Nenetskii autonomous okrug        18. Riazonskaio oblast              34. Astrakhanskoio oblast        49. Stouropolskii krai               64. Tomskoia oblast                    cutonomous okrug
3. Republic of Karefio               19. Smolenskaia oblast              35. Republic of Kalmykic         50. Korochai-Cherkess Republic       65. Tyumenskaia oblost            76. Evenkiiskii autonomous okrug
4. Republic of Komi                  20. Tverskoio oblast                36. Penzenskaia oblost           51. Republic of Bashkortostan        66. Khanty-Mansiiskii             77. Republic of Tuva
5. Murmanskoic obloas                21. Tul'skair oblast                37. Somarskai oblast             52. Cheliabinskaia oblosi                 autonomous okrug             78. Amurskaio oblost
6. Vologodekoia oblost               22. Vladimirskoio oblost            38. Saratovskoia oblost          53. Kurganskaia oblost               67. Yamal-Nenets                  79. Kamchatskaio oblost
7. St. Petersburg                    23. laroslovskaic oblast            39. Republic of Tatorstan        54. Orenburgskoio oblost                  autonomous okrug            80. Koriokii autonomous okrug
8. Leningradskaia oblast             24. Republic of Chuvash             40. Ulianovskoio oblast          55. Permskoia oblast                 68. Republic of Buryatiia         81. Khaborovskii krai
9. Novgorogskaia oblost              25. Kirovskaia oblcst               41. Volgogradskaia oblost        56, Komi-Permyotskoiia               69. Chitinskoia oblast            82. Jewish autonomous oblast
10. Pskovskana oblast                 26. Republic of Marii-£l            42. Republic of Dogeston              autonomous okrug                70. Aginskii Buryatskii           83. tAagadonskaia oblast
11. Brianskala oblast                 27. Mordovian Republic              43. Chechen Republic and         57. Sverdlovskoia oblost                  autonomous okrug             84. Chukotskii autonomous okrug
12. Ivonovskoia oblast                28. Nizhniy Novgorod oblast              ingush Republic             58. Udmurt Republic                  71. Irkulskaio oblast             85. Primorskii kroi
13. Kaluzhskaia oblast                29. Belgorodskata oblast            44. Kabordino-Bolkar Republic    59. Altoiskti krai                   72. Ust'-Ordynskii Buryalskii     86. Sakhtilinskoic oblost
14. Kosdromskoai ablast               30. Kurskoia oblast                 45. Krasnodarskii krai           60. Republic of Altoi                     autonomous okrug             87. Republic of Sokha (Yokutia)
15. Moskovskoia oblast                31. Lipetskaia oblast               46. Republic of Adygeya          61. Kemerovskaia ablost              73. Krasnoiorskii krai            88. Koliningrodskoia obloSt
16. Moscow City                       32. Tambovskaia oblost              47. North.Osetien Republic       62. Novosibirskoia oblast            74. Republic of Khakasio          89. Ingush Republic
.'INE 1994



