Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3824 RU
                              Loan Agreement
                (Management and Financial Training Project)
                                  between
                          THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                           Dated April 25, 1995
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3824 RU
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 25, 1995, between RUSSIAN
FEDERATION (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Borrower intends to receive from the Swiss
Cooperation Office for Eastern Europe (Switzerland) a grant
(Swiss Grant) in an amount equivalent to $1,100,000 (1,430,000
Swiss Francs) to assist in financing the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Swiss Grant
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the Bank
as Administrator of Swiss Grant; and for the purpose of making
such grant, Switzerland intends to request the Bank to
administer such grant funds;
      (C)   the Project will be carried out by the National
Training Foundation (NTF) with the Borrower's supervision and
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to the NTF the proceeds of the Loan as provided
in this Agreement; and
Page  2
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and
National Training Foundation;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
      be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
      Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and National Training Foundation (NTF) of even date
herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to
the Project Agreement;
      (b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the NTF pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
      (c)   "Sub-project" means a specific training project
selected and approved by NTF or a Regional Foundation in
accordance with the criteria and procedures defined in the
Operational Manual, in respect of which NTF or a Regional
Foundation has entered into contractual or other arrangements
with an Eligible Entity;
      (d)   "Eligible Entity" means any legal entity eligible, in
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual, to
apply for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan to carry
out a Sub-project;
      (e)   "Operational Manual" means a manual containing
eligibility criteria, appraisal, approval, supervision rules
and standardized contracts for Sub-projects, as well as other
administrative rules to be followed by NTF and Regional
Foundations which has been approved by NTF and may be changed
from time to time by agreement between the Bank, and NTF;
      (f)   "NTF" means National Training Foundation, established
as an independent legal entity pursuant to the Decree of the
Government of the Russian Federation of August 12, 1994, N
1273-p and registered with the Borrower's Ministry of Justice
on September 29, 1994, Certificate N UP-8;
      (g)   "Regional Foundations" means collectively three
regional training foundations set up in the respective regions:
Page  3
the city of Moscow (MTF), the city of St. Petersburg (STF) and
the city of Nizhny Novgorod (NNTF), in accordance with the
Borrower's applicable laws, and accredited with NTF in
accordance with accreditation procedures specified in the
Operational Manual; "Regional Foundation" means each and any
such foundation;
      (h)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated October 24, 1994 and
November 2, 1994 between the Borrower and the Bank; and
      (i)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of forty million dollars
($40,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain a special deposit account in a commercial
bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of
the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Page  4
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                  ending on the date immediately preceding each
                  date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                  Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                  in which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                  as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                  expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                  outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                  after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                  or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
                  loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                  1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                  otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                  this Section.
           (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or
                  the second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                  "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
            outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
            Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
            determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
            dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
            the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
            principal amount outstanding during the preceding
            Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
            during such Interest Period."
                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
            respect of such Quarter."
                  "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October
            1 in a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or
restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan
Agreement, shall cause NTF to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of NTF
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable NTF to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
Page  5
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to
NTF under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and NTF, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Bank. Part of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be relent by NTF to the Regional Foundations,
under Subsidiary Financing Agreements to be entered into
between NTF and each of the Regional Foundations, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six
(6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;
      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and
      (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
      Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall
be carried out by NTF pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to
which withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in
                  accordance with sound accounting practices,
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
            (ii)  ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures are retained until
                  at least one year after the Bank has received
                  the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
                  made; and
           (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to
                  examine such records.
Page  6
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) (i) of this Section including
                  those for the Special Account for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than six months after the
                  end of each such year the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested, including a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals;
                  and
           (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and
                  the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
                  time to time reasonably request.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   NTF shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that NTF will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (c)   The Charter of the NTF registered with the Ministry
of Justice on September 29, 1994, or any provision thereof
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
NTF to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of NTF or for the suspension of its
operations.
      (e)   The Operational Manual shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived, or other legal
provisions shall have been enacted, so as to affect materially
and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the carrying out of
the Project.
      (f)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this Section:
                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of the Swiss Grant or any other
                        loan or grant made to the Borrower for the
                        financing of the Project shall have been
                        suspended, cancelled or terminated in
                        whole or in part, pursuant to the terms
                        thereof, or
                  (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity
Page  7
                        thereof.
            (ii)  Paragraph (i) of this Section shall not apply
                  if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction
                  of the Bank that: (A) such suspension,
                  cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
                  caused by the failure of the Borrower to
                  perform any of its obligations under such
                  agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
                  Project are available to the Borrower from
                  other sources on terms and conditions
                  consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
                  under this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 30 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower;
      (b)   any event specified in paragraph (a), (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions, namely that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and NTF.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by NTF, and is legally binding upon National
Training Foundation in accordance with its terms; and
      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, the Borrower and NTF and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and NTF in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance or Deputy Minister
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            Ul. Ilyinka, 9
            103097 Moscow
            Russian Federation
                                          Telex:
Page  8
                                            112008
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
                  Cable address:          Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                              THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                              By  /s/ Yuli Vorontsov
                                                Authorized Representative
                              INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                              By  /s/ Wilfried Thalwitz
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                  Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated             % of
                             (Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Sub-projects
    (a) NTF                  12,400,000            85%
    (b) Regional              9,700,000            85%
        Foundations
        for Parts A (2);
        B (2), (3); and
        D
        (i)    MTF                -
Page  9
        (ii)   STF                -
        (iii)  NNTF               -
(2) Goods                                          100% of foreign
                                                   expenditures,
                                                   100% of local
                                                   expenditures
                                                   (ex-factory cost)
                                                   and 75% of local
                                                   expenditures for
                                                   other items
                                                   procured locally
    (a) NTF                   3,700,000
(b) Regional                    600,000
    Foundations
    (i)   MTF                     -
    (ii)  STF                     -
    (iii) NNTF                    -
(3) Technical                                      100%
    Assistance
    (a) NTF                   8,200,000
    (b) Regional              1,500,000
        Foundations
    (i)   MTF                     -
    (ii)  STF                     -
    (iii) NNTF                    -
(4) Operating costs                                100% of expen-
                                                   ditures incurred
                                                   during the first
                                                   year and second
                                                   year; 75% of
                                                   expenditures
                                                   incurred during
                                                   the third year;
                                                   and 50% of expen-
                                                   ditures incurred
                                                   thereafter
    (a) NTF                     900,000
    (b) Regional                300,000
        Foundations
    (i)   MTF                     -
    (ii)  STF                     -
    (iii) NNTF                    -
(5) Refunding of                 600,000           Amounts due
    Project                                        pursuant to
    Preparation                                    Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                        of this Agreement
(6) Unallocated                2,100,000
                              __________
    TOTAL                     40,000,000
Page  10
                              ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the
currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from
the territory of which the goods and services are supplied,
expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall
be deemed to be "foreign expenditures";
    (c)   the term "operating costs" means incremental operating
costs, including staff salaries and allowance (other than
salaries of government officials); office rent, furnishing,
utilities and maintenance; office equipment, accessories,
maintenance and consumable supplies; advertizing, printing,
communications and transportation; and
    (d)   the term "first year" means the period from the date of
this Agreement until the end of the following calendar year;
the term "second year" means the next calendar year after the
first year; and "third year" means the next calendar year after
the second year.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures for Categories (1) (b), (c) and (d); (2) (b), (c)
and (d); (3) (b), (c) and (d); and (4) (b), (c) and (d) as to
a Regional Foundation unless a Subsidiary Financing Agreement
acceptable to the Bank has been entered into between NTF and
such Regional Foundation.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts for goods and services not exceeding $50,000
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The overall purpose of the Project is to increase the
quality and supply of skills needed to support the transition
to a market economy.
    Within this context the Project has three principal
objectives, namely: (a) to increase the supply of well-trained,
market-oriented practitioners through implementing of: (i)
development Sub-projects to prepare the content, materials and
instructors for training activities; and (ii) delivery Sub-
projects to provide training for priority target groups, e.g.
enterprise managers, accountants, bankers, government
officials, etc.; (b) to develop the NTF as a new mechanism of
financing training programs; (c) to mobilize additional
resources, channel project funds for priority market-oriented
training programs on a competitive basis and to make external
aid flows move more effectively and efficiently through NTF;
and (d) to establish the basis for a broader second-phase
project by piloting effective interventions on other key market
areas.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
Page  11
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Management Development
    Provision of training, fellowships, consulting services,
training equipment and materials for supporting developments in
the following areas:
(1)       Policy framework and quality standards for management
development;
(2)       Enterprise-based management development;
(3)       Learning materials, trainers and teachers;
(4)       Management consulting; and
(5)       Networking and information.
Part B:   Financial Sector Training
(1)       Training Materials
    Development, testing and publishing of training materials in
accounting and finance, including case studies, advance text-
books with teaching aids, and computer-based self-training
courses.
(2)       Building Training Infrastructure
    Upgrading selected existing training facilities and
establishment of up to a total of eight information technology
centers in the three regions, Moscow, St.Petersburg and Nizhny
Novgorod.
(3)       Training Practitioners and Executives
    Carrying out of mid-term and short-term training programs
and conferences in accounting and finance for practitioners and
senior executives.
(4)       Training Faculty
    Development of teaching faculty in accounting, auditing and
corporate finance.
(5)       Developing Curricula
    Designing and development of an up-to-date national
accounting and finance curricula at the university level.
(6)       Training of Commercial Bankers
    Provision of training in bank accounting and commercial bank
operations and management.
Part C:   Public Finance Training
(1)       Training in budget and taxation policy.
(2)       Training of Treasury officials in budget execution.
Part D:   Pilot Projects
    Carrying out of Sub-projects on the pilot basis and
preparation studies in other areas of market-oriented training,
not listed in Parts A, B and C.
Part E:   Institutional Development of NTF
Page  12
    Strengthening of NTF and Regional Foundations' capabilities
through provision of technical assistance and necessary
equipment, particularly, in the areas of fund raising, internal
management, design, selection, appraisal and result evaluation
of Sub-projects.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
    beginning April 1, 2000
    through April 1, 2011                      1,665,000
And on October 1, 2011                         1,705,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
    General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                   Premium
                             The interest rate (expressed as a
                             percentage per annum) applicable to
                             the Loan on the day of prepayment
                             multiplied by:
Not more than three years                      0.18
    before maturity
More than three years but                      0.35
    not more than six years
Page  13
    before maturity
More than six years but                        0.65
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                     0.88
    more than 15 years
    before maturity
More than 15 years before                      1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to
and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and
award the contract. The bid validity period may be extended a
second time only if the bidding documents or the request for
extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid
price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract
over the period of extension. Such an increase in the bid price
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With
respect to each contract made subject to the Bank's prior
review in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1 (a) of
this Section, the Bank's prior approval will be required for
(i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period
of extension exceeds sixty (60) days and (ii) any subsequent
extension of the bid validity period.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto
as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes
of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents
have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding
documents based on other internationally recognized standard
forms agreed with the Bank.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in
the Russian Federation may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $700,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Bank.
Page  14
2.  Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $600,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained
from at least three suppliers from at least three different
countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.  Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $1,700,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Bank.
4.  Contracts for goods and specialized technical software, for
example, computer system upgrades, spare parts, audio-visual
equipment and vendor specific training technologies, which the
Bank agrees: (a) are of proprietary nature; (b) the timely
supply thereof is critical for efficient Project execution; or
(c) need to be compatible with other installed equipment, up to
an aggregate amount equivalent to $400,000, may be awarded
after direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more, as well as the
contracts awarded in accordance with Parts C.1 and C.4 of this
Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Loan Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.     Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981
Page  15
(the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower
shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank
review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts, (b) single source selection of firms, (c)
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by
the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value
to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                             Special Accounts
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (2)
(3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $800,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate
amount of all withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $2,500,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for
deposit into Special Account of an amount or amounts determined
by the Bank to be required to pay for eligible expenditures
during the four months following the date of each such request,
which amount shall not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Bank shall have determined to be so
required.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
Page  16
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                Special Accounts such amount as the Borrower
                shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the LoanAccount under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
    (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
Page  17
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
