LOAN NUMBER 3824 RU
Project Agreement
(Management and Financial Training Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NATIONAL TRAINING FOUNDATION
Dated                          , 1995


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3824 RU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      B*PRpILc  C2           , 1995, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the r ink) and
NATIONAL TRAINING FOUNDATION (NTF).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Russian Federation (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to forty million dollars ($40,000,000) on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that NTF agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and NTF, the proceeds of the loan provided for under
the Loan Agreement will be made available to NTF on the terms and
conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS NTF, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) NTF declares its cnitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and training practices, and shall provide,


﻿- 2 -
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Bank and NTF shall otherwise agree,
NTF  shall   implement  the  Project   in  accordance  with   the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.03. NTF shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and  schedules,  records   and  reports,  maintenance  and   land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. NTF shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, NTF shall not take or concur in any action which would have
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) NTF shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project,
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Loan.
(b)   NTF shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the
performance by NTF of its obligations under this Agreement and under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of National
Training Foundation
Section 3.01. NTF shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
training practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 3.02. NTF shall take all such actions as may be
required to maintain an organizational structure, functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank and shall be staffed, at
all times, with personnel whose qualifications and experience shall
meet the requirements specified in the Operational Manual, and such
personnel shall be appointed in accordance with procedures set forth
in the Operational Manual, including the Executive Director and all
his deputies, in respect of whom, concurrence of the Bank shall be
required before any appointment to such position is made.
Section 3.03. NTF shall maintain its internal rules and
regulations, and any changes thereto shall be agreed with the Bank.
Section 3.04. NTF shall at all times operate and maintain its
property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof.
Section 3.05. NTF shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) NTF shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
(b)   NTF shall:
(i)   have  its   records,   accounts  and   financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income


﻿-4-
and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal   year  audited,   in   accordance   with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six (6) months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish  to the Bank    such  other  information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. Not later than December 1 of each year during
execution of the Project, NTF shall submit its annual budget and
work program for the next calendar year for the Bank's review and
approval.
Section 4.03. Prior to entering into contractual arrangements
referred to in para. 1 and para. 2 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
NTF shall prepare and cause the Regional Foundations to prepare and
submit to the Bank for its approval the financial terms of grant and
loans to be provided for Sub-projects; and NTF shall ensure that any
changes or modifications of such financial terms shall have been
agreed with the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation aad Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of NTF thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank
shall promptly notify NTF thereof.


﻿- 5 -
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD               248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For NTF:
National Training Foundation
1 Birzhevaja Pl.
103 706 Moscow
Russian Federation
Telex:
112008


﻿-6-
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of NTF, or by NTF on behalf of the Borrower
under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by Executive
Director or such other person or persons as the Executive Director
shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Regional Vice President
Europe and the Central Asia
NATIONAL TRAINING FOUNDATION
By I       Au trLi   RepeAe7ntV
Authorized Representative


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program
1.    For the purpose of financing Sub-Projects under Parts A (1),
(3), (4), (5); B (1), (4), (5), (6); and C of the Project and Parts
A (2); B (2), (3); and D of the Project during the first year of the
Project, NTF shall make available to each of the Eligible Entities
the corresponding portions of the proceeds of the Loan, under
contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank which shall
include, without limitation, the terms and conditions set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.     For the purpose of carrying out Parts A (2); B (2), (3); and
D of the Project, NTF shall make available to each of the Regional
Foundations, which has been properly accredited by NTF in accordance
with the criteria and procedures established in the Operational
Manual, the corresponding portion of the Loan, under Subsidiary
Financing Agreements to be entered into between NTF and each of the
Regional Foundations, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, and whereby NTF shall obtain rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Bank and NTF, including the right to:
(a)   require  the   Regional  Foundation   to  enter   into
contractual arrangements with Eligible Entities carrying out Sub-
projects, and such contractual arrangements shall include, without
limitations, the terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and shall be reviewed and accepted by NTF and the
Bank;
(b)   require the Regional Foundation to adopt and maintain
staffing policies acceptable to the Bank and NTF and employ adequate
personnel with experience and qualifications acceptable to the Bank;
(c)   cause the Regional Foundation to submit, not later than
December 1 of each year, its annual budget and work program for the
next calendar year for review and approval by the Bank and NTF;
(d)   require the Regional Foundations to have their records,
accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year audited by
independent auditors and furnish to the NTF and to the Bank as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, certified copies of their financial
statements and audit reports;


﻿-8-
(e)   obtain all such information as the Bank or NTF shall
reasonably request relating to selection and implementation of Sub-
projects;
(f)   require the Regional Foundation to seek the Bank's
concurrence with respect to appointment of Director General; and
(g)   suspend  or  terminate  the  right   of  the  Regional
Foundation to use the proceeds of the NTF financing upon failure to
comply with their respective obligations under the Subsidiary
Financing Agreement.
3.    NTF shall undertake that Sub-projects, to be carried out
either by NTF itself or by any of the Regional Foundations, shall be
identified, appraised, approved, implemented and evaluated in
accordance with the procedures set forth or referred to in the
Operational Manual.
4.    Prior to approval of any Sub-project estimated to cost more
than $250,000, NTF shall furnish to the Bank a summary, project
costs and other information about such Sub-project as may be
reasonably requested by the Bank for the Bank's review and approval.


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Terms and Conditions of Sub-projects
1.    Contractual arrangements with Eligible Entities referred to in
Paragraph 1 and 2 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall require the
Eligible Entities to, inter alia:
(a)   carry  out  and operate   the Sub-projects with    due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
economic, financial, training and managerial standards;
(b)   maintain separate adequate accounting and financial
records, including separate bank sub-accounts related to the Sub-
projects and for expenditures thereunder;
(c)   procure the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
4 to the Loan Agreement and use such goods and services exclusively
in the carrying out of the Sub-projects;
(d)   allow NTF, by itself or jointly with the Bank, if the
Bank so requests, to inspect such goods and the sites included in
the Sub-projects, and any relevant records and Aocuments;
(e)   contribute not less than 15 per cent of the estimated
total costs of implementiig the Sub-projects; and
(f)   pay the user's fee to NTF or a Regional Foundation in
the amount equivalent to 15 per cent of the estimated total costs of
the Sub-project.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
(K
FOR SECRETARY


