RETURN TO
REPORTS DESK                                                   RESTRICTED
WITHIN             |                                       Report No. PTR-25
ONE WEEK                              N
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
INDONESIA
June 3, 1969
Transportation Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           = Rupiah (Rp.)
US$100                  = Rp 326 (B.E. Rate*)
1 Rp.                   = USO0.31
1 million Rp.           = US$3,060
*B.E. (Bonus Export) Rate is the rate at which
more than 90% of international transactions
take place; a special rate applies for less
essential imports. No par value has so far
been established with the IMF.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1                   March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric
Metric: British/U.S. Equivalents
1 Kilometer (km)        = 0.62 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)             = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 Liter (1)             = 0.22 imp gallons
= 0.26 gallons (U.S.)
1 Metric ton (m ton)   = 2204 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS
MPW     - Ministry of Public Works and Power
PELNI   - the national shipping organization
PNKA    - the national railroad organization
BAPPENAS- the national planning council
"Highway Services" - The UNDP-financed Highway Services
1968-70"
vpd     - vehicles per day (all types of vehicles, both
directions included)
dwt     - dead weight tons



INDON'ESIA
APPRAISAL OF A HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF COUTENTS
Page
StITARY                                                     i
1.   INTROaJCTION                                                1
2.   BACKGROUND                                                  2
A. General                                                  2
B. The Transportation System                                3
3.   THE HIGIEIAY  SYSTEM                                       8
A.  General                                                 8
B. Highway Traffic                                          9
C.  Administrative and Financial Procedures                10
D.  The Highway Budget                                     10
E.  The Planning and Engineering of Highway WJork          11
F. The Execution of Highway Work                           12
G.  The Role of the Army in Highway Wlork                  13
4.  THE PROJECT                                                 14
A.  Description and Purpose                                14
B.  Rehabilitation of High-Priority Roads                  14
C. The Improvement of Routine and Periodic
Maintenance                                          15
D.  Rehabilitation of Workshop Facilities                  15
E.  Pilot Program                                          16
F.  Implementation of Inventory and Costing Techniques   17
G.  Technical Support                                      17
H.  Cost Estimates, Project Financing and Credit
Disbursement                                         18
I.  Project Execution                                      20
5.   ECOINONIaC JUSTIFICATION                                   22
A.  General                                                22
B.  Rehabilitation                                         22
C.  Maintenance                                            24
6.   RECONIIENDATIONS                                           26
(Continued)
This report has been prepared by iœlessrs. P.O. Mialone (Engineer) and
W. Thalwitz (Economist).



-2-
TABLES
1.  The Public Highlray System
2. Design Load-Carrying Capacity
3.  Analysis by Type of Surface
4. Vehicle Fleet
5. Vehicle Fleet - Regional Distribution
6. Road Transport Fuel Consumption
7. Rehabilitation Eruipment
8. Matintenance Equipment
9.  Workshop Equipment
10.  Details of Technical Support
11. Operating Costs of a Representative Bus/Truck on a Flat Paved ,Road
12.  Operating Costs of a Representative Car on a Flat Paved Road
13.  Operating Cost for a Representative Car on Various Road Surface and
Condition
l4.  Operating Costs for a Representative Bus/Truck on Various Road
Surface Type and Condition
CHART
Organization of the Central and Provincial Works Organizations
NIAP



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMIAtY
i.        Indonesia's transport system is basically well-planned and if in
sound condition would be adequate for the country's present needs. However,
as a result of years of neglected maintenance, all transport facilities are
run down; conditions are aggravated by a general lack of managerial
expertise. A major effort is underway by international and bilateral
agencies to meet the most pressing needs, both technical and administrative,
within the transport sector.
ii.       On Indonesia's roads, riding quality is corsistently poor and the
neglect of maintenance, particularly that of the drainage systems, is
causing wide-spread pavement failure. As a result, road transport costs
are high and tend to inhibit agricultural production. Indeed some important
food-producing areas are already cut off from their markets. Rehabilitation
of the highway network is particularly urgent, therefore, if the country's
plans to increase food production are to materialize and if large investments
to replace failed roads are to be avoided in the near future.
iii.      The UNDP is financing a study, "1968-70 Highway Services", for
which the Bank is executing agency, to determine investment priorities for
highways and to assist in planning effective highway administration. The
consultants for the study, KAIPSAX (Denmark)/Louis Berger (USA), during
the first phase of their work, December 1968 - April 1969, inventoried most
of the important roads in the country and as a result proposed, in their
interim report of April 1969, a rehabilitation program covering about 12,000
km of road, and defined the most urgent investments required therefor.
iv.       The proposed project, part of a larger rehabilitation program, is
based on the interim report, and would concentrate on the most urgent re-
habilitation needs. Financial and managerial constraints require, in fact,
that the rehabilitation work under the project be no more than about one-
quarter of the program recommended by the consultants. The project would,
however, also provide the technical and organizational support needed for this
and for all future highway work.
v.        In detail the project would consist of the following:
- rehabilitation of about 3,000 km of roads in five provinces;
- improvement of routine and periodic road maintenance in those
five and a further 15 provinces;
- rehabilitation of workshops in 20 provinces;
- implementation of inventory and costing techniques;



-ii-
- implementation of pilot training and experimental programs for
all phases of highway work; and
- technical assistance to support the above operations.
The project would have a major impact in 20 of the country's 26 provinces)
the remaining six provinces do not have significant highway problems at
this time.
vi.       Capital expenditure over the four-year project period would amount
to US$46.7 million equivalent.  The Association would finance imported
equipment and materials, and the technical assistance required for the
project, totalling US$28 million. The local currency component of capital
expenditures (US$18.7 million equivalent) -would be financed by the Government.
The Government would also finance all recurrent expenditures for the project,
totalling US$9.5 million equivalent. The proposed rehabilitation work is
widely scattered and could not easily be quantified for contracting purposes;
the rehabilitation program would therefore be executed departmentally. The
Directorate-General of Highway Construction, one of the branches of the
Ministry of Public Works and Power, would execute the project on behalf of
the Government.
vii.      Because rehabilitation under the project would necessarily be limited
to roads of highest economic priority, the rates of return on the investment
are very large; the weighted average rate of return on the investments for
rehabilitation of the specific road sections included in the project is over
40%. The economic evaluation is based on a comparison of rehabilitation costs
and the resulting reductions in vehicle operating costs, excluding possible
savings in maintenance expenditures and future capital costs.
viii.     The project provides a suitable basis for a credit of US$28 millior
equivalent to the Government of Indonesia.



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A HIGIWAY PROJECT
1. IN1TRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Indonesia has asked the Association for a
credit to help finance a project comprising:
(i)  rehabilitation of about 3,000 km of high-priority roads;
(ii)  improvement of  road  maintenance operations;
(iii) rehabilitation of workshop facilities;
(iv) establishment of pilot training and experimental programs
for all phases of highway work;
(v)  implementation of inventory and costing procedures;
(vi) provision of technical experts to support the above
operations.
1.02      The project arises from a current UNDP Study ("1968-70 Highway
Servicest"), for which the Bank is executing agency, the objects of which
are to determine investment priorities for highways and to assist in
planning efficient highway administrati>on.  The study, which began in late
1968, is being carried out by the consultants U SAX (Denmark)/Louis Berger
(USA). As a result of the first phase of their investigation the con-
sultants have proposed a rehabilitation program covering about 12,000 km
of roads.
1.03      The project includes about one-quarter of the consultants' program.
It would meet the most urgent highway rehabilitation needs and would in
addition provide the necessary technical and administrative organization
for this and future road rehabilitation and development. It would be the
first loan/credit for transportation in Indonesia.
1.04      The project is based on the consultants' findings as of April
1969. This report has been prepared by Messrs. P. M4alone (Engineer)
and W. Thalwitz (Economist) who appraised the project in March/April 1969.



-2-
2. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Indonesia is an archipelago of more than 3,300  islands stretching
5,000 km along the equator, or a distance equivalent to that across the
continental United States. The total land area, about 1.9 million km2
(including West Irian) is about four times that of France. The major
islands, Java, Sumatra, Sulawesi and Kalimantan, account for about 70%
of the total land area. (See Table 1)
2.02      The population is estimated at about 115 million, growing at
about 2.4% p.a. About 75 million people (or 65% of the total population)
live in Java which, however, accounts for only about 7% of the land area.
Population pressure in Java and Bali is intense, while vast parts of other
islands, particularly Kalimantan, are undeveloped and underpopulated.
The Government, therefore, is attempting to resettle people from Java and
Bali to other islands. Urbanization is accelerating and the capital,
Djakarta, has a population of over four million.  Five other cities,Surabaja,
Bandung, Semarang and Jogjakarta in Java, and Medan in Sumatra, have passed
the half million mark.
2.03      The main islands are mountainous and are characterized by intense
seismic and volcanic activity. Broad coastal plains extend across northern
Java, eastern Sumatra and southern Kalimantan. Rainfall is ample everywhere
but regional variations range from about 1.5 m to 5.0 m per annum. Heaviest
rainfall   occurs           during the west monsoon season, November through
April.
2.04      Indonesia has great potential resources.  Nevertheless, with a
GDP of about US$80 per capita, it is one of the poorest countries in the
world. Over the past 10 years income growth has barely kept pace with
population growth. About 75% of population are occupied in agriculture
which accounts for about 50% of the GDP (Rp. 226 billion in 1967). A large
portion of agricultural output consists of crops for exports produced in
plantations and by smallholders (Rp. 100 billion  7orth  of rubber, coffee,
oil palm products, copra, tobacco, tea and pepper, in 1967).
2.05      At present the economy is recovering from a period of stagnating
production and rapid inflation. The inflation rate during 1968 decreased
to just over 1% per month.  Among the factors helping to bring this about
were a good rice crop and large imports of PL 480 food grains.  The value
of exports in 1968 grew by about 8% with petroleum, which accounted for
about Rp. 80 billion equivalent in 1967, growing most rapidly.  The return
of stability has encouraged domestic and foreign investors, and the Govern-
ment plans to increase development expenditures from lp. 36 billion in 1968
to Rp. 123 billion in 1969. The economic recovery and the expected increase
of output will rilmk additional doncands on Indonesia's run-down transportation
systemn. A number of Governments, the UNDP and the Bank Group are assisting
Indonesia to meet these growing demands either by technical assistance or
direct financial help, as indica-ted in the following paragraphs.



-3-
B. The Transportation Aystem
a. General
2.06      Indonesia has a basically sound transport system which, if
efficiently operated and maintained, could adequately serve present transport
requirements. However, facilities in all modes of transport have fallen
into disrepair as a result of long neglect and lack of maintenance. The
lack of managerial capacity has compounaed the effects of scarcity of funds
for the maintenance of existing facilities. As a result, the limited
maintenance funds available have been mismanaged, investments have been
planned haphazardly, and facilities have been operated inefficiently.
Government is therefore rightly laying emphasis in the transport sector on
planning and management. The UNDP Highway Services (para. 1.02) are develop-
ing a framework for planning and execution of rehabilitation and development
for highways, and bilateral agreements are likewise providing effective
assistance in other transport modes, (the Netherlands in aviation and inter-
island shipping, and the Federal Republic of Germany in railways).
2.07      As an archipelago, Indonesia uses sea communication as the trunk
transport system. There are few natural harbors, but there are an adequate
number of ports which connect with the main road and rail arteries of the
islands.  The inter-dependence of the islands supports sea-borne trade,
mainly in rice, copra, oil products, cattle, construction materials, and local
and imported manufactured consumer goods. Iwhile the road and rail systems
primarily connect the interior of the islands with the ports, they also
serve to connect surplus and deficit areas within the islands.
b. Highway Transport
2.08      The highway network consists of about 82,000 km of roads of all
standards and classifications (Table 1).  Paved roads total about 15,000 km
and are mostly found on the 32,000 km network of national and provincial
roads (Table 3).  The riding quality of most of the system, whether paved
or not, is extremely poor; large sections are permanently impassable, others
must be closed during the rainy season. (Further details are given in
paragraphs 3.01 - 3.05).
2.09      Because of the low standards adopted for road and bridge design,
vehicles tend to be small.  More than half of the vehicles are over-age.
These factors, coupled with the deteriorated condition of the roads, lead
to high road transport costs.
c. Railways
2.10      The state railroad organization (PNKA) operates about 7,900 km of
track, of which 5,000 km form an interconnected system on Java. Sumatra has
four non-connecting lines totalling 2,200 km. The gauge of the system is gen-
erally 1.075 m, but the 5h0 km Atieh line in Sumatra has a gauge of 0.75 m,



-4-
and there are about 100 km of 0.60 m track on Java. Infrastructure and
rolling stock are in bad condition. Track and bridge maintenance has been
neglected since 1939; two-thirds of the entire rolling stock is over 40
years old and 75% of the locomotives are steam-powered. Service to shippers
is slow and not always reliable. The average turnaround time for freight
wagons approaches one month for a haul of 300 km.  PNKA is heavily over-
staffed. If the social problems involved could be resolved, it could halve
its staff of about 85,0o0 and achieve acceptable ratios of traffic output units
per employee.
2.11      PNKA is predominantly a passenger railway, with goods traffic
during the last six years accounting for only about 15% of total traffic.
The railway's share in total land transport of goods is small, probably
below one-tenth. Between 1962 and 1967 both goods and passenger transport
by rail declined, from about 1.0 billion ton-km and 7.0 billion pass-km in
1962 to about 0.6 billion ton-km and 4.5 billion pass-km in 1967. However,
provisional data for 1968 show an increase of 35% in freight ton-km. The
operating deficit, which must be borne by the Government, is expected to
amount to Rp. 5 billion (US$16 million equivalent) in 1968.
d.  Ports and Shipping
2.12      There are several hundred ports in the archipelago but the bulk
of traffic is handled by about 70. The most important of these are Tandjung
Priok (Djakarta) and Surabaja in Java, Belawan and Palembang in Sumatra,
Pontianak and Bandjermasin in Kalimantan, Makassar and Bitung in Sulawesi,
Ambon in the Moluccas and Sukarnapura in West Irian. Berthage capacities
are generally adequate. However, port operations in Indonesia are hanpered
by conflicting and overlapping administrative responsibilities and lack of
supporting facilities. Government investment plans provide for power and
water supply, navigational aids and telecommunications, tugs and barges.
Technical and economic studies will be undertaken during 1969/70 to determine
the extent of the dredging backlog, and to work out schedules for rehabili-
tation and utilization of the Indonesian dredging fleet.
2.13      The inter-island shipping fleet of powered vessels over 500 tons
has a capacity of about 300,000 dwrt;almost half the fleet is operated
by the state owned organization PELTI. The productivity of the fleet is
low, having declined from more than 10 tons carried annually per available
ton of dead-weight capacity to about five tons at present. There is no
capacity shortage but the fleet is in bad physical condition. Acting on the
recommendations of a Dutch advisory team, PELNI will reduce its fleet
capacity by about 25% and rehabilitate the rest. The 130 private
shipping companies and PELNI will pool their revenues and maintain regular
schedules; this will enable shippers to plan their cargo movements ration-
ally and w-ill permit a better utilization of the whole fleet. Indonesia
has a large fleet of sailing boats tho capacity of which (400,000 dwt)
exceeds that of the powered fleet. During the last few years this fleet has
made substantial inroads into the shipping market and now handles about half
of the inter-insular shipping volume. Even large companies use sailing vessels



-5-
for the transport of costly and fragile equipment since owner-operated
sailboats are a guarantee of reliable and speedy delivery, free from
pilI ferage.
2.14      River transport has only local significance.  It is of particular
importance, however, in eastern Sumatra where the road system is not developed
to provide adequate connections between the interior and the ports.
e. Aviation
2.15      Due  to the long distances between islands and the inaccessiblity
of the interior of some larger islands, air transport is growing. In addi-
tion, intermational air communications are being improved to cater for the
tourist traffic, especially to Bali. The two international airports, in
Djakarta and in Bali, can accommodate the long-haul jet aircraft. There are
36 other airports of which five will be able to receive medium-range jets.
All other airports will be improved during the present Five-Year Plan (1969 -
1973), to accommodate Fokker F-27 turbo-prop aircraft.
2.16      The fleet for the domestic operations of the national airline,
Garuda, is largely obsolete and will be replaced during the next five years.
Committments have been made for the acquisition of two DC9s and 10 Fokker
F-27s. Traffic to Europe and Japan is handled by two DC-8s, in cooperation
with 'LK, and two Convair 990 turbojets fly within south-east Asia.  DLuring
the last year Garuda's operations have markedly improved in quality
of service and profitability. Garuda is probably the only state enterprise
that has solved the problem of overstaffing and has a chance to earn depreci-
ation charges on its equipment in the future. However, there is room for
better capacity utilization of the existing and future fleet. This would be
possible even without additional investments if existing facilities on
Indonesian airports were operated for longer hours.
f. Transport Policy and Coordination
2.17      The main components of Indonesia's transportation system, sea
communication and land transport, are complementary. Coordination of com-
peting modes of transport is only required for land transport on Java and
Sumatra where the railways have a much smaller network than highways and a
small share of total traffic volume. However, since the infrastructre and
rolling equipment of both modes of transport are seriously run down, com-
peting claims on resources for investments are substantial, and the need to
apply economic criteria to determine priorities and to ration funds is,
therefore,particularly pressing. Railway investment requirements alone have
been estimated by PNKA to amount to about US$140 million equivalent for the
rehabilitation of major lines during the next five years. Until now,
investment decisions in the transport sector have not been based on economic
studies.but the Govcrnmcnt recognizecs that additional cconormic analyses will
be roquired to determine whether adequate benefits to the econcmy would
justify the large rail investments proposed by PNIKA in the Five-iear Plan.
In the meantime, the railways proceed cautiously with the most urgent



-6-
investments for track rehabilitation and rolling stock renewal on the two
most important lines in Java and Sumatra. Although road investments are now
being prepared under the Highway Services, on the basis of a comparative
analysis of costs and benefits, a systematic assessment of priorities between
road and rail investments will not be possible until proposed major rail in-
vestments have been subjected to thorough analysis, with the assistance of the
German Management and Planning team,which is scheduled to arrive in July 1969.
2.18      Shippers, when choosing between road and rail, are frequently
influenced more by consideration of quality of service than by comparison of
rates and tariffs. The influence of Government taxation policies on the
allocation between modes is therefore small. The pump price of regular
grade motor fuel in Djakarta was recently raised from Rp. 16 per liter to
Rp. 17 per liter (or to about US019.7 per US gallon). This is at least
US¢10 less than the average pump price in the US.
2.19      There is no specific fuel tax in Indonesia but the total profits
of oil companies are turmed over to the Government. For 1968 the profit
on domestic sales, divided by the quantities of fuel sold, was about Rp. 9
per liter or about US¢10.4 per gallon. Profits remitted to the Government
are not a good measure of the contribution by road users, since oil company
profits are inflated as a result of low crude prices which do not reflect
the international price or the opportunity cost of fuel to the economy.
There is also a substantial subsidy on kerosene which is deducted from these
profits. On balance it would appear that gasoline is taxed at about
US¢2-3 per gallon, which is a modest contribution by users to the road
budget. However, vehicle imports are subject to heavy duties ranging between
40 and 300 p.c. of landed cost, which is an impediment to the development
of road transport.
2.20      Transport policies at present include no restrictive administrative
regulation upon the growth of road transport. The allocation of traffic,
routing and distances is left to conpetition; within the road transport
industry tariffs adjust to market conditions, although in theory the
provinces establish controlled rates.
2.21      The institutional arrangements for transport coordination are at
present unsatisfactory.  Efforts are being made by BAPPENAS, the National
Planning Council, to coordinate investments based on proposals for roads
prepared by the Ministry of Public lWorks and Power, and for all other
transport investments by the Ministry of Communications. This latter
Ministry also has the responsibility for the regulation of transport indus-
tries.  However, neither of the Ministries nor BAPPENAS has the staff to
subject major investments to thorough comparative analyses of cost and
benefits. A comprehensive economic survey on traffic cost and allocation,
transport investments and rate policies is presently being undertaken by
the Transport Coordination Advisory Team under the UNDP Highway Study
con'ract, supported by bilateral assistance teams for the most important
transport sectors.



-7-
2.22      Improvements in transport coordination are certainly required,
particularly in investment analysis, pricing policies and institutional
arrangements.  It will, however, take time to develop suitable policies
and it wvould not be justified to delay urgent investments for highways
until relative priorities in the transport sector as a whole are established
and a comprehensive transport coordination policy is available. During
negotiations, however, the Government w;as advised that the Bank Group would
wish to discuss overall transportation policies before entering into further
commitments to finance transportation investments in Indonesia, and that
recommendations of the Transport Coordination Advisory Team should meanwhile
be taken into consideration by Goverment when formulating such policies.



-8-
3. THE HIGHWAY SYSTEM
A. General
3.01      The public higihway system is classified into "national",  ipro-
vincial" and "county"  roads, (the latter known also as "district" or
"village" roads);  this classification, indicative of the relative importance
of the roads, is used as a basis for defining administrative, financial and
executive procedures associated with road construction and maintenance. The
national roads, totalling about 10,000 km, are the country's trunk routes;
the provincial roads, totalling about 22,000 kmi, are the main routes of the
26 Provinces; and the county roads, totalling about 50,000 km, comprise all
the remaining public roads. In addition, estates and plantations construct
and maintain roads outside the public highway system. The extent of the
system, by Province, and an indication of the areas and population served,
are given in Table 1. The theoretical load-carrying capacity of the system,
expressed in terms of permissible axle-loads, is given in Table 2.
3.02      About 15,000 km of the 82,000 km which comprise the public system
are paved, the greater part of the paving being on national and provincial
roads  (Table 3).  These paved roads, most of which were constructed many
years ago, have stone bases which have served the pavements well in recent
years of neglected maintenance, But maintenance is still almost non-
existent and the paved roads are deterior.ing quickly.
3.03      The most serious defect along thousands of kilometers of paved
roads is the inadequacy of surface drainage; earth shoulders are higher
than the pavements which they should drain, and side ditches, which should
receive surface water from the shoulders and which should help to control
moisture beneath the pavement, are also too high, or are blocked with debris,
or both. These defects are serious in that they produce soaked pavements
and thus accelerate ultimate break-up.  Ihe stronger pavements have so far
resisted complete disintegration, although incipient failure, due in large
measure to these drainage defects, is widespread. The less robust pavements
have already yielded to neglected maintenance and have become gravel or stone
roads, generally difficult for vehicles to negotiate.
3.o4      Unpaved roads form the greater length of each class of road, and
the bulk of the county roads (Table 3). These roads would normally be
maintained by motor grader but the dearth of maintenance equipment, notably
o of graders, has resulted in most of the roads becoming pot-holed and rutted
t tracks.  Trip speeds of no more than 15 ,n-/h are common on roads in this
condition.
3.05      Bridges are usually made of masonry, concrete or steel construc-
tion with a concrete deck, and are frequently single-width only. Lack of
maintenance over recent years has chiefly affected the steel bridges; many
are corroded to the point of danger, some have collapsed, (this is parti-
cularly true in Sumatra), and when no replacement has been made the approach
roads, no longer trafficked, have reverted to over-growvn tracks.



-9-
B. Highway Traffic
3.06      The development of traffic on Indonesia's roads is difficult to
assess, since 90% of the road transport industry consists of one-vehicle
enterprises, and the Government collects few data on the industry. Compre-
hensive and comparable traffic counts have not been undertaken for about
10 years.
3.07      In 1967, the road transport fleet totalled about 300,000 vehicles,
the majority gasoline-powered, and comprised about 185,000 cars, 18,800
buses and 95,000 trucks; more than 2/3 of the entire fleet was in Java
(Tables 4 and 5). The average capacity of the trucks is small and certainly
does not exceed 3.5 tons. The age of the fleet (half of the vehicles are
more than 10 years old) and the estimated 75 different makes of vehicle in
the country lead to difficulties in procuring spare parts and to vehicles
being off the road as a consequence. Estimates of the inoperative part
of the registered fleet vary from 30% to 50%. In the Five-Year Plan, for
instance, it is assumed that the operative truck fleet in 1968 consisted of
about 47,000 units only, of which about 25,000 were used as public transport.
3.08      It is estimated that the operative private truck fleet carries
about 7 billion ton-km annually; this would imply an average load of 2.5
,ton and an -nnual average mileage of 60,000 km per operative vehicle.  Vehicles
of the Armed Forces participate in the road transport market, but no reliable
information is available on this traffic; it is not unreasonable to assume
however, that Armed Forces vehicles carry an additional 2 billion ton-km p.a.
so that total goods transport by road would be about 9 billion ton-km p.a.
3.09      Uncertainty about the participation by Armed Forces and about the
size of the operative fleet in private hands makes it impossible to re-
construct time series for the development of traffic. Traffic growth must
have been minimal or close to zero during the past years of economic
stagnation and of deterioration of the road system and vehicle fleet. This
conclusion is supported by the available data on fuel consumption between
1962 and 1968 (Table 6).
3.10      During January/February 1969, the consultants, with the coopera-
tion of the central and provincial works organizations, conducted traffic
counts on about 900 important road links, covering all national roads and
about 50% of the provincial roads. Although such "spot" counts do not
permit the establishment of estimates of total traffic or  its regional
distribution, they provide adequate data on traffic densities on particular
roads. The counts reveal that in Java about one-third of the links have
traffic volumes of more than3],000 vpd, that a significant number carry more
than 5,000 vpd, and that only a negligible number carry less than 200 vpd.
On Sumatra highest densities are found in the provinces of North Sumatra,
West Sumatra and Lampung; tra-iLic volu e io typically several hundred
vpd, but seldom exceeds 1,000 vpd. On Sulawesi, tne North and South pro-
vinces have a traffic pattern similar to that found in Sumatra while in the
two central provinces traffic rarely rises above 100 vpd. Regular counts
should now be undertaken by Government on these and other important roads
is provLde the information :necessary for rational --lnaring of roacdaaintenne
and developi.dent.  In assuranec to this offect -ras obtained during negotiatioxaso



-10-
3.11      On the whole, in Indonesia, vehicle operation is expensive;
freight rates are, therefore, high by international standards. Iypical
provincial tariffs are Rp. 10 (US¢3)/ton-km in Java and Bali, Rp. 15
(US¢5)/ton-um in Sumatra and ip. 20 (US06)/ton-km in Sulawesi, but truckers
tend to adjust rates to market conditions and costs, particularly where the
latter are unusually high because of poor road conditions (see Chapter 5).
3.12      Road transport regulations relate only to standards for weight
and size, vehicle condition, etc., but are not rigorously enforced. Load
factors are generally high, on average exceeding 60%, but overloading is
widespread and contributes to the deterioration of the roads and endangers the
bridges. A national policy on vehicle weights and dimensions is being
determined by the consultants; an assurance -as obtained during negotiatiorns
that the consultants' recommendations  iill be taken into consideration in
the formulation of policy on this issue.
C. Administrative and Financial Procedures
3.13      Adrinistration of the public road system follows the three tiers
of the classification of the roads: national roads are the responsibility
of central government (in practice, this responsibility is delegated to
the Directorate-General of Highway Construction); provincial roads, of the
provincial administrations; and county roads of the district aclministrations.
The Directorate-General of Highway Construction is part of the I4inistry of
Public W4orks and Power (IMPW), which includes, among other branches, the
Directorates-General of Irrigation and of Housing and Building (see Chart).
This aggregation of functions wjithin the MPW is repeated at provincial
level where provincial works organizations are responsible for roads,
irrigation and buildings. While this type of organization may not be ideal
in a program designed to focus specifically on the highway system, it is
acceptable, at least in the short term, and Ilas the merit of economy of
common services, such as offices, workshops, administrative personnel, at
a time when these services are scarce.
3.14      Financing of road works is normally the responsibility of the
organization administratively responsible for the roads, funds for new
work and maintenance being met from the development and recurrent budgets,
respectively, at each administrative level.  Exceptionally, central govern-
ment finances construction of provincial roads when they are of national or
inter-provincial importance; provincial governments may finance county road
construction on a similar basis. Provincial budgets are supported in part
directly by the export earnings of the provinces themselves; this makes
for considerable autonomy on the part of the provinces in highway matters.
D.        The Highway Budget
3.15      The volume of construction of national highways since 1963 has
been small, much of it being confined to the periphery of Djakarta. Ex-
penditures are difficult to assess accurately because of currency inflation,



-11-
but MPW figures, adjusted for inflation, indicate that the cost of all
construction on national highwra-ys during 1963 - 1967 was about US$15 million
equivalent, a very small amount.  Nlo figures are available for construction
of provincial and county roads during this period.
3.16      The consultants for the Highway Services, as a result of their
inventory (para. 1.02), estimate that about 12,500 km of roads throughout
the country require rehabilitation, at an estimated cost of Rp. 37.2 billion
(US$112 million). The budget of the Directorate-General of Highway Con-
struction for the financial year 1969/70 includes Rp. 1.6 billion (US$4.7
million) for rehabilitation and i4. 3.9 billion (US$11.6 million) for up-
grading; this budget was, of course, prepared before the consulbants'
rehabilitation program was available. No provincial budgets are available so
far. An assurance was obtained at negotiaticns that, as far as practicable,
rehabilitation work, both on national and provincial roads, would accord
with the priorities determined by the consultants.
3.17      lulaintenance allocations, for all classes of roads, relate, in
effect, only to the cost of materials used; equipment depreciation under
present accounting procedures is not charged to work, and the personnel
employed, even the laborers, are civil servants whose salaries are con-
sidered a debit to general administration rather than to specific road works.
The consultants estimate that annual maintenance allocations for national and
provincial roads are of the order of US$40/km. Allowing for typical equipment
depreciation charges and for labor, the true allocation may be about US$150/kr;
but even this figure, for the national and provincial roads, is inadequate by
modern standards; furthermore, under present accounting procedures, it is not
possible to determine how effectively the present allocations are used.
Typical maintenance requirements/kn -for all classes of road are being
determined by the consultants as part of the Highway Services. An assurance
was received during negotiations that maintenance allocations for the project
roads would be based on the consultants' findings.
E.  The Planning and Engineering of Highwxay Work
3.18      Selection of construction work on national routes is the responsi-
bility of the Buhreau of Planning, part of the Secretariat of the MR4 (see
Chart). Detailed investigation and engineering are the responsibility of
the Directorate-General of Highway Construction and are normally carried
out within the department. Planning and engineering on p-ovincial roads are
carxLed out either by the t<J, as above, or by the provincial works organi-
zation, depending on the complexity of the work and availability of staff.
Very occasionally, foreign consultants are used, the most recent example
being the engineering of the Djakarta by-pass, 1963 - 1965.
3.19      The capacity for planning and engineering is severely limited by
the lack of professional and technical staff of all disciplines.  The con-
sultants' inventory of personnel shows, for exple, that the Planning and
Survey Directorate of the Directorate-General of Highway Construction (see
Chart), responsible for detailed planning of national road works throughout



-12-
the country has only 20 civil engineers. At provincial level there are about
20 professional engineers per province in Java and less than 10 per province in
the remainder of the country, but these provincial eng-neers are re3ponsible
for buildings and irrigation works as well as for work connected wit'h the
highway system. This paucity of professional and technical staff is partly
a result of the low output of engineers and technicians from the training
institutions, (only about 120 engineering graduates are available each year
for both the public and private sectors). Work and pay conditions are also
important factors.
3.20      Shortage of planming and engineering staff is one of the major
constraints on the size of the program in the highway sector which could be
undertaken by the central and provincial works organization. The Highway
Services, extending through the end of 1970, and the technical support
proposed under the project, provide a measure of relief in the short tern,
but if the benefits of the proposed project and of future projects are to
be maintained in the long term, Government should now seriously consider
how thle output of trained staff may be increased and how positions within
the planning and engineering functions may be made more attractive. An
assurance that Government would take all steps necessary in this respect
w7as obtained during negotiations.
F.  The Execution of Highway Work
3.21      Construction and maintenance are normally carried out by depart-
mental forces, but if the volume of new work is beyond departmental capacity
at any time, the excess is executed by contract. Most contracting firms
are government-owned; there are a few private indigenous contractors who
lease the necessary equipment from government. Exceptionially, and again
in the case of the construction of the Djakarta by-pass, foreign contractors
are used.
3.22      Effective construction and maintenance work requires (i) adequately
trained personnel; (ii) the appropriate equipmernt, well maintained; (iii)
ample supplies of materials; and (iv) administrative procedures for planning
and controlling the work. HIaterials are readily available within the
country or can be imported without difficulty, but the three remaining factors
impose constraints on the amount and quality of work which can be executed,
as discussed in the following paragraphs.
3.23      The consultants' inventory discloses a scarcity of executive
engineers for highway construction and maintenance works; for example, the
Directorate of Construction in the Directore -General of Highway Construction
(see Chart) has only 35 professional engineers for its nation-wide operatioric.
As in the case of planning and engineering staff (para. 3.20), an assurance
was obtained during negotiations that action would be taken to increase the
number of executive engineers.
3.24      The inventory discloses an almost complete absence of operational
construction and maintenance eauipment. Equipment has been obtained from
nmany countries over the years and spare parts for much of it are now difficult



-13-
to procure; it therefore lies idle on the roads or in the workshops and is
soon cannibalized. The workshops, particularly in the provinces, have old
equipment and an almost complete lack of hand tools, and they are not
suitable for the maintenance and support of modern equipment. Inventory
procedures for procuring, issuing, controlling and costing spare parts are
virtually non-existent.  The project includes provision of construction and
maintenance equipment, rehabilitation of workshops and implementation of
appropriate inventory procedures,
3.25    Accurate job costing forms the basis of planning and of works
control, but currently neither highway construction nor maintenance
operations are properly costed. Material and labor costs could readily be
obtained but with the existing accounting procedures it is not possible to
determine the true cost of using equipment, or additionally to benefit from
the discipline which costing provides for those responsible for the efficient
use of equipment. As part of the Highway Services, the consultants will
determine the procedures for costing labor, materials, and equipment
appropriate for Indonesian conditions. The project includes implementation
of these procedures and provides for assistance during the introductory
period.
G. The Role of the Army in Highway Work
3.26    The Army has a large amount of highway construction and maintenance
equipment; it is also a source of engineering expertise additional to that
of the works organizations. Holding units ready for emergency operations,
such as those caused by flooding or earth-quakes, has first call on the
Army's engineering capability, but beyond this need there is a considerable
potential of engineering equipment and expertise that could be used on
works of economic importance.
3.27    Army engineering units, notably the heavily-equipped construction
battalions, are already participating in the Five-Year Plan on road and
irrigation works. The more lightly-equipped engineer combat units could,
however, also play a useful role; these units are well suited, for example,
to carrying out the technically simple but important work necessary to
remedy the drainage defects on highways (para. 3.03). Tentative agreement
was reached with the Army authorities, during appraisal, that engineer
units surplus to operational requirements would be employed, outside the
scope of the prot ct, on road work of high economic priority. This
agreenmont cias confirmed with the Government during negotiations.



-14-
4. THE PROJECT
A. Description and Purpose
4.01      The project comprises:
(i)  a four-year program to rehabilitate 109 high-priority roads,
totalling about 3,000 km, in five provinces;
(ii)  a four-year program to improve routine and periodic
maintenance over the road netwvork in 20 provinces,
including the five in (i) above;
(iii) the rehabilitation of workshop facilities in the 20
provinces;
(iv) four-year pilot training and experimental programs, in
three provinces, for all aspects of highway work;
(v)  the implementation of stores inventory and works costing
procedures;
(vi) the provision of technical experts to support the above
operations;
and includes the procurement of equipment, materials and services therefor.
4.02      The purpose of the project is four-fold:  (a) to rehabilitate
high-priority national and provincial roads; (b) to reduce the general
deterioration of the highway system by improved    maintenance and thus
to postpone the need for investment in new construction; (c) to provide
the necessary administrative and technical organization for this project
and for future rehabilitation and development of the highway system; and
(d) to provide training facilities for all aspects of highway work and
administration. Although Indonesia comprises 26 provinces,(Table 1), in
six the highway rehabilitatbn and maintenance needs are not significant;
improvement of maintenance, and rehabilitation of workshop facilities
((ii) and (iii) above) would therefore be limited to the remaining 20
provinces (see map).
B. Rehabilitation of High-Priority Roads
4.03      The consultants' study (para. 1.02) provides a basis for selecting
national and provincial highways, the rehabilitation of which would produce
large economic benefits. Such roads are located in virtually all provinces,
but particularly in those of Java, Smuatra and Sulawesi.
4.04      The rehabilitation program is defined on a provincial basis since
works organizations, albeit of varying efficacy, already exist at that level
and the consultants' organizational studies to date indicate that develop-
ment and strengthening of provincial works organizations is a desirable aim.



Financial and organizational constraints, however, preclude rehabilitation
of all high-priority roads in all provinces at this time.
4.05      The project includes rehabilitation in five provinces, (East and
WFest Java, South and West Sumatra and Southl Sulawesi), (see Mlap), the
selection being based on the need to rehabilitate the maximum length of
road and on the desirability of achieving the widest possible impact
throughout the country, compatible with the above-mentioned constraints.
Rehabilitation of higl-priority roads in other provinces forms part of a
larger program, which includes the proposed project.  Rehabilitation under
the project would be carried out on a provincial basis by "matched" teams;
it would range from minor patching and sealing to replacement of failed
bituminous pavements and would include the correction of grade and compac-
tion of shoulders and the rehabilitation of surface-water drainage. Bridge
rehabilitation, usually cleaning and painting of steelwork, repair of
damaged decks and guard rails, etc., would be included in the work.  Exceptior-
ally, dangerous bridges which could not economically be made safe, would be
replaced; the replacements would be temporairy steel structures since in most
instances the optimum alignment of the highway has not yet been determined.
4.o6      The project includes the procurement of equipment and materials
necessary for this rehabilitation program. An indication of the total
equipment requirements per province is given in Table 7.
C. The Improvement of Routine and Periodic 14aintenance
4.07      Due largely to lack of equipment, materials and expert personnel,
routine and periodic road maintenance over most of the country is virtually
non-existent; roads, particularly paved roads, are therefore deteriorating
rapidly. Resumption of basic maintenance operations is urgently required
if further deterioration is to be avoided.
4.08      In all of the 20 provinces which have signi,icant highway problems.
including the five in wJhich rehabilitation will be carried out (see above),
a major effort would be mounted as part of the project to resume essential
maintenance operations. The project would provide essential equipment,
(typical items are indicated in Table 8), also technical expertise to assist
in the field and in the workshops (para. 4.18) and the necessary procedures to
cost and control the work (para. h.16).
D. Rehabilitation of lWorkshop Facilities
4.09      Adequate workshop facilities are a pre-requisite for effective
road maintenance and construction.  Existing workshop facilities comprise,
on average, one workshop per province but the consultants' inventory reveals
that most of this workshop equipment is dilapidated beyond the point of
economic repair, and equipment which is operative is old and unsuitable for
modern maintenance tasks. Although workshop buildings are adequate or
could be made so without major effort, workshop areas are badly drained and
are generally cluttered wTith equipment which has only a scrap value. The
road access to many of these provincial workshops is difficult.



-16-
4.10      The appropriate organization of workshop facilities, at all
levels, has been investigated as part of the Highway Services. From their
investigations, the consultants deduce that while the provincial workshop
should retain its role, it should in future be limited to component exchange
and to repairs of lesser complexity, and that component repair and major
overhauls should be carried out only at specially equipped "base" or
regional waorkshops. USAID has agreed to provide the equipment for five
such regional shops, two in Sumatra (at Padang and Palembang), two in Java
(at Surabaja and near Bandung) and one in Sulawesi (at Makassar) and to
provide supervisory staff for their operation, certainly for one year,
possibly for two. The location of the shops and their scale of equipment
has been agreed between USAID and the consultants for the Highway Services;
the shops would be under the control of the Directorate of Equipment Supply,
part of the Directorate-General of Highway Construction (see Chart), USAID has
already allocated funds for this equipment and proclurement is scheduled
before June 1969. The five regional shops are expected to be operational
early in 1970.
4.11      The project, therefore, concentrates on rehabilitation of workshop
facilities at provincial level and includes (i) the removal of all scrap
and obsolete material from the workshops and workshop areas; (ii) the
improvement of access to and drainage of these areas; (iii) the repair of
workshop buildings as necessary; (iv) the provision of equipment for the
provincial workshops; and (v) the provision of mobile servicing units.
Assistance in running the rehabilitated facilities would be provided under
Technical Support (para. 4.18). The scale of equipment to be provided
in each of the 20 provinces is indicated in Table 9.
E. Pilot Programs
4.12      The terms of reference for the Highwxay Services require the
consultants to give support to the highway organizations, to prepare
pilot programs for such support and to participate in their operation.
Based on the preliminary finding of the consultants, the project includes
the establishment and operation of pilot programs in three provinces for
a period of four years. The function of the schemes would be three-fold:
(i) to train personnel of all levels and disciplines       connected with
highway construction, maintenance and administration; (ii) to develop and
evaluate techniques, most appropriate to the specific region, for highway
planning, construction, maintenance and administration; and (iii) to
record these techniques in the form of operational manuals.
4.13      The pilot provinces would be North Sumatra, West Java and South
Sulawesi. Whereas for operational reasons the pilot provinces in Java
and Sulawesi would correspond with provinces chosen for the rehabilitation
program, such would not be the case in Sumatra.  This would, however, be
an advantage since the project would then have a major impact in three
3umaatran    provinces, two selected for the rehabilitation program and
the third as a pilot province.



-17-
4.*14     Personnel for operating the pilot schemes would be drawn from
the central and provincial works organizations, supplemented, through the
end of 1970, by the consultants for the Highway Services and by the Technical
Support to be provided under the project, (para. 4.18). In the case of
Java and Sulawesi, the rehabilitation program in the provinces in question
would provide the operational background for the pilot schemes. In the
case of Sumatra, which would not have the support of a rehabilitation program,
additional equipment would be allocated to the province by reallocation
within the national equipment pool.
F. Implementation of Inventory and Costing Techniques
4.15      Inventory and costing methods most appropriate to the  needs of
the central and provincial works organizations will be defined as part of
the task of the Highway Services. In detail, the consultants will define:
(i) the inventory system to be used;
(ii) inventory control and re-ordering techniques;
(iii)  the form of job costing for personnel, materials, equipment,
workshop facilities and spares;
(iv) the system of construction control using works budgets; and
(v) the procedure for using equipment depreciation charges
as a basis for financing equipment renewal.
4.16      The project includes implementation of these inventory and
costing techniques and provides for expert assistance during the intro-
ductory stage and for the supply of inventory control and costing equipment.
Further assistance, both at central and provincial levels, would be
provided as part of the Technical Support (see below).
G.  Technical Support
4.17      Becauise of a shortage of personnel within the works organization
and also because of the novelty of much of the equipment and methods which
would be introduced, effective implementation of the project would not be
possible without large-scale technical support. The project includes such
support therefore, both at central and provincial levels, for the first two
years of the project period. The possible need to continue this assistance
in the latter two years of the program may have to be considered in future
projects.
4.18      In detail the technical support comprises: (i) two experts in
each of the 20 provinces which have significant road networks, one to assist
in the field, the other in the workshop; (ii) five quarrying experts, one
to be attached to each of the provincial rehabilitation teams; (iii) three
engineer geologists/materials engineers, one per region, to assist in the
location and evaluation of sources of materials; and (iv) a directing and.
coordinating team comprising a highway engineer (who would be team leader),
a mechanical engineer and a costing/accounting expert. The provincial
experts ((i) above) would additionally assist in the implementation of



-18-
costing and inventory methods at provincial level, and the engileer geologi3ts,
((iii) above) would additionally assist in the instructional aspect, parti-
cularly in connection with mateJial evaluation, of the pilot programs.
Details are given in Table 10.
H.  Cost Estimates, Project Financing and Credit Disbursement
4.19      The project would require capital expenditures of US$46.7 million
equivalent of -wThich the Bank would finance US$28 million, representing the
foreign exchange cost of all imported equipment, materials and expatriate
personnel required for the project. Government has agreed to finance the
balance of the capital expenditures. Dctails of capital expenditures are
as folIows:
I:.ac.onesicz.n bxia'ls             US$
(million)
Capital Expenditure         Local  Thoroifrn  Toltal       Local  Foreign  Total
Four-year road rehabili-
tation program  (newT equip-
ment and spares, materials
and labor)                  5,321   4,629   9,950           16.3    14.2    30.5
Four-year road mainten-
ance program (new equip-
rment and spares)             -     1,826   1, 826           -       5.6      5.6
Relabllitation of workshop
facilities (new equipment)    65       391     456           0.2     1.2     1.L4
Pilot programs (new
equipment)                     65       33      98           0.2     0.1      0.3
Inventoxr and costing
procedures (new equipment)   -          33      33            -      0.1      0.1
Technical suppor t
(personnel)                   261   1,630   1,891           0.8      5.0  5.8
5,712   8,542  1L4,254         17.5    26.2    43.7
Contingencies                 391      587     978           1.2     1.8      3.0
Total of capital
expenditure                 6,103   9,129  15,232           18.7    28.0    L6..7



-19-
L.20      Government has agreed to finance all recurrent expenditure required
in connection with the project, estimated at Rp. 3,100 million over the
four-year project period; this agreement was also confirmed during
negotiations. Details are as follows:
Recurrent Ependiture                                     Indonesian Rupiahs
(milli on)T
Labor and materials for maintenaice                            2,500
Operationi of workshon facilities                                540
Cperation of inventory and costing procedures                     60
Total of recurrent expenditure                                 3,100
The foreign exchange element of recurrent expenditures has not been estimated
scparately. The Provinces, with the technical suipport referred to in paras.
4.16 and 4.18, would keep an account of equipment cost, including depreciation,
during the project period.
4.21      The estixiated cost of the rehabilitation program has been based on
preliminary quotations for the supply of equipment, and on unit costs for
items of rehabilitation work compiled by the consultants: in the absence of
meaningful local costs, the consultants have dratm on their experience of
sirmilar work in comparable conditions elsewhere.  These unit costs appear
realistic.
4.22      The estinated cost of equipment for the road maintenance program
has also been based on preliminary quotations. In the absence of realistic
maintenance costs, the recurrent cost of the four-year maintenance program
has been based on the consultants' provisional recommendations for unit
maintenance allocations for different types of road.
4.23      The cost of the rehabilita-tion and operation of w^yorkshop facilities
has been based on preliminary quotations for equipment, on estimates for
repairs to existing buildings and on tentative staffing requirements.
Estimates of cost for the pilot programs and for the implementation of iniven-
tory and costing procedures have been based chiefly on the cost of the
equipment required, (testing and surveying equipment for the pilot programs,
processing equipment for the inventory and costing procedures). The estimate
of cost for the teclmical support has been based on rates obtaining in the
current Highwiay Services.
4.24      Disbursement under the proposed credit would be made generally on
the basis of 100% of the c.i.f. cost of imported equipment and materials
required for the project net of all taxes and local charges, and of the
foreign exchange payments made to the c cnsultants providing the technical
support. Assuming that the credit would be signed about JTune 1969, annual.
requirements of foreign currency under the credit would be as follows:
Bank/IDA financial years    1969/70   1970/71   1971/72   1972/73   Total
Amount (US$ million)           16.4      9.1        1.9       o.6      28.0



-20-
in the event of savings under the credit, consideration should be giJven to
procurement of additional road maintenance equipment to be agreed at the time
between the Government and the Association.
I. Project Execution
4.25      The project is expected to be completed in about four years, the
critical element being the rehabilitation program. The authority responsible
for project execution would be the Directorate-General of Highway ConstrmctiorŽ.
4.26      Procurement of equipment and materials would be phased.  After
workshops are cleared and repaired, first priority would be procurement of
workshop equipment, implementation of stores and inventory procedures and
retention of consultants for technical support.  Thereafter, with workshops
operational and inventoly procedures effective, equipment for the rehabili-
tation and maintenance programs would be procured. All equipment and
materials, with the exception of hand tools for the workshops, would be
procured under standard Bank/IDA procedures. In the interests of speedy
rehabilitation of the workshop facilities, hand tools for the workshops,
estimated to cost in total about US$75,000, would be procured by local
competitive bidding.
4.27      Providing that a satisfactory contract could be negotiated between
the Govermnent and the consultants, experts for the technical support would
be provided by IMIPSAX/Berger, the firm currently carrying out the Highway
Services. Such a contractual arrangement would have the advantages (a) that
in the period before the end of the Highway Services (scheduled to terninate
at the end of 1970), the operations of the Services and the technical
support could be integrated under the direction of a single firm; (b) that
in the period after the end of the High-way Services the technical support
contract would provide the means whereby key personnel w-orking under the
Services, whom it may be desirable to retain for a further period, could be
transferred between contracts without interruption of the services  on site.
4.28      Procurement, receipt, issue and accounting of equipment and spares
would be the responsibility, at national level, of the Directorate of
Eauipment Supply (part of tlhe Directorate-General of Highway Construction
- see Chart) wrhich would be augmented for the task from within the IPW, and
which would receive additional assistance from the experts provided under the
Highway Services and under the proposed technical support. At provincial
level these operations, also the rehabilitation and running of workshops,
would be the responsibility of the provincial works organizations assisted
by the experts assigned to the workshops in each province under technical
support.
4.29      The road rehabilitation program in the five selected provinces
would be executed departmentally, since the work, by its nature being widely
scattered and not easily quantifiable, is unsuitable for normal contract pro-
cedure. The staff in the provinces selected wqould be augmented as required for
the execution of the program by reallocation of personnel within the central and



-21-
provincial works organizations, and would be assisted by the experts
provided under the proposed technical support. The maintenance program
would be executed by the provincial iworks organizaticns, likewise assisted
by the proposed technical support, Costing of all work, both in the work-
shop and on site, would be introduced progressively in all 20 provinces
covered by the project.
4.30      The pilot programs, currently being formulated as part of the
Highway Services, would be executed by the works organizations of the three
provinces selected, augmented as necessary fram within the central and
provincial work organizations. The programs would be supported initially
by the consultants for the Highway Services and later by the technical
support provided under the project.



-22-
5. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. General
5.01      The tasks facing Indonesia in the transport sector are to prevent
the further deterioration of a basically well planned and generally adequate
network, to improve the managerial and operating efficiency of the principal
agencies involved and to make some new investments to meet particularly
pressing needs. Since the resources, capital and human, to achieve these
objectives are limited, a careful ordering and balancing of priorities is
necessary. The Government has decided to put the greatest emphasis on
rehabilitating the road system and improving managerial and executive
capacity in the railways, ports, etc.  mis priority to the road sector is
appropriate for at least two sound economic reasons. First, deteriorating
road conditions,by increasing transport costs,inhibit the marketing of
agricultural produce; in some cases the physical deterioration of roads has
gone so far as to cut off producing areas from their markets entirely.
Secondly, if increased expenditures are not made on the road system, it will
physically deteriorate at an increasing rate and result in both earlier
and greater capital investment for reconstruction.
5.02      In addition to investments in equipment for rehabilitation and
maintenance, the project includes technical and organization support by
consultants to the highway administration. It is not possible to attribute
any direct benefits to the expenditures for these consultants' services.
They are, however, fundamental to the provision of executive capacity,
without which this project and future rehabilitation and development could
not be undertaken.
B. Rehabilitation
5.03      The immediate objective of the proposed project is to rehabilitate
109 road sections totalling about 3,000 kmi,or one-quarter of the total length
included in the national road rehabilitation program that has been prepared
by the consultants, KAIPSAX/Berger.  For purposes  of the economic evaluation,
rehabilitation costs have been assessed to include an allowance for equipment
depreciation, expenditures for labor and materials, and admi.n'strative over-
heads. Accordingly, rehabilitation costs for the roads included in this
proposed project would be Rp. 9.23 billion or US$28.3 million equivalent,
while the total estimated cost for the larger and longer run national road
rehabilitation program is estimated to be Rp. 37.2 billion or US$114 million
equivalent.
5.04      These overall rehabilitation needs of Indonesia's road system are
so large that rational phasing and concentration of effort are esscntial.
The project, therefore, concertrates on immediate rehabilitation work in
the five provinces, Woest and East Java, South and West Sumatra and South
Sulawesi, in which the amount of rehabilitation work on roads of highest



-23-
priority is sufficiently big to ensure full utilization of large equipment
teams.  These teams are not divisible without        incurring    substantial
diseconomies of operation.
5.05        The average daily traffic on the road sections selected for inclusicr.
in the project is generally in tthe higher category of traffic densities. However,
the project does include a number of roads which at present have little or no
traffic; these roads which were formerly of local importance, generally for
agriculture, are now so difficult to negotiate as to be almost, if not entirely,
impassable. On these roads traffic generation can be expected in the first
year after road rehabilitation since production surpluses are available for
marketing. Cn most of the other roads normal traffic growth is expected to
be resumed with the recovery of the economy. Taking into account the
economic potential of specific regions, the consultants have estimated that
this nonral growth of traffic will usually be between 5 and 7% p.a. In the
view  of the Rosident Staff in Indonesia,   these estimates are reasonable.
5.o6       The cost of road transport in Indonesia is unquestionably high.
This, among other things, is due to the use of vehicles with small load capa-
cities. An analysis is currently being undertaken by KA191SAX/Berger to see
whether it would be economical to increase the  load  capacity of the
existing road system substantially in the future. In the meantime, signifi-
cant benefits can be obtained mmrely by rapairing   existing roads.  The
benefits attributed to the project, therefore, are only savings in vehicle
operating costs from the improvement of pavement conditions. In the course
of making the highway inventory, the consultants have classified all road
links,according to surface condition,in five major groups for each pavement
type.  Tablesll and 1p show the cost of operating average size (3.5 t) trucks
and cars on good surfaces. The costs (excluding taxes) per vehicle-Im of
Rp. 20.5 (US¢6.3) for trucks and buses and Rp. 7.3 (U.502.2) for cars relate
only to surface conditions and do not take account of other factors such as
gradients, degree of curvature, etc.
5.07       Tables 13 andl1  show how these operating costs per vehicle-km
vary with the different surface conditions; for example, on very poor quality
asphalt roads (Condition 5) the operating cost for trucks has been estimated
by the consultants at Rp. 51.4 (US¢ 15.8).  The priorities of rehabilitating
particular roads were derived on the basis of first year benefit-cost ratios;
these ratios compare rehabilitation costs with the benefits accruing in
the year immediately after completion of the investment by improvement from
one surface condition to another.  In those cases where traffic is minimal
or has stopped, the net added value of generated goods traffic has been
taken as the primary benefit.
5.08       This method is acceptable for priority ranking and for making a
preliminary selection of roads for investments. There are about 6,000 km
of roads in Indonesia for which the benefits in the first year exceed half the
investment costs.  However, due to financial and acbdinistrative constraints,
the project is limited to five provinces and covers about 3,000 km of these
roads.



-24-
For purposes of the economic analysis of the roads in the project
a comparison of costs and benefits over a period of seven years has been
undertaken. This period corresponds to the time interval between the need
for rehabilitation now and the likely time in the future for major improve-
ment or reconstruction. In the present conditions of Indonesia, it is
extremely difficult to associate particular levels of vehicle operating costs
with each category of road condition; available data are scarce and unreliable.
When the surface of an asphalt road is corrugated or so completely broken up
that truck speeds do not exceed 15 km/h, the cost of operating a vehicle becormes
extremely high and, indeed, may be double the cost of operating on a normal
asphalt pavement. While there is no information available to question the
potential savings which the consultants attribute to rehabilitating roads
in particular conditions (see Tables 13 and 14), it is considered prudent
to reduce them by an arbitrary 50% to provide a measure of safety which
eliminates the risk of over-estimating the benefits.
5.10       This substantial reduction in benefit estimates does not alter
the basic justification of the project. The internal rates of return for
the investment exceed 15% in all cases, and the weighted average rate of
return for the investments on 109 road sections is over 40%. Rehabilitatior
of the roads selected is therefore clearly justified.
C. kiaintenance
5.11       The project also provides for the acquisition of maintenance
equipment for 20 provinces at a total cost of US$5.6 million. This will
permit resumption of normal maintenance operations on about 5,000 km of roads
which are either not   maintained or are under-maintained.  The provincial
highway administration will select the particular road sec-tions involved
under guidance from the technical advisors to be appointed as part of the
project.
5.12       The benefits to be expected from the expenditures for maintenance
consist mainly of reductions in vehicle operating cost, which depend on
present surface conditions and traffic volumes of particular roads selected.
Experience by the Bank Group with maintenance projects in other countries
shows that improved maintenance generally results in reductions of vehicle
operating costs of at least 15%. This does not take account of any increase
in existing vehicle operating costs which would result if maintenance opera-
tions were continued with the present limited equipment and inefficient
techniques, and which as a result of the project expenditures will be avoided.
5.13       The internal rates of return on the investments for improved
maintenance would exceed 20% in those cases where traffic volumes exceed 200
vehicles per day.  Sinco most of the roads which w-ould be maintained carry
more than 200 vehicles, the proposed investments for inproved maintenance
are considered adequately justified. The proposed investnent of US$5.6
million in any case, represents only about 7% of the country's ultimate re-
quirement for highway maintenance equipment.



-25-
5.14      There is room for additional refinement in methodology and data,
but more exact quant-iication of the rate of return on the pro;ject imuld
require costly and time-consLuing research or, vehicle operating costs,
maintenance expenditure and investment costs for future reconstruction and
improvements. While the present analysis does not fully assess the rate of
return on the project, it demonstrates, based on the available data, the
urgency of the proposed investments. In view of the high returns, it would
not be economical to await the results of more refined research while the
erosion of a significant amount of capital in Indonesiats roads continues.



-26-
6. RECOMMENDATIONS
6,01       During credit negotiations agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(i) the need to consider the recommendations of the Transport
Coordination Advisory Team when formulating transport
policy, (para. 2.22);
(ii) the need to schedule rehabilitation, throughout the country,
generally in accordance with the priorities established by
the consultants as part of the current Highway Services,
(para. 3.16),
(iii) the need to base allocations for maintenance of national and
provincial roads on the consultantsf recommendations,
(para. 3.17);
(iv) the need to attract and retain additional trained staff
for the planning, engineering and execution of highway work,
both in the central and provincial works organizations,
(Tparas. 3.20 and 3.23);
(v) the need to utilize Army engineer units, surplus to operational
requirements, on road work of high economic priority which is
outside the scope of the project, (para. 3.27).
6.02       The proposed project provides a suitable basis for a credit of
US$28 million equivalent to the Government of Indonesia.
June 3, 1969



IND.ONSIA-HIGH! PROJECT
1)
THE PUBLIC HIGHWAY S!STES  (July 1968)
Area                       Population (1968)
by region   % of national   by region   % of national   Province           National Roads        Provincial Roads             County Roads             Total
Region                   (km )      area             {sS(1io'a)  population                             (km)                   (km)                       (km)                 (km)
J a v a                132,000            7            74.8          65.o         (Djakarta               -                     450
(West Java            620                  1,850                       4,970
(Central Java         410                  1,800                       6,680
(Jogjakarta            30                    110                         740
(East Java            520                  2.690                       6,930
1,580         +        6,900           +         19,320         -       27,800
(Atjeh   -490                              1,040                       3,540
(North Sumatra        790                  2,390                       3,540
(West Sumatra         570                   1,080                      1,890
Sumatra                 474,000           25            18.6          16.2         (Riau                   90                    660                        840
(Djambi               430                    570                         610
(South Sumatra  )     660                  3,470                       2,760
(Bengkulu       )
(Laung                24                      10                       2.250
3,270         +        9,720           +         15,430         .       28,420
(Weat Kalimentan      450                    990                         500
Kalimantan              539,000           28             4.8           4.2         (Central Kalimantan     80                     80                         50
(Indonesian                                                                       (South Kalimantan      280                    490                      1,800
Borneo)                                                                          (East Kalimantan       200                    220                         70
1,010         +        1,780           +          2,420         .        5,210
(North Sulavesi       720                    380                          80
Sulawesi (Celebes)      189,00'           10             8.4           7.3         (Central Sulawesi      600                    610                      3,420
(South Sulawesi       580                  1,230                       2,180
(South-East Sulawesi  190                    2Lo                      1.620
2,090         +        2,460           +          7,300         '       11,850
The Principal                                                                      (Bali                  390                    310                      1,050
Smaller                94,000            5             7.5           6.5         (West-Nusa Tenggara   490                      70                      1,710
Islands                                                                          (East-Nusa Tenggara 1,230                     340                      1,350
(Naluku                80                     220                      __Q
2,190         +         940            +          4,650         -        7,780
West Irian
(Indonesian            422,000           22             0.9           0.8         West Irian             -                      880                         -                     880
New Guinea)
TOlTAL                1,850,000           97 2/        115.0  3/    100.0                              10,140         +       22,680           +         49,120         .       81,940
Notes  I/ Excluding municipal roads (totalling about 2,0DO km).
g/ The total lard area of Indomsia, incluVing numerous smaller islands not in the above
grouping, is aPProximately 1,904,000 km .
3 Population figures derived by applying the estimated annual growth rate of 2.4% to the 1961 census figures.
Sources: Area & population statistics: "I2DoNESIA, FACTS & FIWURES" - Indonesian Acadean of Statistics (1967).
Highway statistics: Directorate-General of Higbway Construction, 15inistry of Public Works & Electric Power.
April 29, 1969



TABLE 2
INDONESIA - HIGHWAY PROJECT
THE  PUBLIC HIGTHAY SYSTEM
DESIGN LOAD-CARRYING CAPACITY
Class     Design       National Roads    Provincial Roads  County  Roads  Total Systcn
Axle-Load-        )                                   m2)
(Metric Tons)   kma2)       %2)                  %    k          %    ki)2) 
about                          abuut
I        7.00           70      1          50         1/4      -      -       120   1/7
II        5.00        1,230     12       1,250         6         -     -     2,480   3
III        3.50        3,200      32      9,000        h1         -     -    12,200  15
II-A      2.75        1,900     19       h,000        18         -     -     5,900   7
IT        2.00        2,000      20      7,000        32         -     -     9,000  11
3/
v        1.50        1,600     16         700         3    50,000   100   52,300  6hl
10,000    100      22,000       100    50,000   100   82,000 10G
1/  The works organizationst procedures for determining pavement strength are
conservative, and the above figures may therefore be pessimistic; the weight
and volume of traffic using the system confirms this. (Pavement strength
is, in any case, affected by the moisture condition below the pavement and
would undoubtedly be improved by simple works designed to eliminate the
more serious defects of the surface drainage system, (para. 3.03).  The
load-carrying capacity of the bridges is generally compatible with that of
the road of which they form part, but the weights of vehicles using the
bridges indicate that bridge classification, too, may be unduly pessimistic.
2/  Lengths' rounded to accord with the approximate total length of the system,
(para. 3.01).
3/ The classification of county roads as rV reflects primarily the strength of
the bridges only, since 90% county roads are unpaved (Table 3) and
pavement strength is not meaningful unless ambient conditions are specified,
Source: Directorate-General of Highway Construction, Ministry of Public
,Jorks and Power.
April 29, 1969



TABLE 3
iNDONiSIA - HIGHilAY PiOJECT
THE PUBLIC HIGHWAY SYSTEM
Analysis by Type of Surface
National        Provincial        CQunty           Total
Roads            Roads           Roads
Km)        %     Km 1)      %    Km 1)     %       Km 1)
Asphalt
Concrete      150       1.5                                       150    0.2
I'aved (Bitumiinous  4,500     45.o    8,000    36.4   3,000   10.0   15,500  18.9
Surface
Treatment
Un- (Gravel      5,35o       53.5   12,000    54.5  16,500   31.0   33,850  1i.3
Pav9ed
(Earth         -         -       2,000     9.1  30,500   59.0   32,500  39.6
10,000     100.0   22,000   100.0  50,000  100.0   82,000 100.0
1)  Lengths  rounded to accord with approximate total length of system
(para. 3.01)
Source: Directorate-General of Highway Construction;
Ministry of Public Works and ?o.-er
April 29, 1969



TABLE 4
InDONESIA - HIGI!AY PROJECT
VEHICLE FLEET 1/
Cars         Buses         Trucks         Total
1961                129,300      17,800          70,000        217,100
1962                123,400      16,800          66,000        207,200
1963                127,800      18,200          69,200        215,200
1964                  n.a.        n.a.            n.a.           n.a.
1965                166,800      18,400          84,700        269,900
1966                179,500      19,600          92,900        292,000
1967                185,000      18,800          94,900        298,700
1/ Excluding Armed Forces
Source:  Central Bureau of Statistics
April 29, 1969



TA BL
INDONESIA - HIGHWAY PRIOJECT
VEiHICLE FLEET -  REGIONAL DISTRIJUTION
1965-1968
Year       Cars        Bases       Trucks         Total
1.  J a v a            1965    129,957         8,606      50,222       188,785
1966    139,787        9,315       56,478       205,580
1967    144,107        8,329       57,311       209,747
…________    - ----------------------------------------------------------------
2.  Sumatra            1965     24,514         7,916      23,328        55,758
1966     26,632        8,328       25,055        60,015
1967     27,509        8,297       25,446        61,252
-------------------------------------------------------------__------------
3.  Sulawesi           1965       3,433          718       4,334          8,485
1966      3,492          820        4,188         8,500
1967      3,770          947        5,381        10,098
…____________________________________       ____________________________________
4.  Kalimantan         1965       3,881          311       3,248          7,440
1966      4,305          265        3,484         8,o54
1967      4,210          322        3,187         7,719
…------------------------------------------- -----._        -_ -___ -__ ----__ ---------
5.  Other Islands   1965          5,o60          863        3,522         9,445
1966      5,278           856       3,686         9,820
1967      5,358           945       3,567         9,870
6.  Total              1965   166,845          18,414    84,654        269,913
Indonesia         1966   179,494          19,584    92,891         291,969
1967   184,954         18,840      94,892       298,686
Source:  Central Bureau of Statistics
April 29, 1969



TABLE 6
INDONESIA - HIGiMAY PROJECT
ROAD TRANSPORT FUEL CONSUPITION
Gasoline (M4etric tons)            Dieselfuel (Mietric Tons)
'000                                '000
Java   Sumatra  Other   Total         Java   Sumatra   Other   Total
1962   n.a.     n.a.    n.a.   1,235         n.a.     n.a.    n.a.    746
1963   n.a.     n.a.     n.a.   1,233       si.a.     n.a.     n.a.    895
1964   n.a.     n.a.    n.a.       872       n.a.     n.a.    n.a.    800
1965    958      182       57   1,198         186      255        36 1,107
1966    925      226       52   1,399         590      238        45    873
1967  1,006      280        50   1,336        422      238        47    707
1968 1,053       315       56   1,423        h03       259        42    705
1/ Including Armed Forces
Source: Pertamina
April 29, 1969



I2WYN1SIA - HIGThAX PROJECT
Road Rehabilitation Teasa and Eouipmsnt
1. Each provincial rehabilitation teem comprioes a number of different sub-teama equipped to csrry out: (i) pavemsnt renewal; (ii) pavement resealing; (iii) uinpaved road rehabil.itation;
(iv) stone production; or (v) bridge repair. The specific cinpemnt of sub-teems in any provincial rehabi-litation team is determined by: (a) the length of roads to be rehabilitated;
and (b) the nature of thm roads (for example, paved or unpaved).
2. The principal items of ecpipment for each of tke sub-teams are typically as fbllows 
PavementRenewal  1  21  ).        --3         -     2      32         --6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1~*    11                          A 8:  1111-
StoneProduction    -     --         -~~~~~ ~~ ~~~ 21  -      -   1-1                                                    72   -1          
PaivemetRepeal                        21           -    -          3    - 8 1   2    3   2     -8-1 1                              4   4 4                                             8- 
~/These scales of equipment represent the operaticnal requirementsr af the soub-teams; the eq1ipmsnt to be procured under the projesct represents these scales of equipment less existing
eqaipment which is, or could econosdcaLlly be made, operational.
~/The se sub-teams  will also correct deficiencies in shoulder grade and compaction and in the surface water drainage system, as part of the pavezent renewelresealing operation.
Composition of the rehabilitation teams in the five provinices selected is as follows:
Province 
Pavement Renewalava    ies J1                      1 Sot  1u r        Wes  S1ta        SuhSlws
Pavemenit Renewalln              1             1               1               1 
Unpaved Road                     -             -               1               2                 1
Stone Prodoction                 2             2              2                2                 2
Bridge Repair                                 -3              1                2                 3
Lengths to be      )paved    763             883            344              306                4
*.rehabilitated under)
project (km)       ) unpaved    -              -              83             252               348
The average cost of equipmsnt to be procured for each of the five provincial road rehabilitation teems (that is, net of existing operational equipment in the provinces) is in the oirder
of US$2.25 million equivalent, c.i.f. Djakarta and including 20% of basic cost for inital supply of spaes.
ray 13, 1096



TNfNESIA - HIGHWAY  PROJELT
Ecuipment for Ureent Provincial Road Maintenance
Urgent road maintenance equipment needs vary between provinces depending on the extent of the highway system in the province (Table 1),
and on the amDunt of existing equipment which coald be made operational. This Table sets oat the allocation far road maintenance
equipment under the project, for each of the 20 provinces with significant higbway maintenance problems, and indicates the principal
items of equipment to be provided under the project.
MAINTENANCE EQUIPMHNT ALLOCATION BY PROVINCE                           PRINCIPAL ITEM OF EQUIPMENT TO BE PROVIEB
Allocation under project
Region          Province         for maintenance eoUipment                          Item                                 MOL.
(US$ million)
Java            West Java                  0.45                          Truck-mounted asphalt distributor                7
Central Java               0.30                          Asphalt heating tank (stationary)               67
Jogjakarta                 0.10                          Compressor (wmall) and to.ol let                33
East Java                  0.10                          Concrete Mixer                                  34
Pick-an                                        60
Sumatra         Atjeh                       0.36                         Compreasor (large) and toola set                 9
North Sumatra              0.20                           _haical Shovel, iheeled                        13
West Sumatra               0.35                          Hotorgrader,  0o H.P.                           28
Riau                       0.24                          puJ(L")                                         35
Djambi                     0.36                           r.a h1ng and Screening Plant                    2
South Sumatra              0.30                          Chip *preadei 4
Bengkulu                   0.28                          Dump Truck                                     150
Lampung                    0.36                          Flat-bed truck                                 14
Truck with Crane                               55
Kalimantan      West Kalimantan             0.40                         Concrete vibrator                               83
(Indonesian     South Kalimantan           0.40                          Welding set                                      8
Borneo)      East Kalimantan            o.40o                          ase ~aRdo                                      20
Satellite radio                               100
Sulawesi        North Sulawesi             0.10                          Generating Set                                   6
(Celebes)       South Sulawesi             0.30
The Principal   Bali                       0.10
Small Islands  West-Nusa Tenggara           0.25
East-Nusa Tenggara         0.25
TOTAL      5.60
June 3, 1969



TABLE 9
INDONESIA - HIGHWIAY PROJECT
Provincial Workshop Rehabilitation
Details and Cost Estimate
Major items of equipment               Association            Government
to be supplied per provincial          Financing             Contribution
wor__S __op                               US$                Rp. (million)
Lathe and attachments            )
Floor drill press                )
Floor dual grinder               )
Bench-mounted drill press        )
Bench-mounted dual grinder       )
Work benches complete (3 No.)   )
Hand operated hydraulic press   )       40,000
Mobile arc-welder                )
Mobile gas-welder                )
Pourer shears                    )
Power hacksaw                    )
Air compressor                   )
Fuel injection pressure tester )
Battery charging equipment       )
Hand tools                               3,750
Stationary oil and greasing equipment   8,000
Total for one workshop                  51,750
Total for 20 workshops               1,035,000
Contingency item for additional
equipment                            165,000
Repairs to existing buildings                                    65
Running costs (personnel, materials,
overheads)over 4-year period                                  520
US$ 1,200,000
lMay 13, 1969



TABLE 10
INDONESIA - HIGHWAY PROJECT
Technical Support - Details and Cost Estimate
Association              Government
Financing              Contribution
Personnel (all for a 2-year period)   US$   llion)            Rp (millions)
(a)  2 No. experts in each of
20 provinces                      2.88
(b)  5 No. quarrying experts              0.4o
(c) 3 No. Enginering Geologists/
Zaterials Engineers               0.27
(d) Directing a Coordinating
Team (3 experts)                  0.32
(e) Subsistence for
(a) through (d) above                                       207
Support Costs
(f)  Air Travel
International                     0.17
Internal                         0.18
(g) M4iscellaneous requirements           0.21                       33
(vehicles, shipping costs,
portable testing equipment)
Contingency                               o.57                        21
5.00                      261
Yay 13, 1969



TABTLE 11
INDONESIA - HIGHWAY PROJECT
Operating Cost of a Representative (3.5 ton capacity)
Truck on a Flat Paved Road*
Rupahs
with taxes    net of taxes
1.  Basic Data and Assumptions
Cost of Vehicle                                 2,040,000     1,600,000
Cost of one set of tires                          120,000       114,oo0
Average gross vehicle weight: 6.5-7 metric tons
Average vehicle life         : 5 years
Average annual mileage       : 60,000 km
Average tire life            : 75,000 km
Average time in use per year: 2,000 hours
2.  Fixed Costs Per Year
Depreciation                                      102,000         80,000
Interest                                          216,000       171.,400
Insurance                                          70,000        58,000
Driver and Assistant                              280,000        280s000
License; Yearly Taxes                              11,600           -
Overheads                                         195,000        195,000
Total Fixed Costs per Year                        87h,600       784.,400
Fixed Cost per Hour in Use                            437            390
Fixed Costs per km                                      6.o6           5,36
3.  Running Costs per km
Depreciation                                            5,10           4.00
Fuel                                                    4°00           4.00
Oil and Iubricants                                      0.18           0.15
Tires and Tubes                                         1.60           1.52
l4aintenance:  Labor                                    o.69           0.69
Parts                                     6.70          4.80
Total Running Cost per km                              18.27         15.16
4.  Total Cost per Im at a Vehicle Speed
of 72 Ioam/hr                                          24.33          20.52
* For operating costs on other types and canditions of road, see Table 14.
June 2, 1969



TABLE 12
INBONESIA - HIGHWAY PROJECT
OPERATING COST OF A REPRESENTATIVE CAR
ON A FIAT PAVED ROAD*
Rupiahs
1.  Basic Data and Assumptions                   with taxes       net of taxes
Vehicle Cost                                  1,875,000        750,000
Cost of one set of Tires                         28,000         26,500
Average net weight:                1360 kg
Average vehicle life:              10 years
Average annual mileage:            15,000 km
Average tire life                  50,000 km
Average time in use per year:      1,000 hours
2. Fixed Costs per year
Depreciation                                     93,750          37,500
Interest                                        190,300          77,650
Insurance                                        32,400         13,500
License; Yearly Taxes                             9,700           ---
Total Fixed Costs per year                      326,150         128,650
Fixed Cost per Hour in Use                          326            129
Fixed Cost per km                                     h.03            1.57
3.  Xunning Cost per km
Depreciation                                          6.25            2.50
Fuel                                                  1.60            1.60
Oil and lubricants                                    0.12            0.10
Tires and Tubes                                       o.56            0.53
Maintenance:  Labor                                   0.19            0.19
Parts                                   1.15           0.82
Running Cost per km                                   9.87            5.74
4. Total Cost per km at a Vehicle Speed
of 80 km/hour                                        13.90            7.31
* For operating costs on other types and conditions of road, see Table 13.
June 2, 1969



INDONESIA - HIGHWAY PROJECT
Operating Cost of  a Representative Car
on Various Road Surface and Condition
Bituminous Road in                 Gravel Road in                Earth Road in
Condition 1/                       Condition                    Condition
1*    2+3   h     5      6+7   1     2+3   4      5     6+7   1+2+3 1+5   6+7
TI11E COSTS Rp. per kma         1.57  1.81  2.04  2.44         1.81  2.o5  2.ho  2.52            2.05  2.75
PUMNING COSTS, Rp. per km
Depreciation                 2.50  2.88  3.62  4.50         2.90  3.25  3.75  b.50            3.25  4.75
Fuel and Lubricants          1.70  1.95  2.21  2.55         1.95  2.21  2.38  2.55            2.21  3.40
Tires and Tubes              0.53  0.64  0.93  1.85         0.61  0.69  0.93  1.85            0.69  1.85
Maintenance and Repair       1.01  1.16  1.46  1.82         1.16  1.31  1.52  1.82            1.31  1.92
SUBTOTAL                     5.7h  6.63  8.22 10.72         6.62  7.46 -8.58 10.72            7.46 11.92
TOTAL COSTS, Rp. per km
7.31  8.4h 10.26 13.16 22.-   8.43  9.51 10.98 13.24  22.-    9.51 i4.67  22.-
1/  Condition   1  =  Good                    4  =  Corrugated                      6+7  =  Impassable to all but
2+3  =  Some Potholes, fair   5  =  Rutted, Breaking up                       4-Wheel drive  vehicles
*   See Table 12
April 29, 1969



INDONESIA - HIGHIAY PROJECT
Operating Costs, without taxes, of a Acprosontative (3.5 ton capacity) Truck
on Various iioad  Su.rface 'rypos arld Conditions
, pi±ah/km)
Bituminous Road in                 Gravel Road in                 Earth Road in
Condition 1/                      Condition                      Condition
1*   2+3   4       5     6+7   1      2+3   4      5      6+7   1+2+3    4+5   6+7
TINE COSTS, Rp. per km        5.36  6.86  8.56  13.40         6.96  8.04  9.75  13.40            8.o5  13.4o
RUNNING COSTS, Rp. per km
Depreciation               4.oO0  5.00  7.20  10.00        5.00  6.00  7J.40  10.00           6.00  11.00
Fuel and Lubricants        4.15  4.97  6.22   7.46         4.97  6.20  6.65   7.46            6.21  11.20
Tires and Tubes            1.52  1.98  3.04   6.85          1.82  2.28  3.04   6.85           2.28   6.85
Maintenance and Repair     5.49  6.85  9.90  13.70          6.85  8.24  9.90  13.70           8.24  15.10
SUBTOTAL                  15.16 18.80 26.36  38.01        18.64 22.72 26.99  38.01           22.73  4h.15
TOTAL COSTS, Rp. per km
20.52 25.66 34.92  51.41 82.-  25.60 30.76 36.84  51.41 82.-   30.78  57.55   82.-
1/ Condition    1  = Good                        4  = Corrugated                  6+7  a  Impassable to all but
2+3  =  Some Potholes, fair        5  =  Rutted, Breaking up                4-Mheel drive  vehicles   0
i- See Table 11
tpri1 29, 1969



INDONFSIA - HIHWAI PROJECT
oRGANIZATION OF THE CDTRAL AND PROVINCIAL LORIS ORGDIIZLTIONS
IN RELATION TO HIGWi AIMINISThlION
PROVINCIAL COVIIETS
Yinistry of Public Works & Electric Power
Secretariat
Director-General of        Director-General of    Directorl-General of      Director-General of        Director-General of
Irrigation              Housing & Building       Heavy Equipment         Higbaay Construction       Power & Electricity                                         Governor
Director of       Director of      Director of        Director of          Director of    Director of
Corstruction      Asphalt State    Soils &            Maintenance &        RAqipment       Planning &
nterprise        Investigations     RehabiUitatiol      Supp)j           Survey
%. _   _    _ _ _-   -    -    -     - -  -                    _   _   Provincial Engineer
(liaism on matters relating to
national roads in the poic)(responLsible for irrigation,roads
rational roacs irl the provirce)             and buildings within province)
April 29, 1969



no                                                              OO                                                            I3O                                                            14O
THP 
44t    000                                                                                                                                                                                  4114  400
3J-d
.                                -                   A          -Y
N ONSIA
MMAYA
NOO CIMPUN                                                                                                                                                                                                  HIGHWAY  PROJECT
004
.1
ooo,oooo        8ORNEO
I                                   ___
I
-p                                                  0                                                                                                                           00
__                                                                                                                      
N <                                                                                                                     WEST
IRISN
4 ?O0O1OC$ 54401400  00 NO   00$  I  yOz                 -    K.
10400000 O00WN41OT0AN        N  0 O 0    000 0 0  0110
AtoP 100005000 00000300     03  90000       0$ o    -
03000000                                                     -
ON   -                    .    -      -     -       --          I
004      20       NON         0      500        0   000  09o-'00o                                                                                                             00400
1.
0011151                     Id0                                                              1100                                                            1001



