RESTRICTED
Report No. P-712
FLE COPY
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
HIGHWAY PROJECT
June 5, 1969



114TEPNTATIONt1 DEVELOFT'Eim ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECO1I{NDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR A HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Indonesia in an amount in various
currencies equivalent to   $28.0 million for a highway project in Indone-
sia.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.       The Government of Indonesia has asked for an IDA credit chiefly
to help finance the rehabilitation of high-priority roads and the improve-
ment of road maintenance. This would be the first credit for the trans-
port sector in Indonesia. It arises from the first phase of an investiga-
tion financed by the UNDP ("1968-70 Highway Services") for which the Bank
is Executing Agency. The project was appraised in March and April 1969.
3.       Negotiations for the proposed credit took place from May 19 to
May 23, 1969. The Borrower was represented by: Mr. Sarsono, Director
General of Highway Constructicn, Ministry of Public Works and Power; Mr.
Karnadi, Director of Planning, Directorate-General of Highway Construc-
tion; Xr. Soehono, Chief, Communications Bureau, BAPPENAS; Mr. S. Sundaru,
Director of International Affairs, Ministry of Finance; Mr. Miunding
Hidajat, Directorate-General of Highway Construction, Ministry of Public
Works and Power; and Mr. Dahlan Ibrahim, First Secretary (Econ.), Embassy
of Indonesia.
4.       Assuming that the proposed credit for agricultural estates
rehabilitation and development is also approved, this would be the fourth
credit to Indonesia. The following is a summary statement of IDA credits
to Indonesia as of May 31, 1969:
Amount $ Million
Credit
No.    Year   Borrower    Purpose                     IDA Undisbursed
127     1968   Indonesia   Irrigation                  5.0     5.0
Rehabilitation
135     1968   Indonesia   Technical                   2.0     2.0
Assistance
Total                                            7.0      7.0



5.       Apart from the proposed credit for the rehabilitation of
agricultural estates in North Sumatra already referred to, further credits
are under consideration for a power distribution project in Djakarta and
for the expansion of the Pusri fertilizer plant and related gas supply
facilities.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSFD CREDIT
6.       Borrower:                     Republic of Indonesia
Amount:                       Various currencies equivalent to
$28.0 million.
Purpose:                      To rehabilitate high-priority
national and provincial roads; to
reduce the general deterioration
of the highway system by improved
maintenance and thus to postpone
the need for investment in new
construction; to provide the neces-
sary administrative and technical
organization for this project and
for future rehabilitation and deve-
lopment of the highway system; and
to provide training facilities for
all aspects of highway work and
administration.
Amortization:                 In 50 years with a 10-year period
of grace through semi-annual
instalrlKnts  commencing December 15,
1979, and ending June 15, 2019.
Each instalmont up to and includingz
payment due on June 15, 1989 to be
1/2 of 1 percent of such principal
amount and each instalmur-t there-
after to be 1-1/2 percent of such
principal.
Service Charge:               3/4 of 1 percent per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
7.       A detailed description of the project is given in the attached
appraisal report entitled "Indonesia: Appraisal of a Highway Project"
(p11-25 ) dated June 3, 1969.
8.       Although the Indonesian transport system is basically well planned
and would be adequate for the country's present needs if it were in sound
condition, all transport facilities are run down as a result of years of



- 3 -
neglected maintenance; the situation is aggravated by a general lack of
managerial expertise. A major effort by international and bilateral
agencies is being made to meet the most pressing needs, both technical
and administrative, within the transport sector.
9.       Riding quality on Indonesia's roads is consistently poor, and
inadequate maintenance, particularly of the drainage systems, is causing
widespread pavement failure. As a result, road transportation costs are
high and tend to inhibit agricultural production in particular. Some
important food producing areas are indeed already isolated from their
markets. Rehabilitation of the highway network is urgent, therefore, if
the countryts plans to increase food production are to materialize and
if large investments to replace broken-down roads are to be avoided in the
near future.
10.      The UIDP is financing a study (1il968-70 Highway Services"), for
which the Bank is Executing Agency, to determine investment priorities for
highways and to assist in planning an effective highway administration.
The consultants for the study, KAMPSAX (Denmark)/Louis Berger (U.S.A.),
investigated the condition of most of the important roads in the country
during the first phase of their work from December 1968 to April 1969.
As a result, they proposed in April a rehabilitation program covering
about 12,000 km of roads in 20 provinces, and at the same time defined
the most urgent investments required for this purposo.
11.      Technical and managerial constraints make it impracticable for
Indonesia to carry out the whole of the rehabilitation program at this
stage. The proposed project would therefore concentrate on the most
important rehabilitation needs in five provinces. Its impact would,
however, extend to 20 of the 26 provinces in Indonesia by virtue of the
proposed workshop and maintenance rehabilitation programs.   The remaining
six provinces do not have significant highway problems.
12.      The project would comprise the following operations:
- rehabilitation of about 3,000 km of roads in five provinces;
- improvement of routine and periodic road maintenance in those
five and a further 15 provinces;
- rehabilitation of workshops in the 20 provinces;
- pilot training and experimental programs for all phases of
highway work;
- implementation of inventory and costing techniques; and
- technical assistance to support these operations.
13.      Capital expenditure over the four-year project period would amouat
to US$h6.7 million equivalent.  The Association would finance imported



equipment, materials and the foreign exchange cost of technical assistance
required for the project totalling $28 million. The Government has agreed
to finance the local currency component of capital expenditures ($18.7
million equivalent) and would also meet the project's recurrent costs of
about $9.5 million equivalent, both would be spread over the four-year
project period and would together amount annually to less than two percent
of the Government development budget even at its present low level.
14.      The proposed rehabilitation work is widely scattered and is not
easily quantifiable in a form suitable for execution by contract; the
rehabilitation program would therefore be executed departmentally. The
Directorate-General of Highway Construction, one of the branches of the
Ministry of Public Works and Power, would execute the project on behalf
of the Government, Agreement has been reached on a framework for project
phasing and execution, and on the nature of the consultant services to be
made available at central and regional levels.
15.      Since rehabilitation would be limited to roads of the highest
priority, the rates of return on this part of the project would be very
favorable. The economic evaluation has been based on a comparison of
rehabilitation costs and the resulting reductions in vehicle operating
costs, excluding possible savings in maintenance expenditure and future
capital costs. On this basis, the weighted average rate of return on
the investment in rehabilitation is over 40 percent.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMIENTS AND AUTIIORITY
16.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Indonesia and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee pro-
vided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association and the text of a Resolution approving the proposed credit are
being distributed to the Ececutive Directors separately. The draft Deve-
lopment Credit Agreement follows the usual pattern for highway rehabilita-
tion projects.
PART V - THE ECONCGY
17.      The last economic report (EAP-5a) was circulated on May 16, 19695
The current economic situation in Indonesia is described in my report to
the Executive Directors today on the proposed credit for estates rehabili-
tation and development in Indonesia ( P-709).
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
18.      I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.



PART VII - RECOIMENDATION
19.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
June 5, 1969



