Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15994-KZ
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
REAL ESTATE REGISTRATION PILOT PROJECT
March 6, 1997
Agriculture, Industry and Finance Division
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQuIVALENTS
(as of December 30, 1996)
Currency Unit   =    Tenge
1   =    US$0.0149
USS1         Tenge 73.80
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Tenge per US$1
Period Average              End of Period
1993
November                       4.7                        4.7
December                       5.8                        6.3
1994
Quarter I                      12.7                       19.9
Quarter 11                     35.6                      42.9
Quarter III                    45.9                      48.0
QuarterIV                      51.1                      54.4
1995
Quarter I                      58.2                      61.2
Quarter II                     62.7                      63.4
Quarter III                    59.7                      59.9
Quarter IV                     62.9                      63.4
1996
Quarter I                      65.9                      65.1
Quarter II                     66.5                      67.2
WEIGH1TS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BTI           Bureau of Technical Inventory                 MOC       Ministry of Construction
CIS           Commonwealth of Independent States            MOJ       Ministry of Justice
CUFC          Committee for the Utilization of Foreign Capital  NBF   Non Bank Financed
FSU           Former Soviet Union                           PCR       Project Completion Report
GIS           Geographic Information System                 PIU       Project Inplementation Unit
Goskomzen    State Committee for Land Relations and Land    PPU       Project Preparation Unit
Management
GosNPCzem    State Scientific-Research Center for Land      RK        Republic of Kazakstan
ICB           International Competitive Bidding             SAL       Structural Adjustment Loan
IS           International Shopping                         SLC       State Committee for Land Relations
and Land Management
Kazgeodesia   Main Administration for Geodesy and Cartography    SOE  Statement of Expenditure
LAN           Local Area Network                            TOG       Technology Oversight Group
LARIS         Land Reform Implementation Support
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
-tlVice President:    Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Director:    Yukon Huang, EC3DR
',Division Chief:  Michael A. Gould, EC3AI
Staff:    Edward Cook, Vijay Vijayaverl, (EC3AI), Natasha Beisenova, (ECA3AA



- iii -
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
REAL ESTATE REGISTRATION PILOT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                                       Republic of Kazakstan
Implementing Agency:                            Ministry of Justice
Beneficiaries:                                  Ministry of Justice, State Land
Committee, Ministry of
Construction, holders of rights in
land and other real estate.
Poverty:                                        Not applicable
Amount:                                         US$10 million equivalent
Terms:                                          Payable in twenty years, including
five years of grace at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate for
currency pool loans.
Commitment Fee:                                 0.75 percent on undisbursed loan
balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan
US$ million
Financing Source                 Local        Foreign       Total
IBRD                              2.37          7.63        10.00
Government                        3.28           0           3.28
Total Project Costs               5.65         7.63         13.28
Staff Appraisal Report:                         15994-KZ
Map:                                            IBRD 28368
Project ID Number:                              46044






STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBIUC OF KAZAKSTAN
PILOT REAL ESTATE REGISTRATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
LO.AN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .....................................          .                         iii
I.     PROJECT BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE  .........................  1
A. Introduction ...............................................1
B. The Importance of Real Estate Registration Systems   .....................  1
C. Property Rights in Land and Real Estate in Kazakstan  ....................  1
D. Existing Institutional Framework  ............            .....................  2
E. Principles of Real Estate Registration  ..........         .....................  5
F. The New Registration System  .       ...................................  6
H.     RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT  ...........................  8
m.    BANK EXPERIENCE AND LESSONS  ..........                         .....................  9
A. Experience ........................................... 9
B. Lessons ..............................................                                  10
C. Lessons in the FSU  .........................................   10
IV.    THE PROJECT  ..........................................  12
A. Project Objectives ..........................................   12
B. Project Concept ..........................................    12
C. Project Components ..........................................  13
D. Project Outputs ...........................................   19
V.     PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING   .........                       .....................  20
A. Cost Estimates  ..........................................    20
B. Financing Plan  ..........................................    20
C. Flow of Funds  ..........................................    21
D. Cost Recovery  ..........................................    21
VI.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .                   .................................  22
A. Implementation Plan .................................. ...  22
B. Procurement ........................................                                    24
C. Disbursement . ..................................... 27
D. Accounting and Auditing .....................................   28
E. Project Monitoring and Reporting . ................................  28
F. Supervision  .............                  ........................  29



- jj -
VII.   KEY ASSUMPTIONS, RISKS, AND BENEFITS .                    .......................  30
A. Key Assumptions and Risks ....................................  30
B. Environmental Aspects ....................................    31
C. Benefits ............................................. 31
D. Beneficiaries . .................................... 32
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .33
TABLES
Table 5.1      Summary of Project Cost Estimate  .........          ..................... 20
Table 5.2      Financing Plan ........................................... 21
Table 6.1      Summary of Procurement Arrangements ........................... 25
Table 6.2      Disbursement Categories .     .................................... 27
ANNEXES
Annex A        Agreement on Inter-Agency Cooperation  .......................... 35
Annex B        Presidential Decree with force of law, "On State Registration
of Rights and Transactions in Real Estate" (Dec. 25, 1995) ....     .......... 37
Annex C        Terms of Reference for the Project Implementation Unit ................. 46
Annex D        Terms of Reference for the Core Consultant Team  .................... 52
Annex E        Terms of Reference for Training Programs ......................... 62
Annex F        Procurement Plan ......................................... 64
Annex G        Component Project Costs .     .................................... 65
Annex H        Implementation Schedule .     .................................... 68
Annex I        Performance Indicators  .    .................................... 72
Annex J        Supervision Plan  ......................................... 74
Annex K        Agency Organigrams . ...................................... 75
Annex L        List of Project Rayons . ...................................... 78
MAP            IBRD 28368
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that took place in July 1996 composed
of Messrs. Edward Cook (Task Manager), Knut Hansen, and Stephen Hodge (consultants). Other
members of the task team include Messrs. Gennady Pilch (LEGEC), Vijay Vijayaverl (EC3AI), and
Ms. Natalya Beisenova (EC3AA). Secretarial support was provided by Mmes. Kochhar, Hancock,
Chiniah, and Sehgal. Peer reviewers were Mmes. Brooks (AGRPW) and Kadiresan (EC1AE).
Mr. Michael Gould and Mr. Yukon Huang are the managing Division Chief and Department Director,
respectively, for the operation.



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
PILOT REAL ESTATE REGISTRATION PROJECT
I. PROJECT BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE
A. INTRODUCTION
1.1          The Government of Kazakstan has requested World Bank assistance to finance a pilot
project that will design and test models for the implementation of the real estate registration system called
for under the Presidential Decree with the force of law, "On State Registration of Rights and Transactions
in Real Estate" of December 25, 1995 (henceforth, the Registration Law). The proposed project will
be implemented in 34 rayons in Almaty and Akmola oblasts and in Almaty city. The primary counterpart
for the project will be the Ministry of Justice. In addition, the State Land Committee and the Ministry
of Construction will play important roles in implementation. The end objective of the pilot project will
be to provide a reliable foundation for the implementation of a real estate registration system on a national
basis. Contingent upon successful implementation of the pilot project, the World Bank would be prepared
to continue to assist the Government in the implementation of a larger project with the objective of
expansion of the real estate registration system nationwide.
B. THE IMPORTANCE OF REAL ESTATE REGISTRATION SYSTEMS
1.2          Registration systems, which authoritatively record the ownership of rights in land and real
estate, are an essential component of the economic infrastructure of market economies. Registration
systems serve as the single source of official information about rights in land and real estate, representing
formal recognition and confirmation of these rights by government authorities. Registration systems also
serve as the official means by which transactions in land and real estate are recorded and legally validated.
By bringing clarity, certainty, and authority to rights and transactions in land and real estate, registration
systems greatly enhance security of tenure. This encourages efficient use of resources and stimulates
long-term investment.  A large number of rights in land and real estate have been established in
Kazakstan. As the process of economic reform moves forward, the number of rights, and of transactions
involving those rights, will increase tremendously.
C. PROPERTY RIGHTS IN LAND AND REAL ESTATE IN KAZAKSTAN
1.3          Kazakstan has in place a reliable legal basis defining property rights in land and real estate
and facilitating the exercise of those rights. The new Constitution and Part One of the Civil Code, both
introduced in 1995, provide the basic framework for real property rights in land and real estate.  A
number of important Presidential Decrees were issued in December 1995 which further clarified the
question of the extent and nature of property rights in land and real estate. On December 23, 1995 a
Presidential Decree with force of law "On the Mortgage of Real Estate" was issued elaborating upon the
general rules on pledges, as laid out in the Civil Code. It allows for the mortgage of all forms of real
estate with some limitations in cases where property is held in common ownership, and includes the
provision that special aspects of mortgage of land may be stipulated in separate legislation.



- 2 -
1.4          Another Presidential Decree with the force of law "On Land" was issued on December
22, 1995 (commonly referred to as the Land Code). It replaced a Land Code dating to the Soviet period
and consolidated treatment of land policy issues that bad been handled by a patchwork of statutes issued
since independence. The new Land Code provides for private as well as state ownership of land. A
private land owner is entitled, inter alia, to sell, lease, mortgage, or grant his property. The Code also
establishes use rights in state owned land that largely replicate the rights held by owners. Use rights can
be permanent, long-term (3-99 years) and short-term (less than 3 years). Individual holders of both
permanent and long-term use rights are entitled to sell, lease, mortgage, or grant their rights. These
provisions are sufficient for the development of markets in land in non-agricultural sectors of the
economy.
1.5          The Land Code is more restrictive of rights in agricultural land, however. Agricultural
land that is held in the personal household plots, and the garden and dacha plots can be privately owned.
All other agricultural land, including the land of private farmers, can be held in permanent use rights, but
not private ownership. However, land held collectively in use rights (i.e., the land of the large farming
collectives) cannot be alienated or mortgaged.
1.6          The Land Code allows for the allocation of land to those exiting the large farming
collectives as well as other people interested in starting private farms. For individuals exiting the farming
collectives, land is to be allocated from the collective in accordance with locally determined land share
norms. For individuals coming from outside of the large collectives, or for members of state agricultural
enterprises that are not subject to parcelization (e.g., research and breeding farms), land is provided from
a Land Reserve Fund, administered by local government.
1.7          At present there are an estimated 4.5 million land owners and users whose rights are
subject to registration. Furthermore, there are an estimated 2.2 million members of the large farming
collectives who are entitled to land share certificates. The majority of apartments and houses in Kazakstan
have been privatized. an Almaty, 99 percent of the apartments have been privatized.) These ownership
rights and subsequent transactions are also subject to registration. The level of transactions in real estate
is increasing in Almaty, with several hundred occurring each day. Roughly 2,000 medium sized
enterprises have been privatized. Approximately 11,000 small scale establishments have been sold by the
Government since the beginning of the mass privatization program early in 1994, representing two-thirds
of the total number of such objects.
D. EXISTING INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
1.8          During the Soviet period, there was a major distinction made between treatment of land,
on the one hand, and treatment of improvements to land (buildings, structures, etc.), on the other. This
resulted in a complex set of agencies and institutions that are involved in collecting and maintaining
information on land and real estate.  Furthermore, the relatively low importance accorded to property
rights meant that the bulk of this information was technical, rather than legal, in orientation. Since the
early 1990's, recording of private rights in land and real estate has been underway. The system that
evolved in the last few years, however, lacks coherence and unity, and suffers from a lack of professional
legal oversight.
1.9           The Ministty of Justice. In many countries, the ministries of justice administer the real
estate registry. This is the approach adopted by Kazakstan in the recently issued Registration Law.
However, the Ministry of Justice has little experience in this area. It has undertaken the registration of



legal entities, but has neither the experience nor the institutional capacity at present to undertake real
estate registration. The Ministry of Justice is represented at the oblast and rayon levels, and this system
will form the basis of new registration offices called for in the Registration Law. Existing staffing of the
Ministry of Justice at the regional and local levels is not adequate for registration and additional hiring
will be required.
1.10         The State Land Commitee (Goskomzem). The State Land Committee was established
in 1992, drawing largely from the Land Department of the Ministry of Agriculture. Its Chairman is a
Cabinet Minister. Goskomzem's functions include: (i) the administration and management of land
resources; (ii) the monitoring and control of land use; (iii) the protection of land; and (iv) the creation
of a nation-wide land cadastre. Goskomzem has been responsible for the registration of land use rights
and the issue of land use certificates (Land Acts). Since 1992, roughly 1.6 million Land Acts have been
issued and an additional 0.7 million are in preparation. This compares with a total of approximately 4.5
million land owners and users whose rights are subject to registration. The Land Acts contain important
legal information concerning a land parcel, including a description of its location, a survey depiction of
its boundaries, and identification of the user. However, for the purposes of the legal cadastre, there is
insufficient information on encumbrances and servitudes.
1.11         Goskomzem records the issue of Land Acts chronologically at the local level. This system
is inadequate from the point of view of information management. Continuation of this system over time
would result in difficulty in locating relevant legal information for a given parcel. The adoption of the
new Registration Law replaces the existing legal basis for land registration.
1.12         Goskomzem employs about 600 staff with headquarters in Almaty and branch offices in
each Oblast (Oblkomzem), City (Gorkomzem) and Rayon (Raykomzem). The staff are predominantly
surveyors and engineers. Branches are subject to dual subordination, reporting to their local government
administration as well as to headquarters in Almaty.
1.13         A subsidiary of Goskomzem, GosNPCzem (The State Scientific-Production Center for
Land), provides technical services for recording land parcels and for preparing State Acts. The
production of State Acts is partially computerized in some locations. GosNPCzem used to form part of
the Ministry of Agriculture. Its main functions were: (i) to design and manage large-scale agricultural
development and improvement schemes; and (ii) to maintain the agricultural cadastre by means of which
Soviet agriculture was planned and managed. GosNPCzem employs approximately 2300 staff including
surveyors, engineers, agronomists, soil scientists and economists and maintains offices in each Oblast.
1.14         Another subsidiary of Goskomzem is the State Institute for Agricultural Aerophotogeodetic
Surveys (GISKhAGI). GISKhAGI was established in 1936 as part of the Ministry of Agriculture to
produce mapping for the agricultural cadastre. In 1992, it was transferred to Goskomzem and has since
undertaken some mapping of non-agricultural areas. The agricultural cadastre parcel maps have been
produced in the form of line maps and photoplans at scales from 1:10,000 to 1:50,000. GISKhAGI also
produces large scale mapping at 1:5,000 and larger in urban and peri-urban areas.
1.15         As part of a recent Government reorganization, the Main Administration for Geography
and Cartography (Kazgeodesia) has been merged into Goskomzem. Goskmomzem thereby became the
primary civilian mapping agency in the country. As a result of this merger, its mandate was expanded
to include: (i) providing geodetic and topographic survey and mapping services; (ii) international boundary
demarcation; and (iii) the licensing of other agencies to undertake surveys and mapping works.



- 4 -
Kazgeodesia was traditionally responsible for the production of topographic base-mapping at scales
ranging from 1:500 to 1:100,000 for the whole territory of Kazakstan, together with small scale mapping
and other thematic maps.
1.16          The Ministry of Construction. The Ministry of Construction is the focal point within the
Government for information on buildings. It has offices in each oblast. Until recently, the Ministry of
Construction administered the offices of the Bureau of Technical Inventory (see below). In recent years
this administrative subordination has been broken. The Ministry of Construction continues to have
oversight responsibility for the Rayon and City Architect's Offices, which exist in the largest cities and
in each oblast in Kazakstan.
1.17          Rayon and City Architect's Offices. The City Architect's Offices produce large scale
(1:500 to 1:2,000) maps for architectural and engineering construction purposes. Coverage is restricted
to urban areas and is often based on mapping produced by Kazgeodesia. The Rayon or City Architect
is responsible for planning the physical infrastructure, for coordinating development activity, for
approving construction plans and for monitoring construction. Following construction, the Rayon or City
Architect's Office surveys the site and adds the structure/facility to their maps. Since the map updating
process is so closely linked to the approval process, the maps are theoretically current.
1.18          The Almaty City Architect's Office employs approximately 10 surveyors involved in
updating the 1:2,000 scale maps and 4 devoted to the 1:500 scale series. In Almaty the City Architects
Office has converted approximately 30 percent of the 1:2,000 scale maps to digital form utilizing
AutoCAD.
1.19          The Bureaus of Technical Inventory (BTIs). BTI offices exist in most cities and large
towns. The BTIs have for many years acted as the organization responsible for recording the occupation
and tenure rights of buildings, in particular apartments and houses. As a result, BTIs have amassed
detailed records of the location, construction, facilities, services and equipment of urban buildings. Until
recently, the BTIs were under the joint jurisdiction of the Ministry of Construction and the local
government administration. Since 1993, the BTIs have undergone administrative changes. Most are no
longer subordinate to the Ministry of Construction and in many large cities have been privatized.
Increasingly their orientation is focused on real estate appraisal. Most have changed their titles to include
the term "Real Estate Appraisal Board" or "Real Estate Appraisal and Registration Board".
1.20          BTI's records form the basis for the privatization of dwellings; a prospective owner is able
to obtain from BTI evidence of his/her prior occupation, as a preliminary step to an application for
privatization. The culmination of the privatization process is the issue of a Privatization Act. The
Privatization Act includes technical information (the "Technical Passport") describing the property and
its location, as well as information on the owner/user. In distinction from the State Acts for land, the
Privatization Acts for dwellings in some parts of the country include reliable information on
encumbrances. BTIs have also acted as the registration authority for transactions in buildings. A
transaction is effected by transferring a Privatization Act from vendor to purchaser, and registering the
transfer at the local BTI. BTIs registration records are keyed to its own numbering system for buildings,
which is inconsistent with a parcel based identification system.



1.21          The State Propery Committee (Goskomimuschestvo). The State Property Committee is
responsible for the privatization of state-owned enterprises. It prepares and issues "Privatization Acts"
for such transactions. The Ministry of Justice has responsibility for registering the privatized enterprises.
1.22          Public Notaries. The Public Notaries are employed by the State and report to the
Ministry of Justice. There is a minimum of one Notary office per rayon. Notaries act as intermediaries
between buyer and seller for real estate and land. Notaries prepare standard contracts for the sale and
transfer of property. As a condition of the preparation of such documents the Notary verifies that all
supplementary documents are properly constituted, that the necessary taxes and fees have been paid to the
appropriate authorities, and that the current obligations associated with the rights to be transferred have
been met. The contract of sale is executed by the parties and certified by the Notary.
1.23          Local Government Administration. Local administrations have a pivotal role in the
allocation of land and other real estate rights, and in the control of land use within their boundaries. They
combine the functions of: (i) disposing of and qualifying the rights in terms of the uses to be permitted;
(ii) controlling construction through the architecture and construction committees; (iii) registering the
ownership, occupation and value of buildings through BTI; and (iv) registering the ownership of land
use rights through the local Land Committee office.
E. PRINCIPLES OF REAL ESTATE REGISTRATION
1.24          The experience of countries which have established successful real estate registers suggests
that certain principles should be incorporated:
1.25          Principle 1: Unification. A real estate register must be unified in the sense that it must
record the rights to all land, whether urban or rural, agricultural or industrial, as well as rights to all real
estate, including rights in land parcels which are delineated by horizontal as opposed to vertical
boundaries, as in the case of apartment buildings.
1.26          Principle 2: Impartial and Independent. A real estate register is maintained by the State
for the benefit of those who own rights in land or who use the register to identify owners as a means of
ensuring certainty in transactions. As a guardian of public rights, the registry must be separated from the
executive functions of government. Managers of the register make no decisions about who is granted land
rights or who transacts them nor how land use is controlled. This role distinguishes the register from other
forms of land record which may be designed to enable the State to fulfil its responsibilities such as master
planning or tax collection.
1.27          Principle 3: Governed by Law. The registry should be established by a law which
defines the powers and responsibilities of its managers. The agency has no power to refuse registration
of a lawfully acquired right to land.
1.28          Principle 4: State Indemnity. The legal effect from the moment of registration should
be to grant the State's guarantee of the validity of the title registered, against any claim to the contrary.
Thus the State indemnifies the registered owner against such claims.
1.29          Principle 5: Parcel-Based. The unit of registration should be the land parcel as identified
by a unique index number. The land parcel, delineated by its vertical boundaries, is unique and cannot



- 6 -
be changed (although it may be sub-divided). In the case of buildings in multiple ownership a parcel may
be delineated by horizontal boundaries i.e., floors in the building. The parcel-based unit of registration
is adopted as the key because it is finite and unchanging, whereas names of owners of rights change over
time.
1.30          Principle 6: Coordination with Physical Cadastres. Coordination between the real estate
register (the legal cadastre) and the cadastre for land and buildings must be well defined for the
registration system to function efficiently. This coordination should include delineation of responsibilities
for information collection and maintenance so as to reduce overlap and duplication, and reliable channels
for the flow of information between the legal and physical cadastres.
1.31          Principle 7: Adjudication and Demarcation. The register should be compiled by a
process known as 'Adjudication'. By means of this process all rights in land, whether statutory or
customary, are finally and authoritatively determined by due process of law, prior to registration.
Adjudication does not alter the rights but simply identifies and demarcates the location, nature, extent and
ownership of rights in each parcel. Adjudication must include a procedure for appeals.
1.32          Principle 8: Register Priority. For the purposes of proving good title, it is the entry in
the register which is the official proof not the certificate issued to the holder of the rights. This principle
ties in with Principle 4 because the State is unable to prevent fraudulent use, alteration or counterfeiting
of certificates.
1.33          Principle 9: Adverse Claims. The system should incorporate provisions for the filing
of adverse claims and the rapid resolution for such claims.
1.34          Principle 10: Open to the Public. The register should be open and accessible to the
public. This enables the owners of rights to be clearly identified for example, by those wishing to deal
in rights.
F. THE NEW REGISTRATION SYSTEM
1.35          The Registration Law addresses nearly all of the principles laid out above. It establishes
a system for the unified registration of rights in land and real estate. It creates a Registration Body as
part of the Ministry of Justice and defines the concept of the Legal Cadastre, which represents the
information base for the registration system. The Law further clarifies the rights which are subject to
registration and the general procedures to be followed in registering those rights. The Law calls for a
parcel based system of managing information. It establishes the principle of priority and addresses the
question of adverse claims. Further, it provides for public access to information in the registry and
delineates the bases for suspending or refusing registration.
1.36          The Registration Law leaves open a number of important questions about the practical
functioning of the registration system. Foremost among these is the linkage with the land and buildings
cadastres and the way in which introduction of the new system is coordinated with the existing
arrangements for registration of rights in real property (the Land Acts for land issued by Goskomzem and
the Privatization Acts issued by the BTIs). The Registration Law leaves the format of the registration
book and the registration forms for individual properties (the registration sheets) undefined.  For the
system to operate effectively, standard forms for various types of transactions (sale, lease, mortgage,



inheritance, etc.) need to be defined and utilized. Procedures for handling documents from the time they
enter the registration offices until they are either returned to the client or filed in the legal cadastre need
to be defined. The Registration Law also leaves undefined the system of fees for service and fees
allocation, and procedures for assignment of cadastral numbers to land parcels.
1.37         Since issuing the Registration Law in December, the Government has undertaken work
to address the missing elements of the system. An inter-agency Working Group for implementation of
the Registration Law was established by then Deputy Prime Minister Shaikenov on March 4, 1996. The
Working Group is composed of representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the State Land Committee, the
Ministry of Construction, and the BTI offices for both the city and oblast of Almaty. Its mandate is to
address the issues of coordination of functions and successful implementation of the system. The last
Preparation Mission on this project met intensively with representatives of the Working Group to solidify
common positions and understandings on inter-agency cooperation and coordination. On April 12, 1996
the Government issued a formal Agreement signed by the Ministry of Justice, the State Land Committee,
and the Ministry of Construction "On Inter-Agency Cooperation" which includes a commitment on the
part of all signatories to work toward the successful implementation of the Registration Law. In
particular, it states that the Land Committee offices, the BTIs, and the City Architects' Offices will
provide necessary information on land parcels and buildings for the efficient functioning of the legal
cadastre (Annex A). During the Appraisal Mission, the arrangements for inter-agency cooperation were
further elaborated with representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the State Land Committee, and the
Ministry of Construction. It was agreed that these arrangements would be formally established in a
Government Resolution on registration procedures. This Resolution was issued on February 20, 1997.
1.38         The Bank has provided the Government with sample registration sheets and books from
other countries. From this and other sources, the Government is now approaching closure on the format
for these items in Kazakstan. The Government has also come to closure on the system of assigning
cadastral numbers to land parcels. Issuing official documents defining the format for the registration
sheets and book, document handling procedures, and inter-agency cooperation arrangements will provide
an adequate basis to initiate project implementation, with the pilot functioning to further elaborate
operational aspects of the system.



- 8 -
II. RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
2.1           The project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy as discussed by the Board
of Directors during the presentation of the Technical Assistance Loan (3642-KZ) on August 3, 1993. The
Bank's strategy to assist the Government of Kazakstan is founded on four key pillars to provide support
for: (i) macroeconomic stabilization and price reform; (ii) transformation of the economy to a competitive,
market-based system through privatization of state enterprises and the encouragement of competition from
new market participants; (iii) strengthened capacity for social protection; and (iv) rehabilitation and
improved management capacity for public infrastructure. The proposed project fits directly into this
strategy. It will provide a system to reliably record emerging private rights in land and real estate,
thereby facilitating transactions in those rights including sale, lease, mortgage, and grant. Security of
tenure resulting from the system will in turn encourage investment in land, enterprises and other property.
The proposed project will provide the basis for testing implementation of an important piece of the public
infrastructure necessary for a market-based economy. Based on successful implementation of the pilot
project, a fuller project would be prepared for implementation of the registration system on a nation-wide
basis.
2.2           The Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) for Kazakstan, inter alia, addressed the issue of
land market development. The Letter of Economic Reform Policies contained provisions for the
clarification of land policies through the preparation of a new draft Land Code, and fostering efficient and
equitable real estate markets and alleviating potential conflicts over land rights through the detailed
definition of procedures for registration of real estate. Development of land reform, and in particular,
the development of the land cadastre and the system of registration are featured in the Government's
Program of Actions for Deepening the Economic Reforms during 1996-98. Subsequent to the first tranche
of the SAL, a Land Code and Registration Law have been issued. The Government now requires
assistance in moving beyond this legislative foundation in elaborating and implementing a sound real estate
registration system.
2.3           The Agricultural Sector Review (ASR) identified the lack of a land registration system
as one of the binding constraints to the transformation of the sector to a market-based orientation. The
ASR argued that the absence of an effective registration system for both land and buildings is constraining
privatization and development. An Agriculture Privatization Support Project is now in preparation which
will focus on the process of structural change in farm management with the goal of facilitating the
emergence of more efficient farms. A critical aspect of the farm restructuring process will be the
establishment of private rights in the land and property of the existing large collective farms. For the
farm restructuring process to move forward effectively, a reliable system for registering these newly
emerging rights will be essential.
2.4           The World Bank has recently approved US$180 million Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
(FSAL). One part of the financial sector program that the FSAL addresses is strengthening the
framework for secured lending. Important in this regard is a reliable system for determining rights in real
property. The proposed project will provide the basis for the satisfaction of these requirements.



- 9 -
m. BANK EXPERIENCE AND LESSONS
A. EXPERIENCE
3.1          The Bank's limited experience in financing land titling and registration is based mainly
on components of large rural or agricultural development projects, or free-standing land projects. Since
1980, 17 PCRs or PPARs have been prepared for projects with land as a component and two PCRs for
free-standing land projects. The two land projects are the Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement
Project for Brazil (Ln. No. 2593-BR) and the Land Titling Project for Thailand (Ln. No. 2440-TH). A
recent OED report entitled The World Bank's Experience with Rural Land 7itling (No. 1992-35, March
1992) has also summarized Bank experience and lessons in land registration.
3.2          Experience has been mixed. In the majority of projects, performance has fallen short of
targets. In some cases, cost overruns for land titling have been large. Data from most rural and
agricultural development projects in particular, show considerable cost overruns. Costs per land parcel
adjudicated in Brazil were nearly twice the estimates made during appraisal. On the other hand, cost per
parcel adjudicated in Thailand was lower than estimated. Mapping targets were generally met with less
of a tendency for cost overruns. However, delays in their implementation contributed to delays in titling.
3.3          The factors which have contributed to poor performance can be traced to inappropriate
or ambitious design and over-optimistic assumptions about implementation. According to OED, the four
main reasons for poor performance of land titling projects are: (i) lack of political support; (ii) conflicting
bureaucratic priorities and/or infighting; (iii) lack of institutional capacity or unwillingness to commit
adequate resources; and (iv) underestimation of complexity and/or costs, or other design weaknesses. A
large number of Bank projects with land titling components involved redistribution of existing land rights.
In most cases this proved to be a formidable barrier to progress in project implementation, particularly
in economies where agrarian interests were strong.
3.4          In a majority of projects, existing infrastructure to undertake land titling activities was
weak. Most countries lacked adequate surveying capabilities (both skills and facilities), and were typically
unable to overcome these shortcomings in an effective and timely manner. The projects in Brazil and
Thailand point to the need to plan carefully for the introduction and assimilation of new mapping and
survey technologies. This challenge was met very successfully in the case of Thailand, where training and
technical assistance were incorporated and where the geographical scale matched the numbers of trained
staff. In the case of Brazil, the approach to modernize the cadastral database was not adequately discussed
with, or understood by, the client prior to implementation.
3.5          The lack of adequate incentives, bonuses, or career development prospects for staff is
cited as a serious weakness. In the case of Thailand, the implementing agency was unable to retain many
of the trained staff who left for positions elsewhere in the government or joined the private sector. In a
number of countries, management links between agencies at central government level and regional and
district offices were too weak to coordinate implementation. In extreme cases, district registration offices
were not even established during the life of the project. Lack of training at regional and district levels also
contributed to poor performance.
3.6          The Brazil project suffered from an ineffective coordination unit due to: (i) repeated
changes in structure and staffing; (ii) insufficient authority to supervise implementation; (iii) lack of



- 10-
counterpart funds for field supervision; and (iv) an inability to retain staff with the necessary skills. While
such problems have been less severe in Thailand, the implementing agency lacked a management structure
adequate to oversee activities at the provincial level. Delays in procurement lead to overall delays in titling
and registration.
B. LESSONS
3.7           Land titling and registration projects must incorporate the following key elements: (i) a
single agency must have overall responsibility for implementation with clear and well-functioning
management links at all levels; (ii) implementation units must be adequately staffed, funded and trained;
(iii) implementation units must be empowered by law to coordinate project activities; (iv) projects should
be designed on the basis of existing human skills and institutional arrangements so as to be able to
assimilate technological advances; and, (v) capabilities need to be further enhanced through institutional
development including training and technical assistance.
3.8           Projects which have focused on the registration of existing rights have proved much more
successful than those addressing a reallocation of rights. More crucially, a project must be consistent with
a government's own plans to address land use questions. This was considered to be a critical factor in the
success of the Thailand project.
3.9           Land titling and registration costs can greatly exceed expectations where due attention is
not paid to procedures for adjudication, demarcation, survey and dispute settlement. Maximum use of
photogrammetric methods, as opposed to field work for existing parcels, has also proved to be
economically expedient. It is important that relevant government policies in these areas be reviewed and
addressed during project preparation.
3.10          Due to the specialized nature of equipment for such projects, careful attention must be
given to preparation of bid documents and bid evaluation procedures. Projects should be designed to
reflect realistic possibilities for coordinating aerial photography, map production, adjudication, registration
and the issue of title certificates. The scale of the project should be commensurate with the ability of the
borrower to staff district and provincial offices with trained personnel, carry out registration activity and
provide adequate resources. Finally, staff involved in project supervision and implementation must have
appropriate incentives, including salary bonuses, and career advancement opportunities.
C. LESSONS IN THE FSU
3.11          The Bank has undertaken similar projects in a number of countries in the former Soviet
Union (FSU). The LARIS project for Russia is the first Bank project which deals with land registration
in the FSU. This project was prepared during 1993/1994 and is now in implementation. Preparation is
underway for a land registration project in Ukraine. Experience from these projects shows that the lack
of a firm legal basis, the existence of strong inter-agency rivalries for control of registration, and the lack
of policy consensus on the goal of markets in land and real estate complicate project development.
3.12          There are many parallels among Russia, Ukraine, and Kazakstan in terms of the starting
point of a Soviet land tenure framework, the early developments in land law before the break up of the
USSR and the origins and nature of the institutions now involved in land administration and management.
Kazakstan shares with Russia its economic inheritance and the present state of its economy, particularly
in the agricultural sector, is equally problematic.



- I1 -
3.13         Kazakstan, however, now has a reliable legislative base and is the first country in the
Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) with a real estate registration law. Strong efforts are being
made within Government to address the relevant interests of all involved agencies in the development of
the new registration system and to adopt pragmatic approaches to the process of land reform and real
estate market development.



- 12 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.1           The objective of the Real Estate Registration Pilot Project will be to support, on a pilot
basis, the Borrower's effort to establish a national registration system of real estate rights and transactions
called for under the Presidential Decree with the force of law, "On State Registration of Rights and
Transactions in Real Estate" of December 25, 1995 (Registration Law) that would lead to increased
security for rights to land and real estate, facilitate transactions in land and real estate, and promote the
development of credit systems (see Annex B for a copy of the Registration Law). The project will also
test the use of digital mapping in support of the registration system, current and longer-term requirements
for map production and revision. Successful implementation of the Pilot Project will increase security
of tenure in land and real estate, resulting in a higher level of investment and mortgaging. It will improve
the functioning of sales and lease markets and government administration of real estate by providing
information for the formulation of real estate development policies and real estate appraisal. Lastly, it
will provide the basis for expansion of the real estate registration system to a national basis. Critical
indicators for the success of the pilot project will be the level of sales, lease, mortgage and other
transactions handled by the registration system.
B. PROJECT CONCEPT
4.2           The tasks facing the Government following the adoption of the Registration Law are two-
fold: (i) physically set up the registration offices under the Ministry of Justice and build implementation
capacity within the Ministry of Justice; and (ii) elaborate procedures for the functioning of the registration
system including a detailed plan for information sharing with other agencies and a delineation of the
longer-term role of these agencies in the functioning of the registration system.
4.3           The Government has expressed its interest in seeking low cost, pragmatic approaches to
carrying out this work. Given the obstacles faced in establishing the new registration offices, the need
to coordinate the cooperation of a number of agencies that will be involved in supporting the functioning
of the registration system, and the need to begin tackling this task in the nearest future, the Government
and the Bank have agreed to carry out this work on a pilot basis, which will allow for the testing and
elaboration of procedures and choice of technology prior to implementation of a registration system on
a broad basis. To avoid duplication of efforts, the Government has chosen to transfer existing BTI offices
to the Ministry of Justice to serve as the backbone of the new registration offices. The time devoted to
the pilot project can also be put to good use in assessing the existing information base and institutional
capacities nationwide.
4.4           Preparation Missions have found that a good deal of information required to implement
the registration system already exists in some parts of the country. This allows for a much lower-cost
approach than would be necessary if implementation were to begin from scratch. Existing maps, though
not always current or of the highest quality, were found to be adequate for the purposes of establishing
the registration system. The quality of maps in Almaty City were particularly good. There the City
Architect's Office has maintained working maps on the scales of 1:500 and 1:2000. Other information
exists on properties (parcel surveys, building floor plans), holders of rights, and the rights themselves
(although the information on third party rights is incomplete and scattered).



- 13 -
4.5           The pilot project concept is to make maximum use of this existing information. Along
with the transfer of BTI offices to the Ministry of Justice, this means incorporating the offices of the State
Land Committee and the City and Rayon Architect's Offices into start up of the system. A cost-effective
approach also implies that working relations among these agencies be defined for long-run maintenance
and operation of the system.
C. PROJECT COMPONENTS
4.6           The project will be implemented in all rayons in Akmola Oblast, Almaty Oblast, and
Almaty City. The project will establish the registration offices called for under the Registration Law at
the rayon and oblast levels and provide a reliable system for their effective functioning. As part of the
project, the Real Estate Registration Department of the Ministry of Justice will be established at the
Republic level. The project will be implemented over two years. The rayon level offices, where
registration of rights will take place, are scheduled to begin functioning in the second quarter of 1997,
initially on the basis of paper technology. During the first quarter of 1998, these offices will be converted
to automated technology. During the course of 1998, assessment of the automated system will be made.
The project will consist of three components: (i) institution building; (ii) establishment of the registration
system; and (iii) map production.
4.7           The Government has obtained a US$1.5 million Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
advance loan to complete preparation and prepare for implementation of the project. These funds are
being used to establish and make operational the Project Implementation Unit, to recruit consultants, to
initiate training programs, and to ready premises for the new registration offices of the Ministry of Justice
at the rayon and oblast levels.
1. Institution Building
4.8           This component will consist of: (i) the Project Implementation Unit; (ii) technical
assistance in elaborating and testing aspects of the registration system; and (iii) the implementation of
training programs.
The Project Implementation Unit
4.9           The PIU will be attached to the Ministry of Justice and report to the Minister. The PIU
will consist of a head, a project implementation assistant, a specialist in information technology, a
specialist in land cadastre matters, a specialist in building cadastre matters, a lawyer, a specialist in
accounting and procurement, a logistics expert, a translator, and secretary. The specialist in information
technology will head the Technology Oversight Group, a sub-unit of the PIU, with an additional staff of
five individuals responsible for all information technology aspects of the project. (See Annex C for Terms
of Reference for the PIU.) The position of Head of the PIU will be staffed by the Ministry of Justice,
the positions for specialists in land cadastre and information technology will be staffed by the State Land
Committee, and the position of buildings cadastre specialist will be staffed by the Ministry of
Construction. Space within the Ministry of Justice has been allocated as temporary premises for the PIU.
All appointments to the PIU will have the concurrence of the World Bank. Government Order No. 453-r
of September 25, 1996 signed by the Prime Minister established the PIU, including appointment of the
PIU Head and other core staff. Under the negotiated Loan Agreement, the Government agreed to
maintain the PIU until completion of the Project, and ensure that the PIU functions at all times in



- 14 -
accordance with procedures, under terms of reference, and with staff and budgetary resources necessary
to meet the objectives of the Project and satisfactory to the Bank. During negotiations, particular
agreement was reached on staffing of the PIU, that staff assigned to the PIU are to work full-time on
project implementation, and that the PIU will obtain adequate premises by March 1, 1997. Such premises
have been allocated.
4.10          The PIU will be responsible for overall project implementation and adherence to the
project implementation plan. In particular, it will: (i) monitor progress by Government agencies in
preparing necessary documents for the project; (ii) manage preparatory work on bidding documents for
the procurement of goods and services for the Project; (iii) handle logistical arrangements for consultants
hired for the Project; (iv) oversee the design and implementation of training programs and a national
training center; (v) set up accounting and reporting mechanisms for use in the Project; (vi) serve as a
clearinghouse for identifying and resolving inter-agency arrangements and issues associated with the
Project; and (vii) other preparation functions as necessary.
4.11          The Technology Oversight Group (TOG) will be established as a sub-unit of the PIU and
be responsible for: (i) reviewing the training programs in automated technology and insuring that
operational staff in fact have acquired the necessary skills; (ii) monitoring progress in preparation of the
user-interface software; (iii) participating in the evaluation of tenders for computer equipment; (iv)
insuring adequate information linkages among the participating agencies at the rayon and oblast levels;
(v) monitoring delivery and installation of automated systems (delivery and installation will be the
responsibility of the supplier under the anticipated contract); and (vi) monitoring the effectiveness of
technological approaches in the implementation of the pilot, with the goal of making recommendations
for eventual roll-out of the registration system nationwide. The Technology Oversight Group will be
drawn from local consultants and Government staff and be composed of five staff in addition to the TOG
Head. During negotiations agreement was reached on these terms of reference and staffing requirements
for the TOG.
4.12          In preparation of bidding documents for goods, the PIU was supported by consultants
financed under Italian Trust Funds. Those consultants were in Kazakstan from late September to mid-
November to assist in completion of commercial portions of the bidding documents for goods to be
procured under ICB and to provide background in the conduct of procurement under Shopping Procedures
financed out of the PPF. The TOG is responsible for the preparation of technical specifications, including
recruitment of additional consultants to complete this work.
Technical Assistance
4.13          The Government's capacity to implement the project will be enhanced by a consultant
team with broad experience in the area of registration and real estate. 7he contract for the general
consultant team was signed in January as a condition of effectiveness. The team is headed by an expert
in real estate registration systems and includes a specialist in real estate markets, a lawyer with expertise
in real estate registration, and a land cadastre and information technology specialist (Annex D provides
Terms of Reference for the core consultant team). The consultant team will be responsible for overseeing
with the Government the implementation of the pilot project at the rayon level. It will be responsible for
proposing procedural and operational approaches to be tested, and will participate with Government in
monitoring and revising those procedures. The team will provide foreign country experience on the
interaction of the legal and land/buildings cadastres, provision of services to clients and overall system



- 15 -
administration and management. Consultant input will be concentrated during the start-up of the paper-
based system and during conversion to the automated system.
4.14          The consultant team will cooperate with local consultants and the Government in
overseeing the development of the user-interface software for the automated registration system. The
Head of the consultant team will report to the Head of the PIU.
4.15          Local consultants will be hired in a broad number of areas. First, the Technical Oversight
Group with staff of five will be established under the Project Unit to oversee all aspects of automation
technology. Other local consultants will be hired by the PIU, as necessary, to assist in project
implementation. Kazakstani legal consultants will assist in completion of necessary documents in support
of the Registration Law. Consultants will also be hired to complete preparation of bidding documents for
goods, and a Kazakstani firm will prepare the applied software for the automated system.
Trining Programs
4.16          Training under the Project will focus on domestic training with input from expatriates
concentrated in the early phase of project implementation. There will be three tracks of training. (Terms
of reference for the training programs are provided in Annex E.) One will focus on registrars at the
rayon level and on individuals with legal training at the oblast and Republican levels and address legal
and administrative aspects of the new registration system. The first part of this program will focus on
the existing legislative basis for real estate registration in Kazakstan. The second part of the program will
focus on situations and problems that will be encountered in running the registration system, as
demonstrated by the experience of other countries. This part of the program will draw upon the expertise
of foreign consultants in identifying and addressing those issues which have proven to be common
problems or complications in running real estate registration systems. This training will also cover best
practices in administration of real estate registration systems. Approximately 55 staff will be trained
under this program.
4.17          The second track will focus on the operational staff, primarily at the rayon level, and be
oriented to office procedures, client interaction, data base management, etc. but also provide exposure
to the legal issues and legal implications of a registration system. Operational staff of the Land Committee
and rayon/city architects' offices will also participate. This training program will also be split into two
parts, with the first half dealing with the existing legislative basis in Kazakstan and the second half
drawing upon the experience from other countries. Approximately 380 staff will receive training under
this program.
4.18          The third track will provide training in computer software. All staff inputing or accessing
data from the automated system will receive training in the operating system software (approximately 300
staff). In addition, roughly 50 staff responsible for system maintenance at the rayon, oblast, and
Republican level will receive in-depth training in the operating and data base management software
included in the system. A further 8 staff in the Map Digitization Center will receive in-depth training in
the use of GIS software.
4.19          A training center will be established in Almaty to conduct the first track of training and
much of the second and third tracks. Facilities will be located in Akmola to provide additional training
in the second and third tracks. In mid-1998, seminars will be conducted for staff involved in the project
summarizing experience and results of project implementation.



- 16 -
2. Establishment of the Registration System
4.20          This component will establish the registration offices of the Ministry of Justice. It will
also define linkages between those offices and the offices of the State Land Committee and the Ministry
of Construction in the efficient functioning of the new registration system. The component will entail
locating premises and staff for the new registration offices, elaborating procedures for the entry of
information into the registry (legal cadastre) and maintenance of this information as well as necessary
information in the land and buildings cadastres, elaboration of office procedures and standard forms for
the registration offices; and elaboration and testing of database management practices.
Establishment of Registration Offices
4.21          The project will focus on establishing registration offices at the rayon and oblast levels
within Almaty and Akmola oblasts, and Almaty city. Offices will be established in a total of 34 rayons,
in both oblasts and an oblast level office in Almaty city on the basis of existing BTI offices. In addition,
the project will finance establishment of the Registration Division of the Ministry of Justice at the
Republican level. Under this component, the loan will finance furniture and equipment for the operation
of both a paper-based and automated registration system (in addition to the training and technical
assistance provided under the Institution Building component). The automation equipment will consist
of basic local area networks (desk-top computers and file servers), software (operating, data-base
management, and user-interface), printers, and copying machines. The Government will provide
financing of staff and premises.
4.22          The first group of approximately 10 rayon registration offices are scheduled to begin
operation in April, 1997. These will be followed by the remaining rayon offices in May and June.
During negotiations, agreement was reached on the implementation of an information campaign managed
by the Ministry of Justice that will include television, radio, and newspapers to inform the public of the
opening of the rayon registration offices, the new registration procedures and the advantages inherent in
the new unified system. The rayon level will be the focus of registration activity. Though volumes
obviously will vary from rayon to rayon, experience in the FSU has shown that a rayon containing
approximately 20,000 identifiable real estate properties will generate from 30 to 50 real estate related
events requiring interaction with the registration system per business day. The typical rayon staffing
configuration will include a chief registrar (lawyer), a secretary, and 4 clerical staff for data entry and
serving the public. In the first phase of the pilot project these offices will begin functioning using paper
technology. This will allow for earlier implementation of the system and for testing procedures and
information formats prior to initiating automation.
4.23          To begin implementation of the paper-based system will require adoption of supporting
documents to the Registration Law including the format of the registration list and registration book, and
elaboration of general procedures to be followed including a schedule of fees for service and standard
forms for the following transactions; sale, lease, sale of lease or sub-lease, mortgage, sale or transfer of
mortgage, sale of a land share, transfer by inheritance, termination of a mortgage, termination of a lease,
agreement on servitude or other limitation, termination of agreement on servitude or other limitation,
power of attorney, adverse claims, and splitting of a land parcel (Block B in the Implementation Plan--
Supporting Documents).  These procedural and operational documents will be subject to further
elaboration and revision during implementation of the pilot project. In addition, steps have been taken



- 17 -
to ensure the availability of index maps in the corresponding rayon offices of the land committee (Block
J in the Implementation Plan--Paper Maps).
4.24          To allow the new rayon registration offices to perform their functions effectively, working
linkages will be established with rayon land committee offices and rayon/city architect's offices. The
roles of the involved agencies will be guided by the Registration Law and other laws and statutes of
Kazakstan. The Registration Law states that registration of rights is initiated by the holder of those rights.
This will result in sporadic registration of properties. Information on already existing land rights will
remain at its current location (the Land Committees). When a new right is established through, say, a
sale, lease, or mortgage, information on the property in question will be transferred to the registration
offices of the Ministry of Justice. Land Acts will continue to be issued by the State Land Committee in
cases of initial transfer of rights from the state to private parties. However, these documents will not be
reissued in cases of secondary transactions and will not serve as a summary of legal rights in a given
property. Agreement on the mechanisms for the transfer of information to the registration offices of the
Ministry of Justice and other aspects of inter-agency roles in project implementation were reached at
negotiations and are reflected in Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
4.25          For each registered property, the legal cadastre must include the following information;
property identification number, identification of the owner/user, form of tenure (including information
on joint or shared ownership), easements, encumbrances, and record of parcel alienation. In addition,
there must be information depicting and locating the property. For land parcels, this will remain the
responsibility of the Land Committee. The rayon/city Architect's offices will be responsible for
maintaining depictions of structures or sub-units of structures.
4.26          While implementation of the registration system begins on the basis of paper technology,
necessary steps for introduction of an automated system will be underway. Critical for this effort will
be specification and preparation of necessary applied software (Block D in the Implementation Plan). The
Technology Oversight Group will be responsible for developing the terms of reference for developing this
software, and in managing the completion of this work. When this applied software becomes available,
the registration offices will begin shifting to an automated basis. This will require software testing first
at the oblast level and in a small number of rayons. Following the initial revision of the applied software,
implementation will be expanded to remaining rayons in the project oblasts. The rayon registration offices
will be linked with the respective rayon land committee and architect's offices in a LAN framework. In
a typical rayon, the registration offices will be provided with three computers, the land committee will
receive three and the rayon architect's offices two. All will be connected to a single file server. The
registration offices will be responsible for maintaining all attribute (text) data files associated with the
legal cadastre. The land committee and architect's offices will continue to be responsible for assigning
cadastral numbers and maintaining up-to-date depictions of land parcels and buildings, respectively.
4.27          The primary function of the staff at the Oblast registration office will be to support the
functions being performed at the rayon level. This will include overall performance supervision, training,
and technical support. Under the automated system, the oblast offices will also maintain an oblast wide
data base. As a result, these offices will also serve as information centers for the public and for the
Government. Typical staffing will include a chief registration administrator (lawyer), an assistant
registration administrator, support staff, roughly 4-5 technical support staff, and a database administrator.
4.28          Within the Ministry of Justice at the Republic level, a Registration Division will be
established. The function of the Registration Division will be to oversee the operation of the oblast



- 18 -
registration offices and the effective functioning of the national system. During the Pilot Project, with
only three oblast offices functioning, the responsibilities of this Division will be limited. Staffing of the
Division has been reduced to 12 to reflect this. The PIU will be responsible for all aspects of project
implementation, including elaboration and evolution of the registration system design.
Database Management Practices
4.29          The Technology Oversight Group will be responsible for the way in which information
is managed in the registration system, which will have a critical impact on the efficiency of the
functioning of the system, whether it be in a paper or electronic based technology. There are several
well-know principles of information management which will be applied to the Kazakstan registration
system.
4.30          Unique Identification. Each piece of information should be uniquely identified by a
number, or key, which is guaranteed not to be duplicated. This applies equally to the subjects, objects,
and rights included in the system. Each uniquely identifiable piece of information regarding rights and
changes in rights should be assigned a code, or reference number. For example, the change of right (or
encumbrance) which we call release of mortgage can be replaced by a code assigned by the Government.
The pilot project will undertake to establish this system of unique identification codes.
4.31          Non-duplicadon of Information. When information is used by organizations or agencies
that are dispersed geographically, it is important that these agencies are assured of the accuracy and
timeliness of the information. In order to ensure the validity of information, the following principles will
be followed:
(i)    Only one valid ( legal ) copy of the subject information should exist;
(ii)    The person or organization responsible for the maintenance of the information
should be clearly identified; and
(iii)   Physical copies of information should be kept to an absolute minimum. These
copies should be clearly identified as copies, or technology and procedures can
be employed to ensure that copies are valid.
4.32          Adherence to these principles will require reliable arrangements for information sharing
among participating agencies.
4.33          Information Protection. Information in the registration system must be protected from
unauthorized changes if the integrity of the system is to be maintained. This implies careful procedures
by which information in the system is added and revised as well as protection against theft of information.
For rayons implementing the paper-based system, the pilot project will follow practices used in many
Western countries of locking registration books and controlled access to those books by the public. Rayon
registration offices will also be protected against unauthorized entry. For the automated registration
system, read-only and read-write authorization will be well specified. Database security meeting the
standards of C2 will be employed.
3. Map Production
4.34          Because of the pilot nature of the project, it will not be possible to undertake new base
mapping. Rather, the project will rely upon existing maps and mapping information. While this is



- 19 -
adequate to start implementation of the new registration system, it fails to address the longer term needs
of mapping for registration. The project will test, on a pilot basis, digitization of maps. Ten map sheets
of scale 1:2000 will be digitized in Almaty City and an additional ten map sheets in the nearby rayons
of Almaty Oblast. The objective of this component of the project will be to test and elaborate
methodologies for utilization of digital maps, train staff for map digitization, and examine the economic
costs and benefits of shifting from paper-based maps to electronic maps. With the merger of Kazgeodesia
mnto the State Land Committee, it was agreed at negotiations that the SLC will be responsible for base map
digitization. A cadastral digitization center will be established within the SLC that will add parcel
boundary information to these digitized base maps. The project will finance two work stations, software
(including GIS software), and peripherals to carry out this work. By the end of the pilot project,
utilization of these digital maps at the rayon level, and their updating based on feedback from the rayon
level, will be tested.
4.35          During implementation of the pilot project, the Government will undertake a thorough
assessment of the adequacy of existing maps and the need for production of new base maps over the
medium to longer-term for the purposes of registration. A full assessment is currently available for
Almaty city. Assessments will be made for the other pilot project regions (Almaty Oblast and Akmola
Oblast) by the end of December, 1996, and for any regions the Government would like to include in a
follow-on real estate registration project by the end of December, 1997.
D. PROJECT OUTPUTS
4.36          The pilot project will provide the following outputs:
(i)    Registration offices established in 34 rayons, three oblasts, and at the Republic
level;
(ii)    Operational procedures for the functioning of the registration offices defined for
both paper-based and automated technologies. As part of this, the user-interface
software will be finalized for application throughout the country;
(iii)   Model for inter-agency cooperation in the functioning of the registration system
defined. This model will include: (a) mechanisms for the transfer of existing
information on property rights from the Land Committee and other agencies to
the new registration offices; and (b) definition of the longer-term role of these
agencies in the functioning of the registration system;
(iv)   Training conducted for staff as indicated above;
(v)    Pilot testing of digital cadastral maps; and
(vi)   Determination of longer-term mapping requirements for registration.



- 20 -
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. COST ESrIMATES
5.1          The estimated total project costs, including contingencies, but net of duties and taxes is
about US$13.3 million, of which about US$7.6 million is foreign costs and US$5.7 million is local costs.
Physical contingencies were estimated at 10 percent for works. Price contingency estimates assume an
increase in local costs of 15 per cent per year in 1997 and 1998 (in line with anticipated local inflation)
and in foreign costs of 2.7 percent for 1997 and 2.5 percent for 1998. Local costs comprise 42 percent
of total project costs. (Component project cost tables are presented in Annex G).
TABLE 5.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST ESTIMATES'
(US$ million equivalent)
% Total
Local  Foreign    Total      % Foreign      Base
Components                                               Exchange        Costs
A. Institution Building      1.25    0.81        2.06       39              17
PIU                      0.40     0.00       0.40        0               3
Technical Assistance     0.31     0.81       1.12        72              9
Training                 0.54     0.00       0 54        0               4
B. Registration System       2.50    5.41        7.91       68             65
C. Mapping                   0.00    0.73        0.73       100             6
D. Refinance of PPF          1.03    0.47        1.50       31              12
Total Baseline Costs         4.78    7.42       12.20       61             100
Physical Contingencies    0.03     0.00       0.03        0               0
Price Contingencies       0.84     0.21       1.05        20              9
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS          5.65    7.63       13.28       57             109
1 Net of taxes and duties
B. FINANCING PLAN
5.2          A loan of US$10 million equivalent to the Republic of Kazakstan is proposed, representing
75 percent of total project costs. This would finance 100 percent of foreign costs and 42 percent of local
costs. Local costs to be financed would be training programs, local consultants provided under the technical
assistance sub-component, and on a declining basis operating costs of the PIU. The Government would



- 21 -
contribute US$3.3 million equivalent (including price contingencies) to finance the costs of staff and
premises for the registration units. VAT and customs duties will be financed by the Government. During
negotiations, the Government was informed of its currency options and elected the currency pool option.
The Government has obtained a US$1.5 million equivalent Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance for
this project. The Letter of Agreement was signed by Government on July 23, 1996. At loan effectiveness,
the PPF will be refinanced by the project loan.
TABLE 5.2: FINANCING PLAN'
[                             I__________ US$ million
Financing Source           Local        Foreign        Total
IBRD                              2.37          7.63        10.00
Government                        3.28           0           3.28
Total Project Costs               5.66          7.63        13.28
Net of taxes and duties
5.3           Counterpart Funds. Successful project implementation requires the timely availability
of budgetary resources to finance local costs. During negotiations the Government Delegation informed
the Bank representatives that the draft national budget, prepared by the Government and submitted to
Parliament, stipulates financing of the Government's share of Project costs in the amount of US$3.3
million (in tenge) during the life of the Project.
C. FLOW OF FUNDS
5.4          The loan proceeds would be channeled to the Ministry of Justice as a special line item
through the budgetary process. Bank financed expenditures at the oblast level will be coordinated by the
Ministry of Justice and the participating oblast administrations. Government counterpart financing will
be coordinated through the Republican budget. Expenditures of the State Land Committee and the
Ministry of Construction in support of the project will come from their existing budgetary allocations.
No additional staffing or premises for these two agencies is necessary.
D. COST RECOVERY
5.5           The Registration Law requires that a schedule of fees for service associated with the
system be established. The appraisal mission verified that the Government will issue a fee for service
schedule for the registration system prior to opening of the registration offices. It was agreed that fees
for service be reasonable and commensurate with fees charged for such services in other countries. The
level of cost recovery supported by these fees will depend on the level of market activity and provision
of services by the new registration offices. This will be assessed as a part of implementation of the Pilot
Project. Revenues are to be allocated primarily to the rayon level and be made available for supporting
counterpart funding requirements. Prior to negotiations, the Government issued a resolution, acceptable
to the Bank, formally establishing the fee-for-service schedule. This schedule can be adjusted based on
the experience of the pilot project.



- 22 -
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
6.1           The projected Board date for the project is March 1997. Presentation to the Board was
conditional upon the Government's issuing a Resolution reaffirming inter-agency roles in the Project,
formally establishing the registration offices in the project oblasts and rayons, and authorizing necessary
staffing of these offices. This Resolution has been issued by the Government. Project effectiveness is
anticipated in May. The project will be implemented over two years. The Ministry of Justice will be
the primary implementing agency for the project. The PIU will be established under the Ministry of
Justice and report directly to the Minister. The PIU will also have representatives from the State Land
Committee and the Ministry of Construction and will serve as the body for coordinating the input of all
three agencies in project implementation. Authorized representatives of the three participating oblasts
were present during negotiations. These representatives confirmed agreement with Project objectives and
agreed in principle to provide necessary premises for the newly created registration offices of the Ministry
of Justice in accordance with the project implementation schedule.
6.2           Important input and procedural benchmarks for monitoring and supervision during
implementation of the pilot project will be: (i) availability of counterpart funds, particularly with respect
to allocation and preparation of premises for the new registration offices and to their staffing; (ii) issuing
of documents in support of the Registration Law including formal establishment of the registration service
and its staffing plan, formal adoption of the registration book and procedures for the registration of real
estate, establishment of a schedule of fees for service, and extension of the cadastral numbering system
to cover buildings; (iii) progress on the technical assistance contracts including issuing the Letter of
Invitation, receipt and evaluation of proposals, contract award, and implementation of the consultant
assignment; (iv) the conduct of training programs including elaboration of course content, training of
trainers, and the expanded phase of training; (v) preparation of the applied software for the automated
registration system including preparation of system description, contract awarded for software preparation,
first version of the software ready, testing, evaluation, and revision of first version software, acceptance
of software and distribution to project offices; (vi) procurement of goods including preparation and issuing
of bidding documents, receipt and evaluation of proposals, contract award, and delivery and installation
of equipment; and (vii) testing of map digitization including digitization of base topographic maps, training
of Land Committee staff for the digitization of parcel boundaries, and pilot testing of digital map
utilization in, and feedback from, the rayon level.
6.3           The significant output benchmarks for monitoring and supervision will be: (i) the efficient
functioning of the registration system including the level of registration activity, the reliability of
information in the registry including the efficiency of information sharing among the participating
agencies, and the average amount of time required to process basic registration transactions; and (ii) the
cost effectiveness of utilizing cadastral maps in digital form for the registration system including average
cost per parcel of initial digitization and average cost per parcel of boundary revisions.
6.4           The time schedule for implementation of the project is provided in Annex H. It is planned
to have the rayon registration offices begin functioning during April-June 1997 utilizing paper-based
technology. Following the testing of procedures in this environment, the registration offices will be
converted to automated technology in the first quarter of 1998. The automated system will be tested and
evaluated during 1998. The pilot project will be completed at the end of 1998.



- 23 -
6.5           To allow for testing and evaluation of the automated system during 1998, the terms of
reference for the preparation of the applied software for the automated registration system are to be
prepared by April 1997 and the first version of the software available for testing by December 1997, with
necessary revisions introduced by March of 1998 for roll-out to the project rayons. The bidding
documents for the two ICB contracts for goods are to be issued by april 1997 with contract award by the
end of October 1997 and delivery of equipment in the first three months of 1998. The third track of
training (for automated systems) will be coordinated with the delivery of equipment. Digitization of the
20 topographic base maps is to be completed by September 1997 and the digitization of cadastral
information is to begin in the last quarter of 1997.
6.6           Assessment of the functioning of the paper-based registration system will be made in the
last quarter of 1997. Assessment of both the automated registration system and the map digitization
program will be made in the last quarter of 1998.
6.7           On April 12, 1996 the Government issued a formal Agreement signed by the Ministry of
Justice, the State Land Committee, and the Ministry of Construction "On Inter-Agency Cooperation"
which includes a commitment on the part of all signatories to work toward the successful implementation
of the Registration Law. In particular, it states that the Land Committee offices, the BTIs, and the City
Architects' Offices will provide necessary information on land parcels and buildings for the efficient
functioning of the registry (Annex A). As part of negotiations, detailed agreement was reached on the
roles ofparticipating agencies in project implementation and incorporated into Schedule S (Implementation
Schedule) of the Loan Agreement. The Implementation Schedule provides clear guidelines on the usage
of equipment to be provided under the project. At the rayon level, the offices of the land committee and
the rayon architect will provide necessary information for the legal cadastre to the new registration offices
of the Ministry of Justice. Such transfer will be triggered by a change in legal status of a given property
(land parcel, building, or sub-unit of building) through sale, lease, mortgage or other change in legal
rights. From the time that a property enters the information base of the registration offices of the
Ministry of Justice, maintenance and update of all the legal information bearing on the property will be
the responsibility of the registration offices. The Land Committee will continue to be responsible for
maintaining graphic depiction of land parcels in the form of index maps and parcel specific plans and will
be responsible for maintaining the cadastral numbering system for land parcels. The rayon and city
architect's offices will maintain depiction of building floorplans and will update this information with the
creation of new legal properties.
6.8           Efficient functioning of the registration system will require co-locating the offices of the
land committee, the architect's offices and the registration offices at the rayon level. This arrangement
will also greatly reduce the cost of implementing the automated system. In most rayons in the project
oblasts, the existing offices of the land committee and the rayon architect are located in the main rayon
administration building. Letters have been sent to the Akims of Almaty and Akmola oblasts, and Almaty
city to make preparations for allocating necessary office space for the registration offices, and for
relocating the rayon land committee or architect's offices if necessary to insure physical proximity of the
three agencies.



- 24 -
B. PROCUREMENT
6.9          The procurement of all items funded from loan proceeds would be in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January, 1995, and revised in
January 1996 and August 1996). Consultants for training and technical assistance would be employed in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines Use of Consultants by the World BankBorrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency (August, 1981). The draft Standard Bidding Documents for Procurement of
Information Systems (March 4, 1996) would be used for procurement of the automated technology for
the registration system. Other contracts would be procured on the basis of the Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents for Goods (published in January 1995, and revised in January and August 1996). For
consultant services, the Borrower would use the Bank's relevant standard form of contract. A General
Procurement Notice has been issued in the U.N.'s Development Business, with a Special Procurement
Notice to follow at the time bid documents are issued
6.10         The PIU will be responsible for all procurement under the project. The PIU has hired
an individual responsible for handling procurement matters. Consultants financed by Italian Trust Funds
are working with the PIU from late September to mid-November to assist in preparation of bidding
documents for goods to be procured through ICB and to provide advice and guidance on the use of
Shopping Procedures.



- 25 -
TABLE 6.1: SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ Million Equivalent)"
Procurement Method
Cost Component                              ICB        Others'   NBF        Total
1. Works (rehabilitation)                                          0.32       0.32
2. Goods                                   6.06          0.10        --       6.16
(6.06)       (0.10)               (6.16)
3. Consultant Services
Training                                --          0.64        --        0.64
(0.64)               (0.64)
Technical Assistance                    --           1.25       --        1.25
(1.25)               (1.25)
4. Miscellaneous
Operating Costs                         --          0.45       2.96       3.41
(0.45)               (0.45)
PPF Refinancing                                      1.50                 1.50
(1.50)               (1.50)
Total Project Cost                         6.06          3.94      3.28       13.28
(Bank Financing)                          (6.06)        (3.94)               (10.00)
1/      Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IBRD.
2/      Includes USS 100,000 for international and national shopping, US$1.25 million for consultants to be procured according
to standard Bank guidelines for procurement of consultant services, US$700,000 for the cost of training programs and
US$140,000 to cover partial operating costs of the PIU.
6.11           Equiment.  There will be one major contract for automated technology for the
registration system, and two small contracts for survey equipment. The Borrower will retain the services
of consultants to prepare the technical specifications of the bidding documents, financed out of the PPF.
ICB procedures will be utilized for these contracts. International Shopping will be used for contracts not
exceeding US$200,000, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$300,000. This will require
obtaining quotes from at least three suppliers from at least two different countries. National Shopping
will be used for procurement of small value items that can be obtained off-the-shelf for contracts not
exceeding US$50,000, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$200,000. This will require obtaining
quotes from three different local suppliers. (These ceilings allow for potential slippage in shopping
contracts that are anticipated under the PPF.)
6.12           Works.    Government financing of roughly US$300,000 will be provided for the
rehabilitation and preparation of registration offices at the oblast and rayon levels. These will be small



- 26 -
value contracts (US$5,000-10,000 per office) that will be competed for locally under Shopping Procedures
and will include the installation of security devices to protect the information base and the automated
equipment located in these offices. The Ministry of Justice, in conjunction with the Technical Oversight
Group of the PIU, will be responsible for specifying the work to be carried out for the preparation of the
registration offices. During the Project Launch Supervision Mission, scheduled for April 1997, the Bank
will review these specifications to insure that they include adequate security and operating arrangements
for goods to be provided under the project.
6.13         Consultants. A consultant team will be hired through short-listing as the core of the
technical assistance program to provide expertise in legal aspects of land and real estate registration,
management of the registry, linkages between the registry and the land cadastre, and real estate market
development. This team will also provide project implementation staff to the PIU to assist with
informatics, and project management. This consultant team would be responsible to assist the Government
in development and implementation of the case-study portion of the training programs, assist with
development of the user-interface software, and provide international experience on procedures and system
management. Short-term consultants would be hired to assist with finalization of technical specifications
for bidding documents and preparation of the technical specifications for the applied software. Individual
consultants will be hired to staff the TOG. Consultants will also be hired to provide legal expertise in
the finalization of documents in support of the Registration Law.
6.14         Training. The project will finance the costs of training programs. For the first two
programs of training this will include transportation and per diem costs of trainees, as well as cost of
premises in Almaty and Akmola and training supplies. Trainers for these two programs will be financed
through consultant contracts. The third program of training (computer software) will be provided by
authorized representatives of the firms selected to provide software as part of the major ICB contract for
goods. The project will finance the costs of these training packages, as well as the transportation and per
diem expenses of trainees.
6.15         Operating Costs. Operating costs comprise the costs of establishing and running the
registration offices of the MOJ at the rayon and oblast levels, the Registration Division of the MOJ at the
national level, and the PIU. The Bank will finance the operating costs of the PIU associated with its
administration of activities under the project, which would not have been incurred without the project,
such as the cost of rent, utilities, salaries, office equipment and supplies, communications, and
transportation, on a declining basis.
6.16         Bank Review. All contracts for goods estimated to cost US$200,000 or more would be
subject to prior review by the Bank, as well as the first two contracts for goods estimated to cost
US$100,000 or more. All contracts for consultant services with consulting firms valued at more than
US$100,000, and with individual consultants valued at more than US$30,000 would be subject to prior
review by the Bank. For contracts for consultant services below these threshholds, terms of reference,
single-source selection of firms or individuals, and assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, would be subject to prior review by the Bank. All other contracts would be
subject to ex-post review by the Bank on a random basis.



- 27 -
C. DISBURSEMENT
6.17           The proposed Bank loan of US$10 million equivalent would be disbursed over a period
of two and a half years, with the expected project completion date of December 31, 1998 and loan closing
date of June 30, 1999. During negotiations it was agreed that the Ministry of Finance, through the
CUFC, will clear all withdrawal applications, in accordance with Government Resolution No. 213-r of
May 3, 1996. The bulk of project disbursements will be accounted for by two contracts; the automated
technology for the registration system and the main contract for technical assistance. Signing of the main
TA contract occurred in January 1997 while signing of the main goods contract is anticipated in July
1997, leaving ample time for execution and full disbursement.
6.18           Loan proceeds would be disbursed against eligible project expenditures either directly to
suppliers, by means of special commitments to support letters of credit issued by the Borrower's bank in
favor of foreign suppliers of goods and services, or by way of reimbursement to participating agencies
where expenditures have already been incurred. Disbursement for all contracts for goods at or above
US$200,000 equivalent would be made against full documentation, and for those less than this amount
would be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Disbursement for services under contracts
costing less than US$100,000 equivalent for firms, and contracts costing less than US$30,000 equivalent
for individuals would be made against SOEs. Disbursement for all other contracts for services would
require full documentation. Full documentation in support of SOEs would be retained by the PIU for the
life of the pilot project. This information would be available to: (i) auditors retained by the Borrower in
accordance with auditing requirements for the project; and (ii) World Bank staff for review during
supervision.
6.19           The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed as shown in Table 6.2 below:
TABLE 6.2: DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES
Disbursement Category          Alocatl o                 Disbursement Basis
I   (USSAf   l
1.   Goods (equipment and machinery)      5.95       100 percent of foreign expenditure;
100 percent of local expenditure (ex-factory); 75
percent of other items procured locally
2.   Consultant Services and Training      1.65      100 percent
3.   PIU Incremental Operating Costs       0.40
100 percent of expenditures incurred up to December
31, 1997, and g0 percent of expenditures incured
4.   Refinance of PPF                      1.50      after that date
5.   Unallocated                           0.50
TOTAL                           |    10.00      _|_l
6.20            Disbursements would be made against the operating costs of the PIU on a declining basis,
with 100 percent of those costs covered in the first year of the loan, reduced to 80 percent in the second
year.



- 28 -
6.20         Disbursements would be made against the operating costs of the PIU on a declining basis,
with 100 percent of those costs covered in the first year of the loan, reduced to 80 percent in the second
year.
6.21         Special Account. To facilitate project implementation, the Borrower would establish a
Special Account in a major commercial bank. During the early stage of the project, the initial allocation
of the Special Account would be limited to US$100,000. However, when the aggregate disbursement
under the Loan has reached the level of US$1.0 million, the initial allocation may be increased up to the
authorized allocation of US$200,000 by submitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal.
Replenishment applications should be submitted at least every three months, and must include reconciled
bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents. The Borrower will provide specific
names of individuals authorized to withdraw funds. Applications for replenishment of the Special Account
would be submitted quarterly or when one-half of the amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs
earlier. Documentation procedures would follow the same procedures as described above. Monthly bank
statements of the Special Account which have been reconciled by the Borrower would accompany all
replenishment requests.
D. ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING
6.22         Project accounts would be managed by the PIU. The PIU will have a staff member with
professional training in accounting to handle this work. That individual will receive assistance from staff
of the Resident Mission in Almaty and the CUFC in setting up the necessary accounting arrangements for
the project. The project accounts would identify all sources and uses of funds, including detailed
accounting of the proceeds of the loan and the operation of the Special Account. For the Special Account,
the PIU and the depository commercial bank would introduce arrangements for the proper accounting of
receipts, payments, and submission of disbursement documentation to the World Bank for replenishment
of the account. Under the negotiated Loan Agreement, the Government has agreed to have the project
accounts, including those for the Special Account, audited each fiscal year, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and audit reports would
be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of thefiscal year. The audit report would contain
a separate opinion on the operation of the Special Account and the use of the procedures for the Statement
of Expenditure (SOE).
E. PROJECT MONITORING AND REPORTING
6.23         Major project monitoring benchmarks are provided in the Performance Monitoring Annex
(Annex I). Under the negotiated Loan Agreement, the Government has agreed to monitor and evaluate
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators agreed by the Bank and the Borrower, the
implementation of the Project and the achievement of project objectives. The PIU will be responsible for
monitoring all aspects of project implementation. In this effort they will rely on reporting of the
representation the oblast administration responsible for overseeing project implementation the oblast
registration groups, and information from the State Land Committee and the Ministry of Construction on
the progress of work undertaken by agencies other than the Ministry of Justice. In particular, the PIU
will monitor: (i) the installation and use of equipment in the registration offices, including provision of
supplies, spare parts and repair services; (ii) staffing and adequate premises for these offices; (iii) the
conduct of training and technical assistance activities at the oblast and rayon levels; (iv) arrangements for



- 29 -
information sharing and overall interagency cooperation at the oblast and rayon levels; and (v) project
accounts and expenditures at the oblast and rayon levels.
6.24          The PIU will provide quarterly reports to the Bank throughout the life of the project.
These reports would be submitted to the Bank no later than 30 days after the close of each quarter and
would include sections on: (i) project finances; (ii) procurement; (iii) conduct of training programs;
(iv) establishment of registration offices; (iv) implementation of technical assistance contracts; (v) level
of monthly transactions in each of the operating registration offices; (vi) information sharing arrangements
in place among agencies in each rayon; and (vii) assessment of problems encountered, proposed measures
to overcome them, and any assistance required. The financial section will provide accounting of
expenditures financed by the World Bank and by the Government. The reports will draw comparisons
between the agreed implementation plan by quarter and actual results. Initial evaluation of the pilot
project will be conducted during the July 1998 supervision mission in collaboration with the consultant
team and the PIU. This evaluation will be finalized during the project completion mission in November
1998. During negotiations agreement was reached on criteria to be used in assessing the effectiveness
of the Project. These will focus on the level of client interaction with the new registration system and
include the number of sales, leases, and mortgages of land and real estate, and the nunber of information
requests received and satisfied by the registration offices.
6.25          As SOEs and a Special Account would be used in this project, the PIU would be requested
to submit, along with the quarterly reports: (i) a schedule of SOEs listing individual expenditures and
amounts; and (ii) a summary of Special Account activity and reconciliation with the Special Account
balance in the commercial bank account and the Project Account.
F. SUPERVISION
6.26          The Bank will focus on the performance indicators provided in Annex I in conducting its
supervision of the project. The supervision plan is provided in Annex J. Supervision missions would be
planned for roughly every 4 months of project implementation and would include a specialist in
registration systems and an information technology specialist as indicated in the plan. These missions
would review the allocation of counterpart funds, the physical implementation targets, monitor the impact
of the institution building aspects of the project, assess the arrangements and actual practice for inter-
agency cooperation, identify critical implementation problems and agree on remedial actions. The PIU
will be connected to the Bank's All-in-1 system and a combination of phone, fax, and E-mail links
between Headquarters and the PIU will be utilized between supervision missions. In addition, the staff
of the Resident Mission will play an important supervisory role between supervision missions and will
participate directly in the work of those missions while in the field.
6.27          Project Launch Workshop. The initial supervision mission would be a Project Launch
Workshop. This will be scheduled immediately after loan signing and be timed to include the
participation of consultants hired under the PPF. Other participants would be the staff of the PIU, other
representatives of the Ministry of Justice, State Land Committee, and Ministry of Construction (including
from the oblast and rayon levels), representatives from the oblast and rayon registration offices, and
representatives of the CUFC. The workshop would cover the implementation schedule, technology to be
provided and technology support, training and technical assistance programs, basic office procedures and
standard forms, arrangements for inter-agency cooperation and information sharing, reporting
requirements from the rayon and oblast levels, project financing, accounting and reporting requirements,
fees for service and fee allocation, staffing, preparation of premises, and others.



- 30 -
VII. KEY ASSUMPTIONS, RISKS, AND BENEFITS
A. KEY ASSUMPTiONS AND RISKS
7.1           A major reason for choosing a pilot project to address the task of establishing a real estate
registration system in Kazakstan was precisely that the risks associated with this undertaking were
significant. The following assumptions and risks are associated with the project components.
7.2           For the project to be successful, counterpart funds sufficient to staff and house the new
registration offices will be essential. The Government is required by the Registration Law to establish
these offices. The transfer of the former BTI offices to the Ministry of Justice avoids unnecessary
duplication of work, but still represents a net burden on the national budget. By limiting the scope of the
pilot project, the immediate financial burden on the Government is reduced. Because the project foresees
cost recovery mechanisms through a system of fees for service, roll out of a successful pilot will require
less of a net drain on the budget. This will be monitored closely during implementation. Arrangements
for cost-sharing among the national, oblast and rayon budgets will also be closely monitored during
implementation.
7.3           The Ministry of Justice at present lacks the capacity to implement the project. The Bank
has proposed programs of training and technical assistance which are well designed to meet the institution
building needs of the Ministry of Justice. Here, too, the immediate burden on the Ministry of Justice is
reduced as a result of the pilot scale of the project. The training programs, once established, will provide
the necessary skills to implement the pilot as well as to prepare for expansion of the system beyond the
project rayons. The civil service pay scale may represent an obstacle in the retention of staff receiving
training in automated technology and for the location of appropriate individuals as rayon chief registrars.
7.4           Appropriate cooperation among relevant agencies is required for the project to be fully
successful.  A  breakdown in inter-agency cooperation would seriously undercut prospects for
implementation of the new registration system. The agencies assisting the Ministry of Justice in
establishing the registration system have mandates that go well beyond the scope of registration. The
Land Committee has significant land administration and land monitoring functions under the recently
adopted Land Code. The city and rayon architects offices are reasserting their roles as building inspection
offices. In addition, the information needed for the registration system represents a small piece of the
data bases of these organizations and therefore, not a threat to their future areas of work. The pilot
project approach will allow for flexibility in design and the precise nature of inter-agency cooperation.
7.5           Experience from similar projects (both Bank and non-Bank financed) shows that provision
of user-interface software frequently runs into delays and holds up planned implementation of automated
information systems. The Bank has emphasized this potential danger beginning with the last preparation
mission and has encouraged the Government to locate necessary consultants to complete this work. Use
of the PPF to get necessary consultants on board well ahead of loan effectiveness will reduce the risk of
delays in developing the user-interface software. Again, because of the pilot nature of the project the
software will undergo extensive testing during project implementation, which allows time for elaboration
of a fully tested version for wider implementation.



- 31 -
7.6           Procurement of most automated technology under this project will be in accordance with
ICB procedures. This will entail a good deal of lead time to complete. As experience from the Region
shows, lack of familiarity with ICB can significantly delay project implementation. The Bank has located
trust funds for preparation of bidding documents and has conducted a one-week review in Washington
with consultants financed by these trust funds of the latest World Bank standard documents for
procurement of goods and procurement of computer equipment. The Bank has also provided assistance
in finalizing the technical specifications for the bidding documents.
7.7           Because the ultimate goal of the pilot is to provide a reliable basis for a national system,
the following further assumptions and risks should be considered. It is assumed that the population will
choose to use the system. While the Law does not make registration of property rights mandatory, it does
recognize the superiority of registered to unregistered rights. Fragmented registration of rights in real
estate has already taken place in the form of issuing State Acts for land and Privatization Acts for other
real estate, indicating the population's interest in such protection. The incentive to register property rights
will be strong not only for new owners, but for those holding servitudes or encumbrances on a property,
for example, a bank holding a mortgage or an individual holding a right-of-way across a neighbor's
parcel. Development of a registration system will facilitate the collection of tax revenue, and in that way
provide disincentives to participate. While there was interest expressed by some in building a true fiscal
cadastre into the project, the project design has remained squarely focused on the legal cadastre, thereby
emphasizing the property rights aspects of the system.
7.8           For the system to be financially sustainable, the level of market activity must be sufficient
to generate necessary revenues. Project oblasts have been selected in large part based on anticipated
market activity in the immediate term. Sales of real estate (both ownership and use rights) is already well
developed. The existing legislative framework is considered sufficient for market activity in real estate
to develop further.
B. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPFCTS
7.9           The Project is expected to have a positive impact on the environment. The move towards
private land rights promoted by the Project is expected to foster a greater sense of individual responsibility
for the environment and a more prudent use of land and other natural resources, particularly of
agricultural land. The ability eventually to integrate other data sets onto the land register base, will also
bring positive environmental benefits, as a result of the means that such data sets will provide for
environmental monitoring and control. These benefits will not be immediate and will only be achieved
after further investment in a wider land information system.
7.10          The Project has a "C" environmental assessment category. Any environmental concerns
which develop, will be addressed during implementation by applying the Bank's and the country's
environmental requirements and guidelines.
C. BENEFITS
7.11          A register of titles represents an important part of the public infrastructure of a market-
based economy. Clarification and security of rights in real property are an essential step in the transition
from the pre-reform economy of Kazakstan. Reliable registration is the means by which capital
investment in real estate in increasingly complex economies is secured and traded.



- 32 -
7.12          The economic benefits to the individual or corporate owner of real estate rights are
numerous. First, security of tenure is backed by the State, putting the ownership of the rights beyond
dispute and providing the basis on which owners of rights can expend effort and capital with the confident
expectation of earning a return. The register provides the basis on which mortgagees can secure collateral
for the loans they make. At present, mortgaging of real property is significantly hindered by the lack of
reliable documentation of rights. The ability to transact real estate rights enables successful businesses
to grow and allows the rights of businesses which fail to be reallocated through the market, rather than
left idle or underutilized. By facilitating sales and leases, the registration system improves the functioning
of these markets, and in turn, the valuation of real property. The function of a register to assist in the
continuing process of farm restructuring is especially significant in this respect. The project will reduce
the number of boundary disputes by utilizing a method of parcel adjudication which incorporates input
and agreement from neighbors on boundary location at the time of registration.
7.13           The registration system provides further benefits to the Government by establishing the
essential legal layer in a cadastral information system.   A reliable legal cadastre will provide the
Government with an improved information basis for assessing the value of real property and in the
functioning of the tax administration. The legal cadastre can be supplemented subsequently with relevant
fiscal information to further improve the process of property assessment and real estate tax collection.
The establishment of the legal cadastre will assist the Government in carrying out its administrative
functions with respect to land and real estate. In the process of registering rights, land and real estate
remaining in public ownership will likewise be recorded in the register. Unauthorized dealings in such
property can be prevented and thus the register will help to maintain the integrity of public lands and
designated sites of special environmental or other importance.
7.14          The project will allow the Government to test alternative technologies in implementing
a registration system in the project oblasts prior to making decisions about expansion of the system
nationwide. Phased implementation of the registration system, utilizing a pilot project first, also allows
time for necessary institution building and the testing of office procedures, formats, and inter-agency
working relations on a modest scale, prior to implementation on a broad scale.
D. BENEFICIARIES
7.15          The primary beneficiaries of the project will be holders of rights in land and other real
estate. In rural and urban sectors, the project will help to secure these rights and their value. In
agriculture the register will help to provide entry and exit mechanisms for farmers. In urban areas, the
market backed by the register will help mobility of people and businesses. The register will increase the
security of transactions and reduce the cost. In the long term the nation will benefit from improved
agricultural production and revenues.
7.16          The Government will benefit from the project in terms of building essential institutional
capacity within the involved agencies; the Ministry of Justice, the State Land Committee, and the Ministry
of Construction.



- 33 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS
8.1          The following are agreements reached at negotiations:
(a)    Staffing requirements for the PIU, and the need for the PIU to obtain adequate
premises by March 1, 1997 (para. 4.9);
(b)    Staffing requirements and overall terms of reference for the TOG (para. 4.11);
(c)    The schedule for opening the registration offices (paras. 4.22 and 6.1);
(d)    A public information campaign to be managed by the Ministry of Justice to
inform the public of the opening of the rayon registration offices, the registration
procedures to be followed and the advantages of the new system (para. 4.22);
(e)    Responsibility for the digitization of base maps and digitization of land parcel
boundaries, and a schedule for carrying out this work (para. 4.34);
(f)    The Government's inclusion of a line item for the project in the national budget
of US$3.3 million (in tenge) for the life of the project, and a schedule of fees for
service (paras. 5.3 and 5.5);
(g)    Agreement with authorized representatives of the participating local governments
(Almaty city, Almaty oblast, and Akmola oblast) on the Project objectives and
in principle with the allocation of adequate premises for project implementation
at the oblast and rayon levels in accordance with the project implementation
schedule (para. 6.1);
(h)    The Ministry of Finance, through the CUFC, is authorized to clear all withdrawal
applications associated with the Project, in accordance with Goverrnent Order
No. 213-r of May 3, 1996 (para. 6.17); and
(i)    Criteria for evaluation of the performance of the Project to focus on client
interaction with the new registration system, including the number of sales,
leases, and mortgages of land and real estate, and the number of information
requests received and satisfied by the registration offices (para. 6.23)
B. CONDITION OF EFFECTIVENESS
8.2    Effectiveness of the Project was conditional upon awarding the contract for consultant services
which was signed in January (para. 4.13).



- 34 -
C. PROJECT COVENANTS
8.3    The Government has agreed to the following project covenants;
(a)    Maintain the PIU until completion of the Project, and ensure that the PIU
functions at all times in accordance with procedures, under terms of reference,
and with staff and budgetary resources necessary to meet the objectives of the
Project and satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.9);
(b)    Carry out the Project in accordance with Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement,
providing the mechanisms for the transfer of information to the registration
offices of the Ministry of Justice and other aspects of inter-agency responsibilities
in project implementation (para. 4.24);
(c)    Have the project accounts, including those for the Special Account, audited each
fiscal year, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank, and audit reports would be submitted to the Bank
within six months of the end of the fiscal year (para. 6.22); and
(d)    Monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators agreed
by the Bank and the Borrower, the implementation of the Project and the
achievement of project objectives (para. 6.23).
D. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.4          With the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project would be suitable for a
Bank loan of US$10 million.



- 35 -                                Annex A
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
REAL ESTATE REGISTRATION PILOT PROJECT
ANNEX A
Approved by N. Shaikenov
Deputy Prime Minister
Republic of Kazakstan
April 10, 1996
AGREEMENT ON INTERAGENCY COOPERATION OF THE MINISTRY OF JUSTICE, STATE
COMMITFEE FOR LAND RELATIONS AND LAND MANAGEMENT AND THE MINISTRY OF
CONSTRUCTION, HOUSING AND ZONE DEVELOPMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
To carry out an integrated policy of regulating a real estate market on the territory of the RK, and to
ensure protection of the rights of physical and juridical entities if they engage in transactions with real
estate, conforming to the civil code of the RK (general part), as well as a Decree of the President with
a force of law "On the State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Transactions", the Parties of this
Agreement have expressed their willingness to cooperate under an integrated system of the state
registration of real estate and transactions.
The parties of this agreement guarantee that they themselves, bodies and agencies reporting to them,
involved in the system of land and real estate registration, intended for the registration of real estate rights
and transactions, would base their activities on the following principles:
to perform their duties in full and on a timely basis and in strict conformance with the
requirements of regulations of the RK, and rules issued by the agencies, in order to
ensure the state registration of real estate rights and transactions. In particular, in the
course of establishing real estate rights of private persons and legal entities the regional
bodies of the Land Committee will have to determine the boundaries of a land parcel,
assign a cadastral number and indicate servitude, the BTI agencies, Offices of the
Architect, and urban planning agencies will have to submit required information on
buildings, constructions and other structures, describing their location on land parcels as
well as the basic data on real estate;
to provide free mutual exchange of information within the competence of a corresponding
agency without the right of its disclosure to individuals and physical persons unless
otherwise provided in the legislation;
to provide free access of registration agencies to registration maps (schemes), or
topographic materials (surveys) indicating the boundaries of rural settlements, towns and
land parcels;
to retain information materials in agencies formerly responsible for land and real estate
registration;



-36 -                                   Annex A
to exclude duplication of activities in maintaining the integrated legal cadastre-united state
registry of real estate rights;
to coordinate the procurement of new equipment and technology through inviting one bid
for compatible hardware and software;
to provide agreed proposals to improve legislation on the mentioned matters;
to ensure joint use of revenues received from registration activities of the agencies
involved in the registration of real estate rights and transactions;
to make joint efforts to ensure repayment of a loan financed by the IBRD (the World
Bank).
K. Kolpakov          B. Ospanov                         A. Kulibaev
Minister of Justice    Chairman of State Land Committee   Minister of Construction,
Housing and Zone Development



-37-                                    Annex B
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
REAL ESTATE REGISTRATION PILOT PROJECT
ANNEX B
DECREE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN WITH A FORCE OF
LAW ON PUBLIC REGISTRATION OF REAL ESTATE
RIGHTS AND TRANSACTIONS
According to Article 1 of the Law of Republic of Kazakstan "On Temporary Delegating
Additional Authority to the President of the Republic of Kazakstan and Heads of Local Administrations"
as of December 10, 1993, I am issuing the following Decree:
CHAPTER 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 1. Terms and definitions
The terms and definitions used in this Decree have the following meanings:
i.    "Public Registration" means the procedure by which the registrar shall record rights of
ownership and other Real-Estate rights and Encumbrances pursuant to the procedures established by this
Decree;
2.     "Cadastre number" means an individual land parcel code, unique within the territory of
the Republic of Kazakstan, which is conferred in accordance with the procedures established by law. Said
code shall be kept so long as the land parcel exists as a single unit;
3.    "Real estate" means land parcels as well as buildings, structures, and other property that
are securely attached to the land, i.e. objects whose relocation is impossible without disproportionate loss
to their intended purpose;
4.     "Encumbrances" means restrictions to Real-Estate rights, including the possession of
certain Real-Estate rights by third parties and the foreclosure of property;
5.     "Legal Cadastre" means a single public register of registered rights to Real Estate;
Article 2. Obiects of Public Registration
1.    Real-Estate rights shall be subject to Public Registration pursuant to the procedures set
out in this Decree. The following rights shall be subject to Registration:
(a)   the right of ownership;
(b)   the right of economic administration;
(c)   the right of operative management;
(d)   the right to use land for a period of more than one year;
(e)   the right of use for a period of more than one year;
(f)   the right of trust management for a period of more than one year;



- 38 -                                    Annex B
(g)    mortgages;
(h)    leases;
(i)    other Real-Estate rights, as well as Encumbrances on Real-Estate rights.
2.     Any change to and termination of the Real-Estate (Encumbrances) that result from any
transactions or other legal actions shall also be subject to Registration.
3.     This Decree shall not apply to vessels and aircraft, or to other objects with the status of
being Real Estate (Paragraph 2 of Article 117 of the Civil Code of the Republic of Kazakstan).
Article 3. Lepal Significance of Public Registration
1.     Real-Estate rights listed in Sub-points 1 - 8 of Point 1 of Article 2 of this Decree shall
originate at the moment of their Registration.
2.     Otier Real-Estate rights shall originate at the moment a transaction concerning said rights
has been completed, or when some other legal fact occurs that acts as the basis for the origination of such
rights. However, the rights that have been registered by interested parties shall have priority over
unregistered rights.
Article 4. Encumbrances Not Subject to Registration
The Encumbrances that represent general rules and prohibitions set by law (on public health,
public safety, environmental protection, etc.), as well as other Encumbrances stipulated by the public need
(the right to have access to electric, telephone and telegraph lines and poles, pipelines, etc.) shall not be
subject to Registration.
Article 5. lhe Repistration Bodv
Offices of the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Kazakstan shall be responsible for carrying
out the State Registration of Real-Estate rights and transactions (hereinafter referred to as the "Registration
Body"
Article 6. The Registration Fee and Fees for Information Services
The Registration Body shall establish fees for registering Real-Estate rights and transactions, and
for providing information services in accordance with law.
CHAPTER 2. LEGAL CADASTRE
Article 7.    Record of Land Parcels for Registration Purposes
1.     Registration Districts shall be established throughout the territory of the Republic of
Kazakstan, which coincide with the oblast organization of the territory. For each of Registration District,
a Registration number shall be established.



- 39 -                                   Annex B
2.     A Registration District shall be divided into Registration Sectors which coincide, as a rule,
with the rayon organization of the territory. Each Registration Sector shall have its own Registration
number.
3.     A Registration Sector may be divided into Registration Quarters, each of which shall have
its own Registration number.
4.     Registration Quarters, or Registration Sectors, in the absence of Registration Quarters,
shall be divided into land parcels, each having its own Cadastre Number.
5.     For each Registration Sector, a Registration map (a map of land parcels) and a
Registration book shall be established.
6.     For each land parcel, a Registration case shall be established.
7.     The system for registering Real-Estate rights in the Legal Cadastre shall apply a unified
manner to all categories of land and Real Estate located on it, an said system shall be tied to the land
parcels.
8.  Land parcels and Real Estate located on them shall not be divided or merged without
Registration in accordance with the procedures stipulated in this Decree.
9.     The procedure for recording land parcels for Registration purposes as stipulated in this
Decree shall be established by the Government of the Republic of Kazakstan.
Article 8. Structure of Legal Cadastre
1.     The Legal Cadastre shall include:
(a)    the Registration map;
(b)    the Registration book; and
(c)    the Registration cases;
2.     All entries for documents being registered on rights of ownership, other rights of estate,
their origination, transfer, termination, on leases, mortgages, and other Encumbrances, shall be identified
in the Legal Cadastre with a single number for the land parcel, which shall be conferred by the
Registration Body.
Article 9. The Registration Map
1.    For a Registration Sector, one or several maps may be established.
2.     The data in the Registration map shall be supplemented by a topographic plan of the
registered land parcel, and said plan shall be filed with the Registration case.
In this event, the location of the topographic plan must be indicated in the Registration book.
3.     All entries in the Registration map shall be made on the basis of the information included
in the land cadastre.



- 40 -                                   Annex B
Article 10. Amending the Re-oistration Map
In all cases when the outlines of a land parcel are changed in the Registration map, the Cadastre
Number of the land parcel shall be annulled, and the new land parcel shall be given a new Cadastre
Number.
Article 11. Zhe Registration Book
1.     A Registration book shall consist of Registration lists for every land parcel.
2.     A Registration list shall include the following three sections:
(a)    identification characteristics of a land parcel;
(b)    Real-Estate rights register;
(c)    Encumbrances register (with a separate mortgage entry).
3.     The form of the Registration list shall be determined by the Government of the Republic
of Kazakstan.
Arficle 12    The Registration Case
1.     A Registration case shall be kept for every parcel of land, and it shall include all copies
of the documents included in the Registration list.
2.     For each land parcel that is defined by a Cadastre Number, only one Registration case
shall be kept, except as provided in Article 25 of this Decree.
Article 13. Merging and Dividing Land Parcels
1.    If a single person is the holder of rights to land parcels
that are adjacent to one another, and the rights and responsibilities to them are identical, then a
Registration Body may join these land parcels on the basis of an application by said holder of the rights.
2.     On the basis of an application by the holder of the rights to a land parcel, the Registration
Body shall divide the land parcel into two or several parcels unless the land parcel in question is
considered indivisible in accordance with the land legislation.
CHAPTER 3. REGISTRATION PROCEDURE
Article 14. Acceptance of Documents for Registering Real-Estate Rights and Transactions
1.     The Registration of Real-Estate rights and transactions shall be carried out by the
Registration Body on the basis of an application by the holder of the rights, or, if such a right has
originated from a contract, on the basis of an application by any party to the contract.



- 41 -                                   Annex B
2.     The applicant must submit the following documents to the Registration Body:
(a)    an application with a request to register the rights to the Real Estate;
(b)    documents confirming said person's rights to the Real Estate;
(c)    documents confirming that said person has paid for the services provided by the
Registration Body;
The applicant must present personal identification documents, whereas representatives of legal entities
must also present documents confirming their authority.
3.     When registering common ownership in Real Estate, the Registration application must be
signed by all owners, and documents confirming their right of ownership must be presented by each of
them, as well as documents confirming their identity. This rule shall also apply to rights of economic
administration, rights of operative management, and land use rights.
4.     If a part of Real Estate is mortgaged, leased, or transferred into free usage, then the
documents submitted for Registration must include a map or a general plan, in which the leased, or
mortgaged portions of the Real Estate, or that transferred for free usage are indicated.
5.     Refusal to accept documents for registering Real-Estate rights and transactions shall be
only allowed if improper documents have been submitted.
Article IS.    Deadlines for Public Registration
1.     Registration of the rights of an applicant shall be carried out within ten days from the
moment the documents listed in Article 14 of this Decree have been presented to the Registration Body.
2.    In the event that several applications are registered for the same right, then the right is
registered only for the application submitted the earliest.
Article 16. Requirements for Documents to Be Submitted for Registration
1.    The documents confirming the origination, termination, and transfer of Real-Estate rights,
as well as any limitations to those rights, shall be presented in the proper and required form. Documents
in which any information has been erased or crossed out, in which any additions or any other unacceptable
corrections have been made, as well as documents filled out in pencil shall not be accepted.
2.     All document required for the Public Registration of Real-Estate rights must be presented
in duplicate, one of which must be either the master copy or a notarized copy. The master copy (a
notarized copy) shall be returned to the holder of the rights after it has been registered.
Article 17. An Indication of the Exact Time when Documents are Presented
1.     When receiving documents for registering Real-Estate rights, the Registration Body must
register the date, hour, and minute the Registration documents were submitted.



- 42 -                                  Annex B
2.     The applicant shall be issued a receipt for having submitted the appropriate documents
for Registration, indicating the date, hour, and minute the Registration documents were submitted.
Article 18. Documentation of the Registered Right or Transaction
Upon the request of an applicant, the Registration Body must confirm a completed Registration
by making an appropriate entry in the document which has been presented for Registration.
Article 19. Grounds for Suspending Public Registration
In the event that one party contests the rights, for which another party has applied, the
Registration of these rights may be suspended for a period of no more than 10 days. If the claimant does
not submit any evidence with respect to its claim within this period, then the rights must be registered.
In the event that evidence is submitted with respect to the claim, then Registration shall be suspended until
the legal claim is resolved by a court of law.
Artcle 20. Grounds for Refusing Public Registration
1.    Registration may be refused in the following cases:
(a)   the application documents do not meet requirements established by Articles 16
and 23 of this Decree;
(b)    an incompetent person has requested Registration of rights;
2.    In case of suspension (Article 19 of this Decree) or a refusal to carry out Registration,
the appropriate entry to such an effect shall be made in the Legal Cadastre. In case of refusal, the
applicant must be notified in writing as to the reasons for said refusal. A copy o f the letter must be kept
in the case that had been previously established for the given Real Estate.
article 21. Rectfication of Mistakes Made at Registration
1.    Errors made at Registration, which do not change the ownership, character or the content
of a registered right, may be amended by the Registration Body on its own with the notification of all
interested parties.
2.    If the rectification of an error changes the ownership, character or content of the
registered rights to Real Estate, then said rectification shall only be permitted given the written agreement
of all interested parties.
3.    If the Registration of rights is made on the basis of a document which has been certified
by an authorized body, then the rectification of any errors is permitted only on the condition that the
appropriate changes to said document are made by said body.
Article 22. Access to Data Included in the Legal Cadastre
1.    State Registration of Real-Estate rights and transactions shall be open to the public.



- 43 -                                   Annex B
2.     The Registration Body must release data on any Registration that has been made or on
Real-Estate rights that have been registered to any person on a paid basis, or, if provided by law, free
of charge within 10 days after a written application has been submitted.
3.     Data on Registration that has been carried out, as well as on rights that have been
registered shall be kept in the Legal Cadastre for an indefinite period.
CHAPTER 4. PARTICULARS ON THE REGISTRATION OF RIGHTS
Article 23. Particulars on the Registration of Real-Estate Transactions
1.     Transactions with Real Estate which create, modify or terminate those rights listed in
Sub-Points 1-8 of Point 1 of Article 2 of this Decree shall be considered complete from the moment of
their Registration. This provision does not apply to transactions that create, change, or terminate other
Real-Estate rights.
2.     Transactions that are being registered shall contain signatures and full names (titles) of
those persons conducting said transactions, as well as a short description of the Real-Estate unit, an
indication of its location, and an indication of the right which is being registered.
3.    If the transaction has not been notarized, then the Registration Body is obligated to check
the authenticity of the signatures of the persons conducting said transaction, as well as the compliance
between the persons' wishes and their intentions.
4.     If a Real-Estate transaction has been carried out in the appropriate form, but one of the
parties avoids its Registration, then, upon the request of another party to the transaction, the court shall
be entitled to order the Registration of the transaction. In this case, the transaction shall be registered in
accordance with the court's orders.
Article 24. Registration of the Real-Estate Rights to the Propertv Located on an Unretistered Land Parcel
The Registration of rights to Real-Estate that is located on a land parcel, the rights to which have
not been registered, but are confirmed by appropriate documents, shall be carried out under the same
procedures as the Registration of rights to Real Estate which is located on a registered land parcel. In this
event, the unregistered land parcel shall be assigned with a conditional number.
Article 25. Registration of Rights to Apartments and Other Premises Located in Buildings under Common
QOnership
1.    In residential buildings where individual apartments and/or premises are owned by
individuals or legal entities, each apartment shall be considered as an individual unit of Real Estate having
its own Registration number. Different Registration numbers of apartments and/or premises exist within
the framework of a single code for the land parcel on which the given residential building is located. A
separate registration case shall be established for each apartment and/or premises.
2.     The Legal Cadastre must include a list of owners of apartments and/or premises in a
residential building. Said listing shall indicate the name of each owner and an identification number of
his apartment and/or premises.



- 44 -                                  Annex B
3.     Changes in the ownership of an apartment and/or premises must be reflected in the Legal
Cadastre by adding the name of the new owner to the list of owners and deleting the name of the former
owner.
Article 26. Registration of Servitude
All Servitude must be registered in the Legal Cadastre. A plan of the land parcel shall be included
with the documents, on which the location of the object and the scope of validity of the Servitude shall
be indicated.
Article 27. Registration of Public Ownership Rights
If Real Estate is acquired by state-owned legal entities from individuals or from non-governmental
legal entities, public ownership rights shall be registered concurrently with the right of economic
administration or operative management.
Article 28. Registration of Rights Established by a Court Decision
1.    Real-Estate rights that have been established by a court decision shall be subject to
Registration on general principles. The Registration Body shall not have the right to refuse Registration
of rights established by a court decision.
2.     Any court ruling, determination, decision, or judgement, as well as any court sentence
which concerns Real-Estate rights shall be registered from moment it is passed.
3.     All appeals and protests associated with court rulings, decisions, and sentences shall also
be registered.
Article 29. Registration of the Transfer of Real-Estate Rights
Any changes in the Real-Estate rights connected with the death of the holder of said rights or with
the announcement about said holder's death must be registered on the basis of the document that transfers
said Real-estate rights.
CHAPTER 5. PROCEDURE FOR RESOLVING DISPUTE
LIABILITY FOR VIOLATING REGISTRATION PROCEDURES
Article 30, Procedures for Resolving Disputes
Disputes connected with Registration of Real-Estate rights (transactions), including disputes
concerning the boundaries of a land parcel shall be resolved by a court of law.
Article 31. Liability for Violating Registration Procedure and the Procedure for Issuing Infortnation on
Reipistration.
Losses brought upon an applicant due to unjustified violation of Registration procedure and the
procedure for disclosing information shall be reimbursed by the Registration Body.



- 45 -                                   Annex B
CHAPTER 6. INTERIM AND FINAL PROVISIONS
Article 32. Measures for the Lmplementation of this Decree
For the purpose of implementing this Decree, the Government of the Republic of Kazakstan shall
be obligated to:
(a)    bring all applicable decisions made by the Government of the Republic of
Kazakstan in compliance with this Decree;
(b)    ensure that all regulatory acts issued by ministries, departments, and state
committees of the Republic of Kazakstan, which contradict this Decree, are
revised or canceled;
(c)    set up Real-Estate Registration offices within the structure of judicial bodies;
(d)    ensure the transfer of all Real-Estate Registration functions from government
agencies that are currently carrying out such Registration to the Ministry of
Justice of the Republic of Kazakstan;
(e)    establish a fee to be charged for registering Real-Estate rights and transactions,
and for providing information services, as well as develop a procedure for
distributing the proceeds;
(f)    develop a procedure for recording land parcels for registration purposes;
(g)    approve the sample form of the Registration list;
(h)    take other measures ensuing from this Decree.
Article 33. Procedure for Validating this Decree
1.     This Decree shall become valid as of March 1, 1996.
2.     Rights that become valid prior to this Decree shall be recognized as valid provided that
they are in compliance with the laws that existed at the date they originated.
3.    In the event that earlier existing Real-Estate rights are transferred to another entity, or any
changes or a termination in any applicable right occurs, then thy shall be registered on general principles
in accordance with this Decree.
N. Nazarbayev
President
Republic of Kazakstan
Almaty, December 25,1995
# 2727



- 46 -                                 Annex C
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
REAL ESTATE REGISTRATION PILOT PROJECT
ANNEX C
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
1.           A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be established by the Government with primary
responsibility for overseeing project implementation. It will be established within the Ministry of Justice
and report directly to the Minister of Justice. It will also report regularly to the Chairman of the State
Land Committee and the Minister of Construction. The PIU will also work directly with the Committee
for the Utilization of Foreign Capital (CUFC) on procurement and disbursement issues, and with the
Ministry of Finance on Government financing issues. The PIU will be responsible for: (a) monitoring
progress by Government agencies in preparing necessary documents for the project; (b) managing the
procurement of goods and services for the Project jointly with CUFC; (c) coordinating the plans of work
and logistical arrangements for consultants hired for the Project; (d) overseeing the design and
implementation of training programs; (e) setting up accounting and reporting mechanisms for use in the
implementation phase of the Project; (f) managing disbursement activities for the Project jointly with
CUFC; (g) serving as a clearinghouse for resolving inter-agency arrangements associated with Project
implementation; (h) liaising with oblast administrations in the oversight of project implementation; and
(g) other preparation functions as necessary.
2.           A Technology Oversight Group (TOG) will be established as a sub-unit of the PIU with
overall responsibility for all aspects of utilizing automated technology under the Project. The Terms of
Reference for the TOG are provided separately, below.
3.           The PIU will consist of 11 local staff as follows; Unit Head, Project Management
Assistant, Specialist in Automated Technology, Land Cadastre Expert, Buildings Cadastre Expert,
Accountant and Procurement Specialist, a Lawyer, a Logistics Specialist, a Translator, a Secretary, and
a Driver. The Specialist in Automated Technology will simultaneously serve as the Head of the
Technology Oversight Group and will report on these matters directly to the Head of the PIU.
4.           The Head of the PIU is to be drawn from the staff of the Ministry of Justice. The
Specialist in Automated Technology and the Land Cadastre Expert are to be drawn from the staff of the
State Land Committee. The Buildings Cadastre Expert is to be drawn from the staff of the Ministry of
Construction. The Land and Buildings Cadastre Experts will be responsible for insuring the coordination
of all aspects of the Land and Buildings Cadastres in Project Implementation, in particular the flow of
information from these cadastres into the Legal Cadastre managed by the Ministry of Justice. They will
also be responsible for liaising with the State Land Committee and the Ministry of Construction,
respectively, to insure reliable communication and coordination of approaches during project
implementation.



- 47 -                                   Annex C
5.            Terms of reference for other selected staff of the PIU are as follows.
Project Management Assistant
6.            The project management assistant will report directly to the Head of the Project
Preparation Implementation Unit, and will be responsible for:
(a)    Day-to-day monitoring of project implementation, addressing developing
problems, and bringing these problems to the attention of the Unit Head. In
particular this will require the following work:
(i)    ongoing liaison with the oblast level to ensure that progress is made in
locating and preparing appropriate premises at the rayon level and to
monitor subsequent progress in implementation of the project.
(ii)   liaison with CUFC on counterpart financing issues and the management
and use of loan funds,
(iii)   directly supervise the work of the accountant/procurement specialist and
the logistics specialist,
(iv)   scheduling contract negotiations with suppliers and consultants.
(v)    with supervision of the Unit Head, ensuring delivery of financial,
evaluation, and other reports to the WB
(vi)   other areas of work as determined by the Unit Head.
(b)    Oversee the incorporation of the appropriate of requirements of the legal cadastre
in the automated system for registration. This will involve:
(i)    interaction with the TOG of preparing the terms of reference for the
applied software and subsequent review of the work of the firm,
(ii)   interaction with the TOG in developing the technical specifications and
evaluation methodology for the bidding documents for goods,
(iii)  interaction with the TOG of implementation and functioning of the
automated registration system.
Specialist in Automated Technology
7.            The Specialist in Automated Technology will serve as the Head of the Technology
Oversight Group and be responsible for its staffing and functioning. In particular, this individual will:
(a)    Prepare the technical specifications for the bidding documents for goods, and
where necessary will hire local and foreign consultants to assist in this work.



- 48 -                                  Annex C
(b)    Oversee development of the applied software, including;
(i)    preparation of the terms of reference for this assignment
(ii)    monitoring the work of the software firm in initial package development
(iii)   monitoring the revision cycle, and,
(iv)   coordinating the distribution of the applied software to the rayon level.
(c)    Oversee the digital mapping work under the Mapping Component, including:
(i)    contracting for the production of the 20 base topographic maps
(ii)   preparing and overseeing the digitization training program for staff of
GosNPCzem
(iii)   monitoring the land parcel digitization work and its testing within the
registration system at the rayon level.
(d)    Oversee the training programs in automated technology, including making
arrangements with appropriate firms to carry out this training.
(e)    Monitor installation and start-up of automated systems at the rayon, oblast, and
Republic levels, and their ongoing functioning.
Project Accountant/Procurement Specialist
8.           This individual should have professional training and prior experience in accounting, and
will be responsible for maintaining project accounts. The project accounts will identify all sources and
uses of funds. A separate detailed record of expenditures from, and replenishments to, the Special
Account will also be required. In addition this individual will:
(a)    Prepare quarterly and annual financial reports for submission to the World Bank
as required in the Loan Agreement,
(b)    Maintain on file full documentation associated with procurement utilizing
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) and a summary statement of such
expenditures,
(c)    Liaise with CUFC on preparation and submission of applications for withdrawal
of funds and the use of Letters of Credit (LOC).
In the area of procurement, this individual will work closely with CUFC and the Head of the TOG and
will carry out the following functions;
(d)   In conjunction with the Head of the TOG, manage communication with interested
potential suppliers,



- 49 -                                 Annex C
(e)    Arrange for advertising of upcoming tendering of procurement contracts within
Kazakstan,
(f)   In conjunction with the Head of the TOG, organize the pre-bid conference for the
automated registration system contract,
(g)    Following evaluation, compile the bid evaluation reports,
(h)   In conjunction with CUFC, carry out procurement operations according to the
rules of International and Local Shopping (IS and LS) in accordance with the
Letter of Agreement for the PPF and the Loan Agreement.
(i)   In conjunction with CUFC and the Head of the TOG, contribute to completion
of bidding documents for procurement in accordance with the rules of
International Competitive Bidding (ICB).
Technology Oversight Group (TOG)
9.            The Project will include establishment of a Technical Oversight Group (TOG) which will
report to the PIU. It will be responsible for:
(a)    reviewing the training programs in automated technology and insuring that
operational staff in fact have acquired the necessary skills;
(b)    monitoring progress in preparation of the user-interface software;
(c)    participating in the evaluation of tenders for computer equipment;
(d)   insuring adequate information linkages among the participating agencies at the
rayon and oblast levels;
(e)    monitoring delivery and installation of automated systems (delivery and
installation will be the responsibility of the supplier under the anticipated
contract); and
(f)    monitoring the effectiveness of technological approaches in the implementation
of the pilot, with the goal of making recommendations for eventual roll-out of the
registration system nationwide.
Proposed Staff
Team Leader
Software Specialist (2 persons)
Hardware Specialist
Educational Coordinator
Mapping Specialist



- 50 -                                  Annex C
10.          One of the most important changes that the land registration system will introduce to
Kazakstan's government is an integrated computer system with a relational data base that will be shared
by more than one organizational unit of the government. The success of a project like this depends
heavily on the cooperation of all parties and a complete understanding of each others roles. Each
participating group must understand their individual responsibilities as well as how their work fits into
the overall land registration system.
11.          Insuring that all parties understand their roles from a technology point of view will be the
responsibility of the Technical Oversight Group (TOG). As new ways of performing old tasks are
developed it will be this group's task to make sure that the processes are understood by all and that they
make sense from a technology viewpoint. This will, of course, hold true for new processes that have
never taken place before as well.
12.          It will be very important that the TOG be staffed with people with a variety of different
skills ranging for computer software specialist, to people with a complete understanding of the day to day
operations of various jobs at the rayon and oblast levels. Computer hardware specialist will be needed
to make sure that implementation does not result in a system that is too difficult to manage at the local
level or too simplistic to handle the anticipated load at the oblast and national levels.
13.          The TOG leader should be a person that has a complete understanding of the land
registration system and how each of the various participants will be effected by its implementation. The
leader should have a solid technical background in both hardware and software components, with an
emphasis on the software more than hardware. The reasoning behind this logic of a software rather than
hardware emphasis is that it is anticipated that once actual hardware components are chosen, it will be
the responsibility of the vendor l system integrator to install and insure that the overall system is fully
functional from a hardware perspective at the national, oblast, and rayon levels.
14.          This person must be able to coordinate the information flows between and among the
participating groups. Because the land registration process requires inputs from the Land Committee,
Ministry of Construction, and the Ministry of Justice, the linkages and dependencies must be understood
and from a technical perspective, made as smooth as possible.
15.          The most important piece of software that will be developed for the land registration
system will be the user-interface software. This is the software that end users of the system at the oblast
and rayon levels will see on a daily basis. It is imperative that this software be both easy to understand
and use and sophisticated enough to manage the data relationships that are necessary to track each of the
land registration transactions. The TOG must have a member that has had experience in developing and
implementing large scale relational data base projects. This person must be able to guide the design and
implementation of the relational data base.
16.          This person should have excellent communication skills and be able to converse with the
end users who will initially know little about computers and land registration. He or she must also be
capable of guiding and directing software development persons who may know little about the process of
registering legal rights to land ownership. Understanding the major concepts of relational data base design
and effective screen design are a must for this position.
17.          Often, initial success of a project of this magnitude can be judged by how well the new
system is received by end users. A very important function that the TOG will perform will be to review



- 51 -                                  Annex C
and help set priorities for the educational aspects of the project. A person with good organizational and
computer skills will be needed to make sure that training programs are presented in a systematic and
coordinated manner and that they are thorough enough.
18.          A computer hardware specialist will serve as a very vital member of the TOG. This
person will help to review any tenders for computer technology that will be a part of the pilot and overall
national system. The components will vary widely from large scale multi-user UNIX systems at one end
of the spectrum, to modems and printers at the other end. Choosing the right hardware solution for each
of the unique situations the land registration system is needed for will be very important. Remembering
the educational and technical skills of the ultimate end users of the system will be important. Just because
a solution appears to be the best for one situation or group of people, it does not mean it is the best for
everyone. Technical aspects of hardware can be very detailed and tedious but are critical to understand
and apply correctly. Relying on the advice of vendors is not always a safe means of developing and
evaluating specifications of hardware capabilities and performance.
19.          As stated before, the technical expert members of the TOG must also have a good
understanding of the overall goals and objectives of the system. These persons must know the basics of
what the land registration system will do and be able to translate that into hardware needs and capabilities.
Failure to grasp the big picture may result in technology that is either over specified for the task, or not
capable of managing the load placed on it by end users.
20.           One of the major objectives of Land Committee for the pilot project is to establish
methods and procedures for producing digital maps from existing paper maps and coordinates collected
in the field. Because this procedure will be spread to the cadastral units of all 19 oblasts in Kazakstan,
it is very important that these methods be comprehensive and easy to teach and understand. This person
must completely understand digital mapping and the implication that these types of maps bring to the
registration system.
21.           The pilot project should serve as a testing ground for the complete nationwide roll-out of
the registration system. TOG members must be prepared to take a step back from the day to day
operations of the system and evaluate the effectiveness of the chosen solution from a technical viewpoint.
This evaluation will be primarily from a technical perspective, but would also include an evaluation of
the user-interface software. Remembering that the pilot project should be viewed as the first installation
of a system that will be used nationally. Computer capabilities and other technical solutions implemented
for the pilot project will be duplicated though out Kazakstan and if they are mishandled, success of the
overall land registration system could be placed in jeopardy.



- 52 -                                 Annex D
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
REAL ESTATE REGISTRATION PILOT PROJECT
ANNEX D
TERMS OF REFERENCE
CORE CONSULTANT TEAM
1.           The Government of Kazakstan has been working with the World Bank in preparation of
a Real Estate Registration Project. The objectives of the Project are to assist the Government in
implementation of the Presidential Decree with force of law "On State Registration of Rights and
Transactions in Real Estate", issued December 25, 1995 and attached to these terms of reference. The
Decree requires the establishment of a legal cadastre and system of registration offices under the auspices
of the Ministry of Justice to register legal rights in real property. The Decree provides an essential legal
foundation for the registration system, but will require subsequent elaboration in the form of supporting
resolutions and other documents to fully define a practicable system.
2.           The Ministry of Justice is the Government agency primarily responsible for
implementation of the Real Estate Registration Project. Other agencies that will play a role in project
implementation are the State Land Committee, the city and rayon architect's offices under the system of
the Ministry of Construction, [and the offices of the former Bureaus of Technical Inventory]. These
agencies have undertaken registration of particular types of rights in real property in the past. In
accordance with the Registration Decree, these functions are now to be unified in the new registration
offices of the Ministry of Justice. The Project will incorporate a mechanism for the transfer of these
functions. In addition, these other agencies will continue to play a long-term role in the new registration
system, by providing necessary information on land parcels and buildings and maintaining the land and
building cadastres with physical information on real property.
3.           In light of the immediate and pressing needs for system design and institution building,
the decision has been made to develop a Pilot Phase for the intended Real Estate Registration Project.
The Pilot Project will allow the Government to elaborate the design of the new registration system, and
to get that system up and running. If the Pilot Project is successfully implemented, then the Government
will be prepared to roll out the resulting design throughout the country. This phase of work would be
financed by the full loan for the Real Estate Registration Project. It is important that the Pilot Project
define a system that can be implemented equally in either a paper-based or automated environment. Both
technologies will need to be tested in the Pilot Project and the eventual roll-out with involve
implementation of both.
4.           Work under the Pilot Project will come in two major parts. The first part will address
the design of the registration system, the second will address its implementation and testing.  The
Government has received a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance from the World Bank of $1.5
million which will, in part, finance consultant services to be provided prior to effectiveness of the Real
Estate Registration Pilot Project loan. The contract being tendered covers the work to be financed out
of the PPF. If a Loan for the Real Estate Registration Pilot Project is made, and on the basis of
satisfactory completion of work required under the PPF, the Government of Kazakstan has the option to
request an extension of the contract through completion of the Pilot Project.



-53-                                    Annex D
Scope of Work - PPF
5.            The Government proposes to use the PPF to finance the following critical areas of design
and preparation of the Real Estate Registration Pilot Project:
(a)    establish a Project Preparation Unit that will be the focal point of the
Government's subsequent preparation efforts and serve as the primary counterpart
for the World Bank in this effort;
(b)    finalize draft resolutions and other documents necessary to implement the
Presidential Decree with force of law "On State Registration of Real Estate
Rights and Transactions" (henceforth, Registration Law) and provide the
necessary foundation for implementing a registration system;
(c)    establish national and regional demonstration and training centers to provide a
focal point for training efforts for establishment of the registration system;
(d)    design and implement domestic training programs to familiarize with relevant
models of real property registration;
(e)    prepare bidding documents for goods to be procured in accordance with
procedures for international competitive bidding (ICB) under the Project;
(f)    prepare user-interface software for testing in the pilot phase of the Project.
6.            The Project Preparation Unit. The Project Preparation Unit (PPU) will be responsible
for overseeing project preparation on a day-to-day basis, insure that progress is being made on the
outstanding issues, and serve as a primary contact with the World Bank for the rest of the preparation
phase of the project. The PPU will be responsible for: (a) monitoring progress by Government agencies
in preparing necessary documents for the project; (b) managing preparatory work on bidding documents
for the procurement of goods and services for the Project; (c) handling logistical arrangements for
consultants hired during the preparation phase of the Project; (d) overseeing the design and
implementation of training programs and a national training center; (e) setting up accounting and reporting
mechanisms for use in the implementation phase of the Project; (f) serving as a clearinghouse for
resolving inter-agency arrangements associated with the Project; and (g) other preparation functions as
necessary.
7.            The PPU will be composed of 11 local staff in the following areas; Unit Head, Project
Management Assistant, Specialist in Automated Technology, Land Cadastre Expert, Buildings Cadastre
Expert, Accountant and Procurement Specialist, a Lawyer - Legal Cadastre Expert, a Logistics Specialist,
a Translator, a Secretary, and a Driver. A Technology Oversight Group (TOG) will be established as
a sub-unit of the PPU with a staff of five and overall responsibility for all aspects of utilizing automated
technology under the Project. The Specialist in Automated Technology will simultaneously serve as the
Head of the Technology Oversight Group and will report on these matters directly to the Head of the
PPU. The PPU will report to the Ministry of Justice, but will also coordinate its activity with the State
Land Committee and the Ministry of Construction.



- 54 -                                 Annex D
8.            The consultant team is expected to work directly with the PPU in carrying out its overall
assignment. The head of the consultant team will interact directly with the head of the PPU in
coordinating the efforts of the consultant team with that of the Government and ensuring the satisfactory
conduct of work required under this contract. In-country logistical arrangements for consultants will be
handled by the PPU. In the course of its work, the consultant team is expected to make available to the
PPU expertise in the design of a project implementation and management plan according to the World
Bank procedures and in establishing accounting and financial reporting mechanism.
9.            Completion of Supporting Documents. The Registration Law requires the preparation
of supporting resolutions to elaborate the future functioning of the registration system. Some of these
documents have already been prepared, including an overall inter-agency agreement on cooperation in the
functioning of the registration system, procedures for assigning cadastral numbers to land parcels, and
a revised format for the Acts for land. Other documents that are scheduled to be completed by the end
of September include: formal adoption of the registration book and registration sheet; formal registration
of the Registration Service of the Ministry of Justice (rayon, oblast and national registration offices) and
its staffing plan; a instructions on procedures for registration of land and real estate; formal adoption of
a fee-for-service schedule; and extension of the recently adopted cadastral number system for land parcels
to buildings and sub-units of buildings.
10.          The consultant team will review these supporting documents and provide comment and
recommendations for additional work, including the identification of additional documents necessary for
the efficient implementation and functioning of the registration system.
i1.           Training programs. The PPF will finance the design and implementation of domestic
training programs. The following training programs will be developed;
(a)    For the Registrars and other legally trained staff of the oblast and rayon
Registration Offices, and for relevant staff of the Registration Department of the
Ministry of Justice a training program will be designed to address conceptual
legal and administrative issues associated with the functioning of real estate
registration system in Kazakstan on the basis of the country's emerging legal and
procedural foundation and the experience of other countries.
(b)    For operational staff of the Registration Offices, the land committee offices, and
offices of the Ministry of Construction, a program of training will be designed
to address issues of operational procedures, client interaction, data base
management, etc. as well as providing exposure to the basic legal issues and legal
implications of the activity of a real estate registration system.
12.          The training programs will be offered in two parts. The first part will address the existing
legal framework in Kazakstan and will be conducted between November, 1996 and February 1997. The
second part will focus on case studies drawn from international experience and will be implemented in
March-April 1997. The total number of staff expected to receive training under the PPF is approximately
380.
13.          The consultant team will work with the Government to develop the design and assist in
implementation of the second part of the above training programs. Interaction with relevant Government



- 55 -                                 Annex D
agencies will be coordinated by the PPU. The consultant team will be responsible for identifying and
elaborating case studies appropriate for the registration system being implemented under this Project,
which assumes separate conduct of land and legal cadastres. The consultant team will also take part in
conducting this portion of the training programs in conjunction with the PPU and domestic legal
consultants.
14.          Preparation of bidding documents for goods. By the end of 1996, the Government will
issue bidding documents for goods for two contracts that will require international competitive bidding
(ICB) procedures; the automated registration system, and field survey equipment. This work will be
undertaken outside of the contract for this assignment.
15.          Preparation of User-Interface Software. The development of a unique registration system
for Kazakstan will entail the design and use of tables and procedures unique to the country. For
application of such a system using automated technology, customized user-interface software will be
required. This will be designed to be compatible with any automated systems package that would be
procured under ICB. It is critical that work on designing the user-interface software be integrated with
the elaboration of the system itself, in particular the design of the registration list and definition of
standard procedures and formats required to elaborate the Registration Decree. The terms of reference
for the design of the user-interface software will be prepared in the fall of 1996. The user-interface
software will be developed during the first half of 1997 by a local firm while the registration system is
being implemented on the basis of paper technology. It will be tested and modified as soon as it is
developed with subsequent distribution to the rayon and oblast registration offices. The responsibility
for preparing the user-interface software will not be covered by this contract.
16.          The consultant team, upon its arrival in Kazakstan, will advise the PPU on the terms of
reference for the user-interface software and will interact with the local firm preparing the software as
instructed by the PPU.
Scope of Work - Pilot Project Loan
17.          Following effectiveness of a loan for the Real Estate Registration Pilot Project, and
assuming satisfactory completion of assignments financed out of the PPF, the Government reserves the
right to extend the contract for consultant services through completion of the Pilot Project. The work to
be undertaken under the loan for the Pilot Project would directly follow from the assignment under the
PPF and can be summarized as follows:
(a)    Functioning of the Project Implementation Unit. The PPU would transform into
a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) with increased responsibilities in project
management, procurement, and accounting. In all three areas, the consultant firm
would be expected to continue to provide assistance and support during the
implementation of the Pilot Project. The objective would be to have a fully
independent PPU by the end of the Pilot capable of handling all necessary aspects
of implementation of a World Bank project independently. In particular the
consultant firm would assist in processing documents associated with project
procurement, oversee project accounting and reporting in accordance with the
design developed under the PPF, and provide advice and guidance on emerging
issues and problems associated with implementation of the Pilot.



- 56 -                                 Annex D
(b)    Training Programs. Depending on the date of Loan effectiveness, work on the
training programs could continue into the implementation phase of the Project.
A separate training program for software to be procured under the Project will
be conducted in the fall of 1997. The consultant team will be expected to
monitor the conduct of this training.
(c)    Monitoring and Adjusting Project Design. This would include working with the
Government to carry out the agreed implementation plan for the Pilot,
troubleshooting for emerging problems and bottlenecks in project design and
making any adjustments or additions to the procedural or operational framework.
The consultant team will take part in testing of the software and provide
comments and recommendations for its modification. By the end of the Pilot,
project design should be sufficiently tested and elaborated for implementation
throughout the country.
(d)    Technical Assistance in Registration Related Areas. As an integral part of its
work in the above three areas, the consulting firm will make available to the
Government during the Pilot Project expertise in the areas of; (a) administrative
and management aspects of registration systems, (b) development of real estate
markets, (c) further elaboration of the legal and procedural framework for
efficient functioning of real estate markets, (d) improved integration of the land
and buildings cadastres with the legal cadastre and priority improvements in the
land and buildings cadastres, (e) preparation of bidding documents for goods
anticipated under the roll-out of the Pilot Real Estate Registration Project, and (f)
functioning of the automated registration system and its enhanced integration with
existing information bases.
Requirements of the Consulting Firm
18.          The consulting firm will be required to field a team of consultants in accordance with the
above scope of work for the PPF and the following individual terms of reference. The firm should be
prepared to demonstrate experience with handling registration issues in the former USSR and highlight
areas where work already done could be readily applied to the case of Kazakstan. All relevant available
materials should be provided in Russian. The consulting firm is responsible for carrying out the work
described in these terms of reference and providing the output listed below. The primary point of contact
within the Government for the consulting firm will be the PPU. The primary implementing agency for
the PPF and the Pilot Project is the Ministry of Justice. The PPU will coordinate the interaction of the
consultant team with counterparts in the Government. In-country assignments under the PPF will vary
in length from one to six months. While consultants are not in-country, the consulting firm should assure
that reliable links are available for the Government to communicate as necessary with them for the
purpose of clarification.
19.          The consulting firm is requested to nominate in its proposal a team of experts as follows;
(1) specialist in real estate registration systems, (2) specialist in real estate markets, (3) a lawyer with
expertise in real estate registration and the development of real estate markets, (4) an information
technology expert, and (5) a specialist in land cadastre systems and their relationship to a legal cadastre.
The consulting firm will be required to provide the team nominees included in the proposal. In cases



- 57 -                                 Annex D
where a consultant for whatever reason is unable to fulfill the specified requirements, the consulting firm
will be responsible for replacing that individual with a fully satisfactory alternative.
20.          The consulting firm must be prepared to place its team in-country no later than the end
of January. The assignment will run until the termination of the PPF, which is anticipated in April. The
specialists in real estate registration systems and real estate markets should plan to be in-country for
duration of the assignment.  All other staff will be in-country roughly half-time.
21.           Fulfillment of the scope of work associated with the PPF will require approximately 13-14
staff months. While the scope of work to be financed by the Pilot Project Loan is subject to further
elaboration based on work under the PPF, it is currently estimated that the Pilot Project will require
approximately 25-30 additional staff months, and will be implemented from April 1997 to December
1998.
22.           Output.  The consulting firm will be required to provide monthly reports to the
Government on the progress in implementing this assignment, with a review of the areas of work
described above. In addition, the firm will be required to produce and document the case-study portion
of the training programs as indicated above. The Government may call on the consultant team to assist
in the drafting of documents in support of the Registration Law. Upon completion of the assignment, the
consulting firm will submit to the Government a Final Report summarizing the results of the work of the
consultant team and providing a detailed implementation plan for the Pilot Project.
INDIVIDUAL TERMS OF REFERENCE
Real Estate Registration Systems Specialist
23.          This position requires an individual with a broad base of professional experience in the
framework and functioning of real estate registration systems in a variety of countries where land and
legal cadastres are conducted separately. This individual should have prior direct experience with real
estate registration issues in the countries of the former USSR. Previous involvement in implementation
of pilot projects in these countries and knowledge of Russian are a large plus, though not a requirement.
The Registration Systems Specialist will serve as leader of the consultant team and the primary contact
with the Government in implementation of this assignment. As such, he or she will be interacting directly
and on a regular basis with the Head of the PPU. The Registration Systems Specialist should be in
country for approximately 3 months during execution of the PPF portion of the scope of work.
Scope of Work
(a)    Provide overall guidance to the work of the consultant team  and ensure
coordination of the efforts of the team members. Serve as primary contact with
the Government for the team. Ensure the successful completion of all output and
work required by this assignment.
(b)    Oversee preparation and conduct of the case-study portion of the programs of
training, in collaboration with the Head of the PPU and other relevant
Government staff



- 58 -                                 Annex D
(c)    Provide comments to the Government on the terms of reference for the user-
interface software.
(d)    Provide guidance to the PPU Head and other PPU staff to improve their
understanding of registration issues. Interact with other Kazakstani counterparts
as requested by the Government.
(e)    Review existing documents in support of the Registration Law and provide
comment or recommendations on revisions to those documents and/or the need
for additional documents for the successful implementation of the registration
system.
Real Estate Markets Specialist
24.           The immediate objective of the Project is to establish a reliable system of registration of
rights in real property. The ultimate goal of the Project is to facilitate the exercise of property rights in
real estate so as to provide impetus to the economic growth and development of the country. The Real
Estate Markets Specialist will provide professional and practical expertise in the areas of sale, leasing,
and mortgaging of real property. The focus should be on; (a) the types of information that are required
for the smooth exercise of these rights and who needs that information; (b) how access to that information
should be structured; (c) the types of documents, forms, and procedures that need to be elaborated; (d)
potential bottlenecks or complications in the operation of real estate markets. The Real Estate Markets
Specialist will coordinate with the legal expert in reviewing the implications of existing laws and any
necessary elaboration of those laws to support development of real estate markets. Prior direct experience
with real estate market issues in the countries of the former USSR and knowledge of Russian is a
significant plus, but not a requirement. The Real Estate Markets Specialist should be in country for
approximately 2 months during fulfillment of the scope of work under the PPF.
Scope of Work
(a)    Supporting documents.  Insuring that the necessary basis for the smooth
functioning of real estate markets is captured in the documents supporting the
Registration Law. This will include both operational procedures and standard
forms for common transactions.
(b)   Input into the training programs. How the registration system supports the
economic development of the country and what design and operational features
are required to facilitate this.
(c)    In conjunction with the legal expert, ensuring that the overall project design
elaborated under this assignment is consistent with the goal of well-functioning
real estate markets.
(d)    Other guidance and advice to Government, as may be requested, in the area of
real estate market development.



- 59 -                                 Annex D
Legal Expert in Registration and Real Estate Markets
25.           This position requires a lawyer with knowledge of the legal foundations of registration
systems in a variety of countries, preferably where responsibility for the legal and land cadastres is split
as in Kazakstan, and the legal underpinnings for well-functioning sale, mortgage, and lease markets in
real estate. This position will require direct interaction with staff of the Ministry of Justice and other
Government agencies, and with counterpart legal experts who have drafted legislation for the Republic
of Kazakstan. Prior experience in these issues in the countries of the former USSR and knowledge of
Russian is a significant plus, but not required. Familiarity with the Constitution of the Republic of
Kazakstan, the Civil Code, the Land Code, the Registration Decree, and other related legislation is
assumed. If this is not the case, such familiarity should be achieved prior to starting this assignment.
English language copies of these documents can be provided by the Government. The Legal Expert
should be in-country for approximately 2-3 months during completion of the scope of work under the
PPF.
Scope of Work
(a)    Review of documents supporting the Registration Law In conjunction with
counterpart legal experts, reviewing all documents in support of the Registration
Decree to insure that they are consistent with that Decree, the broader legal
framework in Kazakstan, and the goals of economic development.
(b)    Identification  of other areas where supporting documents are needed.
Identification of remaining gaps in the supporting framework for the registration
system should include a detailed outline of how the necessary supporting
documents should be structured and the detailed issues they should address.
(c)    Participation in the training programs. Take the lead role in developing and
implementing the case-study portion of the training program. Review the design
of part one of the training programs to ensure that they address the needs of the
project.
(d)    Work directly with the Head of the PPU to improve their understanding and
appreciation of the legal aspects of the registration system and the legal
requirements for efficient real estate markets.
(e)    Interact with other Kazakstani counterparts as requested by the Government.
Land Cadastre Expert
26.          Implementation of the registration system in Kazakstan will involve the coordinated efforts
of the Ministry of Justice, the State Land Committee, the Ministry of Construction, and the former offices
of the Bureau of Technical Inventory (BTI). These other organizations have undertaken registration of
various types of rights in real property in the past and/or are responsible for maintaining cadastral
information on land and buildings. The Land Cadastre Expert will be responsible for insuring the
appropriate integration of the cadastral information on land and buildings into the registration system on



- 60 -                                 Annex D
the basis of the Government's agreed approach to inter-agency cooperation in this sphere. Prior
experience with the organizational responsibilities for maintaining cadastral information on land and
buildings, and the handling of registration of rights since 1991 in the countries of the former USSR, as
well as knowledge of Russian is a significant plus, but not required. The Land Cadastre Expert should
be in-country for approximately 3 months during completion of the scope of work under the PPF.
Scope of Work
(a)    Review of supporting documents. The Land Cadastre Expert should work with
identified Government counterparts to review the following documents in support
of the Registration Law; (i) inter-agency agreement on cooperation, (ii)
procedures for assigning cadastral numbers to real property, and (iii) revised
format and procedures for the state act for land.
(b)    Training programs. The Land Cadastral Expert will be responsible for designing
into the case-study portion of the program of training for staff of the Land
Committee, BTI offices and the Ministry of Construction material that addresses
their role in the new registration system, and highlights situations where land
cadastral issues duplicate the process of registration.
(c)    Assessment of existing cadastral maps. Review on a spot basis the quality of
cadastral maps currently available for the purposes of registration.  (The
Government is to complete an inventory of maps in the Project regions by the end
of December, 1996.)
(d)    Monitor implementation of the agreed cadastral numbering system for real
property.  Ensure that this work is moving forward on the basis of the
Government's agreed methodology, with priority attention given to those rayons
nominated to participate in the Pilot Project.
Automation Systems Specialist
27.          Implementation of the Pilot Project will begin on the basis of paper technology, but shift
gradually to an automated environment. The consultant team should include an Automation Specialist to
monitor progress in preparing for the introduction of the computerized system. Prior experience in the
countries of the former USSR and knowledge of Russian is a plus, though not required. The Automation
Specialist should spend approximately 1-2 month in country.
Scope of Work
(a)    Preparation of user-interface sofiware. Render necessary assistance in developing
the user-interface software. Ability to adapt this software to any automated
system to be procured must be ensured. Prior experience in the preparation and
implementation of user-interface software for registration in the countries of the
former USSR will be a major plus.



- 61 -                                  Annex D
(b)    Installation of automated systems.  Review  with the TOG  plans for the
implementation of the automated registration system at the rayon and oblast level
and provide recommendations as necessary. Assess the adequacy of allocated
premises for implementation of the automated system, particularly at the rayon
level.



- 62 -                                   Annex E
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
REAL ESTATE REGISTRATION PILOT PROJECT
ANNEX E
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR TRAINING PROGRAMS
I. Legal and Administrative Training for Registrars and Other Professional Legal Staff
1.            Part one of this training program will provide targeted staff with a thorough background
in the existing legislative basis for registration of rights in land and real estate. The Registration Law will
be covered in detail. In addition, relevant sections of the Constitution, the Civil Code, the Law on
Mortgage of Real Estate, the Law on Privatization, and the Law on Land will be highlighted. Following
this, documents issued in support of the Registration Law will be covered. Particular attention will be
given to the Government Resolution on Registration Procedures. This training will provide understanding,
inter alia, of: (1) rights subject to registration; (2) basis for suspending registration; (3) basis for refusing
registration; (4) priority; (5) obligations, authority, and liability of the Registrar; (6) registration
documents and document management procedures; (7) inter-agency roles in the functioning of the
registration system. One week will be alloted for part one of this training.
2.            Part two of this training program will analyze case studies of interesting situations and
problems that will be encountered in administering the registration system, as indicated by the experience
of other countries. The case studies to be included will be determined jointly by the Ministry of Justice
and the foreign consultant team provided under the main consultant services contract, and will be selected
on the basis of their ability to highlight legal and procedural aspects of the Kazakstani registration system.
Participants will be provided with a hypothetical situation or problem and be asked to resolve it on the
basis of material provided in part one of the program. Interaction with the foreign consultants and results
of this portion of the training program will be used to identify remaining gaps in the set of documents
supporting the Registration Law. Two weeks will be alloted for part two of this training.
3.            A total of approximately 55 staff will take this training program as follows: 10 from the
Republican level, 10 from the oblast level, and 35 from the rayon level. The training will be conducted
in three groups, with the first group comprising the Republic and oblast level staff, and the rayon level
staff divided into two roughly equal groups. The total costs per person for both parts of this program are
estimated at US$700, for a total program cost of US$38,500.
II. Legal and Procedural Training for Operational Staff
4.            Training under this program will be oriented to staff of the registration offices and
corresponding land committee and architects' offices responsible for maintaining the data base and
interacting with clients and will similarly be broken into two parts, with the first focusing on the existing
legislative and procedural basis and the second providing case studies. Part one of this program will
cover the same topics as program I, providing background to the legislative basis for the registration
system, but will focus more attention on topics (6) and (7); registration documents and document
management procedures, and inter-agency roles in the functioning of the registration system. Participating
staff of the MOJ will be broken out into a subgroup which receives more intensive training in the form



- 63 -                                  Annex E
of the registration list, the registration book, and document handling procedures for the registration
offices. Staff of the SLC and MOC will form another sub-group and devote more time to procedures for
the transfer of information in the case of initial registration under the new system and their agencies'
longer term role in maintaining the land and building cadastres and providing this information to the
registration offices. Part one will require one week of training.
5.            Part two of this training will provide a review of topics covered under part one and
analysis of relevant case studies, to be developed jointly by the foreign consultants, the PIU, MOJ, SLC,
and MOC. These case studies should highlight in particular matters that can be handled by operational
staff and those that need to be referred to higher authority. They should also examine the specific
mechanisms for the transfer of information among participating agencies in a detailed step-by-step manner.
Part two will require two weeks of training.
6.            Approximately 340 staff will receive this training as follows: from the rayon level, 304
(140 MOJ, 104 SLC, and 60 MOC); from the oblast level, 28 (12 MOJ, 8 SLC, and 8 MOC); and from
the national level, 8 (4 MOJ, 2 SLC, and 2 MOC). The estimated average cost per person is US$725
for a total program cost of US$287,000.
III. Software Training
7.            Training will be provided in the software packages procured as part of the automated
registration system (both operating system and data base management software) and for the GIS software
procured as part of the map production component. This training will take place in the fall of 1997 to
coincide with delivery and installation of equipment and will be provided to staff of the State Land
Committee, the Ministry of Justice, and the Ministry of Construction at the rayon, oblast, and Republic
levels. Three separate courses will be offered for the operating system (OS) software; for programmers,
for systems administrators, and for users. Ten individuals will receive training in OS for programmers
at an estimated per person cost of US$1900. The systems administrator course will be provided to 47
staff at an estimated per person cost of US$1900. The course for OS users will also be provided to 47
staff at an estimated per person cost of US$500. The total estimated cost for training in OS is
US$131,800.
8.            The training in data base management software (DBMS) will be provided as follows:
systems analyst for 3 staff at an estimated per person cost of US$5250; DBMS programming for 8 staff
at an estimated cost of US$5250; an data base administration for 47 staff at an estimated cost of US$1850.
The total estimated cost for training in DBMS is estimated at US$144,700.
9.            Training in GIS software will be provided on a modest scale, commensurate with the scale
of the digital mapping activity under the project. A total of 8 staff of GosNPCzem will receive a basic
course at an estimated per person cost of US$400. Four staff will receive an expanded course at an
estimated cost of US$2000 per person. The total estimated cost for training in GIS software is
US$11,200.
10.           Training in the user-interface software (UIS) will be provided to 395 staff (180 from the
Ministry of Justice, 125 from the State Land Committee, and 90 from the Ministry of Construction) at
an estimated per person cost of US$400 for a total estimated cost of UIS training of US$158,000.
11.           Total costs for all software training is estimated at US$446,000.



REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
REAL ESTATE REGISTRATION PILOT PROJECT
ANNEX F
PROCUREMENT CONTRACI'S
Item                  Contract  Base Cost   Method   Bid Documents   Implementahion 1
Type    (US$ Mill.)      _         Available         Period
1.    Automated Registration System    Goods         5.5      ICB          4/97           10/97 - 3/98
+ GIS Data Processing
2.    GIS Receivers                   Goods          0.2      ICB           4/97          10/97 - 1/98
3.   Tacheometers                     Goods          0.2      ICB           4/97          10/97 - 1/98
4.    Office Furniture                Goods          0.1       IS           6/97           7/97-8/97
5.    Registration System            Services        0.7    S-List          8/96          4/97 - 12/98
Consultants (main contract)
6.   Individual Consultants          Services        0.5    Otherl'         8/96          9/96 - 12/98
1/  Competitive election



-65 -                                          Annex G
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
REAL ESTATE REGISTRATION PILOT PROJECT
Amix G
COMPONENT PROJECr CosTs
Intitudon Building Component
1996       1997         1998        Total
Project implementaion Unit
operating Costs                      74         217          217          508
Ekuipumnt                             0          97           0            97
TOTAL                                74         314          217          60S
Technical Assistance
Foreign
Main Contract              0          512         450           962
Others                     0          105          105          210
Local
TOO                        13         51           51           11S
Applied software           5          150          40           195
Legal                      10         25           1S           S0
Others                     0          50           S0           100
TOTAL                                28         893          711          1632
Tining
Progam  1                            14          25          14            53
ProgY m  11                           0         183          108          291
Prgratn III                           0         463           0           463
TOTAL                                14         671          122          807
TOTAL BASE COSTS                      116        1878         1050         3044
Price Coningencies                     0          129         184          313
TOTAL COMPONENT COSTS                 116        2007         1234         3357



- 66 -                                   Annex G
Registration Component
1996      1997  1998    Total
Automated Systems
Rayon Systems                   0        3737    0       3737
Oblast Systems
MOJ                    0         274    0       274
SLC                    0         644    0       644
MOC                    0         274    0       274
National Systems
MOJ                    0         109    0       109
SLC                    0         268    0       268
MOC                    0         109    0       109
TOTAL                           0        5415    0       5415
Office Fumiture                  0         306    0       306
Operating Costs - MOJ
Staff                           0         870   870      1740
Premises                        0         332   243      575
Office Supplies                 0         196   196      392
TOTAL                           0        1398  1309      2707
TOTAL BASE COSTS                 0        7119  1309      8428
Price Contingencies              0         356   361      717
Physical Contingencies           0          32    0        32
TOTAL COMPONENT COSTS            0        7507  1670      9177



-67 -                                       Annex G
Mapping Component
1996      1997        1998        Total
Equipment
Digital Mapping                           0         338         0          338
Field Survey                              0         390         0          390
TaTAL                                     0         728         0          728
TOTAL BASE COSTS                           0         728         0           728
Price Contingenies                         0          20         0           20
TOTAL COMPONENT COSTS                      0         748         0           748



tt                         i[U  lf [ [i                                      I   J 
I                                                                                    I~~~~~~~~~~~P
g~~~i t                                                              if  UZ 
t | ~~~~~~~......................................................... ...............................   ....1 . g.
I 1]1 t=-I                                                       *1                           1t
vII                  ~1.i ........I...............r
........ ......... ... ......................... .............................. .........................I.. ...................... .   .P..... .......   ..
H XWNr
103olm loan NOLlElSIDI ZIVJS:E rIv
NYisxvzvl Jo DI1fiUld:E
H - 89 -



KAZAKSTAN: Real Estate Registration Project
Qtr3,1996  |        Qt4,1996  r|  ,9I 7   |  Qt2 1997  |  Qtr3.199.7  |  t2r4,197  I Qtrl lm           |Q
ID  Tak Nae                                                                             Ju1 Aug  Sep  OI Nov Dec   n  Feb MAr    M    Jun J                                          n i Feb  M  I A
22  C. Co_trlmi Servlces (mtain contract)
23       IssUCe LetCtr or Invitation
24       Proposals due
25       Evaluation ofproposals
26       Baank review and no-objection
27       Contract negotiation and signing
21       Conuhants arrive in Kazakstan
29  D. Appled Software for R       agl4ratlon                                                         I            _IE
30       Consultants located to assist in preparation of system description
3t       Systcm description issued
32       Firm located for writing applied software
33       First version ofsoftware eady                                                                                                              . 
34       Applied softwar matnual prepared
35       Testing and evaluation of firs version
_   __               ..______   __,._:                                                                                                                                                                                  .:,.... _  0%
36       First revision cycle
37       Acc nce of first version and distribution to project offices
3J  F Procuremuent of Go_ods                                                                                                                                                         *
39       Consultants located to assist in prqepralion ofbidding doctmnents
40  O    General Procurement Notice in UNDD
41       Drall Biddiug documents prepared
42       laTnk review and no-objection'
Task                     __Svrry                                                          RolbedUp Progresrs
Date: Wed 21129? rgesRzEdptst>
Mlkslontt * ~~~Rolled UpMiksbnre 
Page 2



c    I - a          2mla                                 Ia I  '*                      j.!
I,~~~~~~~~P
1oll IL=~~ ..'..  ..M.
3'     X            -- 1
_I __
HX4 v                          -OL-C
-U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d
Cd........   ..  ...................................    ................................. ..........  ...
.. ...__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __.. .. . .. .. . .. .. .. . .. .. .. . .. .. . .. .. .. . .. .. .. . .. .. . .._ . _ . . .. .. .. . .. .. . .. .. .. . .. .. .. . .. .. . .. .. . _... .. .. . .. .. .
9                                 - ~~~~~~~OL-



:I              2!                                                                                                                                                                                                       -I
I                                                                                                   f   I   | j |                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .~ 1fJ    a
Er~~~~~~~~r
I                                                  _                              _= .                                                                                                                                                                            N..... ..... . .....
............................................                                                                                              ...... ........ I.                                  .. ..............................                                                                            .                   ............... ....r
- |                  .....................  .............                                                                                     .............                                   ..........=                      .                .               .........................                                     ........... . . F.                         F
H                      .                   .                      .                     .                     ...                                                                                  ......
..........   ..........                                                        ......          ......           ......           ......           ....                                                                ..           ......           ......            
..................  ..    .................   ...........................   .........  0 ..........                                                    ...................                              -  ................   .......



- 72 -                                     Annex I
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
REAL ESTATE REGISTRATION PILOT PROJECT
ANNEX I
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Objectives         Inputs             Outputs             Risk and Critical    Outcomes and
Assumptions        Impacts
Establish real     Allocation of      Registration offices  Sustainability of  Increased security
estate registration    Government     established in 34   Government         of tenure in land
system in two      counterpart funds    regions, 3 oblasts   counterpart     and real estate
oblasts and the    for premise and    and at the Republic  financing         resulting in higher
city of Almaty to   staffing of the   level                                  level of mortgage
serve as the basis   registration offices                 Ability to build the  activity and
for development of                    Operational        institutional       investment
the national system   Government to   procedures for the   capacity of the   (increased number
issue legal        functioning of the    MOJ and other    of mortgages in
documents          registration offices   participating   project rayons)
supporting         defined for both    Government
implementation of   paper-based and    agencies           Improved
the Registration   automated                              functioning of
Law                technologies. User-  Appropriate       sales and lease
interface software   cooperation among   markets (increased
Training programs   tested and         participating      number of such
for staff of the   finalized.          agencies achieved   transactions in
MOJ, SLC and                                              project rayons)
MOC                Model for inter-    Ability to prepare
agency cooperation   user-interface   Improved
Local and foreign   in the functioning    software and    govemment
technical assistance   of the registration    bidding documents  administration of
system defined.    for the automated    real estate
Preparation and                        registration system    Real estate
testing of user-   Training conducted   on time           development
interface software   for staff as                         policies
indicated in Annex   Population chooses   Real estate
Procurement of     E.                  to use the system  appraisal and tax
automated systems                                         collection
Level of market     Management of
activity sufficient    state-owned assets
to generate
necessary revenue    Expansion of the
for system         system nationwide
expansion.



- 73 -                                      Annex I
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Obiectives         Inputs              Outputs             Risk and Critical    Outcomes and
Assumptions         Impacts
Test digital       Procurement of      Testing of          Ability of SLC to    Determination of
mapping            automated           digitization of     retain staff trained   the economic costs
technologies and   equipment           parcel boundaries    in digital mapping   and benefits of
overall mapping                        on 20 base maps.                        utilizing digital
requirements in    Training of staff of                    Ability of          mapping
support of the real   SLC              Determination of    Kazgeodesia to      technology in
estate registration                    mapping             supply digital base   support of the real
system             Provision of digital  requirements for  maps                estate registration
basemaps from       the real estate                         system
Kazgeodesia        registration system   Inter-agency
cooperation in the    Clear assessment
Government                              conduct of map      of current and
inventory of                            inventory          longer-term
existing maps for                                           requirements for
use in the real                                             production and
estate registration                                         updating of maps
system.                                                     for use in the real
estate registration
system



-74-                                    Annex J
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
REAL ESTATE REGISTRATION PILOT PROJECT
ANNEX J
SUPERVISION PLAN
FY             Activity                     Required Personnel         StaffWeek
97             Launch Workshop              Task Manager                   2
Mission (4/97)               Registration Specialist        2
IT Specialist                  2
Supervision Mission (7/97)    Task Manager                  2
Registration Specialist        2
Desk Work                    Task Manager                   5
Procurement Officer            3
Total FY97                    17
98             Supervision Mission          Task Manager                   2
(10/97)                      Registration Specialist        2
Supervision Mission          Task Manager                   1
(1/98)                       IT Specialist                  1
Supervision Mission          Task Manager                   1
(4/98)                       IT Specialist                  1
Desk Work                    Task Manager                  10
Procurement Officer            2
Total FY98                    20
99             Supervision Mission          Task Manager                   2
(7/98)                       Registration Specialist        2
Project Completion           Task Manager                   2
Mission (11/98)              Registration Specialist        2
IT Specialist                  2
Desk Work                    Task Manager                   7
Total FY99                    17
7 Supervision Missions       Total                         54
Cost     US$216,000
(Assumes US$4,000 per SW)



-75-                                   Annex K
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
REAL ESTATE REGISTRATION PILOT PROJECT
ANNEX K
AGENCY ORGANIGRAM
Admirlstratve Strucbjre of the Ministy of Justice of the Republic of Kazainkstan
tMinate y of Justrca  |
Republic of K(azaktan
Thazaktan Scientific                                                         Th Ntona
Research Instifte         r Lgalida LteatueJi
Criminal Studies                                                      uila ntEt
/ ~~~~~~~Oblast and Almaty
,,r    ~Oblast:be               City                Mllitay Cpourts        Military
|Oblast          Courta          Administration* of        Admin trton            Courts
Branche of                            J_ _         \
Intitute h fo
LReyongCyaSonlteNotr iale                   RayonlCity Clvallan
Courts               Offces, aon          Records Offices
Rese Schdfc      The Republican       Thedca Reulteratuenui                The National|
Inedtutaffor      Ientformation       Publishi.ng House     Newspaper         Agendcaly



-76-                        Annex K
Administative Structure of the State Commiftee for Land Relations and Land
Nanagement of the Republic of Kazakstan
Republic Land          I
l Commvitte    l              Collegium    l
Obas and Almay    | |GISKHAGI          |    |GosNPCzeml
ciy committees
Rayon Land    ~ ~ ~   ~    jOblast Branches}



-77-                                        Annex K
Ministry of Construction
of the Republic of Kazakstan
Level of subordination 'o oblast administration
Oblast and Almaty                Oblast and Almaty City enterprises
City Architects'              responsible for Inventory and appraised
Offices (19+1)                     of real estate (BTIs) (19+1)
Let of subordinaion to rayon and cityadministratjns
Rayon and City                            Rayon STis
Architects' Offices (230)                     (app. 170)



- 78 -                              Annex L
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
REAL ESTATE REGISTRATION PILOT PROJECT
ANNEX L
LIST OF PROJECT RAYONS
Akmola Oblast
1. Alekseevskiy
2. Astrakhanskiy
3. Atbasarskiy
4. Balkashinskiy
5. Vishnevskiy
6. Ermentauskiy
7. Krasnoznamenskiy
8. Kurgal'dzhinskiy
9. Makinskiy
10. Seletinskiy
11. Tselinogradskiy
12. Shortandinskiy
13. Akmola City
Almaty Oblast
1. Balkhashskiy
2. Enbekshikazaikhskiy
3. Zhambylskiy
4. Iliyskiy
5. Kaskelenskiy
6. Kegenskiy
7. Kurtinskiy
8. Rayimbekskiy
9. Talgarskiy
10. Uygurskiy
11. Chilinskiy
12. Kapehagay City
Almaty City
1. Alatauskiy
2. Almalinskiy
3. Auezovskiy
4. Bostandyskiy
5. Zhetysuskiy
6. Medeuskiy
7. Moskovskiy
8. Turksibskiy
9. New city rayon



MAP SECTION






00'                                    60 T'7                                                                      80'                                      90'
T.  '                                                                     n-o1,,. ,,io,..  :   " op  =
To 
R U  A S % .    S  (I\        ,                               .                   A                                                                         )N  I
rO~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~U~A                                             KA >AAD             KARAUBANDA            SEMIP:.  TT, SK 'X            ' 
To~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
Ao90khon''        A1Y.RAU       ts=k>>-f                                                  HZAX _EKZA                       aoks  
40!_'>    i    +,  '    -T. D-bg                                                                                                                                 50' 
'-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m                                                                                                                        U ST-KAMzAMaY
,  A  _  ,,^s  ' tKKAZAKSTAN
ARKA,YK                    T   /                     REAL ESTATE REGISTRATION
(/   <             h /  ^S/~~~~'>'~~  r                                       PILOT PROJECT
okts,                                            KAYAGANDAt _t               <                           * . PROJECT CITY/OBOASTT
ATYROU                       b.                                                                                                   -   RAIOADS
50'                           ISLAMIC REPUBLIC                                                         2                                                           NA0LOAST CAPITALS
KIEOMETOBS     OF IRAN             t.                                                                                                          o /"     SELECTED CITIES
I                 I            I                                                   I                N.J                                                        <,  [ \ t r ^ ~ ' -  - OBLAST BOUNDARIES
O        100       7.0       30        4060'                                                   AFGHANISTAN    70'                                              - -/  - INTERNATiONAL BOUNDARIES  EUAIf7
ARIES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R
H.,~~~~~~~~~~OERAT10









IMAGING
Report No.:         15994   KZ
Type:     SAR



