Report No. PIC4168
Project Name            Kazakstan-Registration of Real Estate Rights Pilot (@)
Region                            Europe and Central Asia
Sector                            Institutional Development
Project ID                        KZPA46044 (formerly KZPA8505)
Borrower                          Republic of Kazakstan
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Justice, 67 Aiteke-bi,
480091, Almaty,
Tel. (7327) 262-21-61, fax (7327) 263-76-07
Contact Point                     Vladimir M. Borisov,   Head
Project Implementation Unit
ul. Aiteke-bi, 67
480091, Almaty, Kazakstan
(7-3272) 62-21-61 (tel)
(7-3272) 63-76-07 (fax)
Date This PID Prepared            June 13, 1997
Board Date                        04/03/97
Loan Signing                      05/16/97
Project Completion Date           12/31/98
Country and Sector Background
1.      The Government of Kazakstan has requested World Bank
assistance in carrying out a Registration of Real Estate Rights
Pilot Project. The transfer of property rights from the State to
individuals and legal entities is an essential part of the economic
reform of the country and this process continues to move forward.
2.      The Government of Kazakstan has issued a series of laws
clarifying and protecting property rights in land and other real
estate. These include the Constitution, Part One of the Civil Code,
the Mortgage Law and the Land Code. On December 25, 1995, a
Presidential Decree with the force of law, "On State Registration
of Rights and Transactions in Real Estate" (henceforth,
Registration Law) was issued. The Registration Law establishes a
system for the unified registration of rights in land and real
estate. It creates a Registration Body as part of the Ministry of
Justice and defines the concept of the Legal Cadastre, which
represents the information base for the registration system. The
Law further clarifies the rights which are subject to registration
and the general procedures to be followed in registering those rights.
3.      The Registration Law leaves open a number of important
questions about the practical functioning of the registration
system. Foremost among these is the linkage with the land and
buildings cadastres and the way in which introduction of the new
system is coordinated with the existing institutional framework for
the collection and management of information about land and



buildings. The Registration Law also leaves open some important
questions on the procedural and operational aspects of the new
registration system.
Objectives
4.      The Real Estate Registration Pilot Project will design and
test models for the implementation of the legal cadastre and real
estate registration system called for under the Registration Law
with the objective of providing a reliable foundation for the
implementation of a well-functioning real estate registration
system on a national basis. Such as system should; (i) increase
security for rights to land and ownership of real estate, thereby
encouraging private sector development in both areas, increased
investment, and environmentally sustainable development practices;
(ii) facilitate transactions in land and real estate, increase the
security of these transactions, and reduce their cost, thus
encouraging the development of land and real estate markets; and
(iii) promote the development of credit systems by providing
lending institutions with an authoritative source of security
through mortgaging.
Description
5.      The primary counterpart for the project is the Ministry of
Justice. The State Land Committee will also play a role in project
implementation. The project is being implemented in two oblasts
(Almaty and Akmola), and in Almaty city in a total of approximately
35 rayons. The project consists of three components: (1)
institution building; (2) establishment of the registration system;
and (3) pilot testing of map production. The role of the Pilot
Project is to test procedures and demonstrate working real estate
registration offices within the project regions in a reasonably
short period of time. To simplify and speed project implementation,
investment in map technology has been reduced to a very limited
amount. If successful, it is anticipated that the Pilot Project
will be followed by a fuller project to extend the new registration
system nationwide.
6.      The institution building component will includes the
establishment and operation of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU),
and support in the areas of technical assistance and training. A
consultant team has been hired providing specialists in real estate
registration systems, real estate markets, legal aspects of real
estate markets, land cadastre and GIS technology.
7.      Training under the Project will focus on domestic training
with minimal input from non-Kazakstanis. A Project Launch Seminar
was held in Almaty April 23-24, 1997, which initiated the training
program of staff of the registration offices. This is now being
followed up by short courses for operational staff. In addition,
training programs for the rayon registrars are being set up at a
legal training institute, and for Land Committee staff in a number
of other institutes in Kazakstan.
-2-



8.      The registration component will establish the registration
offices of the Ministry of Justice. It will also define linkages
between these offices and the offices of the State Land Committe in
the efficient functioning of the new registration system. The
component will entail preparing staff and premises for the
registration offices, elaborating procedures for the entry of
information into the registry (legal cadastre) and its relationship
to information in the land cadastre and database management
practices, and elaboration of other office procedures and standard
forms for the registration offices. Registration under the Pilot
Project is to take place on a voluntary (sporadic) basis. The
Project will address the economic rationale for integrating
systematic registration procedures into a national roll-out.
9.      The pilot map production component will allow the State Land
Committee to test production of digial mapping on a very limited
scale, and the potential application and use of those maps in the
system of registration.
Financing
5.      The estimated total project costs, including contingencies,
but net of duties and taxes is about US$13.3 million, of which
about US$7.6 million is foreign costs and US$5.7 million is local
costs. A loan of US$10 million equivalent to the Republic of
Kazakstan has been approved and signed, representing 75 percent of
total project costs. This would finance 100 percent of foreign
costs and 42 percent of local costs. Foreign costs will cover
equipment for the new Registration Offices of the Ministry of
Justice, and equipment to other participating agencies to assist in
implementation of the new registration system, foreign consultants,
and foreign training. Local costs to be financed by the loan are
local training, local consultants provided under the technical
assistance sub-component, and consultant staff to the PIU. The
Government would contribute nearly US$3 million equivalent to
finance the costs of staff and premises for the registration units
and mapping centers, the cost of sub-contracting work carried out
by the Land Committee and other agencies in support of the
registration system, and other operating costs.
6.      In July, 1996 the Government obtained a US$1.5 million
equivalent Project Preparation Facility (PPF) to complete
preparation of the project. The PPF has been used to finance
foreign and local consultants to ready the project design for
implementation and a small amount of equipment for the functioning
of the PIU.
Implementation
7.      The project will be implemented over two years. The rayon
registration offices will be brought on line in a phased manner
over the remainder of 1997, functioning on the basis of paper
technology. Implementation of the automated system will take place
in spring 1998. Assessment of both the paper and automated
technologies will be drawn in the fall of 1998. The rayon
- 3 -



registration offices will work in close contact with the
corresponding rayon offices of the State Land Committee and will
have linked databases under the automated system. The land
committee offices will be responsible for maintaining the cadastral
maps identifying land parcels and assigning cadastral
identification numbers.
Sustainability
8.      The pilot project is designed to provide low-cost solutions.
Potentially costly mapping requirements for the system will be
minimized. Automation of the registration offices will also utilize
simple solutions.
9.      Under the pilot project, a schedule of fees for service will
be introduced by the registration offices. The Pilot Project will
test the relationship between fees for service and cost recovery
with the goal of attaining financial sustainability prior to roll-
out of the national system. The per rayon costs of this national
roll-out would be lower than for the pilot project, because of
proportionately lower technical assistance requirements, lower
office start-up costs, and because the PIU, a training center, and
other units at the national level will already have been
established. Per rayon revenues from the system will increase as
its functioning becomes established, and the process of economic
recovery gradually raises the number of transactions handled by the
system. Experience from both developed and developing countries
shows that real estate registration systems can be expected to
cover variable and fixed costs once fully established.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
10.     Bank experience with registration systems in the former
Soviet Union and Easter Europe is much more limited and recent.
Nevertheless, the development of land registration projects in
Russia, Ukraine, and Romania indicates that: (i) agreement on the
unification of separate land and property registries can be
extremely difficult to achieve, due to institutional conflicts
among the agencies involved; (ii) the establishment of an
appropriate legal framework for a registration system is a complex
and time-consuming process; (iii) the respective roles of central
and local governments, as well as their sharing of costs and cost-
recovery, need to be specified and agreed on: (iv) experience with
the comprehensive information systems used in central planning and
prior lack of exposure to the concept of a legal cadastre may lead
counterparts to request more complex systems than are required or
appropriate for registration purposes; and (v) some functions now
performed by government agencies would be more appropriately
performed by the private sector.
Environmental Aspects
11.     The project is expected to have a positive impact on the
environment. By providing increased security for land rights, the
project is expected to foster more prudent use of land,
- 4 -



particularly agricultural land, and of other natural resources, as
well as a greater sense of individual responsibility for the
environment. The project will also enable the Government to
strengthen its control over areas which remain under its
management, such as national parks and other protected areas. In
the future, the project could bring additional environmental
benefits if it is decided to expand the registry, incorporating a
broader range of information necessary for environmental monitoring
and control. The project has been classified in environmental
category "C".
Program Objective Categories
12.     Sustainability of the registration system requires the
voluntary participation of rights holders. The project design has
been oriented to the information that is necessary to clarify and
protect legal rights, as reflected in registration systems
elsewhere in the world. During implementation of the pilot project,
users of the system will be surveyed with the goal of improving
responsiveness to the client, and the design of the office
procedures and standard forms for transactions.
Project Benefits
13.     A real estate registry represents an important part of the
public infrastructure of a market-based economy. Clarification and
security of rights in real property are an essential step in the
transition from the pre-reform economy of Kazakstan. Security of
tenure is backed by the state, putting the ownership of the rights
beyond dispute and providing the basis on which owners of rights
can expend effort and capital with the confident expectation of
earning a return. The register provides the basis on which
mortgagees can secure collateral for loans they make. The ability
to transact real estate rights enables successful businesses to
grow and allows the rights of businesses which fail to be
reallocated through the market, rather than left idle or
underutilized. The function of a register to assist in the
continuing process of farm restructuring is especially significant
in this respect.
14.     The Project itself, in supporting the development of a
working register, is expected to have a major impact in developing
the concepts and infrastructure of real estate markets. In addition
the project will build institutional capacity to expand the system
beyond the bounds of the pilot project and advance the issue of
real estate market development within the emerging legal framework
of Kazakstan.
Project Risks
15.     The Ministry of Justice's capacity to implement the project
remains somewhat weak. The Project incorporates programs of
training and technical assistance which are well designed to meet
the institution building needs of the Ministry of Justice. The
Ministry of Justice, in turn, needs to locate and retain adequately
- 5 -



qualified staff to implement the project. The civil service pay
scale may represent an obstacle in achieving this, particularly for
the retention of staff receiving training in automated technology
and for the location of appropriate individuals as rayon chief
registrars. For the project to be successful, counterpart funds
will be essential.
16.     Appropriate cooperation among relevant agencies, particularly
the Ministry of Justice and the State Land Committee is required
for the project to be fully successful. A breakdown in inter-agency
cooperation would seriously undercut the ease of implementation of
the new registration system. Because of the pilot nature of the
project and the emphasis placed on speedy implementation, it is
important to insure that procurement of necessary goods and
services moves forward as smoothly and quickly as possible.
17.     For the system to be sustainable, the population must choose
to use it, and the level of market activity must be sufficient to
generate necessary revenues. Project oblasts have been selected in
large part based on anticipated market activity in the immediate
term. Sales of real estate (both ownership and use rights) is
already well developed. The existing legislative framework is
considered sufficient for market activity in real estate to develop
further.. While the Law does not make registration of property
rights mandatory, it does recognize the superiority of registered
to unregistered rights. The incentive to register property rights
will be strong not only for new owners, but for those holding
servitudes or encumbrances on a property, for example, a bank
holding a mortgage or an individual holding a right-of-way across a
neighbor's parcel.
Contact Point:           Edward C. Cook, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202)  473-7622
Fax No.:   (202) 477-3291
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending June 27, 1997.
- 6 -



