Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4146 KZ
Loan Agreement
(Registration of Real Estate Rights Pilot Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 16, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4146 KZ
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 16, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements” of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)  
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
Page  2
withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not a member 
of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such 
payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
(c)
In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l), 
and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
“(k)
An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 
3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement.”
(d)
 Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“If (a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account shall 
have been suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan 
for a continuous period of thirty 
days, or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an  amount of the Loan will not be required 
to finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of  the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) 
at any time, the Bank determines, with respect to any 
contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent 
practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of 
the Loan 
during the procurement or the execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken 
timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to 
remedy the situation, and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise 
have been eligible for financing out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the 
Bank determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of  the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement 
and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise 
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (e) 
after the Closing 
Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan 
Account, or (f) the Bank 
shall have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to 
Section 6.07 with respect to an 
amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the 
Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the 
right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of 
such notice, such 
amount of the Loan shall be canceled.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, or any successor thereto;
(b) 
“MOJ” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Justice, or any successor thereto;
(c)
“SLC” means the Borrower’s State Land Committee for Land Relations and 
Land Administration, or any successor thereto; 
(d)
“MOC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Construction, Housing and Area 
Development, or any successor thereto;
(e) 
“PIU” means the project implementation unit established by the Borrower 
within the MOJ pursuant to Borrower’s Prime Minister’s Instruction No. 453-r of 
September 25, 1996, or any successor thereto;
(f) 
“Technology Oversight Group” means the group responsible for technical 
aspects of Project implementation established within the PIU pursuant to paragraph 5 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(g) 
“General Consultants” means the consultants referred to in paragraph 4 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(h)
“Registration Law” means Presidential Decree with the force of law “On 
Page  3
Registration of Rights and Transactions in Real Estate”, adopted on December 25, 1995;
(i)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated June 26, 
1996, and July 23, 1996, between the Bank and the Borrower; and
(j)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of ten million Dollars 
($10,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three\1efourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated 
at the rate applicable  during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
“Cost of Qualified Borrowings” means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
Page  4
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
“Semester” means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’ notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
“(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for 
each Quarter equal to the 
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 
the preceding Quarter, plus 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On 
each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount 
outstanding during the 
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable 
during such 
Interest Period.”
“(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the 
Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings 
determined in respect of such 
Quarter.”
“(c) (iii) ’Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on 
January 1, April 
1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year.”
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the MOJ, SLC, and local governments of the Borrower, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
and information technology practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain the PIU until the completion of the Project, and ensure 
that the PIU 
functions at all times in accordance with procedures, under 
terms of 
reference, and with staff and budgetary resources 
necessary to meet the 
objectives of the Project and 
satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(ii)
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth 
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Borrower and the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
Page  5
objectives thereof, and the feasibility of implementing Project objectives on a 
national level;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about October 31, 1998, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date, and the planned actions to implement 
Project objectives on a national level; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by November 30, 1998, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
 The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account 
or payment out of the Special Account 
was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
Page  6
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the Registration Law shall have 
been amended, suspended or repealed so as to affect materially and adversely the 
Project’s objectives and the ability of the Borrower to implement the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following event is specified, namely that the event specified in Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that the Borrower has hired the General Consultants in 
accordance with paragraph 4 of and Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
97 Ablai-Khan Av.
Almaty, 480091
Republic of Kazakstan
Telex:
251 245 FILIN
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Page  7
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
By /s/ Bolat Nurgaliyev
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Kadir Yurukoglu
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
    Dollar
   to be
Category
  Equivalent)
  Financed
(1) Goods 
   5,950,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 75% of local
expenditures for
items procured
locally
(2) Consultants’ 
   1,650,000 
100% 
    services and 
    training 
(3) PIU Incremental
     400,000
100% of expendi-
    Operating Costs  
tures incurred up to
December 31, 1997, 
and 80% of expend-
tures incurred there-
after
(4) Refunding of
   1,500,000
Amount due
    Project
pursuant to
    Preparation
Section 2.02 (c)
Page  8
    Advance
of this Agreement
(5) Unallocated 
     500,000
  __________
TOTAL
  10,000,000
  ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “PIU Incremental Operating Costs” means reasonable and necessary 
operating expenses of the PIU in respect of its operations and administration of 
activities under the Project, and consisting of any expenses incurred by the PIU, 
which would not have been incurred in the absence of the Project, and which are 
payable on account of costs of rent and utilities, salaries, office equipment and 
supplies, maintenance, communications, and transportation, all valued in accordance 
with a calculation methodology satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods under contracts costing less 
than $200,000, and for services under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent 
for consulting firms, and contracts costing less than $30,000 equivalent for 
individuals, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support, on a pilot basis, the Borrower’s 
effort to establish a national registration system of real estate rights and 
transactions that would lead to increased security for rights to land and real estate, 
facilitate transactions in land and real estate, and promote the development of credit 
systems.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Institution Building
Strengthening the institutional capacity of the MOJ and SLC in the area of 
management of registration of real estate rights and transactions, including 
administration of real estate records, and maintenance of a proper relationship among 
the legal, land and buildings cadastres, and provision of services to clients; through 
the provision of: (a) training of staff of the MOJ and SLC; (b) consultants’ services; 
and (c) operating expenses of the PIU.
Part B:
Registration System
Provision of goods for the MOJ and SLC, and works for the MOJ, for the 
establishment and operation of real estate rights registration system at the oblast 
and rayon levels in Akmola Oblast, Almaty Oblast, and Almaty city, establishment and 
functioning of a real estate rights registration division within the MOJ; 
implementation and testing of inter-agency cooperation, including exchange of 
information and documentation, among the MOJ, SLC and MOC.
Page  9
Part C:
Map Production
Provision of goods and training for the establishment and operation of a digital 
mapping center under the auspices of  the SLC, in order to test and elaborate upon 
methodologies for utilization of digital maps, train staff for map digitization, and 
examination of the economic costs and benefits of shifting from paper-based to digital 
maps.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
On January 1, 2003 
210,000
On July 1, 2003 
220,000
On January 1, 2004 
225,000
On July 1, 2004 
230,000
On January 1, 2005 
240,000
On July 1, 2005 
245,000
On January 1, 2006 
250,000
On July 1, 2006 
260,000
On January 1, 2007 
265,000
On July 1, 2007 
275,000
On January 1, 2008 
285,000
On July 1, 2008 
290,000
On January 1, 2009 
300,000
On July 1, 2009 
310,000
On January 1, 2010 
320,000
On July 1, 2010 
330,000
On January 1, 2011 
335,000
On July 1, 2011 
345,000
On January 1, 2012 
360,000
On July 1, 2012 
370,000
On January 1, 2013 
380,000
On July 1, 2013 
390,000
On January 1, 2014 
400,000
On July 1, 2014 
415,000
On January 1, 2015 
425,000
On July 1, 2015 
440,000
On January 1, 2016 
450,000
On July 1, 2016 
465,000
On January 1, 2017 
480,000
On July 1, 2017
490,000
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
The interest rate (expressed as a 
percentage per annum) applicable
to the Loan on the day of 
prepayment multiplied by:
Page  10
Not more than three years
0.15
before maturity
More than three years but
0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not
0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits,” published by the Bank 
in January 1995, and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines), and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
Page  11
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.  With respect to the first two contracts for goods estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more each,  the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its prior review draft requests for quotations, a copy of the Borrower’s 
evaluation of quotations report, when quotations have been received and evaluated, and 
the draft contract or purchase order for the goods to be procured.  One conformed copy 
of the contract or purchase order shall be furnished to the Bank promptly after its 
execution or issuance and prior to delivery to the Bank of the first application for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract or purchase 
order, or, where payments are to be made out of the Special Account (SA), a copy of 
the contract or purchase order shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of 
the first payment out of the SA in respect of such contract or purchase order.  In the 
case of contracts or purchase orders subject to prior review, before granting a 
material extension of the stipulated time for performance, agreeing to any 
modification or waiver of the conditions of such contract or purchase order, including 
issuing any change order or orders under such contract or purchase order (except in 
cases of extreme urgency) which would in aggregate increase the original amount of the 
contract or purchase order by more than 15 percent of the original price, the Borrower 
shall inform the Bank of the proposed extension, modification, or change order and the 
reasons therefor.  If the Bank determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with 
the provisions of the Loan Agreement, it shall promptly inform the Borrower and state 
the reasons for its determination.  A copy of all amendments to the purchase order 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its record.  
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency” published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no 
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent 
each.  However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms and 
individuals; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the 
Bank; and (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising 
the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for 
the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $30,000 
equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
MOJ.  The MOJ shall be responsible for overall Project implementation and for 
operating the registration offices established under the Project and ensuring access 
by the SLC, the MOC, other agencies of the Borrower, and the public at large to 
information in the legal cadastre. The MOJ, acting through the oblast and city centers 
Page  12
for real estate, offices of the architects and city construction and other executive 
bodies, shall have responsibility for graphic depiction of real estate objects located 
on land parcels and the entry of other information, necessary for the legal cadastre. 
Registration in the offices of the MOJ shall include cadastral numbers for buildings 
and sub-units of buildings, name of the owner, name of the user, limitations, 
encumbrances, and other information required under the legal cadastre. Offices of the 
oblast, city and rayon architects, on the basis of requests from the offices of the 
MOJ, shall provide the registration offices with necessary information on buildings, 
structures, and their parts.
2.
PIU.  The PIU shall be responsible for day-to-day technical, administrative, 
financial, and operational aspects of Project implementation.  The PIU shall 
coordinate among the Borrower’s agencies responsible for in Project implementation all 
work related to budgeting, auditing, reporting, monitoring and evaluation, and shall 
be responsible for the preparation of bidding documents, evaluation of proposals, and 
negotiation and signing of contracts for goods and consultants’ services and training 
(with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank) under the Project.  The PIU shall  
be responsible for the preparation of disbursement requests.  The PIU shall supervise 
the training programs and technical assistance provided under the Project, and monitor 
the arrangements for the sharing of information with offices of the architects and the 
delineation of the functions of the registration offices and the offices of the SLC at 
the rayon and oblast levels. The PIU shall monitor the progress of official documents 
in support of implementation of the Registration Law and the allocation of adequate 
premises and staffing for the rayon and oblast registration offices of the MOJ.
3.
The PIU shall be responsible for the preparation of the following reports, under 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank: (a) assessment of the functioning of the 
paper-based registration system (by December 31, 1997);  (b) assessment of the 
functioning of the automated registration system (by December 31, 1998); and (c) 
assessment of the map digitization program (by December 31, 1998).  
4.
The PIU shall hire consultants (General Consultants) with necessary and 
appropriate expertise and qualifications in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, to assist the PIU in the following areas: (a) real 
estate rights registration systems; (b) real estate markets; (c) relationship between 
legal cadastre and land cadastre; and (d) information technology.
5.
Technology Oversight Group.  A technology oversight group (Technology Oversight 
Group) shall be established as a sub-unit of the PIU, and shall be responsible for 
supervising and monitoring all technical aspects of Project implementation.  The 
Technology Oversight Group shall be responsible for: (a) reviewing the training 
programs in automated technology and ensuring that operational staff have acquired the 
necessary skills; (b) monitoring progress in preparation of the user-interface 
software; (c) participating in the preparation of tender documents and evaluation of 
tenders for goods; (d) ensuring adequate information linkages among the participating 
agencies at the rayon and oblast levels; (e) monitoring delivery and installation of 
automated systems (delivery and installation will be the responsibility of the 
supplier under the anticipated contract); and (f) monitoring the effectiveness of 
technological approaches in the implementation of the Project, with the goal of making 
recommendations for eventual application of the registration system nationwide.
6.
SLC.  The SLC shall be responsible for transferring information necessary for 
the legal cadastre to the registration offices of the MOJ.  In cases of initial 
registration in accordance with the Registration Law this shall include cadastral 
number of land parcel,  location of land parcel, name of owner, name of user, form of 
tenure, targeted use of the parcel, divisibility or indivisibility of the parcel, 
parcel area in square meters, servitudes, and encumbrances.  The SLC shall also 
maintain index maps depicting land parcels in relation one to another.  For secondary 
transactions in a registered parcel, the SLC shall be responsible for updating the 
index maps for the creation of new parcels, the division of an existing parcel into 
two or more parcels, or the amalgamation of two or more existing parcels into one new 
parcel.
7.
SLC shall implement the map digitization program and shall be responsible for 
obtaining vectorized base maps, conducting digitization of parcel boundaries, and 
developing a methodology for the application of digital mapping technology in support 
of the functions of the registration offices of the MOJ, including the digitization of 
Page  13
the locations of buildings and structures on the maps.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $200,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$100,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $1,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
Page  14
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6. 
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
