Document ofDnt
The World Bank    F LL E    u r
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2797-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
KERALA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
May 1, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(As of April 24, 1980)
iRs 1.00        =      Paise 100
:Rs 1.00        =      US$0.1256
'US$1.00        =      Rs 7.9603
Rs 1 million           US$125,623
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been officially valued
relative to a "basket" of currencies. As these currencies are
now floating, the US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to
change. Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made
at US$1 to Rs 8.4, which represents the projected exchange rate
over the disbursement period.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ADA          -    Additional Director of Agriculture
AEO          -    Agricultural Extension Officer(s)
CDD          -    Community Development Departnment
DAO          -    District Agricultural Officer(s)
DOA          -    Department of Agriculture
GDP          -    Gross Domestic Product
GOI          -    Government of India
GOK          -    Government of Kerala
GOWB         -    Government of West Bengal
HYV          -    High Yielding Variety
JAO          -    Junior Agricultural Officer(s)
KAU          -    Kerala Agricultural University
km2          -    kilometer
km                square kilometer(s)
mm           -    millimeter(s)
NRR          -    Net Reproduction Rate
PAO,         -    Principal Agricultural Officer(s)
POL          -    Petroleum, Oil and Lubricants
SDAO         -    Subdivisional Agricultural Officer(s)
SMS          -    Subject Matter Specialist(s)
T&V          -    Training and Visit System of Agricultural Extension
VEW          -    Village Extension Worker(s)
VLW          -    Village Level Worker(s)



INDIA                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KERALA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               India, acting by its President (GOI).
Beneficiary:            The State of Kerala (GOK).
Amount:                 US$10 million.
Terms:                  Standard.
Relending Terms:        From GOI to GOK:  As part of Central assistance
for State development projects on terms and con-
ditions applicable at the time.
Project Description:   The project would reorganize and strengthen agricul-
tural extension services in Kerala. Two and one half
million farmers with limited financial resources but
excess labor would be the primary beneficiaries of
the project's emphasis on efficient use of existing
resources to increase crop production.
Estimated
Project Cost: /a                                           (US$ Millions)
Local   Foreign   Total
Incremental Staff                 4.3        -       4.3
Incremental Operating Costs        1.5      0.8       2.3
Civil Works                        2.9       -        2.9
Vehicles and Equipment             1.2      0.4       1.6
Training                           0.5      0.1       0.6
Subtotal                    10.4       1.3     11.7
Price Contingencies                2.5      0.3       2.8
Physical Contingencies             0.7      0.1       0.8
Total Project Cost          13.6       1.7     15.3
/a   Including an estimated US$0.9 million in taxes and duties.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offiial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii. -
Financing Plan:                                                 (US$ Millions)
Local   Foreign   Total
IDA                               8.3       1.7    10.0
GOI/GOK                           5.3        -       5.3
Total                      13.6        1.7    15.3
Estimated
Disbursement: /a                                    (US  Millions)
FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86
Annual          0.3    0.7    1.4   3.2    3.4    1.0
Cumulative      0.3    1.0    2.4   5.6    9.0   10.0
Rate of Return:          At least 50%.
Appraisal Report:        No. 2863-IN, dated May 1, 1980.
/a   According to IDA's fiscal year.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA FOR THE
KERALA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India for the equivalent of US$10 million on standard
IDA terms to help finance a project to reorganize and strengthen the agricul-
tural extension service in the State of Kerala. The proceeds of this credit
would be channelled to the Government of Kerala (GOK) in accordance with
the Government of India's standard terms and arrangements for financing of
State development projects.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2431-IN dated April 9, 1979), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 13, 1979. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is a large, low-income country with 652 million people (in
mid-1979) whose average income is US$180 per annum. The agricultural sector
dominates the economy, employing over two-thirds of the labor force and con-
tributing over 40% of value added. Although smallholder agriculture provides
a fullsome subsistence to many, the land base is inadequate to provide all
families in rural areas with an adequate livelihood under current conditions,
and many who are landless or nearly landless have only an insecure grasp on
the means of existence. Industrialization in India has not been rapid enough
to bring about the economic transformation that has led to higher productivity
and rapid urbanization in some other countries. The urban population was 18%
of the total in 1960, 20% in 1970 and is 21% now. The share of manufacturing
has grown slowly and since the late 1960s has remained roughly constant at
16% of GDP.
4.        Economic growth has been slow in the past, with GDP growing at a
trend rate of 3.6% per annum from 1950 to 1975. Agricultural output grew at
2.4% per annum over the same period. Slow growth in agriculture acted as a
drag on overall growth, not only because of its sheer weight in the total, but
also because of the need to use scarce foreign exchange to import food. Growth
in industrial output has been higher at 5.2% per annum between 1950 and 1975,
but not as high as in many other developing countries nor as high as can be
expected.
1/   Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I
and II of the President's Report for the Cashewnut Project (Report
No. P-2770-IN), dated April 10, 1980.



- 2 -
5.        This slow growth has persisted despite a quite creditable domestic
saving and investment performance. Domestic saving has grown from 9% of GDP
in 1951 to the current high level of 24%. Gross domestic investment has risen
from 10% to 24% of GDP ovler the same period. Foreign savings have never
financed a large portion of domestic investment and have financed no more than
5% of investment since 1970. Foreign savings have been important in financing
imports, and a shortage of foreign exchange has acted as a constraint on the
economy for most of the period. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms.  Net external assistance is less
than 2% of GDP now, has never risen above 3% and fell to less than 1% in the
early 1970s. Exports have grown relatively slowly--5.4% per annum in US
dollar terms and 2.8% per annum in volume terms between 1950/51 and 1975/76.
So far during the 1970s, exports have grown much more rapidly, by 18% per
annum in US dollar terms and 8% in volume terms over the period 1970/71 to
1976/77. During the same period imports grew by 17% per annum in US dollar
terms but only by 2% per annum in volume terms, reflecting a 28% fall in
India's terms of trade over the period.
6.        India has the capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace than
has been achieved so far. Although the industrial sector is small compared to
the size of the total economy, it nevertheless has a highly diversified struc-
ture and is capable of manufacturing a wide variety of consumer and capital
goods. Basic infrastructure--irrigation, railways, telecommunications, roads
and ports--is extensive compared to many countries, although considerable
gaps remain. India is rich in human resources and institutional infrastruc-
ture, although there is much scope for improvement. India is reasonably
well-supplied with natural resources, not only land and water but minerals,
including oil, gas and coal. With good economic policies and sufficient
access to foreign savings, India should be able to manage these considerable
resources to accelerate t]he longer-term growth trend.
Recent Trends
7.        India has managed faster growth during the recent past.  Growth of
GDP in 1978/79 is estimated to be between 3% and 4%; this is a strong perform-
ance coming on top of the previous year's 7.2% growth in GDP and considering
agricultural output grew less than 2%. Even this agricultural growth is
highly creditable given the previous years' record harvests in most crops.
Industrial output grew by 8-10% in 1978/79. Over the four years, 1975/76 to
1978/79, growth in real GDP, agricultural output and industrial output has
averaged 5.3%, 4.4% and 6.9% per annum, respectively. Although these rates
represent growth over the depressed base of the early 1970s, they are signi-
ficantly higher than the longer-term past trend and comparable to the target
growth rates for the medium-term future. Buoyant domestic demand, stagnating
output and world inflation have led to significant increases in prices during
the first half of the 1979/80 fiscal year. The wholesale price index for
September 1979 was 18.4% above that of the previous September. Together, the
rise in the prices of food products, crude petroleum and mineral oils accounted
for over two-thirds of the increase in the index. However, prices of almost
all commodities moved up significantly over this period as reflected in the
9.6% increase in the prices of the residual commodities. Government attempts
to regulate the supply and price of commodities like sugar and edible oils,
ceilings on credit, adjustment of some interest rates and the seasonal downturn



- 3 -
of the fruit and vegetable prices after summer helped the wholesale price
index to level off after September. However, if allowance is made for the
seasonal factors, prices are still rising at approximately an 18% annual rate.
The Indian economy will no doubt continue to face inflationary pressure during
the 1980/81 fiscal year. Its intensity will to a large extent depend on the
developments in world inflation, especially the rise in oil prices and India's
success in alleviating the supply bottlenecks that emerged during 1979.
Although the current inflationary pressures need not seriously impair medium-
term growth prospects, given available aggregate resources and production
capacity, significant improvements are likely to be required in the organ-
ization of key sectors if an economic slowdown is to be avoided.
8.        The 1978/79 foodgrain crop exceeded the 1977/78 record crop of
126 million tons, and many non-food crops did well. The 1978 monsoon rains
were timely and adequate, although severe flooding in some areas destroyed
both lives and property and ruined some crops. The basic inputs into agricul-
tural production continued their rapid growth of the recent past. Additions
to area under irrigation have doubled from 1.3 million hectares a year during
the five-year period ending 1973/74 to 2.6 million hectares a year during
1977/78 and 1978/79. Fertilizer consumption in 1978/79 reached 5 million
nutrient tons, an increase of 18% over 1977/78. This growth has been impres-
sive, particularly since it followed two successive years of very high growth--
18% in 1976/77 and 26% in 1977/78--so that fertilizer consumption in 1978/79
was 75% higher than in 1975/76. However, prospects for agricultural produc-
tion in 1979/80 are not good. India experienced a severe drought in 1979.
The monsoon was delayed and subsequent rainfall was deficient throughout the
country. Consequent damage to the kharif crop has been substantial. Tenta-
tive estimates indicate a shortfall of 10-12 million tons in kharif crop from
last year's level of 78.7 million tons. Delayed sowing, lack of soil moisture,
low levels of water in tanks and wells as well as power cutbacks and recent
shortages in diesel fuel for irrigation pumps are adversely affecting the rabi
crop. Depending on the performance of the rabi crop, total shortfall in grain
crop is expected to be 10-12 million tons below the 1978/79 level.
9.        The growth of industrial output in 1978/79 came from a sharp rise
in the output of food industries, particularly sugar, a modest increase in
textiles, important increases in the hitherto depressed engineering sector
and-the revival of demand for consumer durables. Production would have been
still higher but for recurring shortages of steel, coal, railway wagons and
electric power and capacity constraints in fertilizer, cement, vegetable oils
and petroleum products. Labor unrest also constrained output in some indus-
tries, particularly in textiles, steel and mining; man-days lost in 1978 ex-
ceeded the high level of 1977 and only in 1974 were the number of days lost
higher. Power production increased by 12% but continuing shortages in many
States necessitated power cuts and curbs on new demand. During the first
half of 1979/80 supply bottlenecks in basic industrial inputs began to retard
overall industrial production. In addition to coal and steel, cement, sugar,
cotton textile and cotton yarn output fell below last year's levels. Strong
demand has continued to sustain other important industries such as fertilizers
and chemicals, but it appears increasingly unlikely that these can counter-
balance the constrained sectors.



-4-
10.       The trade deficit grew and both the current account surplus and the
balance of payments surplus of recent years shrank in 1978/79. The import bill
is expected to reach US$8.4 billion, which brings the average rate of increase
in US dollar terms to 19% per annum since 1976/77. Non-foodgrain imports rose
even more dramatically by 28% per annum over the past two years. The growth
of imports and the liberalization of import control policies represents a
desirable adjustment to enhanced foreign resources. Although exports grew
much faster during the 11970s through 1976/77 than earlier, export growth in
1977/78 and 1978/79 has slowed somewhat. After rising by 12% in 1975/76
and 23% in 1976/77 in US dollar terms (virtually aLl growth in export volume),
export earnings rose by only 9% in 1977/78 (with little or no volume growth)
and an estimated 8% in 1978/79 (with 5-8% volume growth).  Although part
of the decline is attributable to unfavorable conditions in foreign markets,
export profitability has been allowed to deteriorate somewhat. With net
invisible receipts in 1978/79 estimated the same as in 1977/78--US$2 billion--
the widened trade deficit resulted in a significantly reduced current account
surplus, from US$1 billion in 1977/78 to US$400 million in 1978/79. Despite
some increase in net aid disbursements from their low level in 1977/78, the
increase in reserves declined from about US$2 billion in 1977/78 to about
US$1.5 billion in 1978/79 to reach US$7.4 billion.  Exports during the first
three months of this fiscal year are 32% higher than the same quarter of
last year. Imports in the first quarter of 1979/80 are around 7% higher than
the same period of the previous year. However, the impact of recent increases
in petroleum prices are only partially reflected in this figure. India's
total POL import bill for 1979/80 is likely to reach $3.2 billion, $800
million higher than earlier estimates. As a result, there should be a sharp
deceleration in the rate of growth of reserves sufficient to significantly
reduce the number of months of imports covered by reserves during 1980.
Development Prospects
11.       The faster growth of the recent past has been made possible by the
much-increased inward flow of foreign exchange from increased exports, workers'
remittances and external assistance; greatly improved agricultural performance;
the impressive saving effort; the liberalization of import controls; and ex-
panded public expenditure on development programs. Although sustaining the
high growth rates of the recent past in the medium-term is by no means assured,
especially if there is a repeated drought in 1980, India has a level of re-
sources with which to manage the economy that had not existed before. The
comfortable foreign exchange position, and the large foodgrain stocks have
greatly eased the pressures to deal with short-term crises and freed India's
economic managers to continue planning a more ambitious course for the economy.
The policy improvements needed to achieve the better performance now possible
have begun in some important areas but in others have yet to be initiated.
12.       The Draft Plan, which was released in March 1978 and is expected
to be finalized and approved by the National Development Council later this
year, sets out India's development strategy for the five years 1978/79 to
1982/83.  The principal objectives of the Draft Plan are to achieve within
a period of ten years: (i) the removal of unemploynent and significant



underemployment, (ii) an appreciable rise in the standard of living of the
poorest sections of the population, and (iii) provision by the Government of
some of the basic needs of the people in these low-income groups. While the
Plan recognizes the importance of achieving more rapid expansion of the economy
than in the past to meet the employment and welfare objectives, the targeted
rate of growth at 4.7% per annum is lower than projected in most earlier Plans.
According to the planners, this reflects in part the increased emphasis given
to the distribution rather than the level of income generation, and in part
the need for greater realism in the macro-economic assumptions underlying the
Plan. While the trade-off between growth and distribution is not immediately
obvious from the Plan model, the adoption of a more realistic growth target
is in itself well justified -- even at 4.7% per annum, the targeted growth
rate is higher than actually achieved during any of the previous Plan periods,
and is substantially above the longer-term trend growth rate.
13.       In agriculture, despite the 1979 drought, economic policies, dev-
elopment programs and secular trends all seem favorable for resuming a period
of sustained high growth after 1979/80. Fertilizer prices have been reduced
progressively from their very high level in early 1975 and despite some fall
in market foodgrain prices, the fertilizer: foodgrain price ratio has fallen
to a clearly profitable range. Good harvests and higher farm incomes provide
the money to finance higher fertilizer purchases, creating something of a
virtuous circle. Pricing policies for many crops--rice, wheat, sugarcane,
pulses and others--have concentrated recently on supporting prices to maintain
incentives to farmers rather than trying to administratively control prices
to contain inflation. The ambitious irrigation and rural electrification
investment program in the new Five-Year Plan, if fully funded, will help pro-
vide the water control needed to increase yields directly and to induce further
productivity-increasing investments. The effective reorganization of the
agricultural extension service will raise yields as it takes hold gradually
across India. Finally, there are several heartening trends in foodgrain pro-
duction: one is the steady growth of area planted to high-yielding varieties
of rice; another is the growing adoption of summer rice cultivation in the
traditional wheat-producing areas (Punjab and Haryana). These two trends
along with the other favorable developments have caused rice production to
rise impressively in the last two years. Another good omen for foodgrain
production is the rapid growth of winter wheat cropping in traditional rice
areas (West Bengal, Assam and Orissa).
14.       In industry, despite some uncertainty in industrial policy and
the lack of strong policy stimulus to improve efficiency in the industrial
structure, recently strengthened demand forces, increase in planned invest-
ment along with adroit input supply management should allow the industrial
sector to continue to grow at the improved rate of the recent past, at least
for the near- and medium-term future. Over the longer term, growth of indus-
trial production at or above the rate experienced in the recent past--e.g.,
7% per annum during the last four years--will require some changes in policy
to induce a more efficient industrial structure. Recent industrial policies
have sent mixed signals to private manufacturers and investors. Some, such as
reserving certain lines of production for small-scale enterprises or prohibit-
ing the location of new firms in municipal areas, have been restrictive.
Others have been stimulative, such as the raising of the exemption limit of
industrial licensing for capital investment or favorable adjustments in the



-6-
pricing and production controls in several major industries, including cement,
steel, and textiles. In addition the liberalization of import controls is of
considerable benefit to increasing industrial production. However, there are
some worrisome supply shortages that are currently threatening continued rapid
industrial growth. Many can be handled through imports, if needed, as long
as India maintains a healthy foreign exchange position. However, two supply
constraints likely to persist in the future -- namely, rail transport and
power -- cannot be eased through imports. The new Plan contains a major power
investment program to increase capacity rapidly.  The railway investment pro-
gram is more modest. Another crucial input into both of these sectors, and
into most other major sectors, is coal, whose supply needs careful management.
15.       The main reason for expecting sustained growth in industrial pro-
duction is improvement in demand prospects for each of the four major sources
of industrial demand. The first is market demand for manufactured consumption
goods, which is expected to pick up in response to the increase in disposable
income due in particular to improvement in agriculltural output. Although its
effect has been delayed somewhat, this broad-based demand is finally making
itself felt and is expected to continue into the future unless the growth
in agricultural output is constrained by repeated droughts.  Another source
of demand is public expenditure on development projects, which has grown in
a major way in the last few years and is scheduled to continue to grow under
the new Five-Year Plan. A third source of growth is export demand for indus-
trial goods. There has been a sustained growth in the export of manufactures
such as engineering goods, garments, gems, finished leather and some chemical
products. This export growth should continue in the future with proper policy
support.  A final source of growing demand is private investment by both the
household and corporate sectors.  There are as yet only a few signs of this
growth, such as increased disbursement by term lending institutions and in-
creased use of inputs; investments should become stronger as growth in the
other sources of demand continues and as capacity limitations begin to con-
strain production in more industries.  The net result of increasing demand
should be continued high growth in industrial production in the near and
medium term within existing policies.
16.       Import policy is an area where there has been significant improve-
ment in the recent past; but some improvement in export policy is required
to raise incentives to export. India has liberalized import control policy
significantly in the past two years and imports have responded. Future growth
in imports, and in the benefits of price stability, enhanced production and
increased efficiency which imports bring, will depend to a great extent on
how the now liberalized policy is administered. A delicate touch is required
to yield the benefits without bringing about undesirable damage to vulnerable
industries. India has the foreign resources to allow imports to grow at the
rapid rates of the past two years for a few more years and continue to relax
the very severe restraints imposed on the economy during the early 1970s by
suppression of imports. But, given the import liberalization undertaken so
far and the expected growth of imports, by the end of the Plan period (1982/
83), foreign exchange reserves will have fallen to six months of imports, or
less, and some adjustment in the balance of payments will be required. Part
of the adjustment will very likely be a reduction in the growth rate of
imports; the import bill need not grow 15% in volume terms indefinitely to



sustain the target growth in GDP. Part of the adjustment must come from the
achievement of a growth rate of exports in the vicinity of 7-8% or higher in
volume terms. Faster export growth is needed not only to provide the foreign
exchange to sustain the rapid growth in imports but also to allow foreign
demand and competition to improve the efficiency of Indian industry. Finally,
part of the adjustment should come from an increased net transfer of external
assistance.
17.       India's population policy continues to aim at reducing the birth
rate to 30 births per thousand people by 1983 through completely voluntary
acceptance of fertility control methods supplied by a family welfare system
integrated with the supply of basic health, maternal and child health and
nutrition services. Since 1977, the family planning achievements in terms
of number of acceptors have been below that needed to achieve the 1983 goal
or even to keep the birth rate from rising above its current level. The low
performance is primarily the result of the reaction to the harsh birth control
policies introduced during 1976. Since then family planning performance has
been gradually returning to the rising trend which was discernible before it
was disrupted by the intensive drive of 1976/77. Given continued support for
the program of family welfare, Bank estimates indicate that India's rate of
population increase should remain below 2% per annum and fall to 1.5% by about
the year 2000. Despite the declining trend in the rate of population increase,
a net reproduction rate (NRR) equal to one (replacement level) would only be
achieved around the year 2020. At this time, the total population is estimated
to reach 1.2 billion persons, an increase of about 84% over the mid-1979 level
of 652 million.
18.       In addition to stimulating overall economic growth and constraining
population growth, reduction of poverty in India requires special attention
to ways of raising the income and productivity of low-income groups. More than
one-third of the world's poor live in India and more than 80% of the Indian
poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and small farmers.
The prospects for alleviating their poverty by providing these families with
more land are not good because of the virtual absence of uncultivated arable
land, the slow progress in implementing land reform and the limited amount of
land that would be available if land reform were carried out. Estimates of
the amount of land that would be available if land reform were carried out vary
greatly. One estimate is that there would be about 9 million hectares avail-
able for distribution. This compares to roughly 45 million families in the two
poorest groups in rural India: landless families and families owning less than
one hectare of land, whose average holding is 0.31 hectares.  An approach to
the amelioration of poverty more promising than land reform is the creation
of more employment opportunities for the landless and small farmers in rural
areas. Although the basic thrust must come from the market by a more rapidly
increasing agricultural output, there will be a role for employment-intensive
rural works programs. The new Plan provides for increased rural employment
both through direct employment schemes and through ambitious programs of
investment in rural infrastructure in addition to the more general rural
development programs.



- 8 -
PART II -- BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 57 loans and 118 development
credits to India totalling US$2,529 million and US';7,255 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,051 million had
been repaid, and US$3,377 million was still undisbursed as of February 29,
1980. Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
February 29, 1980, totalled US$366 million, representing an increase of about
32% over the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary statement of
disbursements as of February 29, 1980, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
20.       Since 1959, IFC has made 18 commitments in India totalling US$72.6
million, of which US$17.4 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$40.7 million, US$31.6 mil-
lion represents loans and US$9.1 million equity. A summary statement of
IFC operations as of February 29, 1980, is also included in Annex II (page 5).
21.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better
capacity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in
supporting infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and
railways. Family planning, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, improved water management and intensification and stream-
lining of extension systems, form an important aspect of the Bank Group's
program for the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to proj-
ects benefitting small farmers. Projects supporting water supply, sewerage,
and urban development also form an integral part of the Bank's lending
strategy to India for the next several years. Lending in support of infra-
structure and industrial investments will focus on agriculture-, export- and
energy-related projects.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in large part to the response of the aid community, India has success-
fully adjusted to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need



- 9 -
for foreign assistance, to augment domestic resources, stimulate investment
and accelerate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assist-
ance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of
local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of
the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry. Con-
sequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most projects.
This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors as agriculture,
irrigation, rural water supply and medium- and small-scale industry.
24.       Although the growth prospects of the economy have improved, India's
poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of India's external capi-
tal requirements should be provided on concessionary terms.  Accordingly, the
bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to
be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably
be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support, and India may be regarded as creditworthy for some supplemental Bank
lending. The ratio of India's debt service to the level of exports was 12%
in 1978/79 and is projected to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of
February 29, 1980, outstanding loans to India held by the Bank totaled
US$1,519 million, of which US$579 million remained to be disbursed, leaving
a net amount outstanding of US$940 million.
25.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 62%, 27% and 38%,
respectively, in 1978/79. On March 31, 1979, India's outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt was US$15.3 billion, of which the Bank Group's
share was US$4.6 billion or 30% (IDA's US$4.0 billion and IBRD's US$0.6 bil-
lion). Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form
of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In 1978/79,
about 17.5% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.
PART III - AGRICULTURE IN INDIA AND KERALA
26.       Agriculture is the dominant sector in the Indian economy.  It con-
tributes about 45% of India's domestic product, engages nearly 70% of the
labor force, and provides the base for approximately 60% of India's exports.
For all its importance to the economy, however, agricultural production in
India has grown relatively slowly, the annual rate of growth not exceeding
3% per annum for any extended period over the past several decades. Further,
although India's average per capita income has increased to US$180, there
has been little change in the living standards of most of India's rural poor,
estimated at nearly 270 million people with incomes below the absolute poverty
level of US$73 per capita per year.
27.       Forty-nine percent of India's land area of 3.27 million square
kilometers (km is cultivable and about 11% is irrigated. Given India's
objective of national self-sufficiency in food production and the existing
pattern of relatively slow growth and low incomes in the agricultural sector,



- 10 -
the Government of India's (GOI) recent development plans have placed a heavy
emphasis on spurring agricultural growth, primarily by raising foodgrain
production through the increased use of irrigation,, fertilizers, plant pro-
tection chemicals, and seeds of improved varieties. In support of its aims,
GOI has modernized and expanded its agricultural credit institutions and
accelerated the development of India's irrigation network. More recently, it
has given increased attention to the establishment of improved extension
services and the upgrading of research capabilities needed to support this
extension effort.
28.       Despite these endeavors and the impressive results of the Green
Revolution in some areas, primarily in the wheat-growing northwestern States,
annual growth in total foodgrain production over the last 15 years has been
only about 2.3%, or approximately equal to the population growth. Per capita
production of a number of other important crops, including cotton and oilseeds,
has fallen during the period. Furthermore, India's agriculture has been par-
ticularly susceptible to the vagaries of weather, aind foodgrain production has
varied as much as 20% in successive years. Although expansion of irrigation
facilities has had some effect and remains a priority, GOI recognizes that the
bulk of India's cropped area and over half of its farmers cannot, in the
foreseeable future, benefit from the water-intensive agricultural technologies
emphasized since the 196Cs. Moreover, although much appropriate research is
available, yields under rainfed conditions have shown little or no improvement
over this period--a fact which prompts this project's emphasis on rainfed as
well as irrigated farming.
Traditional Agricultural Extension and Its Weaknesses
29.       Responsibility for agricultural extension in India rests with the
State Government Departments of Agriculture. While the organization varies
from State to State, the Department of Agriculture (DOA) generally has officers
at the State, zone, district, subdivision, and block levels. While technical
guidance for these local officers comes from the Department of Agriculture, at
the district level, where they are called District Agricultural Officers, they
are typically under the administrative control of tlhe District Collector, a
generalist responsible for law and order and the coordination of all other
governmental activities in the district. Below the district level, where they
are-called Agricultural Extension Officers (AEO), they are responsible to the
Block Development Officer, an official of the State Community Development
Department (CDD). Actual extension work with farmers is done by Village Level
Workers (VLW). These are multi-purpose workers empLoyed by the States'
Community Development Departments and supervised by the Block Development
Officer, but intended to spend 75-80% of their time on agricultural extension
under the direction of the AEO.
30.       While fairly widespread and relatively well-staffed, India's tra-
ditional extension service system suffers from a numrber of weaknesses.
Chief among them are the following.
(a) The lack of a single, direct line of both technical support
and administrative control from the Department of Agriculture
to extension workers in the field, combined with the multi-
purpose role of the field-level extension worker, results in



- 11 -
an extension service less concentrated on agricultural support
than intended. VLW typically spend less than 20% of their time
on agricultural extension. Moreover, given the tenuous link
between the VLW and the Department of Agriculture, what agri-
cultural work is done is generally neither planned systemat-
ically nor supervised adequately.
(b) The VLW is typically responsible for providing service to too
many farm families, sometimes as many as 2,000, often spread
over a large area. This large area of jurisdiction combines
with a shortage of vehicles and appropriately located housing
for VLW to make close, regular contact between the extension
workers and the farmers very difficult.
(c) Training of extension workers is generally confined to pre-
service training, much of which is quickly forgotten and soon
out of date in any case. In addition, training programs are
typically theoretical and provide little opportunity for
practical application of what has been learned.
(d) The link between the extension services and research activities
is weak. Therefore, extension messages lack continued updating
while agricultural research tends toward academic questions only
remotely related to farmers' problems.
(e) The effectiveness of the extension service having been hampered
by the factors described above, the extension workers suffer
from low status, low pay and low morale.
(f) Finally, in an effort to bypass or supplement unsatisfactory
extension services, special extension schemes focusing on
specific crops, areas or techniques have been introduced.
This has proven expensive, and often duplicates services
extension workers are supposed to provide, thus causing resent-
ment on the part of the VLW and confusion on the part of the
farmers.
Bank Group Activities in Agricultural Extension
31.       The Bank Group has actively assisted India's effort to reorganize
and strengthen its agricultural extension system since 1974, when extension
components pioneering the Training and Visit (T&V) System in India were in-
cluded in the Bank Group-assisted Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development
Project (Cr. 502-IN, July 31, 1974) and the Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area
Development Project (Ln. 1011-IN, June 19, 1974). The T&V System is based
on frequent and regular farm visits by full-time, adequately trained personnel,
generally VLW who have transferred from CDD to DOA to work exclusively on
agricultural extension. It provides for close cooperation between the exten-
sion service and agricultural research institutions and for the merger of all
special crop schemes into one unified extension system. Extension components
were also included in three subsequent irrigation projects--the Chambal
(Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project (Cr. 562-IN, June 20, 1975),
the Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development Composite Project



- 12 -
(Ln. 1251-T, June 10, 19,76), and the Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project (Cr.
720-IN, June 30, 1977)--as well in the areas targeted for minor irrigation
works under the West Bengal Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 541-IN,
April 28, 1975). The system covered both irrigated and rainfed farms in the
administrative areas served under these projects. Building on the experience
gained with the T&V System under these irrigation projects, the Bank Group,
in 1977 and 1978, lent its assistance to six State-level agricultural projects
which were largely focused on the introduction of the T&V System of extension:
the Orissa Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 682-IN, April 1, 1977); the
Assam Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 728-IN, June 30, 1977); the West
Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 690-IN, June 1, 1977);
the Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 712-IN,
June 1, 1977); the Rajasthan Agricultural Extensicn and Research Project (Cr.
737-IN, November 14, 1977); and the Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research
Project (Cr. 761-IN, January 6, 1978). Under the. Composite Agricultural
Extension Project (Cr. 862-IN, February 16, 1979), the Bank Group extended its
assistance to the States of Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka to strengthen their
agricultural extension services, and to the Central Government's Directorate
of Agricultural Extension to increase its ability to support State agricultural
extension programs.
32.       While the results obtained thus far under the T&V System are impres-
sive and the system offers considerable promise for the future, it is not
implemented without difficulty. Central to the system is the transfer of a
large number of multi-purpose workers from the Community Development Department
to the Department of Agriculture.  This is a major reorganizational effort
which requires sustained political and administrative commitment. In some of
the States currently implementing the T&V System, the speed and effectiveness
of implementation has been hampered by the government's initial hesitation to
sanction the required reorganization. A second difficulty that has been
encountered in attempts to implement the T&V System is the insecurity extension
workers may feel during the transition period. Experience has shown that as
an important adjunct to the inter-departmental transfer of personnel, extension
workers must be assured that the transfer will not adversely affect their pay,
allowances and benefits, or opportunities for promotion.  Proper phasing of
the transfer of existing VLWs, the recruitment of new extension workers
(generally called Village Extension Workers (VEW) under the T&V System), and
the training for both groups has also proven a difficult task, at least
initially, for State Departments of Agriculture. Finally, implementation of
the new system can be hindered by delays in obtaining budgetary sanctions for
the additional staff positions, vehicles, and equipment State Departments of
Agriculture require to introduce the system.
33.       Despite these real and potential difficulties, the on-going extension
projects are progressing very well in Rajasthan, Orissa, and Assam, where
farmers have responded favorably to the system and review missions have witnes-
sed widespread adoption of recommended practices. Similarly, in Karnataka,
Haryana, and Gujarat, where the T&V activities are in the very early stages, a
sound beginning has beer made in project implementation. While Madhya Pradesh
initially showed good progress in introducing the system, frequent changes of
key project personnel brought a temporary slowdown in project implementation.
This problem has apparently been corrected, and the project is expected to



- 13 -
regain its earlier momentum. In West Bengal, while the project got off to a
promising start, a change in government brought project implementation to a
virtual standstill while the new government reviewed its predecessors' decision
to reorganize the extension system. In October 1979, however, the State
Government reaffirmed the original decision and project execution has been
resumed. Finally, in Bihar, vacancies in key posts have severely hampered
project implementation. GOI has undertaken to intervene with the Government
of Bihar to discuss the steps the State Government proposes to take to reverse
past delays in project execution.
Agriculture in Kerala
34.       Kerala, located in southwest India, is a narrow coastal strip,
bounded on the east and south by Tamil Nadu, on the northeast by Karnataka
and on the west by the Arabian Sea. The State is about 580 km long and not
more than 120 km wide. It can be divided into three parallel topographical
zones running north-south:
(a) the sparsely populated highlands on the eastern border
with tea, coffee, cardamom and rubber as the main crops;
(b) the low-lying, very densely populated coastal belt on the
west, where rice and coconut are the main crops; and
(c) the midlands, with varied terrain, fairly high population
density and a wide variety of crops, including rice,
tapioca, banana, ginger, pepper, arecanut, cashew, coconut
and rubber.
35.       Kerala's temperatures are not extreme, with the mean minimum ranging
from 19-260C and the maximum from 27-37 C.  The area receives a very high
annual rainfall (3,000 mm) from two monsoons: the southwest monsoon from
June to August and the northeast monsoon from October to December. The
rainfall is more evenly distributed throughout the year than in most of
India and its year-to-year variation is less than average. The climate allows
the cultivation of high-value perennial crops and also permits relatively high
cropping intensity (137%) in spite of the low proportion of area irrigated
(11.5%).
36.       The State is divided into pl administrative districts.  The total
geographical area is about 39,000 km and the population in 1971 way about
21.3 million, giving an average population density of nearly 550/km , the
highest of any Indian State and about three times the all-India average.
Per capita income in 1974/75 was about Rs. 883 with agriculture providing
some 60% of total State income. The high population density has led to
a farm size which is very small even by Indian standards. Many of these
very small farms are really garden plots and house sites whose owners hold
other jobs and cultivate them only part time. The number of families for
which farming is a primary occupation is estimated at 2.5 million.



- 14 -
37.       The varied terrain and high rainfall permit a varied cropping
pattern and a mix of perennial and field crops unique in India. Still, nearly
70% of the cropped area is devoted to the three major crops of paddy, coconut,
and tapioca. Kerala is the major Indian producer of several important agri-
cultural commodities, notably pepper (94% of India's production), rubber
(94%), cashewnut (80%), coconut (66%), cardamom (62%), and ginger (53%). The
variety of Kerala's cropping pattern is reflected on most farms, with farmers
usually growing several crops. While the land and climate are conducive to
producing high-value crops, yields of most major crops over the past decade
have been stagnant or falling. Experiments in farmers' fields indicate that
there is substantial scope for improving productivity by means of fertilizer
application, pest management, intercropping and use of high-yielding varieties
(HYV) of seed. GOK is convinced that an effective, reliable extension service
is essential to achieving such increases in productivity.
Agricultural Services in Kerala
38.       Extension Services. At present, most field level extension work in
Kerala is carried out through several special crop schemes under the Department
of Agriculture. The schemes generally focus on establishing a crop "unit" of
about 200 to 500 hectares with an office staffed by two Agricultural Demon-
strators under one Junior Agricultural Officer (JAO). 1/ Although this
approach has made an impact in the limited areas of its operation, some
problems have emerged:
(a) the coverage per unit is limited; thus, given the available
staff, only a relatively small proportion of the State's
farmers (about 10%) are reached;
(b) frequent, regular training is not a feature of the system;
(c) separate staff for different crops has led to duplication
of efforts and high operating costs;
(d)  farmers, who normally grow a variety of crops, have to
consult several different sources for advice;
(e) the number of "units" in a district (over 60 on average)
has grown too large to be effectively supervised by district
staff;
(f)  extension staff at the units lack mobility, are office-
bound due to growing paper work and have become input
supply agents, rather than agents of technological
change; and
1/   The Agricultural Demonstrator is the basic field level worker whose pay
and training is roughly equivalent to that of the VLW/VEW. The JAO is
a more senior officer who usually has a B.Sc. (Agriculture) and is
roughly comparable to the Agricultural Extension Officer (AEO) in other
States.



- 15 -
(g) there is no regular systematic contact between the extension
staff and the farmers.
Village Level Workers also occasionally carry out some agricultural extension
work, but owing to their many responsibilities cannot do this work regularly
and are often diverted to other tasks. To overcome these problems, GOK wishes
to reorganize its extension system along the lines of the T&V System adopted
in many other States in India, but with suitable modifications to suit Kerala's
unique situation.
39.       Training.  The Kerala Agricultural University (KAU), established in
1971, is the primary agricultural training institution in the State.  KAU has
an Institute of Agricultural Technology which offers a diploma course and can
offer practical pre-service and in-service residential training in agriculture
to about 60-75 trainees. KAU's Extension Wing can provide pre-service training
to another 50-75 trainees. The Department of Agriculture is represented on a
Joint Training Committee chaired by the Vice Chancellor of KAU which meets to
develop training programs as required. There are also three Extension Training
Centers currently operating in the State, each with the capacity for training
about 150 students. At present these centers are used primarily to train
multi-purpose VLW.
40.       Research.  Responsibility for agricultural research in Kerala rests
primarily with KAU and is conducted at its 23 research stations located
throughout the State, although limited work is also done on nearby farms. The
main areas of work are in paddy, coconut, pepper, cardamom, cashew, pineapple
and sugarcane crops. In addition, there are Indian Council of Agricultural
Research institutions concentrating on such areas as plantation and tuber
crops. DOA and KAU staff meet twice a year in a workshop to develop the
main extension recommendations for the upcoming season. DOA is also repre-
sented on KAU's research advisory committee. These formal relationships are
supplemented by numerous informal contacts and the working relationships
between DOA and KAU appear to be good and productive.
41.       Credit.  The apex institution for short and medium-term agricultural
credit is the Kerala State Cooperative Bank which works through eleven District
Central Cooperative Banks and about 1,550 primary agricultural cooperative socie-
ties located at the district and village levels, respectively. The number of
members, share capital, deposits and loans per society are all substantially
higher than the all-India averages and are growing. Long-term credit is pro-
vided by the Kerala Central Land Mortgage Bank through 33 Primary Land Mortgage
Banks. Commercial banks also provide a growing volume of credit to agriculture.
42.       Input Supplies.  Kerala, with its small size and good transportation
network, is relatively well-served by its input supply system. There are over
6,000 selling points for fertilizer, about evenly divided between public sector
cooperatives and private dealers. Few farmers have to travel more than 3 kilo-
meters for their fertilizer supplies. Plant protection chemicals are sold
from about 3,400 outlets. DOA is directly involved in the production of seeds
and the production and distribution of seedlings. HYV paddy foundation seed
is multiplied on DOA farms, nucleus seed being supplied by KAU. Registered
growers, concentrated in four districts, multiply foundation seed to produce
certified seed. DOA staff carry out field inspections and quality control



- 16 -
tests while the Kerala Agro-Industries Corporation is responsible for seed
procurement and distribution. Seedlings of coconut, cashew, and cocoa, and
pepper cuttings are produced and distributed by DOA. Private dealers also
are engaged in seedling production and distribution.
43.       Marketing.  Marketing channels for most crops are well established.
Traditional channels are village fairs, village merchants, brokers and agents,
wholesalers, processors, exporters and related industry.  There are more than
2,000 market fairs, thousands of established private traders and about 100
cooperative primary marketing societies.
Bank Group Operations in Kerala
44.       The Bank Group is currently assisting GOK through the Kerala Agri-
cultural Development Project (Credit No. 680-IN, April 1, 1977). Its primary
objective is to increase coconut and pepper production, with a small cashewnut
production component. In addition, a Cashewnut Project, covering four dis-
tricts of North Kerala (Cannanore, Kozhikode, Mallapuram, Palaghat), designed
to accelerate cashew production, was approved by the Board on April 29, 1980.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.       The project was prepared by the Government of Kerala with the assis-
tance of Bank Group staff. It was appraised in August 1979. The Appraisal
Report (No. 2863-IN, dated May 1, 1980) is being distributed separately to
the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington in April 1980.
The negotiating delegation for India and Kerala was coordinated by Mr. B.S.
Lamba, Deputy Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs, GOI.
Project Description
46.       The project seekcs to achieve early and sustained increases in
agricultural production throughout Kerala's eleven dlistricts through the
reorganization and strengthening of the extension service of DOA.  The
project would support this reorganization over a five-year period by:
(a) establishing a single line of command between full-time
village extension workers (VEW) and extension headquarters;
tb) consolidating staff from the special crop schemes into a
single unified service;
(c) incorporating regular in-service training as an integral
part of extension activities;
(d) introducing a systematic fixed schedule for regular and
frequent visits by VEW to farmers' fields;
(e)  improving the working linkages between extension operations
and agricultural research activities;



- 17 -
(f) developing regular monitoring and evaluation procedures; and
(g) providing additional staff, operating expenses, equipment,
vehicles, training, and rural housing required to implement
these reforms.
47.       Under the project, Kerala's agricultural extension service would be
reorganized and intensified throughout the State, following the T&V pattern
A          adopted in other Indian States over the past 2-3 years.  The project would
systematically and regularly provide farmers with up-to-date advice on farming
practices best suited to their specific conditions, emphasizing proven prac-
tices which have an immediate impact on income.  Extension field staff (in-
cluding an estimated 1,950 VEW) would visit farmers regularly and receive
systematic training and technical support from DOA and from research insti-
tutions. Each VEW would be assigned to work with a number of farm families.
The number would vary widely depending on local conditions, population density,
cropping intensity and accessibility. The combination of good roads and
greater literacy in Kerala should permit a higher-than-normal farm family:VEW
ratio. It is anticipated that initially, one VEW would cover about 1,200-1,300
farm families on average, with the actual number varying from about 600 in the
sparsely-populated mountains to about 1,500 in a few densely-settled coastal
areas where coconut is virtually the only crop and communication is very good.
The project would have a contingency to provide for up to 250 additional VEW
if they are needed. No later than May 31, 1982, GOK and IDA would review
project implementation to determine if the number of VEW should be increased
(Section 2.12, Project Agreement).
48.       To reach his farmers systematically, the VEW would divide them into
eight smaller groups. He would visit each group regularly on a fixed day of
the week in a two-week cycle. During his visit, the VEW would concentrate
his efforts on about 10 contact farmers selected from each group, on a few
strategically-selected recommendations relevant for a particular phase in the
crop cycle, and, at least initially, on low cost improvements which the major-
ity of farmers could afford. The VEW would be supervised and assisted in his
work by a Junior Agricultural Officer (JAO), with one JAO supervising five to
eight VEW. Once in each two-week period VEW would receive a full day of
intensive training. Thus, every two weeks the VEW would spend eight days in
visiting his eight groups and one day in training. The remaining days in the
two week cycle would be devoted to field trials, making up missed visits and
occasional but limited office work.
49.       To provide regular training, continuous technical guidance and
supervision of field work, three or four agricultural subdivisions would be
established in each district under the charge of a Subdivisional Agricultural
Officer (SDAO), who would have full time responsibility for supervising 8-10
JAO in his area and ensuring effective extension operations. He would have a
technical staff of four Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) (one each in agronomy
of field crops, agronomy of tree crops, plant protection, and training/commun-
ications). SMS would spend one-third of their time in training groups of VEW
once each fortnight, one-third of their time in field visits providing tech-
nical support and guidance to VEW, and one-third of their time in building
their own stock of knowledge through a regular dialogue with research workers,



- 18 -
carrying out simple field trials in farmers' fields, and attending short train-
ing courses. At the district level, a team of three SMS would be established
to provide greater depth of support to SMS teams at the subdivisional level
and/or to cover specializations not covered by those at the subdivision. The
Principal Agricultural Officer (PAO) 1/ in charge of the district would have
direct responsibility for extension operations throughout his district. To
free the PAO for the frequent field visits so necessary to review extension
operations effectively, one Assistant Deputy Director of Agriculture in each
district would take over responsibility for a variety of administrative
functions. He would be assisted by staff in about 10-12 circle offices located
strategically throughout the district, thereby freeing extension staff to
concentrate all their efforts on extension. Staff at DOA headquarters
would also be reorganized and strengthened to provide more effective support
to field operations.
50.       Incremental Staff Requirements.  Staff requirements to implement
this reform would be met by redeploying staff already with DOA, transferring
staff from CDD and hiring new staff. GOK would ensure that the assignment of
staff would take place in accordance with a schedule acceptable to IDA, that
all VEW positions would be used exclusively for extension work and remain
under the jurisdiction of DOA throughout the project period, and that the
emoluments, benefits and promotional prospects of extension staff would not be
adversely affected as a result of the reorganization (Section 2.09, Project
Agreement).
51.       Training.  The project would support a variety of in-service and
pre-service training programs for extension staff. Central to the entire
extension approach is the fortnightly training sess:Lon during which VEW would
be trained in groups of about 30 by subdivisional SMS, assisted by the JAO and
drawing on the district SMS as well as specialists from nearby research sta-
tions. Training would be practical and concentrate only on the few specific
recommendations relevant t:o farming operations in the coming fortnight.
Other in-service training courses for VEW would include a pre-season workshop/
training session for each major season and a yearly technical short course.
52.       Newly-recruited VEW would receive an intensive six month pre-service
training course. For this purpose, one of the three Extension Training
Centers, currently under the CDD, would be made available to KAU (on whose
campus it is now located) to train at least 150 newly-recruited VEW at a time,
or 300 each year. This would be sufficient to fill new posts created during
the project as well as vacancies arising from retirement, transfer, etc. By
September 30, 1980, GOK would prepare and furnish to IDA for its approval
proposed training curricula, schedules and staffing arrangments for this
pre-service training center (Section 2.11 Project Agreement).
53.       Higher level staff would require a range of training programs as
well. Each month SDAO would meet with SMS and JAO for a one-day training
and planning session during which the main points of emphasis and schedule of
activities for the coming two fortnights would be determined. Before pre-
season training of VEW, similar sessions would be heLd at the district level
1/   The Kerala title for a District Agricultural Officer.



- 19 -
for JAO. Also, before each season there would be a workshop at the zonal
research station attended by PAO, SDAO and SMS.
54.       Improved training for SMS would be provided by a monthly workshop.
Special, short-term practical courses in production technology and extension
methods would be organized for SMS both at KAU and at all-India institutions.
A limited number of scholarships at KAU would be provided for DOA staff.
55.       Housing.  Under the reorganized extension service, extension workers
would be required to make regular and frequent visits to their farmers groups.
Consequently, it is necessary for them to live in or near their areas of work.
GOK would ensure that VEW and JAO would live in or near the areas assigned to
them and to this end would provide these workers with housing or rent allow-
ances (Section 2.10, Project Agreement). Since housing is difficult to find
in some areas of Kerala, the project would provide housing for about 25% of
VEW and JAO. GOK would furnish to IDA, at regular intervals, information on
progress in locating sites for housing to be financed under the credit (Section
2.13, Project Agreement).
56.       Transport.  Effective extension requires a high degree of mobility.
To facilitate this, the project would provide loans on attractive terms to
VEW, JAO, and SMS for the purchase of bicycles, scooters and motorcycles.
GOK has provided an assurance that loan terms and conditions and travelling
or mileage allowances would be sufficient to ensure the purchase and use
of these vehicles (Section 2.14, Project Agreement). The project would also
provide four-wheel drive vehicles at subdivisional, district and headquarters
levels.
57.       Equipment.  The project would provide simple, low-cost audio-visual
equipment to support the training sessions and to enhance field operations,
e.g., flipcharts which extension staff can design themselves and modify to fit
local conditions. Furniture and office equipment would also be provided as
necessary.
58.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  The project would provide for the
establishment and operation of a monitoring and evaluation system specifically
designed to provide project management with current information on the effec-
tiveness of the extension system. GOK would establish monitoring and evalu-
ation procedures acceptable to IDA and reports would be furnished to IDA
annually (Section 2.08, Project Agreement).
Project Implementation
59.       The project would introduce fundamental improvements in the organ-
ization and management of extension operations in Kerala. By establishing
a single line of control from extension headquarters to VEW, field-level
staff would become directly accountable to their supervisors both technically
and administratively. The DOA headquarters organization would be streamlined
to provide effective management to the extension service as a whole. Although
overall responsibility for general agricultural development in Kerala would
remain with the Agricultural Production Commissioner and the Director of



- 20 -
Agriculture, the extension service would be directed in its day-to-day oper-
ation by an Additional Director of Agriculture (ADA) specifically and exclus-
ively assigned to supervise extension work. There would be two other ADA, one
responsible for input supply and logistics, and one! for planning, monitoring
and evaluation. A Project Coordination Committee would be established to
ensure coordination at the State level between extension, research and allied
agencies. The Committee would meet for the first time no later than December
31, 1980 (Section 2.03, F'roject Agreement), and at least twice annually
thereafter. KAU would bet responsible for the development of new technology
and DOA for the transfer of that technology to farmers. By January 31, 1981,
GOK would review and, where appropriate, strengthen arrangements for close
cooperation between DOA and KAU (Section 2.15, Project Agreement). District
Technical Committees, including representatives of DOA, KAU, and beneficiary
farmers, would be established to formulate extension recommendations and
identify research needs. Their recommendations, as well as on-going university
research programs, would be reviewed by a State Technical Committee, chaired
by the Director of Agriculture. These Committees would meet initially no later
than January 31, 1981, and at least twice annually thereafter (Section 2.04,
Project Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
60.       The estimated cost of the proposed project is about US$15.3 million
including about US$0.9 million of duties and taxes. The principal components,
net of contingencies, are: incremental staff (US$4.3 million); civil works
(US$2.9 million); incremental operating costs (US$2.3 million); vehicles
and equipment (US$1.6 million); and staff training (US$0.6 million). Physical
contingencies average about 5% for all items and total US$0.8 million. Price
contingencies of 10% for 1980, 7% for 1981-83, and 5% for 1984 have been
applied and total 18% of total project cost (US$2.8 million).
61.       The proposed IDA credit of US$10 million would finance just under
70% of the project costs net of taxes and duties. The credit would cover all
foreign exchange costs (approximately US$1.7 million) and US$8.3 million
of local costs. The remaining local financing would come from State Government
sources and GOI. GOK has made adequate budgetary provision for the first year
of project implementation.
Procurement and Disbursement
62.       Contracts for civil works (US$2.9 million 1/) would be small and
dispersed, both geographically and over time, and would, therefore, not be
suitable for international competitive bidding. Contracts would be awarded
on the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with the State's
normal procedures, which are satisfactory to the Association. One hundred
sixteen motor vehicles (US$0.9 million) of various ctypes would be required
under the project. They would be purchased in smalL quantities over five
years and would be widely dispersed in rural areas. In the interest of
ensuring adequate maintenance and spare parts supply, they would be procured
1/   All figures in this paragraph are net of contingencies.



- 21 -
by local competitive bidding under existing government procedures. Motor-
cycles and bicycles (US$0.4 million) would be purchased by individual staff
from loan funds provided by GOK. Orders for purchase of minor equipment
and furniture (US$0.3 million) would be bulked wherever possible and pur-
chased according to established local bidding procedures, except where
valued at less than US$50,000, when they would be purchased by prudent
shopping through normal trade channels. The balance of project base cost
(US$7.2 million) would consist of incremental staff salaries and allowances
A          (US$4.3 million), training costs (US$0.6 million), and incremental operating
costs (US$2.3 million) and would not involve procurement.
63.       Disbursement under the credit would extend over five years and
would be made against 80% of the cost of civil works, equipment, furniture and
vehicles; 100% of the cost of training; and 45% of eligible staff costs.
Disbursements against staff costs, training, payments for locally-procured
vehicles, furniture and equipment not exceeding Rs 150,000, and civil works
payments not exceeding Rs 300,000 would be on the basis of certificates of
expenditure, documentation for which would be retained by GOK and available
for inspection by IDA during project review missions. Certificates of expend-
iture would be audited at least once every six months and a report submitted
to IDA promptly thereafter. Disbursement against all other items would be
fully documented.
Benefits and Risks
64.       The principal project benefit would be an increase in crop produc-
tion and thus farm incomes as a result of providing improved extension services
to farm families. Approximately 2.5 million farm families would be served by
the new extension service. Total project costs over the five-year development
period amount to US$11.7 million, excluding contingencies, which is about
US$4.7 per farm family served. Incremental costs after the project develop-
ment period, to be met from State budget sources, would be approximately
US$1.9 million per annum or about US$0.8 per farm family. Incremental costs
would be partly recovered through levies on agricultural produce entering
commercial markets. Stimulation of demand for agricultural inputs would also
increase State revenues from sales taxes on these items.
65.       Attributing a precise level of benefits to this type of project
is difficult since it is not possible to determine what proportion of bene-
fits is due to extension alone and what is due to additional purchased inputs
and other factors. It is also difficult to estimate acceptance rates of
recommended practices. In practice, it is the combination of a number of
factors, with extension playing the role of catalyst, that brings the desired
benefits. However, since the project relies primarily on reorganization and
strengthening of an existing extension structure, the incremental cost is low
per hectare and per farm family. Hence, even very small and slow production
increases in the project area generate a high rate of return. This project
would be able to generate a 50% rate of return if by 1987 yields of foodgrains
increase by only 12 kg/ha and per hectare yields of coconut and tapioca
increase by only 10%. In areas where the extension system has operated effec-
tively for a few years, yield increases have far exceeded this level. More-
over, the practices initially stressed by the extension service focus on
improving cultural practices (timely operations, good land preparation, proper



- 22 -
seed rates, line sowing and weeding) which usually involve additional labor
but little incremental cash outlay and are thus particularly well-suited to
the needs of small farmers.
66.       Project Risks.  The transfer of multi-purpose field workers and the
establishment of a single, unified professional extension service mark a major
departure from past practice in India. The fact that such a reform is under-
way in many parts of the country reflects a willingness to develop an exten-
sion system capable of serving all farmers well.  Nevertheless, it is diffi-
cult for governments to make and maintain such decisions.  The main risk,
therefore, is that the State Government would find it difficult to maintain a
single line of command from extension headquarters to the VEW who work exclu-
sively on agriculture. In this project, this risk is low because only a small
proportion of the field staff is to be transferred from another department.
67.       Experience has shown other risks to be minimal.  Farmers' responsive-
ness to recommendations has been generally excellent wherever visits are made
systematically. In addition, VEW have gained confidence in their own profes-
sional ability to introduce innovations. The ability of the service to
develop and disseminate recommendations leading to yield increases well above
the level needed for a 50% return has been demonstrated adequately. The
availability of suitable technology for different conditions has not generally
been a constraint as there is a backlog of research findings as yet not widely
adopted. To reduce the risk that technological constraints would lower
anticipated project benefits, the project would support field testing of
research results. A separate project, the National Agricultural Research
Project (Credit 855-IN), is directed at strengthening research facilities at
the State Agricultural Universities to ensure a continuous flow of recommend-
ations adapted to specific regional problems.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the Asso-
ciation, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the State of
Kerala, and the Recommendations of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section l(d) of the ArticLes of Association are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
69.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 23 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A
Robert S. McNamara
President
May 1, 1980                                                      By
Ernest Stern



I
I



ANNEX I
INDIA - SOC5 L INDICATORS DATA S                        Page  1 of  5
LAIM AREA (TEOUSAND SQ. EN.)                DOIA                         -CE GTGP  G(SUSTED A ES
- ImT 8Z ENTlT)I
TOTAL          3287.6                                                SAME        SAME     MITr HIGHER
AGUCULTURAL    1818.3                              IMST RECENT     GgGBRAPIC   INCOME        IcNCz
1960      1970 A  ESTIME /b       REGION -c GR0UP jA   CROUP A
GNP PER CAPtTA (CSS)                 60.0       90.0    180.0            191.1     209.6       467.5
ENERGY CONSUMTION PER CAPITA
(ULOGRAS OF COAL EQUIVAL7T)      142.0       181.0    218.0            69.1       83.9       262.1
POPUlATION AND VITAL STATIS'ICS
POPULATION, NW-YEAR (MILLIONS)   434.9       547.6    631.7/f
URN POPUMAYION (PERCENT 0F TOTAL) 17.9        19.7      20.7.           3.2       16.2        24.6
t                ~~~~~POPULATION PROJEC=ONS
POPULA IOJ IN YEL 2000 (MILLIONS)                    973.0
STATIONARY POPULATtON (MILLIONS)                    1643.0
TE4R STATIONARY POPULATION IS RUINE                 2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EI.                     132.0      167.0    192.0            86.6       49.4        45.3
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    247.0     308.0    347.0           330.2      252.0       149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                       40.8        42.5      42.0           44.3       43.1        45.2
15-64 YES.                       55.7        54.6      55.0           52.4       53.2        51.9
65 YES. AND ABOVE                 3.5         2.9       3.0            3.1        3.0         2.8
POPULATION OROWTN RATS (PERCENT)
MOTAL                             1.9        2.3       2.1            2.4        2.4         Z.7
UBAN                             2.5ti       3.3       3.1            4.1        4.6          3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAD)    43.0        40.0      35.0           44.4       42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEATH ATE (PER TROUSAN)    21.0         17.0      14.0            16.4      15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION EATE            3.2         2.9       2.4            3.2        2.9         2.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)    64.0      3782.0   4518.0
USERS (PERCEN  OP M IED WOGi)   ..          12.0      16.9            7.9       12.2        13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FWOD PRODUCTION
PUR CAPITA (1969-71-100)        100.0      102.0    101.0            99.4       9S.2        99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
REQUIREMENTS)                  95.0       92.0      89.0           93.0       93.3        94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)        51.0        53.0      48.0           56.1       52.1        54.3
OF WViCE ANIMAL AND PULSE      19.0       16.0      12.6           10.4       13.6        17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    28.0       22.0      18.0           19.2       18.5        11.4
HEALTH
LIFE EECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    43.0        48.0      51.0           49.1       49.3        54.7
INEANT MORTALITY EATE (PEE
TmOuSAND)                            -       134.0       ..              ..      105.4       68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        17.0      33.0           31.5       26.3        34.4
URBAN                             ..        60.0      83.0           63.9       56.5        57.9
RURAL                             ..         6.0      20.0           20.1       135.8       21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        18.0      20.0           15.7       16.0        40.8
LTSAN                             ..        85.0      87.0           66.8       65.1        71.3
RURAL                              ..        1.0       2.0            2.5        3.5        27.7
POPULATION PER PIHYSICIAN       5800.0/h   4890.0   3135.0           7107.9   11396.4       6799.4
?OPULATION PER NURSLNG PERSON   9630.OLh   5220.0   6320.0          12064.0    5552.4       1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          2590.0L/   2020.0   1231.0          2738.4    1417.1       7Z6.5
z:RBAN                            ..          ..       ..              ..      197.3      272.7
RURAL                             ..          ..        ..             ..    2445.9       1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..          ..       ..              ..       24.8        27.5
HOLUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                            5.2          ..       5.2             ..        5.3        5.4
'JRBAN                            5.2         ..       4.8             ..        4.9        5.1
RLEAL                            5.2          ..       5.3             ..        '.4        5.5
AVERAGE NULMER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
-O_ T."Z~ 2.6                                '.S
'JRBAN                            ..          ..
RURAL                             ..          ..
ACCESS TO -LECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                          .        .              ..       22.5        25.1
UPR3AN                             ..         ..       ..              ..       17.a        45.1
RLRAL                             ..          ..       ..              ..         ..        9.3



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
_      _INDA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHET
MDIA                       REFTSNCE GUOUPS (AD      ED AG EAGES
MOST RCEJNT ESTIMATE) -
SAlE        SAKE      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GO0APIC    INCOME           INCOME
1960 /b     1970 lb ESTIMATE /b        09GION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
a~wsb EOaLMM urlos
PWDAAT;      TOTAL                 61.0         72.0       79.0             59.5        63.3        82.7
MAL                   80.0         87.0      94.0             74.9        79.1         87.3
FEMAL                 40.0         55.0      63.0             43. 7       48.4         75.8
SECOIDAY:   TOTAL                   20.0        29.0       28.0             19.5        16.7        21.4
MAU                   30.0         39.0      38.0             27.8        22.1         33.0
FThALZ                10.0         17.0      18.0             10.0        10.2         15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (S 07 SECONDAJIT)   8.0          6.0eO                       1.3         5.6          9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
EAhDIMY                             29.0        40.0       42.0             42.2        41.0        34.1
SECONDARY                           16.0        17.0         ..               ..        21.7        23.4
AOCLT LITERACY RATE (PERCEMT)         28.0         33.0      36.0             .15.5       31.2         54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS M THOU:S
POPULATION                           0.7         1.0        1.2              2.3         2.8         9.3
RADIO RECEIVES P   THOUA1
POPULATION                           5.0        21.0       24.0            1'5.5       27.2         76.9
TV RECEIVERS PEh THOUAMO
POPULATION                            ..         0.1        0.5               ..         2.4        13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
DIOUSAND POPULATION                   11.0        16.0       16.0              6.2         5.3        18.3
CKIEMA ANNUAL ATTENDOACE PER CA1'ITA  4.0           6.3       3.8               ..         1.1          2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   188670.0    226870.0  261000.0/k
FDMALE (PERCENT)                    31.3        32.6       32.2             i1.4       24.8         29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               73.0        73.0       73.0             66.3        69.4        62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  11.0        11.0       11.0              9.6       10.0         11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 43.0        40.2       39.2             35.8        36.9        37.1
MALE                                  57.1         52.3      51.3             52.3        52.4         48.8
FEMALE                                27.9         27.1      26.2             15.7        18.0        20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0          1.1       1.1              1.3         1.2          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCO
RECEIVED BY
RIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7          26.3/1       ..               ..          ..        15.2
RICHEST 20 PERCENT OF ROUSEPOLDS  51.7          48. 971      ..               ..          ..        48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1           6.771       ..               ..          ..         6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEEOLDS   13.6          17.27T       ..               ..          ..        16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UtRBAN                                ..          ..       83.0             86.5        99.2       241.3
RURAL                                ..           ..       73.0             74.2        78.9       136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..               ..        91.9       179.7
RURAL                                ..           ..       50.0             50.4        54.8       103.7
ESTIMtATED POPULATION BELOW ASSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEvEL (PERCENT)
FRBAN                                 ..           ..      47.0             44.3        44.1        24.8
RURAL                                 ..          ..       52.0             52.4        53.9        37.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excludiag the extreme
values of the indicator and the nost populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
c    South Asia;  'd  Low Income tS280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income (S281-550 per capita,
1976);   /f  1978 mid-year :opuiation is estimated at 640.4 million;   tg  1951-60;   'h  1962;
1953;  /j  1967;   /k  1978 mid-ear labor force is estimated at 2151 million;   ,_  1964-65.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
hi         hi
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS             1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79                  uRCAUMISR MXPaMTS (AVERAGE 1S75/76 - 1977/78)
(US$ million)                                                       US   i 
Exports of Goods                  4,672     5,753        6,276        6,800              Engineering GQoda               610         11
imports of Goods                 -6,449    -5,928       -7,237       -8,400               Tea                            417          7
Trade Balance                    -1,777      - 175        - 961      -1,600               Gm                             377          7
NFS (net)                           310        360          650         700               Clothing                       331          6
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                 -1.467        185       - 311       -  900                       Products               278          5
Jute Mamufactures              267          5
Interest Payments (net)           - 216      - 180        - 50           -                Iron Ore                       265          5
Other Factor Paymeats (net)          -          -            -          -                 Cotton Textiles                248          4
Net Transfers  j/                   470        730        1,400      1,300                Sugar                          244          4
Others                       2,530         45
Balance on Current Account       -1,213        735       1.039          400
Total                        5.567        100
Official Aid
Diaburseuenta                  2,341     1,953        1,628       1,805               EXTERNAL DEBT MARCH 31. 1978
Amortization                   - 531     - 560        - 645       - 725                                                     US$ billion
Transactions with IMF               242      - 337       - 330        - 158               Outstanding ad Disbursed                 14.8
All Other Items                    - 45      - 216          384         205               Undisbursed                               4.3
Outstanding, including
Increase in Reserves (-)          - 794    -1,575       -2,076       -1,527                    Undisb,rsed                         19.1
Gross Reserves (end year)         2,172      3,747       5,823        7,35O                                                h/l/
Net Reserves (end year)  k/       1,365      3,276       5,668       7,350               DEBT SERVICE RATIO FoR 1977/78           15.0  percent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                IBRD/IDA LENDING  DECEIBZR 31. 1978
Imports                           1,417      1,581        1,817      1,980                                                     US$  illion
of which: Petroleum             1,417     1,581        1,817       1,980                                                  1BQ           ID
Exports                              43         37           33       n                  Outstandi., ..4 Diabursed           613         3,864
of which: Petroleum                22         21          18        nUa OJndisbursed                                       615         1,992
Outstanding, including                 m
Undisbursed             1,228         5,856
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971           us$1.00 - Rs 7.5
Rs 1.00 - US$0.133333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972       US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                      Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1978              US$1.00 - Rs 8.188
US$1.00 - Re 0.122
h/ Estimated.
_/ Figures given cover all investment income (net). Major payments are interest on foreigr loans
and charges paid to INF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
j/ Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
- included within official aid disbursements.
k/ Excludes net use of INF credit.
1/ Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of merchandise exports.
m/ Excludes exchange adjustment, but includes uS$ 22 million due to third parties.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND I:DA CREDITS
(As of February 29, 198)T-
US$ million
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
41 Loans/                                             1,163.2
60 Credits fully disbursed                                     3,624.6
312-IN     1972   India    Population                 --         21.2      .68
342-IN     1972   India    Education                  --         12.0    5.92
356-IN     1973   India    IDBI I                     --         25.0    8.44
378-IN     1973   India    Karnataka Agricultural
Markets                --          8.0    4.31
390-IN     1973   India    Bombay Water Supply I   --            55.0    7.22
456-IN     1974   India    HP Apple Processing
& Marketing            --         13.0    7.66
481-IN     1974   India    Trombay IV Fertilizer   --            50.0      .44
l011-IN     1974   India    Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD 52.0          --     22.61
482-IN     1974   India    Karnataka Dairy            --         30.0   21.55
502-IN     1974   India    Rajasthan Canal CAD        --         83.0   36.15
520-IN     1974   India    Sindri Fertilizer          --         91.0    1.04
521-IN     1974   India    Rajasthan Dairy            --         27.7   15.89
522-IN     1974   India    Madhya Pradesh Dairy    --            16.4    6.34
526-IN     1975   India    Drought Prone Areas        --         35.0   11.33
1079-IN     1975   IFFCO    IFFCO Fertilizer           L09.0      --     10.75
1097-IN     1975   ICICI    Industry DFC XI            95.6       --      4.17
532-IN     1975   India    Godavari Barrage
irrigation             --         45.0   10.58
541-IN     1975   India    West Bengal Agric.
Development            --         34.0   13.44
562-IN     1975   India    Chambal (Madhya
Pradesh) CAD           --         24.0    7.70
572-IN     1975   India    Rural
Electrification I       --         57.0   12.89
585-IN     1975   India    Uttar Pradesh Water
Supply                --         40.0   24.24
598-IN     1975   India    Fertilizer Industry        --        105.0   59.90
604-IN     1976   India    Power Transmission IV   --           150.0   84.90



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17
US$ million
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
609-IN      1976   India    Madhya Pradesh
Forestry T.A.          --         4.0      2.41
610-IN      1976   India    Integrated Cotton
Development            --        18.0    14.40
1251-IN    1976   India    Andhra Pradesh
Irrigation           145.0        --    108.56
1260-IN      1976   India    IDBI II                   40.0       --      24.30
1273-IN      1976   India    National Seeds I          25.0       -       24.22
1313-IN     1976   India    Telecommunications VI  80.0           --      23.47
1335-IN     1976   India    Bombay Urban Transport 25.0           --      10.36
680-IN     1977   India    Kerala Agric.
Development            --         30.0   29.04
682-IN     1977   India    Orissa Agric.
Development            --         20.0   16.76
685-IN     1977   India    Singrauli Thermal
Power                  --        150.0  112.46
687-IN     1977   India    Madras Urban
Development            --         24.0   15.74
690-IN     1977   India    WB Agric. Exten-
sion & Research        --         12.0   12.00
695-IN     1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries           --         4.0    1.44
1394-IN      1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries          14.0      --      14.00
712-IN     1977   India    Madhya Pradesh
Agric. Dev.            --         10.0    9.24
720-IN     1977   India    Periyar Vaigai
Irrigation             --         23.0   17.35
728-IN     1977   India    Assam Agricultural
Development            --          8.0    7.22
1473-IN      1977   India    Bombay High Offshore
Development           150.0       --      67.51
736-IN     1977   India    Maharashtra
Irrigation             --         70.0   52.06
737-IN     1977   India    Rajasthan Agricul-
tural Extension        --         13.0   10.93
740-IN     1977   India    Orissa Irrigation           --        58.0   49.46
1475-IN     1977   ICICI    Industry DFC XII            80.0      --      37.75
747-IN     1978   India    Second Foodgrain
Storage                --        107.0   95.97
756-IN     1978   India    Calcutta Urban
Development II         --         87.0   62.79
761-IN     1978   India    Bihar Agric.
Extension &
Research               --          8.0    7.75



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
US$ million
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
1511-IN      1978   India    IDBI Joint/Public
Sector                 25.0               25.00
1549-IN      1978   TEC       Third Trombay
Thermal Power         105.0       --      94.13
788-IN     1978   India    Karnataka Irrigation    --           117.6  106.73
793-IN     1978   India    Korba Thermal Power         --       200.0  179.25
806-IN      1978   India    Jammu-Kashmir
Horticulture          --         14.0   13.96
808-IN      1978   India    Gujarat Irrigation         --        85.0   79.84
815-IN      1978   India    Andhra Pradesh
Fisheries              --         17.5   17.23
816-IN      1978   India    National Seeds II          --         16.0   15.97
1592-IN      1978   India    Telecommunications VII 120.0         --      62.55
824-IN      1978   India    National Dairy             --       150.0  143.57
842-IN      1979   India    Bombay Water
Supply II              --        196.0  194.78
843-IN      1979   India    Haryana Irrigation         --       111.0   85.47
844-IN     1979   India    Railway Modernization
& Maintenance          --        190.0  172.90
848-IN     1979   India    Punjab Water Supply
& Sewerage             --         38.0   35.66
855-IN      1979   India    National Agricultural
Research               --         27.0   26.90
862-IN     1979   India    Composite Agricultural
Extension              --         25.0   24.29
871-IN      1979   India    NCDC                       --        30.0   24.61
1648-IN      1979   India    Ramagundam Thermal
Power                  50.0       __      50.00
874-IN     1979   India    Ramagundam Thermal
Power                  --        200.0  200.00
889-IN      1979   India    Punjab Irrigation          --       129.0  123.34
899-IN      1979   India    Maharashtra Water
Supply                 --         48.0   48.00
911-IN     1979   India    Rural Electrification
Corp. II               --        175.0  175.00
925-IN     1979   India    Uttar Pradesh Social
Forestry               --         23.0   22.47



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
US$ million
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
947-IN     1979   India      ARDC III                  --      250.0     250.00
1743-IN*    1979   India      Thal Fertilizer         250.0       --      250.00
963-IN*    1979   India      Inland Fisheries                   20.0      20.00
Total                                  2,528.8  7,255.0
of which has been repaid               992.1      58.4
Total now outstanding                  1,536.7  7,196.6
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid   116.2        17.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/    1,519.1  7,196.6
Total undisbursed (excluding*)           579.4  2,797.6
*    Not yet effective
1/   Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of February 29, 1980)
Fiscal                                                     Amount (US$ million)
Year                    Company                         Loan      Equity      Total
1959         Republic Forge Company Ltd.                 1.5        -          1.5
1959         Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                  0.9        -          0.9
1960         Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                      1.4        -          1.4
1961         K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                           0.2        -          0.2
1963-66      Precision Bearings India Ltd.               0.7        0.3        1.0
1964         Fort Gloser Industries Ltd.                 0.8        0.4        1.2
1964-75-79  Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.               11.8        1.4       13.2
1964         Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                  1.0        0.3        1.3
1967         Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                     1.0        0.1        1.1
1967         Indian Explosives Ltd.                      8.6        2.9       11.5
1969-70      Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                  15.1        3.8       18.9
1976        Escorts Limited                              6.6         -         6.6
1978        Housing Development Finance
Corporation                                 4.0        1.4        5.2
1980         Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.             7.5        1.1        8.6
TOTAL                                61.1       11.5       72.6
Less:  Sold                                   5.9        1.7        7.6
Repaid                               17.4         -        17.4
Cancelled                             6.2        0.7        6.9
Now Held                             31].6       9.1       40.7
Undisbursed                          11.7        1.7       13.4



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding reason-
ably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below. The
level of disbursements was US$538 million in FY79, compared to US$497 million
in the previous year.  Disbursements in the current fiscal year through
February 29, 1980 totalled US$366 million, representing an increase of about
32% over the same period last year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$3,377 mil-
lion as of February 29, 1980, reflects the lead time which would be expected
given the mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented. Loan
1097 is fully committed and disbursements are slightly ahead of schedule.
Disbursements under Loan 1475 are also ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening the
State Financial Corporations involved. Loan 1511 is designed to encourage the
pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint ventures. The
project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector investment studies
and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing with the state joint/
public sector.
I/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 17
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides US$32.0 million in support of a lending program
for 50,000 tubewells and pumpsets investment in the Tirhut Division of Bihar.
Because of slow disbursements caused by a lower than estimated Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate and by low unit investment costs compared with appraisal esti-
mates, IDA agreed to extend the closing date to March 1980 and expand the
project area to cover the whole State. Physical targets have now been
achieved and the credit should be fully disbursed by the revised closing
date.
Cr. No. 947    Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$250.0 million credit of August 20, 1979;
Effective Date: January 2, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
Refinancing of lending to farmers has been started under this project
after the completion of the Second ARDC Project towards the end of 1979.
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
As of September 1979, satisfactory progress was being made in
the construction of bag sl:orage warehouses, despite problems of land acqui-
sition at some sites.  However, construction of flat bulk warehouses and
port silos is not expected to be completed until 1985, as a result of delays
in the employment of consultants and the longer time required for the prepa-
ration of technical specif-ications and tenders and the construction itself.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project encountered prolonged initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. These problems have been largely resolved, but con-
struction progress remains slow due to material shortages and severe winter
conditions.  Initial packing house operations were undertaken in the last
two seasons with favorable response from farmers. The project is scheduled
for completion by December 1980.
Cr. No. 806    Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$US$14.0 million credit
of July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is under strong management and rapid progress has
been made in start-up operations with only minor slippage. The project's
research activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to poor
organization.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
Ln, No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Ln. No. 1592   Telecommunications VII Project; US$US$120.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978;
Closing Date:  March 31, 1982
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily, although as of
November 1979, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment and local production of electro-mechanical switching equipment
were behind schedule, resulting in a reduced growth rate for the installa-
tion of direct exchange lines. Institutional improvements envisaged under
the projects have been achieved, and the financial situation of the Posts
and Telegraphs Department remains sound.
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$US$109.0 million loan of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
LTn. No. 1743   Thal Fertilizer Project; US$250.0 million loan of August 20,
1979; Effective Date:  April 30, 1980 (expected);
Closing Date: November 30, 1984
The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year as a result of a
change in feedstock from fuel oil to naphta and delays in completion of
engineering contracts. However, project construction is now proceeding
satisfactorily and commissioning is expected within the next six months.
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fertilizer
production capacity. The project has encountered delays in sub-project
preparation and investment approvals by the Government. Further, some of the
sub-projects identified earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration
by the Central and State governments. IDA has agreed to a list of sub-projects
to replace the ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the
project is likely to be delayed by about 18 months.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date:  September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Delays in project implementation were encountered as a result of
frequent changes in management in the early stages, and these have necessi-
tated an extension of the closing date by 18 months to June 30, 1981, to allow
for completion of works and withdrawal of the credit.  Progress is improving,
however. As of May, 1979, construction on 36 of the 39 markets envisaged under
the project was underway or completed, and trade had shifted to about half of
these. An additional five markets may be included in the project at the
request of the State government.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is virtually complete. The two Population Centers, established
to design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning. The Population Centers are expected to complete their
evaluation of family planning strategies and the introduction of management
information and evaluation systems by the present closing date.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project involves the development of the agricultural univer-
sities in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve
the quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum of
their employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to
enable it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development. Consider-
able progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving
educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project
Director and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are support-
ing efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 842    Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
June 12, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985



ANNEX II
PaRe 10 of 17
Cr. No. 848    Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million
credit of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979,
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 899    Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 mil-
lion credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9,
*                           1979; Closing Date:  June 30, 1984
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns caused
by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), redesign of
major project components and the addition of a supplementary study on sewage
disposal, Credit 390 is now progressing satisfactorily. The water treatment
works were successfully completed on schedule at the end of 1979. Completion
of construction of the project sewerage works is scheduled for mid-1980.
Financial performance of the project entity is satisfactory. Implementation of
Credit 842, a second stage of the ongoing Credit 390, is proceeding to schedule.
Preliminary work in connection with implementation of Credit 848 is progressing
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal.  In order to improve the situation, arrangements have be;e
uade to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of
the severe floods of September 1978 and serious Statewide electric power
shortages. Procurement is generally on schedule for equipment and consultants'
services, though somewhat behind for larger civil works contracts. Staff
shortages in some of the implementing agencies continue, although more exten-
sive use of consultants has to a great degree alleviated this problem.
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
Physical progress is generally satisfactory and costs are within
appraisal estimates on most components. However, land acquisition problems
and consequent delays in construction on one of the three sites and service
areas will result in about 15 months delay in the completion of the final
sections of these areas. Inadequate attention and staff has been given to



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
the financial analysis and marketing strategies required to ensure that anti-
cipated cost recovery in the sites and services and slum upgrading components
and thus replicability is actually achieved. However, there is still ample
time to deal effectively with these problems; technical assistance is being
sought to strengthen financial management and analysis.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date:  'December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824    National 'Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date:  Dec,ember 20, 1978;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1985
These four cre(dits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coopera-
tive scheme in Gujarat State. More than 2,100 dairy cooperative societies
(DCS) have been establis'hed under the three state projects (Karnataka 923,
Rajasthan-926, Madhya Pradesh-272). Farmer response had been excellent and
project authorities are ander considerable producer pressure to speed up the
establishment of DCS. Profitability in almost all of the DCS is good and con-
struction of dairy and feed plants is now proceeding at a satisfactory pace.
Limited milk processing capacity has been the major constraint to DCS formation
in all three projects.  Under the National Dairy Project, three subprojects
with an estimated total cost of approximately Rs :1,000 million have been
appraised by the Indian Dairy Corporation and a further eight subprojects are
in various stages of preparation and appraisal. Advance procurement of dairy
equipment is well underway though disbursements have been slow, mainly as a
result in the start of project operations.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari 3arrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of
March 7, 1975; Effective Date:  JuneB 9, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 12, 1974; Closing Date:  Juine 30, 1981



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 1.7
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)         Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:  September 7, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788    Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808    Gujarat irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
C,losing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843    Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978;
Closing Date:  August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889    Punjab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of
March 30, 1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory with the exception of the Nagarjunasagar compo-
nent of Loan 1251 where water losses have proven higher than anticipated.
Specific efforts are underway to redesign this project so that it can
achieve its original objectives.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 17
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The progress of shallow tubewells is well ahead of the appraisal
schedule, but progress in all other areas is slow. The project will not
fully disburse by the closing date, and GOI's request for an extension is
expected.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective I)ate:  June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date:  March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date:  February 6, 1978;  Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2,
1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862    Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million
credit of February 16, 1979; Effective Date (expected):
December 14, 1979; Closing Date: Dec-ember 31, 1984
These seven credits finance the reorganization and strengthening
of agricultural extension services and the develop7ment of adaptive research
capabilities in nine States in India.  In areas where the reformed extension
system is in full operation, field results have been very good, both in terms
of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop yields.  In
Rajasthan, Assam, and Orissa, in particular, significant gains have been made
under the projects. In West Bengal, where a change in government brought a
review of the organizational principles underlying the new extension system
and an accompanying hiatus in project implementation, a recent Cabinet deci-
sion has reaffirmed the Sitate Government's commitment to the project and
revised implementation plans are under preparation. In Bihar and Madhya
Pradesh, staff shortages, particularly in supervisory and managerial posts,
have hampered project imp:Lementation, although progress in areas where



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
regular extension visits are being made attests to the efficacy of the
system itself. Finally, in Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered
under the Composite Agricultural Extension Project (which is not yet effec-
tive), project implementation is still in the very early stages, although
important early administrative and financial steps have been taken which
should pave the way for effective operation of the reorganized extension
system.
Cr. No. 855    National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million
4                           credit of December 7, 1978; Effective Date:  January 22,
1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the
Project Unit, the pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Commit-
ment of funds to research subprojects in FY80 is expected to meet or even
exceed appraisal estimates, although corresponding disbursements may lag
somewhat behind the original estimates. Additions to the staff of the
Project Unit are being recommended to expedite further progress under the
project.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Overall progress of this project continues to be satisfactory.
Implementation of most components is proceeding well. Dairying and dryland
farming components show particular promise for the drought-prone areas.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays. The project has now gained momentum and the planting opera-
tions, which were one season behind original schedule, have been rephased
to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 871    National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
As of October, 1979, when the project was last reviewed, construc-
tion of godowns had begun in the three participating States of Haryana, Orissa,
and Uttar Pradesh. Consultants were being recruited to assist NCDC and State
Cooperative Banks in strengthening their institutions. Initial project
preparations have been completed on schedule; disbursements are therefore
expected to follow the appraisal targets.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
Cr. No. 844    Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
January 10, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manu-
facturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to
improve their performance and availability.  The project is still at an
early stage of implementation but is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date:  May 17, 1976; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
A feasibility study financed under this Credit and completed in
November 1979 has recommended the establishment of two mills, one for sawn-
wood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
industry in Bastar district.
Cr. No. 925    Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3,
1980; Closing Date: December 31,_1984
This project was designed to expand the social forestry program
in Uttar Pradesh, to provide a source of energy to the villages, and supply
raw materials to cottage industries. The project provides for large-scale
tree plantation on 48,600 ha of public and village lands, primarily along
roads, rails and canals, and on village common lands and degraded forest
reserves.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, :1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas
until the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to renewed
interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to progress
well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new processing units
are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra,, and plant protection
activities have started progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816    Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing D)ate: December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by CR. 816-IN). The first project started slowly due to organizational



ANNEX II
Paee l. of 17
difficullties and is almost two years behind schedule. Progress in the
second project States is more satisfactory. The role of various organizations
(National and State) in the production and processing of seed is being reviewed.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1980
The bus procurement program supported by the project has proceeded
on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies having been ordered and 589
already in service.  Total fleet strength has increased from 1,530 buses at
the inception of the project to 1,900 buses in September 1979, in accordance
with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity expansion is lagging somewhat behind
fleet expansion, but should match fleet size by early 1980. However, delays
in construction of new workshop facilities have been more substantial and will
not be fully recoverable. Traffic management civil works are also somewhat
behind schedule, although efforts are being made to speed up the works program.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815    Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit
ofJune 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984
In Gujarat, harbor construction at Mangrol and Veraval are under
way, and although some delays have been encountered, the project is progress-
ing satisfactorily and no major problems are evident. In Andhra Pradesh,
preliminary work on implementation is progressing satisfactorily, and harbor
works at Visakhapatnam and Kakinada are scheduled to commence shortly.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793    Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1985
Ln. No. 1549   Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648   Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr.        US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
No. 874         May 22, 1979; Closing Date:  December 31, 1985



ANNEX 1I
Page 17 of 17
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Credit 685 assists in financing the first stage of the 2,000 MW
Singrauli development which is the first of four power stations in the
Government's program for the development of large central thermal power
stations feeding power into an interconnected grid.  The second such
station, at Korba, is being financed under Credit '793. The National Thermal
Power Corporation (NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation
of these power stations.  Organization and staffing of NTPC is proceeding
satisfactorily. Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500 MW
extension of the Tata Electric Companies' station, in order to help meet
the forecast load growth in the Bombay area. Loan 1648 and Credit 874 sup-
port the construction of the first three 200 MW generating units in Andhra
Pradesh together with related facilities and associiated transmission. All
these large-scale thermaL power projects are progressing satisfactorily.
Under Credit 604, contracts aggregating about US$1]4 million have been ap-
proved to date. Although this project suffered delays in preparation of
technical specifications and evaluation of bids for highly sophisticated
equipment, the project is now progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1.975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
Cr. No. 911    Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175.0
million credit of June 21, 1979; Eff'ective Date: October 17,
1979; Closing Date:  March 31, 1984
Credit 572 consists of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
financed by the Rural Electrification Corporation. There are now thirteen
State Electricity Boards (SEBs) eligible for onlending, compared with six at
the time of appraisal. The project got off to a slow start, due principally
to the need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures to interna-
tional competitive bidding, but the position has improved and the full amount
of the Credit has been committed. Credit 911 provides continued support to
the Rural Electrification Corporation's lending program, and is helping to
finance about 1,700 rural electrification schemes in fourteen SEBs, including
the newly participating Uttar Pradesh SEB. The project is at an early stage
of implementation, and procurement is progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date:  October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore were commissioned in June 1978. Most contracts for
Phase III of Bombay High development have been laid, construction should be
completed by mid-1980 and the loan should be fully disbursed by its original
closing date.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
*                                  SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
Three months.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
The Government of Kerala assisted by Bank Group staff.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of first mission to consider the project
February 1979; May 1979.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
The project was appraised by staff of the Bank's
Resident Mission in India in August 1979.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
April 21, 1980.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
September 30, 1980.
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) GOK to review adequacy of field staff deployed by
May 31, 1982 and increase field staff if found
necessary (para 47).
(b) GOK to deploy staff for the project in accordance
with a schedule acceptable to IDA, to ensure that
agreed extension staff positions would be utilized
only for extension and would remain with DOA
throughout the project period, and to ensure that



ANNEX III
Page 2
the emoluments, benefits, and promotional prospects
of extension staff would not be adversely affected by
reason of the reorganization (para 50).
(c)  GOK to prepare training curricula, time schedules,
and staffing plan for pre-service training center
by September 30, 1980 (para 52).
(d) GOK to ensure that extension field staff live in or
near the areas to which they are assigned and to
provide housing or rental allowances necessary to
ensure this (para 55).
(e) GOK to inform IDA regularly of progress in locating
sites for houses to be financed under the project
(para 55).
(f) GOK to make credit for bicycles and motorcycles and
travelling allowances available to eligible staff on
terms and conditions adequate to provide incentives
for purchase and optimal use of these vehicles
(para 56).
(g)  GOK to establish and operate a monitoring and eval-
uation system acceptable to IDA and to provide IDA
with annual monitoring and evaluation simtmaries
(para 58).
(h)  GOK to set up Project Coordination Committee by
December 31, 1980 (para 59).
(i)  GOK to review and, where appropriate, strengthen
arrangements for cooperation between DOA and KAU by
January 31, 1981 (para 59).
(j) GOK to set up State and District Technical Committees
by January 31, 1981, these committees to meet at least
twice annually thereafter (para 59).



IBRD 1469OR
;  oc Mgng=iors                                          ,,;0                                                 770                         MARCH  1980
INDIA
KERALA
*anlrestaX   '                            AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION  PROJECT
Kgssorogod -f_           .
120           Bokel O\% : . d                                                                                                         ,g                  12
-f5\      <_              ~~~~~~To Voroisoedropel
,NANORE -4                                               KARN KARNATAKA                                         )
Talrporor,-sbo            mr4dr..                                                                   +- _~-_
w Te l l 'Chbea;dY ' :E ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. )O y.,. ..
Co~~~~~~~~~    eroeoe-     sorrpd                     / j'
'0e  ZHIK9DE       '                  Gvdplur
) )~/   S . Wrmdur ,J'T A M I L
oc1ti10                                        Coot                   _(                                                    N A D U              1-
0eA    ,AMrsel 1 t              0~   'oCoi color.
PHASING OF DISTRICTS                                                      PALG /                           o''o
CS\4retKpv2_) PALG AT  T_    ......to
Project Ye.r I                                             hor-          \
Project Year 2                      P--n O                                       I h.t
Project Ye.r 3
Roads                                 Konrookrlotrn<-            :            OWl-o Iogoe
I   I- I  Railwoys
O       Cities and Totns                                              "h.,                                      To Ud-  pet
   Dists Cs CpItolsk
D1stsict  Boo,daries                                                j
\ER 9ir-X7ffi.t 5 Chl~thi'purtm a
-.    Ite-t,o-1a Bo,,ndores                                                                                                                 00
loo ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ,eeo o                       -7,
Bolo=rtr  ?              H p-zh.      QIrU>
. .'r C'   50, oKp1h-to  p            -
_S J K YE C H I N A -. '
PAKISTAN             7                        -'                                                                                                           00
a-i"                   500~~~BHTANr      p.
N                    -
I N D IA                j         et
BANGLADESH
C_       25 5. f0             75        10 0         -1
I  ~ I          In                                 o      =      
KILOMETERS                                     P\a-
SRI                                                                                                                   CoPe Conoris
LANKA,                                       76 7O_



