Document of                    FILE  COPy
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.2863-IN,
INDIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KERALA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
May 1, 1980
Education and Agricultural Institutions Division
South Asia Projects Department
lrhis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization s



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00              Rupees (Rs) 8.40
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
AD          -    Agricultural Demonstrator
ADA         -    Additional Director of Agriculture
AEO         -    Agricultural Extension Officer
APC         -    Agricultural Production Commissioner
BDO         -    Block Development Officer
CDO         -    Community Development Department
DAE         -    Directorate of Agricultural Extension
DAO         -    District Agricultural Officer
DDA         -    Deputy Director of Agriculture
DEA         -    Department of Economic Affairs
DOA         -    Department of Agriculture
DTC         -    District Technical Committee
EEI         -    Extension Education Institute
GOI         -    Government of India
GOK         -    Government of Kerala
HYV         -    High Yielding Varieties
ICAR        -    Indian Council of Agricultural Research
IRRI        -    International Rice Research Institute
JAO         -    Junior Agricultural. Officer
JDA         -    Joint Director of Agriculture
KAU         -    Kerala Agricultural University
PAO         -    Principal Agricultural Officer
SDAO        -    Subdivisional Agricultural Officer
SMS         -    Subject Matter Specialist
STC         -    State Technical Committee
T & V       -    Training and Visit System of Agricultural Extension
VEW         -    Village Extension Worker
VLW         -    Village Level Worker



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND ..........................................              1
Introduction ...................................             1
Agriculture in India ...........................             1
Agricultural Extension .........................             2
Existing State Projects ........................             4
Agriculture in Kerala ..........................             6
Agricultural Services in Kerala ....         ............    7
II.   THE PROJECT .........................................9
A.  General Description ........................             9
B.  Detailed Features .. .......................            10
The Extension Methodology .10
Incremental Staff Requirements .12
Training .13
Housing .14
Transport .14
Equipment .14
Operating Expenses .15
Monitoring and Evaluation .15
III.  COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING    .                .15
A. Cost Estimates .15
B. Proposed Financing .16
C. Procurement .16
D. Disbursement and Audit .17
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .18
Extension Service .18
Input Supplies .19
State Level Coordination .19
Linkages between Extension and Research                     19
Monitoring and Evaluation .22
Farm Information .22
V.   BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS .22
Financial Benefits .22
Economic Benefits .22
Project Risks .23
VI.   AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS                      24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEXES
I    Table 1   Summary of Project Costs
Table 2   Civil Works
Table 3   Vehicles and Equipment
Table 4   Training Costs
Table 5   Incremental Staff Salaries
Table 6   Incremental Operational Costs
Table 7   Requirement and Availability of Extension
Staff
Table 8   Requirement of Extension Staff by Years
Chart 21128 - Extension Organization
Chart 21127 - Linkages between Extension and Research
II    Training
III    Table 1   Implementation Schedule
Table 2   Estimated IDA Disbursements
MAP
IBRD 14690



INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.01      The proposed project would be the eighth in a series of IDA assisted
projects designed to reorganize and strengthen agricultural extension in
India. 1/ Under the project, the Government of Kerala (GOK) would reorganize
its extension service to provide farmers, on a regular and systematic basis,
with up to date advice on farming practices best suited to their specific con-
ditions and capable of having an immediate impact on production and income.
This would be achieved by strictly programmed visits from regularly trained
field staff, supported by professional advice from the Department of Agricul-
ture (DOA) and from research. 2/  The project was prepared by GOK with assis-
tance of staff of the Bank's Resident Mission in India.  Initial appraisal
took place in August 1979, but with follow-up visits in December when staffing
details were finalised.  This report is based on the findings of the appraisal
mission consisting of Messrs. J. Q. Harrison, R. J. G. Le Breton (IDA), and C.
M. Mathur (Consultant).
Agriculture in India
1.02      The area of India is 3.27 M km  of which 49% is cultivable.  India's
population of over 630 M is growing at an annual rate of 2.0%. National income
has grown at nearly 4% per annum since 1950, and the per capita GNP reached
US$150 in 1976. Although average per capita income has increased, in general
there has been little change in the living standards of the vast masses of
urban and rural poor, conservatively estimated at 270 M people with incomes
below the poverty line of US$73 per capita per year. Thus, GOI's development
plans give priority to alleviating poverty and creating employment, especially
in rural areas.
1/   The seven previous projects are described in the following appraisal
reports:
Assam Agricultural Development Project, Cr. 728-IN
West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project, Cr. 690-IN
Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project, Cr. 737-IN
Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project, Cr. 712-IN
Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project, Cr. 761-IN
Orissa Agricultural Development Project, Cr. 682-IN
Composite Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Haryana,
Gujarat and Karnataka), Cr. 862-IN
2/   The main principles of the proposed extension reform are described in
Agricultural Extension: The Training and Visit System (World Bank, 1977)



- 2 -
1.03      Agriculture is the dominant sector of the Indian economy and con-
tributes about 45% of GNP. It engages about 70% of the labor force and
provides the base for about 60% of India's exports. During the last decade,
GOI development plans have emphasized agriculture and sought to raise foodgrain
production by increasing the use of irrigation, fertilizers, plant protection
chemicals, and seeds of improved varieties. In support of this, GOI has
modernized and expanded its agricultural credit institutions and accelerated
the development of irrigation. More recently, increased attention has been
given to the establishment of improved extension services and upgrading the
research capabilities needed to support this extension effort.
1.04      Despite these endeavors and the impressive results of the Green
Revolution in some areas, primarily in the wheat-growing northwestern states,
annual growth in total foodgrain production over the last 15 years has been
only about 2.3%, or approximately equal to the population growth. Per capita
production of a number of other important crops, including cotton and oilseeds,
has fallen during the period. Furthermore, India's agriculture is particularly
susceptible to the vagaries of weather and foodgrain production can vary as
much as 20% between successive years. Although expansion of irrigation facil-
ities to reduce this variation remains a priority, GOI recognizes that the
bulk of India's cropped area and over half of its farmers, cannot, in the
foreseeable future, benefit from water-intensive agricultural technologies
emphasized since the 1960s. Moreover, although much appropriate research is
available, yields under rainfed conditions have shown little or no improvement
over this period--a fact which prompts this project's emphasis on rainfed as
well as irrigated farming.
Agricultural Extension
1.05      State Governments have direct responsibility for agricultural exten-
sion; they operate through their Departments of Agriculture (DOA), generally
with the cooperation of other state departments, including Community Develop-
ment. While organization varies between states, the extension service is
generally headed by the Director of Agriculture who reports to the Secretary
of Agriculture. He is assisted by staff located at state, zonal and district
levels. The Collector (the senior representative of the civil administration
at the district level) coordinates activities between the various agencies of
government, with the District Agricultural Officer (DAO) representing DOA.
Below the district level, Agricultural Extension Officers (AEO) generally
report on routine matters to the Block Development Officer (BDO), an official
of the state Community Development Department. In some states, locally
elected councils (panchayats) also play a role and the BDO are responsible to
these bodies. Given the multitude of local activities and lack of direct
administrative control by DOA, AEO are often diverted to non-agricultural
activities.  The village level worker (VLW), a multipurpose worker and gener-
ally an employee of the Community Development Department, is supposed to spend
75-80% of his time on agricultural extension under the direction of the AEO.
However, the VLW is administratively responsible to the BDO and the lack of
a well-defined agricultural program, combined with the demands of his other
activities, generally result in his spending very little time on agricultural
extension. The same is generally true of the AEO. What little extension work
is done is neither planned systematically, nor supervised adequately.



- 3 -
1.06      Over the years, dissatisfaction with the effectiveness of the
multipurpose worker for increasing agricultural production has led to the
development of a variety of special programs focussing on particular crops,
areas, or techniques. Staff employed under these schemes are usually under
the administrative control of various subject matter departments of DOA. In
a given state, such schemes usually cover only a few districts and only part
(e.g. one crop) of the farmers' operations. These schemes have tended to
dissipate extension efforts in many uncoordinated directions and divert
attention and resources from the need to reform the main line extension
agency.
1.07      There are us.ally too few staff to cover the farming community
adequately and they lack sufficient mobility to reach farmers systematically
and regularly. In addition to the organizational problems mentioned above,
the extension service often suffers from inadequate and outdated staff train-
ing. Furthermore, linkages with research have been tenuous and irregular.
All these factors have hampered effective extension work. They have resulted
in a general stagnation in agricultural production with most extension person-
nel having low status, low pay and poor morale.
1.08      With yields in irrigated and rainfed areas remaining at levels well
below potential, GOI has become increasingly concerned with improving agri-
cultural extension. A new system of extension--the Training and Visit System
(T & V)--based on frequent and regular farm visits by full-time, adequately
trained extension personnel was developed in 1974 with IDA assistance. Under
this approach, a substantial portion of the multipurpose VEW is transferred
from Community Development Departments to DOA to work exclusively on agri-
cultural extension. The results from the Chambal Irrigation Scheme in
Rajasthan, 1/ where the system has been in operation since 1974, are impres-
sive.
CHANGES IN YIELDS IN THE CHAMBAL IRRIGATION SCHEME (RAJASTHAN)
Average Yields
…----------------…(tons/ha)-------------------
Before
Crop              Project    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978-79 /b
Paddy (irrigated)          2.00        3.35        3.60       4.36        4.17
Sorghum (rainfed)          0.44        0.40       0.66        0.83        0.72
Wheat (80% irrigated)      1.77        2.26        2.11       2.31
Gram (rainfed)             0.69        0.75       0.94        0.72 /a
Sugarcane (irrigated)    40.90         n.a.      59.40       60.50
/a   Yields were low because of severe pod borer attack.
/b   Yields reduced due to drought conditions at critical periods.
These results were so encouraging that the approach was adopted in nine states
under the projects discussed below.
1/   This covered about 84,000 farm families and 360,000 ha of which about
two-thirds is irrigated.



-4-
Existing State Projects
1.09      The Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 737-
IN, US$13 M, effective in February 1978), was an outgrowth of the favorable
results obtained with the new approach to agricultural extension pioneered
under the Chambal Command Area Development Project (Cr. 562-IN, effective
September 1975) and the Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project
(Cr. 502-IN, effective December 1974). The Government of Rajasthan is pre-
sently reorganizing and strengthening extension and supporting adaptive
research to serve 2.9 M of the state's 3.7 M farm families in 17 districts
where an immediate potential for improving agricultural production exists.
Project implementation has picked up rapidly. Farmers have responded favor-
ably to the system, and adopted new practices like seed treatment, basal
dressing with fertilizers, and intercropping with kharif pulses which have
helped them to grow a good crop even under drought conditions.
1.10      As a result of experience with improved extension activities in the
Chambal Irrigation Command Area, Madhya Pradesh requested IDA assistance in
extending the reorganization of agricultural extension services to cover both
irrigated and rainfed areas in 15 of 45 districts in the state. (Cr. 712-IN,
for US$10 M, effective September 1977.) Progress was good in the early stages
of the project, but slowed down later due to frequent changes in project man-
agement. This problem has since been solved and the project has picked up
momentum.
1.11      Eastern India, including Assam, Bihar, Orissa and West Bengal, is
the country's "rice bowl." Despite its high potential, foodgrain yields are
low and production has barely kept pace with population growth. The stagnation
of agricultural production has been partly due to the inability of the exten-
sion service to give meaningful advice to farmers; similarly, research has
failed to focus on the majority need for simple, low cost means of improving
production. Orissa was the first state to reorganize its agricultural exten-
sion service throughout the entire state (Cr. 682-IN, for US$20 M, effective
June 1977). Virtually all of the state's 3.4 M farmers are now covered by the
program and according to the most recent supervision mission, good progress
has been made and farmers have responded well and have accepted, on a wide-
spread basis, new practices for increasing production, e.g., introduction of
mustard as a new crop, seed treatment, and use of manually operated seed
drills.
1.12      During the preparation and appraisal of the West Bengal Agricultural
Development Project (Cr. 541-IN, effective August 1975), which supports minor
irrigation development in a portion of the state, one of the major constraints
was identified as a lack of effective agricultural extension. Consequently,
the project included a component to strengthen extension in six districts
along the principles established in the Chambal and Rajasthan Canal Areas.
The initial impact of extension reorganization was so favorable that the state
decided to expand the coverage. This was provided in Cr. 690-IN, for US$12 M,
effective August 1977. Initially the project was highly promising: 2,400
multipurpose workers were transferred from the Community Development Department
to control of DOA and were trained in the dissemination of specific messages
for the farmers and, together with DOA technical staff, worked with farmers in
identifying and solving field problems.  In the latter part of 1977, however,
a new Government of West Bengal (GOWB) suspended its earlier decision to place



- 5 -
the Village Extension Worker (VEW) under the administrative control of DOA
pending a thorough review. This drastically reduced the ability of VEWs
to visit farmers regularly, and extension operations came to a virtual halt
in most of the state. In October 1979, however, the GOWB has re-established
the single line of command, placing all extension staff under DOA, thus remov-
ing the major obstacle to project implementation. The tempo of work has now
picked up.
1.13      Under the Assam Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 728-IN, for
US$8.0 M, effective September 1977), Assam became the third state in the eastern
region to reorganize its extension service. The project now covers all of the
approximately 1.9 M farm families in Assam's plains districts. In the first
districts covered, improved farm practices such as transplanting in lines,
use of HYV paddy, increased area and higher yields of HYV wheat and paddy, and
increased consumption of fertilizers resulted. In the more recently covered
districts the effects of extension work are starting to be seen.
1.14      Under the Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 761-
IN for US$8 M, effective May 1978), through a reorganization of existing staff,
some 9,000 VEW would reach all of Bihar's 7.6 M farm families. However, very
little progress has been made so far with the reorganization. The posts of
Director of Agriculture and Additional Director of Agriculture (Extension)
remained vacant and the extension system is operating in only 5 of 31 districts.
The persistent delay by the Government of Bihar in filling key posts and gene-
ral commitment to the project is of great concern.
1.15      The most recent extension project, the Composite Agricultural Exten-
sion Project (Cr. 862-IN for US$25.0 M) became effective in December 1979.
Under this project, the governments of Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka would
undertake the reorganization of extension services in their states. The proj-
ect also includes strengthening the capability of the Directorate of Extension
of the Government of India (GOI) in order that it may assist all states in the
implementation and operation of the reorganized extension system. All three
states have made a good beginning, though the project is in its early stages.
1.16      The beneficial results of the system are not being achieved with
equal success in all areas due to local problems. The decision to transfer
control of considerable number of multipurpose extension workers to the Depart-
ment of Agriculture and assign them to work exclusively on agriculture requires
a major political commitment and reorganizational efforts. It has been diffi-
cult for some state governments to make this decision and maintain it once
made. In addition, the absence of timely financial sanctions, tardy staff
recruitment, and protracted procurement of vehicles and equipment have some-
times slowed progress although these problems have now been overcome in most
states. Encouraged by the impact which the Training and Visit system of exten-
sion is having in areas where it has been successfully operating, GOI is seek-
ing to bring about similar reorganization throughout all states in India. The
GOI Directorate of Agriculture Extension (DAE) has taken the initiative to help
states overcome initial difficulties. Although these projects are demanding
in terms of IDA supervision, their great potential for sustained increases in
food production and improved incomes for the rural sector justifies continued
IDA participation.



-6-
Agriculture in Kerala
1.17      Kerala, located in south-west India, is a narrow coastal strip,
bounded on the east and south by Tamil Nadu, on the north-east by Karnataka
and on the west by the Arabian Sea (See Map 14690). The State is about 580
km. long and not more than 120 km. wide. It can be divided into three parallel
topographical zones running north-south:
(a) the sparsely poiulated highlands on the eastern border
(173 persons/km ) with tea, coffee, cardamom and rubber
as the main crops;
(b) the low-lying coastal belt oe the west, very densely
populated (1,385 persons/km ) where rice and coconut are
the main crops with a wide variety of other minor crops; and
(c) the midlands, between the coast and the highlands, with
varied terrain of small valleys anj hills, fairly high
population density (778 persons/km ), and a wide variety
of crops, including rice, tapioca, banana, ginger, pepper,
arecanut, cashew, coconut and rubber.
1.18      Kerala's temperatures are not extreme, with the mean minimum ranging
from 19 - 260C and the maximum from 27 - 370 C.  Kerala receives a very high
annual rainfall (3000 mm.) from two monsoons: the south-west monsoon from
June to August and the north-east monsoon from October to December. The
rainfall is more evenly distributed throughout the year than in most of India
and its year-to-year variation is less.
1.19      The State is divided into 11 administrative districts.  The total
population in 1271 was about 21.3 million and the total geographical arpa is
about 39,000 km , giving an average population density of nearly 550/km , the
highest of any Indian state and about three times the all-India average. Per
capita income in 1974/75 was about Rs. 883 with agriculture providing some
60% of total state income. The high population density has led to a farm
size which is very small even by Indian standards. There are some 2.8 million
families with farms covering an area of 1.6 million hectares. This implies an
average farm size of 0.57 ha. But some 18 percent of these families operate
less than 0.04 hectares and another 38 percent operate less than 0.25 hectares.
These two groups constitute 56 percent of the farmers but less than 9 percent
of the area. Many of these very small farms are really garden plots and house
sites whose owners hold other jobs and cultivate them only part time. Consider-
ing this, the number of families for which farming is a serious occupation
would probably not exceed 2.5 million. Kerala's climate allows the cultivation
of high value perennial crops. The climate also permits the relatively high
cropping intensity (137 percent) in spite of the low proportion of area irri-
gated (11.5 percent).
1.20      The varied terrain and high rainfall permits a varied cropping pat-
tern and a mix of perennial and field crops unique in India. Still, as the
following table shows, nearly 70 percent of the cropped area is devoted to
the three major crops of paddy, coconut, and tapioca.



-7-
Paddy          31.3%           Pepper               4.0%
Coconut        25.5%           Other spices         2.5%
Tapioca        11.8%           Tea and Coffee       2.8%
Rubber          7.7%           Pulses               1.3%
Fruits          4.4%           Other oilseeds       1.7%
Cashewnut       4.1%           Other crops          2.9%
Kerala is the major Indian producer of several important agricultural commod-
ities, notably pepper (94 percent of India's production), rubber (94 percent),
cashewnut (80 percent), coconut (66 percent), cardamom (62 percent), and
ginger (53 percent). The variety of Kerala's cropping pattern is reflected on
most farms, with farmers usually growing several crops:  it would be quite
typical for one farmer to grow paddy, coconut,pepper, banana and cashew.
1.21      While the land and climate are conducive to producing high value
crops, yields of most major crops over the past decade have been stagnant or
falling. Paddy yields had risen from around 1.4 tons per hectare in the late
1960s to about 1.5 tons in the early 1970s. Since then, however, yields have
not risen and may even have fallen slightly, inspite of fairly rapid increases
in fertilizer consumption in recent years. Coconut yields have fallen steadily
since the late 1960s. Of the major crops, only tapioca has registered a yield
increase, rising from about 14 tons per hectare in the late 1960s to over 18
tons per hectare in the early 1970s. Since the early 1970s, however, yields
of this crop have also been more or less stagnant. Experiments in farmers'
fields indicate that there is substantial scope for improving productivity in
such areas as HYV paddy, fertilizer application and pest management in paddy,
fertilizer use and intercropping in coconut, expansion of pulse area in paddy
fallows, use of HYV in tapioca production, and area expansion and pest manage-
ment in cashew. GOK is convinced that an effective, reliable extension service
will be essential to achieving such increases in productivity.
1.22      The Bank Group is assisting the GOK in the Kerala Agricultural Dev-
elopment Project (Cr. No. 680-IN). Its objectives are mainly to increase
coconut and pepper production, with a small cashewnut component. A Cashewnut
Project, covering four districts of North Kerala, to accelerate cashew produc-
tion, has recently been appraised. Under the Kerala Agricultural Development
Project, a Special Agricultural Development Unit (SADU) has been set up for
smallholder development and establishment of seed gardens. The activities of
SADU supplement the extension services being provided by the Department of
Agriculture.
Agricultural Services in Kerala
1.23      Extension Services.  At present most field level extension work is
carried out through several special crop schemes under the Department of
Agriculture, notably for paddy, coconut, pepper, sugarcane and special area
development. These schemes were established around 1970/71 because GOK found
that the previous sytem, which relied entirely on multipurpose Village Level
Workers (VLWs) under the control of the Community Development Department,
could not carry out regular intensive extension work. These special schemes
generally centered on establishing a crop "unit" of about 200 to 500 hectares



- 8 -
with an office, and two Agricultural Demonstrators (ADs) under one Junior Agri-
cultural Officer (JAO) 1/. While this approach made an impact in the limited
areas of its operation, some problems have emerged:
(a)  the coverage per unit is limited.  Thus given the available
staff, only a relatively small proportion of the State's
farmers (about 10 percent) could be reached;
(b)  frequent regular training was not a feature of the system;
(c)  separate staff for different crops led to duplication of
efforts by the agricultural department and high operating
costs;
(d)  farmers, who normally grow a variety of crops, had to consult
several different sources for advice;
(e)  the number of "units" in a district (over 60 on average) grew
too large to be effectively supervised by District staff;
(f)  extension staff at the units lacked mobility, became office-
bound due to growing paper work and became input supply
agents, rather than agents of technological change;
(g)  there was no regular systematic contact between the extension
staff and the farmers.
Village Level Workers also occasionallv carry out some agricultural extension
work, but owing to their many responsibilities they cannot do this work
regularly and are often diverted to other tasks.
1.24      Training.  The Kerala Agricultural University (KAU), established in
1971 is the primary agricultural training institution in the State. In 1978
it awarded 78 B.Scs, 17 M.Scs and 2 Ph.Ds in agriculture and allied fields.
KAU has an Institute of Agricultural Technology which offers a diploma course
and can offer practical pre-service and inservice residential training in
agriculture for about 60-75 trainees. KAU's Extension Wing can provide pre-
service training to another 50-75 trainees. The Department of Agriculture
is represented on a Joint Training Committee chaired by the Vice Chancellor
of KAU which meets to develop training programs as required. There are also
three Extension Training Centers currently operating in the state, one on the
KAU Campus itself, each with the capacity for training of about 150 students.
At present these centers are used primarily to train multipurpose VLWs.
1.25      Research.  Responsibility for agricultural research in Kerala rests
primarily with Kerala Agricultural University and is conducted on its 23
1/   The Agricultural Demonstrator is the basic field level worker whose pay
and training is roughly equivalent to the VLW/VEW. The JAO is a more
senior officer who usually has a B.Sc. (Agri) and is roughly comparable
to the Agricultural Extension Officer (AEO) in other states.



- 9
research stations located throughout the state. The main areas of work are
in the paddy, coconut, pepper, cardamom, cashew, pineapple and sugarcane crops.
Research is largely concentrated on the stations, although limited work is
done on farmers' fields in a few villages surrounding the various research
stations and university campuses. In addition there are central Indian Coun-
cil of Agricultural Research (ICAR) research institutions concentrating on
such areas as plantation and tuber crops. DOA and KAU staff meet twice a year
in a workshop to develop the main extension recommendations. DOA is also
represented on KAU's research advisory committee.  These formal relationships
are supplemented by numerous informal contacts. The working relationships
between DOA and KAU appear to be good and productive. Proposals for strength-
*    ening of research activities of KAU and its links with DOA will be considered
for financing under the National Agricultural Research Project (Credit 855-IN).
1.26      Credit.  The apex institution for short and medium-term agricultural
credit is the Kerala State Cooperative Bank which works through eleven District
Central Cooperative Banks and about 1550 primary agricultural cooperative socie-
ties located at the District and Village levels, respectively. The number of
members, share capital, deposits and loans per society are all substantially
higher than the all-India averages and are growing. Long term credit is pro-
vided by the Kerala Central Land Mortgage Bank through 33 Primary Land Mortgage
Banks. Commercial Banks also provide a growing volume of credit to agriculture.
1.27      Input Supplies.  Kerala with its small size and good transportation
network is relatively well-served by its input supply system. For fertilizer
there are over 6000 selling points, about evenly divided between public sector
cooperatives and private dealers. Few farmers have to travel more than 3 km.
for their fertilizer supplies. Plant protection chemicals are sold from about
3400 outlets. DOA is directly involved in the production of seeds and the
production and distribution of seedlings. HYV paddy foundation seed is multi-
plied on DOA farms; nucleus seed being supplied by KAU. Registered growers,
concentrated in 4 districts, multiply foundation seed to produce certified
seed. DOA staff carry out field inspections and quality control tests while
the Kerala Agro-Industries Corporation is responsible for seed procurement and
distribution. Seedlings of coconut, cashew, and cocoa, and pepper cuttings are
produced and distributed by DOA. Private dealers also are engaged in seedling
production and distribution.
1.28      Marketing.  Marketing channels for most crops are well established.
Traditional channels are village fairs, village merchants, brokers and agents,
wholesalers, processors, exporters and related industry. There are more than
2000 market fairs, thousands of established private traders and about 100
cooperative primary marketing societies.
II. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
2.01      The project seeks to achieve early and sustained increases in
agricultural production throughout Kerala's eleven districts through the



- 10 -
reorganization and strengthening of the extension service of DOA. The
project would support this reorganization over a five-year period by:
-    establishing a single line of command between full-time
village extension workers (VEWs) and extension headquarters;
-    consolidating staff from the special crop schemes into a
single unified service;
-    incorporating regular in-service training as an integral
part of extension activities;
-    introducing a systematic fixed schedule for regular and
frequent visits by VEWs to farmers' fields;
-    improving the working linkages between extension operations
and agricultural research activities;
-    developing regular monitoring and evaluation procedures; and
-    providing additional staff, operating expenses, equipment,
vehicles, training facilities, and rural housing required
to implement these reforms.
B. Detailed Features
The Extension Methodology
2.02      Under the project Kerala's agricultural extension service would be
reorganized and intensified throughout the state, following the Training and
Visit pattern adopted in other Indian states over the past 2-3 years. The
project would systematically and regularly provide farmers with up-to-date
advice on farming practices best suited to their specific conditions and
emphasizing proven practices which have an immediate impact on income. This
would be brought about by organizing extension field staff so that they visit
farmers regularly and receive systematic training and technical support from
DOA and from research institutions. Each Village Extension Worker (VEW) would
be assigned to work with a number of farm families. The number would vary
widely depending on local conditions, population density, cropping intensity
and accessability. In most parts of Kerala, road communications are good,
and this combined with greater literacy (60%, twice the all-India average of
29.4%), should permit a higher than normal farr-family: VEW ratio. Moreover,
as para 1.25 points out, available statistics probably overstate the number of
farm families in Kerala. Consequently in Kerala initially one VEW would cover
about 1,200-1,300 farm families on an average with the actual number varying
from around 600 in the sparsely-populated mountains to about 1,500 in a few
densely-settled coastal areas where coconut is virtually the only crop and
communication is very good   Contingency provision is made to provide for 250
additional VEWs if in the course of project implementation GOK and IDA deter-
mine that more intensive coverage by VEWs is warranted. An assurance was



- 11 -
obtained during negotiations that GOK and IDA would review progress of project
implementation within two years of the date of project agreement to determine
if the number of field staff (VEW) should be increased.
2.03      To reach his farmers systematically, the VEW would divide them into
8 smaller groups each of about 100-150. He would visit each group regularly
on a fixed day of the week in a two-week cycle. During his visit, the VEW
concentrates his efforts on about 10 contact farmers selected from each group,
involving as many other farmers as possible. By the concrete results he
achieves with contact farmers, the VEW can spread his recommendations more
effectively to all farmers. During each visit the VEW would concentrate his
efforts on only a few strategically-selected recommendations relevant for that
particular phase in the crop cycle. Initially the emphasis would be on low
cost improvements which the majority of farmers can afford. The VEW would be
supervised and helped in his work by an Agricultural Extension Officer (AEO),
who would usually hold a B.Sc. degree in agriculture. 1/ One AEO would norm-
ally be responsible for about 5-8 VEWs and would spend at least four days a
week visiting them in the field. Once in each two-week period VEWs would
receive a full day of intensive training in recommendations for that period.
Thus every two weeks VEW would spend eight days in visiting each of his eight
groups and one day in training. One day might be spent by the AEO meeting
together with all his VEWs in the field or at headquarters to review progress
and identify topics to be raised at the next training session. The remaining
working days in the two week cycle would be devoted to field trials, making
up missed visits and occasional but limited office work.
2.04      To provide regular training, continuous technical guidance and super-
vision of field work, three or four agricultural subdivisions would be estab-
lished in each district under the charge of a Subdivisional Agricultural Officer
(SDAO), who would have full time responsibility for supervising 8-10 AEOs in
his area and ensuring effective extension operations. When there are more than
10 AEOs in a subdivision, he will be assisted by an additional SDAO. The SDAO
would have a technical staff of four Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) (one each
in agronomy of field crops, agronomy of tree crops, plant protection, and
training/communications). SMS would spend one-third of their time in training
groups of VEWs once each fortnight (para 2.06), one-third of their time in
field visits providing technical support and guidance to VEWs, and one-third of
their time in building their own stock of knowledge through a regular dialogue
with research workers, carrying out simple field trials in farmers' fields, and
attending short training courses. At the district level, a team of three SMS
would be established to provide greater depth of support to SMS teams at the
subdivisional level and/or to cover specializations not covered by those at the
subdivision. They would also divide their work between teaching, field visits
and gathering knowledge. The Principal Agricultural Officer (PAO) in charge of
the District will have direct responsibility for extension operations through-
out his District. To free the PAO for frequent field visits so necessary to
review extension operations effectively, one Assistant Deputy Director of Agri-
culture would take over responsibility for reporting on scheme implementation,
attending coordination meetings at district level, regulatory functions, and
input supply arrangements. He would be assisted by about 10-12 circle offices
1/   In Kerala AEOs are referred to as Junior Agricultural Officers (JAO).



- 12 -
located strategically throughout the district and each staffed by a Junior
Agricultural Officer and two Agricultural Demonstrators to carry out these
non-extension related duties and to free extension staff so as to enable them
to concentrate all their efforts on extension. Staff at DOA headquarters
would also be reorganized and strengthened to provide more effective support
to field operations (para 4.02).
Incremental Staff Requirements
2.05      Staff required to implement this reform would be met by redeploying
staff already with DOA, transferring staff from the Community Development
Department, and hiring new staff. Detailed breakdown of staff requirement and
availability by year, district and subdivision are given in Annex 1, tables 7
and 8. The table below summarizes staff available and required by category.
As the table indicates some 1,952 VEWs are required. This requirement would be
met by redeploying about 1,150 field staff already with the DOA, merging them
with 172 VLWs to be transferred from the Community Development Department and
hiring about 630 new recruits. Before negotiations GOK issued a government
order transferring 172 VLW positions from the Community Development Department
(CDD) to DOA and sanctioning 630 new extension positions in DOA to complement
the extension staff transferred from CDD.
EXTENSION STAFF REQUIREMENTS
Total required Number available Incremental Requirement
VEWs                           1,952            1,322                    630
AEOs                             378              378                       0
SMS (SUB)                        144               34                    110
SDAO                              36                0                     36
SMS (DIST)                        33               20                     13
PAO                               11                2                       9
SMS (HQ)                           8                4                      4
JDA (OP)                           2                2                       0
ADA (EXTN)                         1                1                       0
AD (INPUTS)                      250              250                       0
JAO (INPUTS)                     125              125                       0
ASST. DY. DIR. (INPUTS)           11               11                       0
ASDAO                             11                0                      11
Adequate staff already exist at the AEO level.  New posts would have to be
created and filled up by GOK for 630 VEW, 110 subdivisional SMS, 11 ASDAO,
36 SDAO, 13 District SMS, 9 PAO and 4 headquarters SMS. The extension
service would be directed in its day-to-day operations by a full time Addi-
tional Director of Agriculture who would work exclusively on this job.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the VEWs would be used
exclusively for agricultural extension and that their emoluments, benefits
and promotional prospects would not be adversely affected as a result of
the reorganization. Further details are given in Annex 1, Table 8.



- 13 -
Training
2.06      The project would support a variety of in-service and pre-service
training programs for extension staff. The most important of these are
outlined in Annex 2. Central to the entire extension approach and an integral
part of it is the fortnightly training session during which VEWs would be
trained in groups of about 30 by subdivisional SMS, assisted by the AEO and
drawing on the district SMS as well as specialists from nearby research
stations. The entire training effort would be focussed on making these
fortnightly sessions as effective as possible. Training would be practical
and concentrate only on the few specific recommendations relevant to farming
operations in the coming fortnight. Ample time would be provided for VEWs
to carry out the recommendations and to practice how they would convince
farmers to adopt them. They would also have an opportunity to raise and
discuss problems encountered in the past two weeks. On alternate weeks VEWs
would meet with their AEOs to review progress. Other in-service training
courses for VEW include a pre-season workshop/training session for each major
season and about one special short course per year on a particular technical
topic.
2.07      Newly recruited VEWs would receive an intensive 6 month pre-service
training course. For this purpose, one of the three Extension Training
Institutes, currently under the Community Development Department, would be
made available to the Kerala Agricultural University (on whose campus it is
now located). With this facility, KAU would be able to train at least 150
newly recruited VEWs at a time, or 300 each year. This would be sufficient
to fill new posts created during the first three years of the project and
fill vacancies arising from retirement, transfer, etc. GOK has specified
the number of trainee places available at the institution. An assurance was
obtained during negotiations that the proposed staffing arrangement, the
proposed training curriculum and time schedule would be agreed with IDA by
September 30, 1980.
2.08      Higher level staff would require a range of training programs as
well. Each month SDAO would meet with SMS and AEOs for a one-day training and
planning session during which the main points of emphasis and schedule of
activities for the coming two fortnights would be determined. Before preseason
training of VEWs, similar sessions would be held at the district level for
AEOs. Also before each season there would be a workshop at the zonal research
station and attended by PAOs, SDAOs and SMS. During this session, research
workers at the zonal station together with DOA staff would review the previous
season's research results, specify recommendations and plan the coming season's
research and field trials programs (paras 4.05-4.11).
2.09      Improving the training of SMS is crucial to the success of the
project. One primary vehicle for this would be a monthly workshop held at the
research station designated in each zone for this purpose. The workshop would
be attended by all SMS in the zone together with KAU staff, and headquarters
SMS. The main objective is to review results achieved, modify recommendations
as necessary to suit prevailing field conditions, review findings and progress
of field trials and develop suggestions for future research topics and field
trials. In addition, special short-term practical courses in production



- 14 -
technology and extension methods would be organized for SMS both at KAU and
at all-India institutions. A limited number of scholarships at KAU would be
provided for DOA staff who perform well. Before the introduction of the
extension system in a given district, an orientation course of about three
to four days duration would be organized by senior DOA staff. This would
explain the new system and its procedures in detail, assist district staff
in designating geographic areas of responsibility for VEWs, demonstrate by
example how contact farmers should be selected, and outline major initial
impact points. Further details are given in Annex 1, Table 4.
Housing
2.10      Under the reorganized extension service, extension workers would be
required to make regular and frequent visits to their farmers' groups.  Conse-
quently it is necessary for them to live in or near their areas of work. GOK
provided assurances at negotiations that VEW and AEO would live in or near the
areas assigned to them and to this end would provide such low cost housing or
rent allowances as necessary. Since housing is difficult to find in some
areas of Kerala, the project would provide housing for about 25% of VEWs and
AEOs. An assurance was obtained during negotiations that GOK would furnish to
IDA, at regular intervals (through DAE), information on progress in locating
sites for housing to be financed under the credit. Details are given in
Annex 1, Table 2.
Transport
2.11      Effective extension requires a high degree of mobility both to enable
field level staff to meet farmers regularly and to enable technical and super-
visory staff to make frequent personal visits in order to provide the direct
guidance needed. The entire system depends on a high degree of personal con-
tact between all levels of the extension hierarchy. To facilitate this, the
project would provide various modes of transport for different levels of staff.
VEWs would be provided loans on attractive terms to purchase bicycles. Similar
loans would be provided to AEOs and SMS to purchase scooters or motorcycles.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations from GOK that loan terms and con-
ditions and travelling or mileage allowances would be sufficient to ensure the
purchase and use of these vehicles. The project would also provide four-wheel
drive vehicles at subdivisional and district levels, and a limited number of
trucks for use in the district and sedans at district and headquarters levels.
Details are given in Annex 1, Table 3.
Equipment
2.12      The project would provide simple dependable audio-visual equipment
to support the training sessions and to enhance field operations. Emphasis
would be on low-cost, simple aids such as charts and flipcharts which exten-
sion staff can design themselves and modify to fit local conditions. The Farm
Information Bureau would assist the extension service by using its existing
printing and photographic equipment supplemented by equipment provided under
the project. Furniture and office equipment would also be provided as neces-
sary. Details are given in Annex 1, Table 3.



- 15 -
Operating Expenses
2.13      DOA's operating expenses would increase with the implementation of
this project. Of particular importance would be the availability of funds and
materials for printing diaries, field note books, charts and instructional
materials, materials for practical demonstrations at training sessions, seeds
and other inputs for field trials and materials for preparing simple visual
aids. Adequate funds would also be provided for incremental vehicle operating
costs and travel allowances. Further details are given in Annex 1, Table 6.
Monitoring and Evaluation
2.14      The project would provide for the establishment and operation of a
monitoring and evaluation system specifically designed to provide project man-
agement with current information on the effectiveness of the extension system.
The methodology used would be similar to that described in World Bank Staff
Working Paper No. 272 "A System of Monitoring and Evaluation Agricultural
Extension Projects".  This system would supplement direct personal supervi-
sion by each level of project management (paras 4.01-4.02).  Details of
staffing are given in Annex 1, Table 5.  Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that GOK would undertake monitoring and evaluation in a form
acceptable to IDA and that results would be forwarded (through DAE) to the
Association at least once a year.
III. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
3.01      Detailed cost estimates, based on incremental costs for carrying out
the project over a five year period are given in Annex 1 Tables 1 to 6. The
following table summarizes the costs:
Rs Million             US$ Million         % Foreign
Category           Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
Incremental Staff
Costs                     35.6     -       35.6    4.3       -       4.3
Civil Works                 24.7     -       24.7    2.9       -       2.9
Equipment and Vehicles       9.9    3.8      13.7    1.2      0.4      1.6       28
Training                     4.6    0.4       5.0    0.5      0.1      0.6        8
Incremental Operating
Costs                     12.6    6.6      19.2    1.5      0.8      2.3      34
Total Base Cost       87.4   10.8       98.2   10.4      1.3    11.7
Physical Contingencies       5.8    0.5       6.3    0.7      0.1      0.8
Price Contingencies         21.6    2.3      23.9    2.5      0.3      2.8
TOTAL PROJECT COST  114.8   13.6    128.4   13.6         1.7    15.3       11.1



- 16 -
These costs include about US$0.9 million in duties and taxes and an estimated
US$1.7 million in foreign costs. Physical contingencies of 5% have been applied
to civil works, equipment training, and operating costs and to meet the future
need of 250 VEW (para 2.02) to readjust farm families - VEW ratio. Price con-
tingencies have been applied in accordance with current Bank estimates of
expected inflation rates in India (1980: 10%; 1980-83: 7% p.a.; 1984 and
onwards: 5%) and compounded accordingly.
B. Proposed Financing
3.02      Finance to cover total project costs of Rs. 128.4 M (US$15.3),
including contingencies, would be provided as follows:
Source                       Amount            Percentage
US$ Million
IDA                           10.0                 65.4
GOK/GOI                        5.3                 34.6
Total                         15.3                100.0
The proposed IDA Credit of US$10.0 M would be to GOI on standard terms and con-
ditions and would finance about 70% of project costs, net of taxes and duties,
but including estimated foreign exchange costs of US$1.7 M. IDA funds would
be channeled through GOI to GOK in accordance with GOI standard arrangements
for IDA assisted state development projects. The balance of project financing,
beyond IDA financing, would come from state government sources and GOI. GOK
has made adequate budgetary provision for the operation of the first project
year.
C. Procurement
3.03      The main items to be financed are:  vehicles including cycles and
motorcycles; equipment; houses for VEW and AEO; training; project monitoring;
incremental staff; and incremental operating costs. Civil work contracts
(US$2.9 M), for 582 houses, would be small and dispersed, both geographically
and over time; therefore, they would not be satisfactory for international
competitive bidding. Contracts would be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding following local advertisement. There are numerous qualified local
contractors to carry out such work. Arrangements for preparing tenders and
overseeing construction were discussed during negotiations. All contracts
for civil works, vehicles, equipment and furniture estimated to cost $100,000
or more would be reviewed by IDA both before bids are invited and contracts
awarded.
3.04      116 motor vehicles (US$0.9 M) of various types would be required
under the project. They would be purchased in small quantities over five
years and would be widely dispersed in rural areas. As adequate maintenance
and availability of spare parts would be of paramount importance, this would



- 17 -
necessitate purchase of locally made vehicles of types already used by govern-
ment departments. Thus, procurement would be according to existing government
procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA, Motorcycles and bicycles (US$0.4 M)
would be purchased by individual staff from loan funds provided by state gov-
ernment; they would be expected to repay the purchase price.
3.05      Orders for purchase of minor equipment and furniture (US$0.3 M)
would be bulked wherever possible and purchased according to established local
bidding procedures, except where valued at less than US$50,000 when they would
be purchased by prudent shopping through normal trade channels. Assurances on
procurement procedures mentioned in paras 3.03-3.05 were obtained during
negotiations.
3.06      The balance of project costs (US$7.2 M) would consist of local train-
ing and fellowships (US$0.6 M), incremental salaries and allowances (US$3.98
M), monitoring and evaluation (US$0.32 M), and incremental operating expendi-
tures for offices and vehicles (US$2.3 M) which would not involve procurement.
All of the above figures exclude contingencies which amount to US$3.6 M.
D. Disbursement and Audit
3.07      Disbursement under the Credit would extend over five years and would
be made against:
(a) 80% of the cost of civil works and equipment and vehicles,
and 100% of the cost of training; and
(b) 45% of the total eligible staff costs 1/. The percentage is
calculated to bring total IDA disbursements to about 70% of
the project cost.
3.08      Disbursements against expenditures for training, for locally pro-
cured vehicles and equipment costing Rs 150,000 or less, payments under civil
works contracts for one or more progress payment(s) not exceeding Rs 300,000
and for item (b) above would be against certified statements of expenditures,
the documentation for which would not be submitted to IDA for review but would
be retained by GOK and DAE. These documents would be available for inspection
by IDA during the course of project review missions. Disbursement against all
other items would be fully documented. Certificates of expenditures would be
audited by GOK internal departmental auditors at least once every six months
and a report submitted to IDA promptly thereafter. All disbursement applica-
tions would be forwarded and processed through the Department of Economic
Affairs.  Schedules of implementation and project disbursements are presented
in Annex 3, Tables 1 and 2.
1/   Total extension staff costs eligible for partial disbursement would
be the following: VEW, JAO, ASDAO, SDAO, SMS and PAO at village, sub
division, district and state levels and staff of monitoring and eval-
uation unit.



- 18 -
3.09      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that separate accounts
would be kept of expenditures made under the project. These would be audited
annually for each fiscal year, in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied. Accounts would be submitted for audit within six months
of the end of the financial year, audited not later than 9 months after the
end of each such year, and the audited reports submitted to IDA promptly.
Such reports and audits of certificates of expenditure would show, inter-alia,
that the funds withdrawn were used for the purpose intended, that goods have
been received or work performed, and that payments have been made. All
reports would be submitted by GOK to the Department of Economic Affairs for
onward transmission to IDA.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Extension Service
4.01      The project would introduce fundamental improvements in the organ-
ization and management of extension operations in Kerala. By establishing a
single line of control from extension headquarters to VEWs (see chart for the
organizational pattern), field level staff become directly accountable to their
supervisors both technically and administratively. Each would follow a fixed
schedule of visits to specific groups of farmers, which is known to farmers.
Each AEO would supervise about 5-8 VEWs, spending at least four days a week in
the field assisting and guiding them. The 36 SDAOs provided under the project
would each be responsible for ensuring that the 8-10 AEOs in their respective
subdivisions are working effectively. To do this, SDAOs would need to spend
about 5 days a week in the field, including attending fortnightly training
sessions. Where the number of AEOs exceeds 10 an ASDAO will assist the SDAO.
SMS at the subdivision provide essential technical support as described in
para 2.04. SDAO is directly responsible to the District PAO. Normally a PAO
would have three or four SDAOs in his charge.
4.02      The DOA headquarters organization would be streamlined to provide
effective management and technical support to the extension service as a whole.
The three existing Additional Directors of Agriculture (one each for food crops,
commercial crops and planning) would be redesignated so that there would be one
ADA (Extension), one ADA (Input Supply and Logistics) and one ADA (Planning,
Monitoring and Evaluation). While overall responsibility for general agricul-
tural development in the state rests with the Agricultural Production Commis-
sioner (APC) and the Director of Agriculture, the ADA (Extension) would be
responsible for the day-to-day operations and management of the extension serv-
ice both technically and administratively. Subject to the policy directions
of the APC and Director of Agriculture, the ADA (Extension) would also be
responsible for training and management of extension personnel. He would
visit the field frequently to check on the effectiveness of extension opera-
tions. Before negotiations GOK had redesignated one of the three existing ADA
positions as ADA (Extension), appointed a suitably qualified officer to this
position and given him full time exclusive responsibility for implementing
the extension system with no other duties. Two Joint Directors of Agriculture
(JDA) would form an operations cell to assist the ADA in this work. These two



- 19 -
JDAs would each have responsibility for certain districts and would visit
their areas constantly. The ADA (Extension) would maintain close contacts
with the Chief Executive, Special Agricultural Development Unit of Kerala
Agricultural Development Project to ensure effective coordination and tech-
nical support. ADA (Extension) would have a technical support staff of 8
SMS at headquarters (one each for paddy production/farm management, pulses/
agronomy, coconut and arecanut, cashews and horticulture, plant protection,
spices and cocoa, adaptive research and training, and water management).
These SMS would be responsible for improving the technical quality of the
extension service in their areas of specialization. They would help promote
linkages between extension SMS and research work being carried out in Kerala
and elsewhere, develop and interpret field trials in their areas of special-
ization, organize training programs and serve as a clearing house of technical
information. ADA (Extension) would also be assisted by a small administrative
and accounting staff to help keep records of project expenditures, prepare
progress reports, etc.
Input Supplies
4.03      ADA (Input Supplies and Logistics) would be responsible for regu-
latory functions, implementation of plan schemes, input supply, departmental
farms and for soil testing, plant protection and seed certification. At head-
quarters he would be supported by 10 Assistant Directors of Agriculture and 6
Technical Assistants drawn from existing staff. He would function through the
Assistant Deputy Director of Agriculture at the District level who would free
the District PAO from these duties. The 11 Assistant DDA's in the district
would operate through 125 circle offices each with a staff including one JAO
and two Agricultural Demonstrators. This public sector network would supple-
ment the already substantial network of private and cooperative input supply
points.
State Level Coordination
4.04      Coordination at State level between extension, research and allied
agencies would be ensured through establishment of a Project Coordination
Committee. The Committee would be chaired by the Agricultural Production Com-
missioner and would include the Vice Chancellor of KAU, representatives of
concerned government departments, and other agencies (Finance, Irrigation,
Cooperation and input agencies). The Director of Agriculture would act as
Secretary to this Committee. The Committee would meet at least twice a year
to review progress in project implementation and to resolve any problems that
may arise. An assurance was obtained during negotiations that such a commit-
tee will be established and hold its first meeting before December 31, 1980.
Linkages between Extension and Research
4.05      As neither research nor extension can function without close coopera-
tion it would be necessary to formalize their responsibilities. A clear defini-
tion of responsibilities is emerging wherein the Kerala Agricultural University
would be made fully responsible for the development of suitable new technology
while the Department of Agriculture would assume responsibility for transfer of
technology to farmers, including widespread testing of research recommendations
on farmers' fields. The commodity research programs of KAU and of ICAR would



- 20 -
continue to identify and select improved varieties of important crops, and
also identify economically appropriate practices directed to substantially
increasing crop production and, at the same time, lowering farmers' risk.
Selected varieties and production practices would then be tested at zonal
research stations, seed farms, and on farmers' fields located in different
agroclimatic regions. KAU staff would work closely with district and sub-
divisional extension staff, specially SMS, as much of the work at zonal sta-
tions would be in response to the needs of local extension staff and farmers.
The extension staff would work with research workers in carrying out a program
of field trials and analysing and interpreting the results. Research workers
would take responsibility on a monthly basis for SMS training at the zonal
level in order to prepare them for the fortnightly training of VEW and AEO.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that GOK and KAU would review
(by January 31, 1981) and, where appropriate, strengthen arrangements for
closer cooperation.
4.06      Strengthening of arrangements for close coordination between KAU
and DOA would also be promoted through State and District level technical
committees (paras 4.07 and 4.08).
4.07      The State Technical Committee (STC).  This Committee would be
chaired by the Director of Agriculture and comprise senior officers of KAU
and DOA. The Additional Director of Agriculture (Extension) would be the
Secretary. STC would meet twice every year and provide a formal mechanism
for review of university research and field trials, and for review of future
research programs and extension recommendations from District Technical
Committees.
4.08      District Technical Committees (DTC).  Each Committee would be
chaired by the Principal Agricultural Officer (PAO) and comprise district
field staff, SMS and regional agronomists of KAU and farmers' representatives.
The DTC would meet twice every year to review and formulate recommended agri-
cultural practices, including the identification of research priorities and
adaptive research needs, for transmission to the State Technical Committee.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that STC and DTC will be estab-
lished and hold their first meetings by January 31, 1981.
4.09      Zonal Workshops.  Seasonal zonal workshops would be chaired by the
senior research scientist of KAU and meet twice a year (before the kharif
and rabi cropping seasons). The workshop would include representatives from
KAU and extension staff of DOA, and would discuss implications of various
extension recommendations made by DTC and finalize them after considering
research data and field experience.
4.10      The evolution of extension recommendations would be as under:



- 21 -
District Technical Committee             Reviews adaptive research and trials
to propose recommendations, and
PAO/SMS/Field Staff/Farmers/KAU          suggests field trial program, based
among other things on findings of
monthly zonal workshops.
Zonal Seasonal Workshop                  Assembles proposed recommendations
from DTC. Frames recommendations
KAU/Extension Staff of Zone              after consideration of research data
and economic constraints.
State Technical Committee
Director of Agriculture (Chairman)       Reviews proposed recommendations
ADA Extension (Secretary)                developed by zonal workshops.  Approves
Director of Research (KAU)               on suggests modifications before return-
Director of Extension (KAU)              ing to DTC for implementation.
ICAR Research Complex
District Technical Committee             Adopts or rejects modifications sug-
gested by STC. Formulates specific
PAO/SMS/Field Staff/Farmers/KAU          fortnightly recommendations.  These
will form the basis of fortnightly
training sessions after suitable modi-
fications by SMS at the monthly zonal
workshops.
Monthly Zonal Workshops                  Zonal workshops will modify recommen-
dations made at preseason training to
KAU Research Staff/SMS/SDAO/PAO          suit prevailing field conditions,
review findings and progress of field
trials, review training techniques and
prepare lesson plans for fortnightly
training.
Fortnightly VEW Training
Visits



- 22 -
4.11      Training.  KAU would assist in providing monthly training of SMS
who are responsible for the fortnightly training of VEW/AEO in the districts.
PAO and SDAO also would participate (para 2.09). The duration of training
may be one or two days. The training would serve the following objectives:
(a) To review field developments since previous training -
(i) how extension recommendations were used in VEW training,
(ii) problems in extending recommendations, and (iii) problems
posed by farmers in adopting them under normal and special
situations like drought, epidemic attack of pest/diseases,
and flood.
(b) To identify clearly the most important recommendations that
should be made during the next month, keeping in mind past
experience and field conditions.
(c) Listing field problems posed by farmers and field staff and
discussing them; ensuring that such problems which cannot be
solved during discussions in the workshop are taken up with
KAU for solution and further study.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.12      The Additional Director of Agriculture (Planning, Monitoring and
Evaluation) at headquarters would have responsibility for monitoring and
evaluation. He would be assisted by a Director and other staff. The monitor-
ing and evaluation unit would report directly to the Agricultural Production
Commissioner.
Farm Information
4.13            The ADA (Extension), through the SMS (adaptive trials and
training), would draw on the services of the existing Farm Information Bureau
to produce pamphlets, charts, posters and other training aids as needed.
V. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
5.01      Financial Benefits.  Total project costs over the five year develop-
ment period, excluding price contingencies amount to US$11.7 M which is US$7.3/
ha of cropped land or US$4.7 per farm family, assuming 2.5 M farm families.
Incremental costs after the project development period, to be met from State
budget sources, would be about US$2.0 M per annum or US$0.8 per farm family.
Incremental costs would be partly recovered through market levies on agricul-
tural produce entering commercial markets. Stimulation of demand for agricul-
tural inputs would also increase state revenues from sales taxes on these items.
5.02      Economic Benefits.  Attributing a precise level of benefits to this
type of project is difficult since it is not possible to determine what propor-
tion of benefits are due to extension alone and what are due to additional
purchased inputs and other factors. In practice, it is the combination of a



- 23 -
number of factors, with extension playing the role of catalyst, that brings
the desired benefits. It is also difficult to estimate acceptance rates of
recommended practices. However, since the project relies primarily on reor-
ganization and strengthening of an existing extension structure, the incre-
mental cost is low per hectare and per farm family. Hence, even very small
and slow production increases in the project area generate a high rate of
return. This project would be able to generate a 50% rate of return if, by
1987, yields of foodgrains (which cover only 31% of cropped land area) increase
by only 12 kg/ha, and per hectare yields of coconut and tapioca (the other
main crops) increase by only 10%. Yield increases have far exceeded this
level where the extension system is operating effectively for a few years.
One significant feature of the system is that the practices initially stressed
by the extension service focus on improving cultural practices (timely oper-
ations, good land preparation, proper seed rates, line sowing and weeding) to
maintain adequate and healthy plant population over unit area cultivated. As
these operations usually involve more work and little cash outlay, they are
particularly well suited to the needs of small farmers.
5.03      Project Risks.  The transfer of multipurpose field workers and estab-
lishment of a single, unified professional extension service marks a major
departure from past practice in India. The fact that such a reform is under
way in large parts of the country reflects a willingness to develop an exten-
sion system capable of serving all farmers well. Nevertheless, it is difficult
for governments to make and maintain such decisions. The main risk, therefore,
is that the state government would find it difficult to maintain a single line
of command from extension headquarters to the VEW who work exclusively on agri-
culture. In this project these risks are low because only a small proportion
of field staff (10%) are to be transferred from another department. To reduce
these risks further, efforts were made during project preparation and appraisal
to ensure full understanding of the importance of this by the Kerala State Gov-
ernment. An assurance would be obtained during negotiations, that VEWs would
remain as full time agricultural extension workers under the Department of
Agriculture throughout the project period, and that their seniority, promotion,
prospects, emoluments and other benefits would be protected.
5.04      Experience has shown other risks to be minimal.  Farmers responsive-
ness to recommendations has been generally excellent wherever visits are made
systematically. In addition, VEW have gained confidence in their own profes-
sional ability to introduce small innovations. The ability of the service to
develop and disseminate recommendations leading to yield increases well above
the level needed for a 50% return has been demonstrated adequately. Initially,
in most situations, availability of suitable technology for different condi-
tions has not been a constraint as there is a backlog of research findings as
yet not widely adopted. Major yield increases are possible even in the process
of bringing the production level of average farmers to that of best farmers.
To reduce the risk of technological constraints lowering anticipated project
benefits, the project supports programs of field testing of research results
and development of good working relationships with Kerala Agricultural Univer-
sity. A separate project, National Agricultural Research Project (Credit 855-
IN), is directed at strengthening research facilities at the Agricultural Uni-
versity to ensure a continuous flow of recommendations adapted to specific
regional problems.



- 24 -
VI. AGREEM4ENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      At IDA's request GOK had taken the following actions before credit
negotiations:
(a) Issued a government order transferring an agreed number of
VLW positions from the Community Development Department
(CDD) to DOA and sanctioned an adequate number of positions
to DOA to complement the extension staff transferred from
CDD (para 2.05);
(b) Specified the training institution and number of trainee
places available for pre-service training (para 2.07);
(c) Made adequate budgetary provision for the operation of
the first project year (para 3.02); and
(d) Redesignated one of the three existing ADA positions as
ADA (Extension), filled this position by a suitably quali-
fied officer, and assigned to him full time responsibility
for implementation of the project, so that he will have no
duties other than day to day management of the extension
service (para 4.02).
6.02      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
of India and the Government of Kerala on the following matters:
(a) By May 31, 1982, GOK and IDA would jointly review progress of
project implementation to determine if the number of field staff
should be increased (para 2.02);
(b) GOK would fill incremental staff positions according to
or earlier than the schedules shown in Annex 1, Table 8
(para 2.05);
(c) GOK would ensure that all extension positions assigned to
the administrative control of DOA under this project would
be used exclusively for agricultural extension and retained
under the administrative control of DOA during project
execution (para 2.05);
(d) GOK would ensure that staff assigned to carry out extension
work under the project would not be adversely affected, in
respect of their entitlement to emoluments, benefits and pro-
motional prospects by reason of the assignment, (para 2.05);
(e) GOK and IDA would agree by September 30, 1980 regarding the
staffing arrangement in the VEW training institution, the
proposed training curriculum and schedule of training;



- 25 -
(f)  GOK would ensure that VEW and AEO would live in or near the
area assigned for their operations and, to this end, shall
provide to these workers such rental allowances or housing
as may be necessary (para 2.10);
(g)  GOK would furnish to the Association, through DAE, at
regular intervals, all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the progress in locating
sites for houses to be financed out of the proceeds of the
credit (para 2.10);
(h)  GOK would ensure that credit and travelling allowances
would be made available to staff on such terms and conditions
designed to create incentives for the purchase and use of
motorcycles and cycles (para 2.11);
(i)  GOK would undertake monitoring and evaluation of the project
in the form already agreed with the GOI. Further, GOK would
forward to IDA (through DAE) a yearly summary of results in
a form acceptable to IDA (para 2.14);
(j)  GOK would prepare and present to DAE for transmission to IDA,
administrative and financial data regarding progress of project,
including procurement of goods and services, civil works, expen-
ditures, audit and requests for disbursements in accordance with
the time schedules to be agreed to at negotiations (para 3.09);
(k)  GOK would by January 31, 1981 review and, where appropriate,
strengthen arrangements for close cooperation between DOA and
KAU and thereafter, from time to time as the Association shall
reasonably request, discuss with the Association the adequacy
of said arrangements (Para 4.05);
(1)  GOK would establish a Project Coordinating Committee which
would hold its first meeting by December 31, 1980 (para
4.04); and
(m)  GOK would establish a State Technical Committee and District
Technical Committees. These Committees would hold their first
meeting by January 31, 1981 and thereafter meet at least twice
a year (paras 4.07 and 4.08).
6.03      With these conditions and assurances the project would be suitable
for a Credit of US$10.0 M to GOI on standard IDA terms.



- 26 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
(Rs '000)
Foreign
Exchange
Cost Category                   Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Total            %    Cost
INCREMENTAL STAFF COSTS
- Base Cost                   1,968.6   5,329.4   9,418.2   9,418.2   9,418.2   35,552.6
- Physical Contingency a/    - -            -          -       1,550.0   1,550.0    3,100.0
- Price Contingency b/           98.4      692.9   2,072.0   3,290.5   4,167.9   10,321.7
TOTAL                       2,067.0   6,022.3  11,490.2  14,258.7  15,136.1   48,974.3   -            -
CIVIL WORKS
- Base Cost                      -       8,924.4   8,147.4   7,659.0         -      24,730.8
- Physical Contingency c/        -         446.2      407.4      382.9       -       1,236.5
- Price Contingency b/           -       1,218.2   1,882.0   2,412.6         -       5,512.8
TOTAL                          -      10,588.8  10,436.8  10,454.5         -      31,480.1   -        -
EQUIPMENT & VEHICLES
- Base Cost                   5,195.1   4,570.4   3,924.4         -          -      13,689.9
- Physical Contingency c/       259.8      228.5      196.2       -          -          684.5
- Price Contingency b/          272.8      623.9      906.6                  -       1,803.3
TOTAL                       5,727.7   5,422.8   5,027.2         -          -      16,177.7   28%-/  4,529.7
INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS
- Base Cost                   1,660.2   3,142.7   4,748.5   4,838.5   4,838.5   19,228.4
- Physical Contingency c/        83.0      157.1      237.4      241.9      241.9      961.3
- Price Contingency b/           87.2      428.9   1,096.9   1,524.1   1,930.4    5,067.5
TOTAL                       1,830.4   3,728.7   6,082.8   6,604.5   7,010.8   25,257.2   34%    8,634.0
TRAINING
- Base Cost                     843.8   1,052.4   1,129.9   1,075.4         955.4    5,056.9
- Physical Contingency c/        42.2       52.6       56.5       53.8       47.8       252.9
- Price Contingency b/           44.3      143.6      261.0      338.7      381.2    1,168.8
TOTAL                         930.3   1,248.6   1,447.4   1,467.9   1,384.4    6,478.6    8%            518.3
TOTAL
- Base Cost                   9,667.7  23,019.3  27,368.4  22,991.1  15,212.1   98.258.6
- Physical Contingency          385.0      884.4      897.5   2,228.6   1,839.7    6,235.2
- Price Contingency b/          502.7   3,107.5   6,218.5   7,565.9   6,479.5   23,874.1
GRAND TOTAL                10,555.4  27,011.2  34,484.4  32,785.6  23,531.3  128,367.9               13,682.0
a/  Calculated as staff salary of 250 VEW in last 2 years only for additional VEW if needed after a
mid term review.
b/  Inflation rate:  applied cumulatively at 5%, 13%, 22%, 30% and 38% respectively for project years
1 through 5.
c/  Physical contingency calculated at 5%.
d/  Weighted average of vehicles (25%) and equipment (40%).



INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
CIVIL WORKS
(Rs '000)
Area   Cost    Unit        Year 1        Year 2         Year 3          Year 4        Year 5      Total
Qty   (M2)  (Rs/M2)  Cost   (No.) Cost  (No.)   Cost  (No.)   Cost  (No.)   Cost  (No.)  Cost   Cost
Housing
VEW                 488    55    740       40.7                 (176) 7163.2  (162) 6593.4  (150) 6105.0                      19,861.6
AEO                  94    70    740       51.8                  (34) 1761.2   (30) 1554.0   (30) 1554.0                       4,869.2
TOTAL                                                                                                                                      f
(Excluding
contingencies)                                                      8924.4          8147.4         7b59.0                  24,730.8
Physical
Contingencies (5%)                                                   446.2           407.4          382.9                    1,236.5
GRAND TOTAL                                                          9,370.6         8,554.8        8,041.9                   25,967.3
February 13, 1980
rz
m
fD X
" H



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Table 3
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
(Re '000)
Quanr    Unit         Year 1             Year 2             Year 3             Year 4            Year 5           Total
Type      tity    Cost    Noe.    Cost    Nos.    Cost    Nos.    Cost    Nos.    Cost    Noa.    Coat                      Cost
VEHICLES
Departmental:
- Headquarters */                 Sedan     (3)        50.0   (3)         150.0   -           -       -          -                                               150.0
- District bl                     Sedan     (11)       50.0   (4)         200.0  (4)        200.0  (3)         150.0    _           _       _         _          550.0
4-WD      (11)       60.0   (4)         240.0  (4)        240.0  (3)         180.0    -          -        -         -          660.0
Truck     (11)      130.0   (4)         520.0  (4)        520.0  (3)         390.0    -          -        -         -        1,430.0
- Sub Division c/                 4-WD      (72)       60.0   (26)   1,560.0 (24)         1,440.0 (22)    1,320.0    -             -        -         -       4,320.0
Motorboats  (4)        100.0      -         -      (4)        400.0   -           -       _          _       _          _         400.0
- TraLning Institute              4-WD      (1)        60.0   (1)          60.0   -           -       -          -       -         -        -         -           60.0
Bus       (1)       150.0   (1)         150.0   -           -       -         -        -         -        -         -          150.0
- M.E. Unit                       Sedan     (1)        50.0   (1)          50.0   -           -       -          -       -         -        -         -           50.0
4-WD      (1)        60.0   (1)          60.0   -           -       -         -        -         -        -         -           60.0
Staff-Owned
- V.E.W.                         Cycle      (1560)    0.5   (564)    282.0  (516)           258.0  (480)    240.0    -             -        -         -          780.0
- A.E.C.                         M.Cycle  (300)         6.0   (110)    660.0  (96)          576.0  (94)        564.0    -          -        -         -       1,800.0
- S.M.$.                         M.Cycle  (75)          6.0   (25)       150.0  (25)        150.0  (25)        150.0    -          -        -         -         450.0
- M.E. Staff                     M.Cycle  (42)          6.0   (15)         90.0  (11)         66.0  (16)        96.0    -          -        -         -          252.0
SUB-TOTAL                                                              4,172.0            3,850.0            3,090.0                                         11,112.0
OFFICE EOUIPMENT & FURNITURE
-Headquarter
- District d/                                11         8.0      (4)       32.0   (4)         32.0   (3)        24.0    -          -        -         -           88.0
- Sub Division e/                            36        30.0     (13)    390.0  (12)         360.0  (ll)        330.0   -           -        -         -       1,080.0
- A.E.O. fl                                 100         1.5        -       .         -        -      (100)     150.0   -           -        -         -          150.0
- V.E.W.                                    700         0.3        -       -      (300)       90.0  (400)      120.0    -          -        -         -          210.0
- Training Institute                         1         50.0      (1)       50.0      -        -         -       .        -         -        -         -           50.0
- N.E. Unit                                            40.0       -        40.0      -        -         -       .        -         -        -         -           40.0
SUB-TOTAL                                                                 512.0             482.0              624.0                                          1,618.0
AUDIO-VISUAL AIDS
- Headquarter /                                1       50.0       (1)      50.0      -        -         -       -        -         -        -         -           50.0
- District hi                                11        15.8      (4)       63.2     (4)       63.2    (3)       47.4   -           -        -         -          173.8
Printing Facility                         3       52.2       (3)     156.6       -       -         -        _       -          -       -         -          156.6
- Sub Division i/                            36         5.0    (13)        65.0   (12)        60.0   (11)       55.0    -          _       _          -          180.0
- A.E.O. 't                                 378         0.15  (137)        20.5  (171)        18.2  (170)        18.0   -          _       _          _           56.7
- V.E.W. j/                                1952         0.15  (705)       105.8  (647)        97.0  (600)       90.0   -           -       -          _          292.8
- Training Institute  k/                       1       50.0        1       50.0      -        -         -        _       -         -        -         -           50.0
SUB-TOTAL                                                                 511.1              238.4              210.4                                            959.9
TOTAL (Excluding Contingency)                                           5,195.1           4,570.4            3,924.4                                         13,689.9
Physical Contingency 5%1                                                  259.8              228.5              196.2                                            684.5
GRAND TOTAL                                                             5.454.9           4, 798.9           4.120.6                                         14.374.4
a/  Headquarters. Three cars - for SMS Team and the 2 JDAO with regional responsibilities.  Five aedans and nine 4-WD vehicles already available.
b/  District. One car for Principal Agriculture Officer, one 4-WD diesel vehicle for the SMS team, and one truck for transport of seeds, seedlings, etc.
c/  Sub Division. One 4-WD diesel vehicle for SDAC and one for team of SMS.  Two motor.boats for Allepey and Chengannur Sub Divisions each.
d/  Includes one typewriter and duplicator.
e/  Includes typewriter, calculator, duplicator, and office furniture.
7/  Furniture.
/t  Flannel boards and black-boards, tape recorder, megaphone, silk screen unit, still cameras and flash, super 8 me  camera, slide projectors,
overhead projector, screens, overhead projector, rear projection screen.
h/  Flannel and black-boards, cassette tape recorder, cameras with flash unit, silk screen unit, slide viewers and slide projectors, overhead
projector and letter press only in three districts.
i/  Flannel and black-boards, tripod, screen, slide projector, overhead projector and small library.
i/  Plastic binders, folding blackboard, elide viewer, insect preservation box and small library.
k/  Flannel boards, blackboards, tape recorder, megaphone, super 8 mm projector, slide projector and viewer, overhead projector, screens, tripod,
rear projection screen, stencil duplicator.
l/ Includes purchase of 125 typewriters for circle offices.



INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
TRAINING COSTS
(Rs '000)
/               Unit           Year 2           Year 2          Year 3           Year 4           Year 5       Total
Type of Training-                  Cost       (No.)  Cost      (No.)  Cost    (No.)  Cost        (No.)   Cost   (No.)  Cost   Cost
1. Pre-Service VEW Training         0.95b/   (300) 285.0    (300) 285.0    (150) 142.5             -       -        -      -       .712.5
2. Expenses for zonal workshop   l.O'           (72)  72.0      (72)  72.0       (72)  72.0       (72)   72.0    (72)  72.0         360.0
3. Special short courses
(VEW/AEO)                     0.1        (700)  70.0   (1350) 135.0   (1950) 195.0   (1950)  195.0  (1950) 195.0              790.0
4. Special short courses
(SMS/other staff)             1.2-'       (64)  76.8      (124) 148.4    (177) 212.4       (177)   212.4  (177) 212.4         862.4
(Overseas)                   40.Oe-        (1)  40.0        (2)  80.0        (3) 120.0        (3)   120.0    -       -        360.0
5. Deputation of VEW for            8o
B.Sc. course                   8.0--              -         (4)  32.0       (11)  88.0       (22)   176.0   (22) 176.0        472.0
6. Deputation of AEO/SMS for
post grad. courses            15. A/      (20) 300.0       (20) 300.0       (20) 300.0       (20)   300.0   (20) 300.0   1,500.0    n
Total                                             843.8         1,052.4          1,129.9             1,075.4         955.4   5,056.9
Physical contingencies (5%)h/                      42.2             52.6             56.5               53.8           47.8      252.9
GRAND TOTAL                                       886.0         1,105.0          1,186.4             1,129.2       1,003.2   5,309.8
a/  See Annex 2.
b/ Rs 100 p.m. for stipend for 6 month course plus Rs 100 in instructional materials and Rs 250 as training fee per
trainee to be paid to KAU.
c/  Rs 1000 per session for materials, expenses, honoraria, for KAU staff, etc.  Each month there would be 5 or 6 sessions,
one in each zone.
d/  Includes courses in Kerala and other states.  Funds provided sufficient for one course per SMS per year.  Since it is
likely not every SMS will be trained every year in such a course, there is ample provision for other senior staff
as well.
e/  Estimated Rs 40,000 per course per trainee sent overseas.  Alternatively, funds would be used to bring foreign
trainers to Kerala to develop in state training programs.                                                                            > >
f/  One VEW per district per year, 4 year B.Sc. program.  Deputation starts in Year 2 including districts covered in
previous year.  Cost estimate is per trainee per year.
ygj  One AEO/SMS per district per year; 2 year post graduate program.
h/  Includes staff for 3 zonal printing presses for production of training material - 3 press operators, 3 compositor
cum binders, and 3 mechanics.



- 30 -
ANNEX 1
Table 5
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
INCREMENTAL STAFF SALARIES AND INCENTIVES
Annual
Unit Cost        Year 1           Year 2           Year 3           Year 4           Year 5
(Rs '000)  (No.)      Cost  (No.)      Cost  (No.)    Cost  (No.)         Cost  (No.)      Cost   Total Cost
INCREMENTAL EXTENSION STAFF
Headquarters - SMS (JDA)                 20.0        (4)    80.0      (4)    80.0      (4)    80.0      (4)    80.0      (4)     80.0         400.0
District       - PAO (JDA)               20.0        (2)    40.0      (6)   120.0      (9)   180.0      (9)   180.0      (9)   180.0          700.0
- SMS (Dy.DA)             17.0        (0)     -        (4)    68.0   (13)   221.0   (13)   221.0   (13)   221.0                731.0
Subdivision  - SDAO (Dy.DA)              17.0      (13)    221.0   (25)   425.0    (36)   612.0   (36)   612.0    (36)   612.0             2,482.0
- SMS (Asst.DA)           15.0      (41)   605.0    (77) 1,155.0  (110) 1,650.0  (110) 1,650.0  (110) 1,650.0               6,710.0
- ASDAO (Asst.DA)         15.8       (4)    60.0       (7)   105.0    (11)   165.0   (11)   165.0    (11)   165.0              660.0
Field Level  - VEW                        6.2       (0)      -     (250) 1,550.0  (630) 3,906.0  (630) 3.906.0  (630) 3,906.0    13,268.0
SUB-TOTAL                               1,006.0          3,503.0          6,814.0          6,814.0          6,814.0    24,951.0
INCREMENTAL SUPPORT STAFF
Headquarters - Admin. Asst.              15.0       (1)    15.0       (1)    15.0      (1)    15.0      (1)    15.0      (1)     15.0          75.0
- Accounts Off.           15.0       (3)    45.0       (3)    45.0      (3)    45.0      (3)    45.0      (3)    45.0          225.0
- Snr. Spdt.              13.0       (9)   117.0       (9)   117.0      (9)   117.0      (9)   117.0      (9)   117.0          585.0
- Fair Copy Spdt.         10.0       (1)    10.0       (1)    10.0      (1)    10.0      (1)    10.0      (1)    10.0           50.0
- Duplicator Op.           4.3       (1)      4.3      (1)      4.3    (1)       4.3     (1)      4.3     (1)      4.3          21.5
- P.A. to D.A.            15.0       (1)    15.0       (1)    15.0      (1)    15.0      (1)     15.0     (1)    15.0           75.0
(SUB-TOTAL)                                206.3            206.3            206.3            206.3             206.3      1,031.5
District      - Accounts Off.            15.0       (4)    60.0       (8)   120.0   (11)   165.0   (11)   165.0   (11)   165.0               675.0
- Snr. Spdt.              13.0       (4)     52.0      (8)   104.0    (11)   143.0   (11)   143.0    (11)   143.0              585.0
- Duplicator Op.           4.3       (4)    17.2       (8)    34.4   (11)       47.3   (11)    47.3    (11)    47.3            193.5
- Confid. Asst.            6.7       (4)    26.8    (8)    53.6   (10)    67.0   (10)    67.0   (10)    67.0                   281.4
- Typist                   6.5        (0)     -        (1)      6.5     (1)      6.5     (1)      6.5     (1)      6.5          26.0
(SUB-TOTAL)                                156.0            318.5            428.8            428.8            428.8       1,760.9
Subdivision  - Jnr. Spdt.                 9.5       (0)      -       (7)    66.5   (16)   152.0   (16)   152.0   (16)   152.0                522.5
- Typists                  6.5        (0)     -      (12)      78.0   (18)   117.0    (18)   117.0   (18)   117.0              429.0
- Drivers                  5.0        (0)     -        (7)     35.0   (10)      50.0   (10)      50.0   (10)      50.0         185.0
- Peons                    4.1       (8)     32.8   (33)   135.3   (36)   147.6    (36)   147.6   (36)   147.6                 610.9
- Duplicator Op.           4.3      (13)     55.9    (25)   107.5   (36)   154.8   (36)   154.8   (36)   154.8                 627.8
- Watch Man                4.1      (13)     53.3   (20)      82.0   (36)   147.6    (36)   147.6   (36)   147.6               578.1
Circle        - Typists                   6.5      (45)    292.5   (85)   552.5  (125)   812.5  (125)   812.5  (125)   812.5               3,282.5
(SUB-TOTAL)                                434.5          1,056.8          1,581.5          1,581.5          1,581.5       6,235.8
SUB-TOTAL SUPPORT STAFF                                  796.8          1,581.6          2,216.6          2,216.6          2,216.6       9,028.2
MONITORING/EVALUATION STAFF-/
- Director M/E          b/20.0        (1)    20.0      (1)     20.0     (1)    20.0      (1)     20.0     (1)     20.0         100.0
- Head, Sample Survey- 18.0          (1)      -                -                 -                -                -             -
- Ag. Economist           17.0        (1)    17.0      (1)     17.0     (1)    17.0      (1)     17.0     (1)    17.0           85.0
- Statistical Clerks-   8.2          (5)
- Typists                  6.5        (2)    13.0      (2)     13.0     (2)     13.0     (2)    13.0      (2)    13.0           65.0
- Field Supervisor   c  14.0          (4)    56.0      (6)     84.0     (6)    84.0      (6)     84.0     (6)    84.0          392.0
- Field Investigator-  10.2           (0)     -        (5)     51.0   (19)   193.8   (19)   193.8    (19)   193.8              632.4
- Head Ad. Hoc.
Studies              18.0        (1)     18.0     (1)    18.0      (1)    18.0      (1)     18.0      (1)    18.0          90.0
- Social Scientist        17.0        (1)    17.0      (1)     17.0     (1)    17.0      (1)     17.0     (1)    17.0           85.0
- Res. Officers           12.4        (2)     24.8     (2)     24.8     (2)     24.8     (2)     24.8     (2)     24.8         124.0
SUB-TOTAL, M/E UNIT                                      165.8            244.8            387.6            387.6             387.6      1,573.4
TOTAL - INCREMENTAL STAFF                             1,968.6           5,329.4          9,418.2          9,418.2          9,418.2      35,552.6
Physical Contingenciesd/                                  -                -                -             1,550.0          1.550.0       3,100.0
GRAND TOTAL                                            1,968.6          5,329.4          9,418.2         10,968.2         10,968.2      38,652.6
a/  Titles of posts may be kept as per designations in the State for equivalent posts.
b/  Posts to be filled by redeployment.
c/ 17 posts to be filled by redeployment from existing staff; 19 incremental positions.
d/ Calculated as staff salary of 250 VEW in last two years only for additional VEW if needed after mid-term review.
March 10, 1980



- 31 -
ANNEX 1
Table 6
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS
(Rs '000)
Annual          Year 1           Year 2           Year 3          Year 4           Year 5
Unit Cost  (No.)    Cost  (No.)    Cost  (No.)    Cost  (No.)    Cost  (No.)    Cost   Total Cost
OPERATING EXPENSES & EXTENSION
MATERIALS
VEW/AEO                             0.5 1/    (842)   210.5  (1610)  603.7  (2330) 1165.0  (2330) 1165.0  (2330) 1165.0               4,309.2
Other Staff 2/                      1.0 1/       (81)    40.5   (157)  117.7   (224)  224.0   (224)  224.0   (224)  224.0               830.2
Other Expenses 3/                   5.0          (17)    85.0    (33)  165.0    (47)  235.0    (47)  235.0    (47)  235.0               955.0
SUB-TOTAL                                            336.0            886.4         1,624.0          1,624.0         1,624.0      6,094.4
INCREMENTAL TRAVEL ALLOWANCES
& EXPENSES
VEW
- Existing 4/                     0.12       (705)    84.6  (1102)  132.2  (1322)  158.6  (1322)  158.6  (1322)  158.6                692.6
- New 5/                          0.36         -        -      (250)   90.0   (630)  226.8   (880)  316.8   (880)  316.8              950.4
JAO M/C allowance 6/                0.9        (137)   123.3   (258)  232.2   (378)  340.2   (378)  340.2   (378)  340.2              1,376.1
Subdivisional Staff 7/             15.6         (13)   202.8    (25)  390.0    (36)  561.6    (36)  561.6           (36)  561.6       2,277.6
District 8/                         4.2           (2)     8.4    (10)   42.0    (22)   92.4    (22)   92.4          (22)   92.4         327.6
M/E Staff 9/                        2.4          (26)    62.4    (35)   84.0    (49)  117.6    (49)  117.6    (49)  117.6               499.2
Circle Staff 10/                    1.14         (45)    51.3    (85)   96.9   (125)  142.5   (125)  142.5   (125)  142.5               575.7
SUB-TOTAL                                            532.8         1,067.3          1,639.7         1,729.7          1,729.7      6,699.2
RENT FOR SDAO OFFICE                  4.8          (13)    62.4      (25)  120.0    (36)  172.8    (36)  172.8         (36)  172.8        700.8
VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS
Subdivision (4-WD diesel) 11/    6.0            (26)   156.0    (50)  300.0    (72)  432.0    (72)  432.0           (72)  432.0       1,752.0
District - (4-WD diesel) 12/    10.0              (4)    40.0       (8)   80.0    (11)  110.0    (11)  110.0    (11)  110.0             450.0
- (petrol sedan) 13/   15.0             (4)    60.0       (8)  120.0    (11)  165.0    (11)  165.0        (11)  165.0         675.0
- (diesel lorry) 14/   12.0             (4)    48.0       (8)   96.0    (11)  132.0    (11)  132.0        (11)  132.0         540.0
- (boats)                12.0           (0)     0         (4)   48.0      (4)   48.0       (4)   48.0       (4)   48.0        192.0
Headquarters - (sedan) 15/         25.0           (8)   200.0       (8)  200.0      (8)  200.0       (8)  200.0       (8)  200.0      1,000.0
- (4WD petrol) 15/ 25.0            (9)   225.0       (9)  225.0       (9)  225.0      (9)  225.0       (9)  225.0       1,125.0
SUB-TOTAL                                            729.0         1,069.0          1,312.0          1,312.0         1,312.0      5,734.0
TOTAL (Excluding contingency)                      1,660.2         3,142.7          4,748.5         4,838.5          4,838.5    19,228.4
Physical Contingencies (at 5%)                        83.0           157.1            237.4           241.9            241.9        961.3
GRAND TOTAL                                       1,743.2          3,299.8          4,985.9         5,080.4          5,080.4    20,189.7
1/ Includes printing of diaries, charts and instructional materials, sample of small implements, seeds, pesticides, etc.
for field trials and training demonstrations, poster paper and paints for simple visual aids. Taken at 50% of unit
cost in year 1, 75% in year 2 and 100% thereafter.
2/ Includes SMS at District and subdivision, SDAO and PAO.
3/ Calculated at Rs 5,000 p.a. for each subdivision and district office.
4/ New allowance of Rs 120 p.a. for vehicle (cycle).
5/ Rs 360 p.a. as PTA and vehicle (cycle) allowance.
M6/   otorcycle mileage allowance of Rs 75 p.m. (about 10 km/day at Rs 0.35/km).
7/ Rs 250 p.m. per SDAO, Rs 175 per SMS, plus Rs 150 p.m. for drivers.
8/ Rs 350 p.m. per new PAO and District SMS.
9/ Rs 200 p.m. for all professional M/E staff.
10/  Motorcycle allowance of Rs 900 p.a. plus PTA of Rs 240 p.a.
11/ 15,000 km/yr at Rs 0.4/km.
12/  25,000 km/yr at Rs 0.4/km.
13/  20,000 km/yr at Rs 0.75/km.
14/  24,000 km/yr at Rs 0.5/km.
15/  33,000 km at Rs 0.75/km.



C1                0           a         C °~  I0 °0                             -         ,-       I                                 -,       0'  2   
W ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ o --i                                          "'         '           0 V              C          (0           0    °° lo F
a  v  st rl o ,,,a                                             0*      'e          C          C                 C          C            C
a 'Oj                                                j4                          _                                _                                   0     
a ~   ~      ~      ~     ~      4 a0'00                   400        '40        440       04j                 04       04404
CCC4OOC4                                                               C    C                                    C0C(C
(0*                                                                                                   4*            .04(       4( 4 4 4                  C    °>'          1°Xn t @Cr o@X18Xss XXX° °°@@ 
444. 0(0 4S A4 .04   C44j                                  ,0CC444                          4  Ia                                              a - 
x 1                      22                                        2            C- 2d                   2                     24 2<1-4     d -          1'   '    e   °4 
z l
*=1    °°           N°°-       °         °°1 -C-C                     no          lo -C° C                    °°C           C-C°      C.--C-°l                              0
.''00              . 00,oo   °4  °0-0    °k-                °N°       °       -°I - 0A0 0°. C00               CCC        0*0V4        0.            00 G G|OCC  1 
300 o |4 |Ca s                                                                                                                                              0    
00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . o> oIC4. 
= t A A A  $ . . A Aa                                          A~                                            AIA.  ~                         t<4 e 
e.                                                                                                                                                              C              .JC4~ ,ya    __ A .



- 33 -
ANNEX 1
Table 8
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
REQUIREMENT OF EXTENSION STAFF BY YEAR
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5
VEW:               EXISTING:    Yearly                 705       397      220
Cumulative          705      1102      1322      1322      1322
NEW:          Yearly                -        250       380
Cumulative            -       250       630       630       630
TRAINING      Yearly               300       300      150
OUTPUT:      Cumulative           300       600      750
AEO:               EXISTING       Yearly              137       121       120
STAFF:       Cumulative           137       258      378       378       378
SUBDIVISION:       NEW SDAO:    Yearly                  13       12        11
Cumulative            13       25        36        36        36
NEW ASDAO:   Yearly                  4         7        -        -         -
Cumulative             -       11        11        11        11
SMS:          Yearly - Existing   11          12        11        0         0
- New         41        36        33
Cumulative            52      100       144       144       144
CIRCLE (INPUTS):  EXISTING       Yearly                 45        40       40
JAO:         Cumulative            45        85      125       125       125
EXISTING      Yearly                90        80        80
AD:          Cumulative            90       170      250       250       250
DISTRICT:          PAO:          Yearly - Existing    2            0        0
- New          2         4         3
Cumulative             4         8       11        11        11
SMS:          Yearly - Existing   12           8         0
-New           0         4         9
Cumulative            12        24       33        33        33
HEADQUARTERS:      SMS:           Yearly - Existing    4
- New          4
Cumulative             8        8         8         8         8
JDA (OF):    Yearly - Existing    2
Cumulative             2        2         2         2         2
ADA (EXT):   Yearly - Existing    1
Cumulative             1        1         1         1         1



- 34 -
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURE EXTENSION PROJECT
EXTENSION ORGANIZATION
irector of
Agriculture
Additional Director                            Senior
Extension                                     (8)      |
District                                       Team
Districts (11)           Principal Agricultural 
Of ficer
I   Sub Divisional  |                    I  SMS Team
Sub Divisions (36)         fAgricultural Oficer                                (4)
A.E.O. (378)
|  V.E.W. (1952)        l
11w (~~~
t X I t11f t r 1
8 Farmers' Units
8 Farmers' Units Per VEW:    15,616 Units
10 Contact Farmers Per Unit: 156,160 Contact Farmers
'Add one Assistant PAO per District
World Bank-21128



- 35 -
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
LINKAGES BETWEEN EXTENSION AND RESEARCH
State Level                                     Kerala
Technical       ...        . ........    Agricultural
Committee                                     University
00                                   04~~~~
++           I          ~      ~      ~~~* 4 *
+s              I            ~        ~       ~~~~~* * *
Directorate   *'                            |                 ,',                          Sat tory
of         _|''.                                                                       Research
Agriculture                                lCouncil
|             l    Exte~~xnsion |
I   'I
District Levei        Zonal                ~~~~Regioznal
i     )     Techn ical                        W~~~~~~ ~         ~~orksopl  Research
/   Committee     \~~~~~orkho                              Station
D istrict                                                 \
PAO    ...........................                      ;           FireldTriaasl
AEO
World Bank -21127



- 36 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Training
1.        The Agriculture Extension Service has an important role in increas-
ing agricultural productivity and thus farmer incomes. To do this, farmers
need knowledge and skills for efficient management of their crops, livestock,
physical resources, and farm business as a whole. Essentials of success inc-
lude incentives for production, evolving suitable technology, and availability
of credit, inputs, transportation, and markets. The responsibility of the
extension agents is to provide the farmer with the knowledge to improve his
income, and to verify new technology as it develops. A training program is
thus essential both for extension worker and farmers. Practical training is
essential for extension workers since they must be able to demonstrate to
farmers the actual techniques of improved crop husbandry.
The New Program
2.        Training programs for extension workers and agricultural administra-
tors must be strengthened to provide better dissemination of advice as a means
of overcoming production constraints and assist farmers in the adoption of
improved husbandry practices. The Training and Visit System is the basis for
an improved extension service. This system depends on sustained and regular
training of extension workers and transfer of appropriate recommendations to
farmers through regular visits by VEW. The keynote is continuous practical
training of VEW and AEO by SMS who are conversant with the latest research
results, active in the identification of local problems, and participate in
local verification trials. Training in administration and management is
required for the higher level of staff.
Training Strategy
3.        Since the extension service is to improve the quality of farming
practices, training of research - extension - farmer teams must be such that
it imparts the specific information needed. There is little merit in merely
telling the farmer to do something. The farmer needs to know how to carry out
a task. It is best if the extension worker actually works with the farmer in
peforming specific tasks. This implies that VEW must be able to perform all
tasks and, likewise, AEO and SMS who train VEW must also be able to perform
all tasks. Furthermore, trainers of SMS (usually research workers and senior
staff) need to be acquainted with farming operations and how they are best
performed. This requires a change in present training methods from a reliance
on lectures to "learning by doing."



- 37 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.        The first step in designing of appropriate training programs is an
identification of the skills and knowledge required by the farmer to improve
his production. The second step is to identify which of these would be taught
by VEW to the farmer. The order of operation and their seasonal priority is
then determined so that VEW can get appropriate training at the proper time.
AEO, as supervisor of VEW, would also need training in what is to be passed
on to the farmer. AEO should also be able to answer more advanced technical
questions, and to identify practical problems. For subdivisional and district
SMS, even greater depth of knowledge is required so as to be able to instruct
both VEW and AEO.
5.        Research workers have to develop ability to identify factors limit-
ing farm production in the field and target research programs to the practical
resolution of these problems. This implies joint farm visits by research and
extension workers; cooperation in design, execution and analysis of trials
on farmers fields; and continuous exchange of information and ideas between
research, extension and farmers. Both this project and the National Agricul-
tural Research Project support these activities.
Tests and Demonstrations
6.        To provide a measure of the effectiveness of training programs and
permit trainees to assess progress, short tests of knowledge and demonstration
of skills would be integrated into the training program. Precourse testing
would assist instructors in emphasizing those areas in which the trainees need
the most assistance and eliminate instruction in areas in which they already
possess adequate skill or knowledge. Pretesting helps the trainee identify
areas in which he needs assistance and thus provides some motivation to learn.
Testing may include identification of limiting factors such as diseases, in-
sects, nutritional deficiencies, or demonstrations by the trainee of crop
production techniques. Emphasis should be placed on the practical rather than
extensive testing of written knowledge. Comparison of pre and post course
tests will permit the trainee to identify what he has learnt and the instructor
to evaluate the effectiveness and adequacy of his instruction.
Training for Extension Workers
7.        Fortnightly training of VEW and AEO by SMS would be a major feature
of the project. Additional and more specialized training would be provided
for each category of extension worker. These are described below.
Village Extension Workers (VEW)
8.        Preservice Training.  VEW have generally completed secondary school.
They are usually given a two year diploma course. The content, in the past,
included subjects related to community development in addition to agriculture.
These courses need more emphasis on practical training. Several states have
already adopted shorter courses concentrating on agriculture. In Kerala,
training of new VEWs would be for a period of six months.
9.        Orientation Training.  All VEW would receive special training in
extension methodology and the T&V System.



- 38 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
10.       Fortnightly Training.  A major feature of the T&V System is training
of VEW once a fortnight.  This training is carried out by SMS and, reviewed by
AEO and his VEW in the alternate week.  For sessions given by SMS, the basic
training unit would be a group of 30-40 VEW and AEO. They would meet on a
regular day, once in two weeks, to receive training from SMS and SDAO of sub-
division, supported as necessary by district staff and research workers. Most
sessions would be held where there are means for practical application of
lessons taught, viz., a farmer's field, a seed farm, an experimental station,
or a training center. Training would cover actual farm situations most likely
to arise over the next two week period. Time would be allowed for VEW to carry
out field operations and practicals. During training, the VEW would have a
chance to raise and discuss problems encountered in the previous fortnight.
Representatives of cooperatives, banks, input agencies, agro service units,
and irrigation would be invited to attend part of the session to ensure coor-
dination of related activities. On the intervening training day in each two
week period, VEW would meet with their AEO to review current problems.
11.       Preseason Training.  Prior to each of the two main agricultural
seasons (kharif and rabi), VEW would receive a 3 day training covering the
main seasonal crops and practices recommended for them. The training would
be held at subdivision level. The PAO, SMS and SDAO would organize and attend
this session. This training would initiate the extension campaign for the
coming season.
12.       Special Short Courses.  Some VEW would be given training in par-
ticular disciplines/crops which are of special importance to their areas.
13.       Promotional Training.  Training grants would be available to selected
VEW to enable them to obtain a degree and thus qualify for promotion as AEO.
Agriculture Extension Officers
14.       Preservice Training.  AEO would generally be university graduates.
A number of them would be experienced VEW promoted as AEO.
15.       Orientation Training.  All AEO would receive special training in
extension methodology and the T&V System.
16.       Fortnightly Training.  AEO would attend all training sessions of
VEW. They are expected to assist SMS in fortnightly training. In addition
to visiting each VEW in the field, AEO would conduct a review training meeting
for the VEW each fortnight as necessary. AEO would also be given extra train-
ing by SMS to develop greater subject matter competency.
17.       Preseason Training.  The AEO would participate in the 3 day preseason
training prior to the main cropping seasons (kharif and rabi). The training
would be held at district level and the training group would consist of KAU
and state headquarters staff.
18.       Special Short Courses.  Selected AEO would be given specialized train-
ing for a week in particular crops and disciplines which are of importance to
their area of operation.



- 39 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
19.       Promotional Training.  AEO who show exceptional talent would be
provided opportunities for higher training. Such AEOs will be deputed for
a two year M.Sc course at KAU.
Subject Matter Specialists (SMS)
20.       SMS play an important role in providing technical support and train-
ing to VEW and AEO. There would be SMS with different levels of training and
competence at subdivisional, district and state levels. Selection criteria of
SMS has been considered at national level and following qualifications have
been proposed for guidance of the state governments in recruitment of this
category.
Fresh Recruits: M.Sc (Agri) with specialization in agronomy
or other disciplines, prefereably with two years of field
experience.
21.       Orientation.  Suitable instruction would be given in extension
methodology and the T&V System to all SMS. Their specific roles would be
explained to them in detail.
22.       Inservice Training.  The SMS would participate in the zonal workshop,
pre season training, and specialized short courses.
(a) Zonal Workshop: To provide effective training to VEW and
AEO once every two weeks, the SMS would have to be up to
date in their area of specialization and ensure that train-
ing has a practical bias. For this purpose the SMS would
participate in a zonal workshop every month at a KAU research
station or other suitable location.
(b) Preseason Training: The SMS would participate in the 3
day preseason training prior to the main cropping seasons
(kharif and rabi). The training would be held at district
level.
(c) Special Short Courses: In order to build up professional
competence of SMS it is considered necessary to provide them
opportunities for higher training in KAU, other agricultural
universities, and research institutions of national impor-
tance. SMS with exceptional talent could be provided oppor-
tunities for training in such international research insti-
tutions as IRRI (Philippines).
23.       Promotional Training.  Such of the SMS who do not possess M.Sc degree
would be provided opportunities for higher training (M. Sc gri) at KAU.
Administrative Personnel
24.       In addition to subject matter training and training in extension
methodology, administration and management training would be available to SMS
and other staff (SDAO, PAO, Joint Directors and ADA).



- 40 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5
25.       Orientation.  All supervisory personnel would undergo training in
extension methodology and the T&V system. Their specific roles would be ex-
plained in detail.
26.       Inservice Training.  Special training programs would be organized
by the Director of Agriculture for staff at supervisory levels.
Responsibilities
27.       The Additional Director of Agriculture (Extension), in consultation
with KAU and other appropriate agencies, would be responsible for planning
and organizing all training programs. He would be assisted by the SMS team
at headquarters. A summary of the training activities is as under:
Training                                            Parti-
Activity         Venue      Frequency  Duration   cipant    Trainers   Organizers
Pre Service   ETC, KAU        2 x year   6 mos.    VEW           KAU         DOA, KAU
(VEW)       Extension                             recruits    Staff
Wing,
Institute
of Agri.
Tech.
Fortnightly   Within         26 x year   1 day      VEW          SMS, AEO   SDAO,
(VEW)       Subdivision                                        Special-   SMS
ists
Zonal          KAU           12 x year   1 or       All SMS      Selected   ADA
Workshop        regional                 2 days    SDAO and    staff of   (Ext.),
(Monthly)    research                             PAO of       KAU, DOA   Officer
station/                            Zone                     design-
other                                                        ated by
suitable                                                    KAU,
location                                                     local
PAO
Subidivi-       Subdivi-    12 x year   1 day        AEO,        SDAO,       SDAO/
sional          sion                                 SMS         SMS         SMS
Planning
Workshop
(Monthly)
Preseason       Subdivi-      2 x year   3 days      VEW         SDAO,       PAO,
VEW             sion                                             SMS,        SMS,
PAO,       SDAO
KAU
Staff



-41 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6
Training                                           Parti-
Activity        Venue       Frequency  Duration   cipant    Trainers   Organizers
Preseason      District      2 x year   3 days      AEO,        District,   PAO
AEO-SMS                                             SMS         KAU,
HQ
Staff
Special        District,    1 x year   7 days       AEO,        District,   PAO,
Short          ETC                                  VEW         & HQ        HQ
Courses                                                         SMS,        SMS
KAU
Staff
Special        KAU, out        as       Variable   SMS,         KAU, Agri   GOI
Short          of State,    needed       2 weeks    Senior      Univer-     Exten-
Courses        Overseas                  to 24      Staff       sities      sion
weeks                  and         ADA
Research    (Ext.),
Institu-    SMS HQ
tions in
India &
abroad
Deputation     KAU          20 per       2 years    AEO,         KAU        ADA
of AEO &                    year                    SMS                     (Ext.),
SMS for                                                                     KAU
post
graduation
Deputation of  KAU          11 per       4 years    VEW          KAU        ADA
VEW for B.Sc                year /a                                         (Ext.)
(Agri) Course                                                               KAU
Project        District       -          2 days     District    ADA (Ext.) ADA
Orientation                                         staff        SMS (HQ)   (Ext.)
Head-         -          2 days     HQ           ADA (Ext)  ADA
quarters                            staff        SMS (HQ)   (Ext.)
/a   Eleven staff start training each year.



- 42 -
INDIA                              ANNEX 3
INDIA                    ~~~~~~Table 1
KERALA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule : All Components
Pre Board     Pre                     Months after Effectiveness
Item              Presentation  Effectiveness   1  3  6  9  12  15  18  21  24  27  30
Civil Works
Site Selection
Prepare Tenders
Start Construc-
tion
Vehicles & Equip-
ment
Prepare Tenders                ___
Purchase
Vehicles
Equipment
Staff
Appoint SDAO
Select/Appoint
SMS
Select/Appoint
AEO
Select/Appoint
VEW
Training
Orientation
All Other                                                                                    ;
Coordination
Committees
Project Monitoring
Select/Appoint
Staff
Data Collection,
Evaluation



- 43 -
ANNEX 3
Table 2
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Estimated IDA Disbursements
(US$ Million)
Disbursements              Semester             Cumulative
(IDA FY)
1981   lst                   0.1
2nd                   0.2                  0.3
1982   1st                   0.3                   0.6
2nd                   0.4                  1.0
1983   1st                   0.6                   1.6
2nd                   0.8                  2.4
1984   1st                   1.6                   4.0
2nd                   1.6                  5.6
1985   1st                   1.6                   7.2
2nd                   1.8                  9.0
1986   1st                   0.5                   9.5
2nd                   0.5                 10.0
/a   Estimated effectiveness date September 30, 1980.
T7   Estimated closing date June 30, 1986.






IBRD  14690R
77T6                        MARCH  1980
\  To Mrngulore                             ~~~~~~~~~76°
INDIA
KERALA
MonLost''t.\-'. tt                  AGRICULTURAL  EXTENSION  PROJECT
Mo.....o.\                   To Mercoro
Ko.orcor>.                                                                                                                       / :..t
12°     80 4  Boti)Q'ss"'By'.'''.''.+  ........................  >  (_  .                                                                                                                                                              _ 121
>".:> .. ...... ' -' <; ..To Vorcrifendroeptot
20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_ ~~~~~~~T ,V,.. ....,  .. .
110                                                                                                                   NADUNNN  1ARN TAK
Bcdogctc-.0>>: ~      ~        T My-. r 0< _  
-11°  Co-b;n   '                        ~          '    '         ¢            ToCoimbooe
I0HASING  OF DISTRICTS:                               g           z       TL         z T                To Co,rrootorre
// oi                                                                                          A     Poet Year 2 
0    itscodS    Towns                                               >              -ingd                     To IJdumrolpet
® 3   Distr.ct Capitals  
-.   -    Statee Boundaries Cgcn~2 .........................  
1100
,,,,,,,iOni i t, '50 i oho,i,oit,,,,,,t,oihe Te 0o,i/oroo,,Oi,_if 
0t    1           P            Y  3
0  Cities ond Tons                                                                          T. Ud-1P.~~~~~Qu iPunlito
Intemot.oncil Bo.-dories ~ ~ ~        ~       ~       ~       I                               Shnooto
I ND 9 RI Alf xroi
8ANNibA      005° 7-7
I   I~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
84K   Cf  8ftV4~~~~~~~~~~~1/  KItOMETERS ~   ~ ~ ~ ~~Vzl
CAb                                       760 AQ I                                                              hnW.
PAKISTAN  BHUTAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7



