Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
e1-A V    t Z 
Report No. P-46S 5-CH
REPORT AND RECOMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt250.0 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF CHILE
November 20, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oniy in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriaon



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Currency Unit   Chilean Peso (Ch$))
Calendar 1986
Currency Unit             Average           July 31, 1987
US$1                  Ch$  193.02          Ch$  224.76
UF                    Ch$3,067.10          US$3,700.01
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AFPs                - Administradores de Fondos de Pensiones
(Pension Fund Administrators)
CODELCO             -  Corporacion del Cobre
(Chilean State Copper Company)
CORFO               -  Corporac ion de Fomento de la Producc ion
(Chilean Development Corporation)
ENAP                -  Empresa Nacional del Petroleo
(National Petroleum Company)
FONSA               -  Fondo Nacional para Salud
(National Fund for Health)
ISAPRES             -  Instituciones de Salud Provisional
(Private Health Insurance Plans)
LIBOR               -  London Interbank Offered Rate
PEM                 -  Programa de Empleo Minimo
(Minimum Employment Program)
PROCHILE            -  Chile's Export Promotion Agency
UF                  -  Unidad de Fomento Reajustable
(Financial Unit of Account which reflects the
movements in the country's consumer price index)



Table of contents            FOR OFmFCLAL USE ONLY
PaRe No.
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY ................................ i-ii
PART I - THE ECONOMY                        l. 
Background:  Macroeconomic Developments....  .................. I
PART II - PROGRESS OF THE ADJUSTMENT PROGRA.                          3
Balance of Payments.                                             4
Debt Management.                                                 5
Fiscal Policy and Public Finances.                               6
Savings and Investment ......................,                   6
Financial Sector .
Social Policies.                                                 8
Adjustment Priorities .13
PART III - PROPOSED PROGRAM FOR SAL III .......................... 13
Macroeconomic and Export Promotion
Policies ......                                               14
Public Finances and Investment .............................. 15
Financial System ............................................ 16
Social Sectors .............................................. 19
Impact of the Structural Adjustment
Program ...................................... ....... # ..... 23
Benefits and Risks .......................................... 27
Loan Amount and Tranching ................................... 29
Disbursement, Procurement, Administration and Auditing ...... 29
IMF Extended Fund Facility .................................. 30
PART IV - BANK GROUP OPERTIONS AD STRATEGY ..................... 30
PART V - RECOHMENDATION .......................................... 31
ANNEXES:
I  Economic Indicators ........................................ 32
II  Status of Bank Group Operations                ..               37
III Supplementary Loan Data Sheet                  .       .         39
IV  Proposed Structural Adjustment Program:  Issues and Scope..41
V Letter of Development Policy                   .       .           44
MAP
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfu..nanace|
of their offcia duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disciosed without World Bank authorization.|



CHILE
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Chile
Amount:            US$250.0 million equivalent
Te!mt              Repayment in 17 years, including four years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
DescriDtion:       Tne proposed loan would support the Government's struc-
tural adjustment program. The main areas covered by the
Government's medium-term program include: (i) measures
to maintain and strengthen incentives for noncopper
exports; (ii) steps to increase public savings and the
efficiency of public expenditures; (iii) measures to
improve the mobilization and allocation of long-term
savings; and (iv) measures to improve public efforts in
the social sectors. The loan would finance all imports,
vith the exception of luxury items and military goods.
Proiect Benefit8s  The ongoing structural adjustment program has acceler-
ated exports and increased domestic savings while pro-
ducing a strong recovery of economic growth and employ-
ment.  The country has also consistently serviced its
external debt. Maintaining the program is expected to
reir.force this performance and result in higher levels
of economic growth, employment and income while en-
hancing the country's ability to service its external
debt through increased exports. The increased growth
and improved balance-of-payments performance will also
strengthen Chile's creditworthiness and facilitate con-
tinuation of external financial flows.
Proiect Risks:     The principal risks--and they are not minor--center on
the Government's ability to generate the required domes-
tic savings and investment, especially from the private
sector, on Chile's terms of trade, and on access to
foreign capital. If external developments adversely
affect Chile's terms of trade or interest rates, or if
foreign capital inflows are less than projected, domes-
tic savings may be insufficient to permit satisfactory
growth and impede debt service payments. Internal po-
litical developments also entail uncertainty that may
affect private investment.



- it -
Estimated
Disbursements:      The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed in two
tranches: US$125 million equivalent upon effectiveness,
and the remaining US$125 million equivalent after a
performance review to be held within 12 months of ef-
fectiveness.
Appraisal Report: None.
IBRD 14306R1



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$250.0 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF CHILE
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Third Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) to the Republic of Chile for the
equivalent of US$250.0 million. The loan would have a term of 17 years,
including four years of grace, with interest at the standard variable rate.
2.       An economic memorandum on Chile (Report No. 5099-CH) was circu-
lated to the Executive Directors on September 24, 1984; subsequent
President's Reports and Country Briefs have updated that analysis, the
latest of which was circulated to the Board in September 1987. The Bank
approved a first SAL in' October 1985, and a second SAL in November 1986,
each worth US$250 million. In addition, the Bank provided a partial guar-
antee of a $300 million B-Loan in 1985, a key to the 1985-86 financial
program. The World Bank's support to Chile's structural adjustment program
was central to support from the international financial community (paras.
14-15). The IMF provided a three-year EFF of SDR 750 million beginning
August 1985. The commercial banks have rescheduled US$18.1 billion since
the beginning of the program and provided US$1.1 billion of new money as
well as other forms of debt relief. Creditor governments rounded out the
support by rescheduling US$285 million in interest and principal.
3.       A Bank mission reviewed the implementation of SAL II in May 1987
and the second tranche was disbursed in June 1987. The Government formally
requested a third SAL in May 1987 in support of the country's economic
adjustment program; this request was appraised during a subsequent mission
in July 1987, and the conclusions of the mission are reflected in this
report. This operation is designed to support a coherent ongoing program
(as distinct from major new reforms) as well as institutionalizing new
patterns of savings and investment and strengthening social security and
health systems. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Backgroundt Macroeconomic Developments
4.       In the early 1980s, external events interacted with inappropriate
domestic policies to cause one of the severest depressions in Chilean
history. The economy was heavily battered after 1979 by the steep oil
price increases, falling copper prices, surging real interest rates and the
subsequent deep international recession. Between 1980 and 1985, Chile's
terms of trade fell 22 percent, among the severest losses for any



. 2 -
Latin American country. During 1979-81, Chile's open capital account,
fixed exchange rate, and a lagged convergence of domestic and foreign in-
flation and interest ratea stimulated an unsustainable boom. As the peso
appreciated and copper prices began falling, massive inflows of unguaran-
teed long-term credit fed the boom in consumptiont external debt rose from
US$6.7 billion by end-1978 to US$17 billion by end-1982. Export and import
substitution sectors started to slump by the end of 1981.
5.        The bubble burst in 1982, when voluntary lending to La.in America
ended and international real interest rates reached record heights. Chile
was forced to devalue its currency, precipitating a financial critis for
major banks and bankruptcy of many enterprises. Real GDP dropped over 14
percent (Figure 1) and unemployment rose to over 25 percent. Average per
capita private consumption fell to levels prevailing in 1960.
6.        The Government's initial response to the crisis was to enact
several emergency measures to stave off the complete collapse of the finan-
cial and real sectors. These included infusing liquidity into the finan-
cial system (and in the process extending public guarantees to the formerly
private nonguaranteed debt), large public employment programs, severely
austere fiscal policies, and real wage compression in the public and
private sectors.
Piar 1,
""nt x Chow
6& 62 6  6465  Z 6111OSS    SCUZSUG PRO2U?. 141-
-sJ          __ __ _ _
2e9 -  _  t_          _
61 69 69 St 656 e6 6574 ?i 99 79 7t 71 917 91 94 Ut 94641..   "Z  
ala- 'En w sM  1.3. 194-e
as               197? * 1St
~~1    4  1,        13~~ ~ tOt  -  SrBo  ot tot
:-
41 j i              a g 9  



- 3 -
7.        It became increasingly apparent that the harsh external environ-
ment--low copper prices, commercial bank retrenchment, and high real inter-
est rates--would not pass quickly. The Government began to supplement
emergency measures with a new, mere coherent long-term program. In early
1984, the Government produced a three-year public investment program. In
1985, the Government put in place the Bank-supported adjustment program.
Economic policy since then has been to maintain international competitive-
ness and forego increases in consumption to raise savings for investwent
and debt service. Even though unfavorable terms of trade and high real
international interest rates persisted, the economy began to recover in
1984 and, after the initiation of a consistent adjustment program in 1985,
the pace of expansion has quickened to nearly 6 percent in 1986 and 1987.
Investment picked up and capital expenditures grew by more than 10 percent
in 1986-87.  Per capita consumption grew modestly in 1986 and unemployment
has fallen to about 10 percent.
S.       Growth rates in the first quarter of 1987 topped an annualized
rate of 7 percent and the Government felt it necessary to adopt a slightly
restrictive monetary stance to evert excessive demand pressures. Monthly
inflation, spurred by temporary upsurges in the international price of oil,
had increased to 2 percent in January; the adjustment in monetary policy
increased real interest rates by 0.5-1.0 percent and was sufficient to oull
growth down to 5 percent in the second quarter and reduce internal infla-
tionary pressures; growth continues at about the same rate and the increase
in GDP will probably fall between 5.5-6 percent for the year.
PART II - PROGRESS OF THE ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
9.       The Bank and the Government have consistently shared the view that
Chile's structural problems require a sustained program over several years.
Overdependence on copper had resulted in repeated cycles of boom and bust,
broadly correlated with movements in the terms of trade. 3istorically low
savings and investment rates impeded the development of noncopper economic
activities. Internal policies often aggravated these problems or were
themselves the impetus to instability. Excessive reliance on foreign sav-
ings had increased debt to over 100 percent of GDP and, by 1986, interest
payments absorbed 10 percent of GDP. The complication of the enormous debt
burden added to other structural problems of copper dependence and low
savings/ir.vestment necessarily lengthens the time required for the adjust-
ment period: since the potential to expand near-term savings through belt-
tightening contraction in consumption is clearly exhausted in Chile, in-
creases in savings to service debt and to finance investment can only occur
with successive years of increased output. The program therefore defined
broad actions in several areas concurrently: balance of payments, debt
management, fiscal policy, savings and investment, financial rehab.lita-
tion, and the social sectors.



-4-
Balance of Paymts
10.        The adjustment program that began in '985 put heavy emphasis on
accelerating exports and efficient import-substitution. During 1985, the
uniform import t..riff rate, which had been raised in 1984, was reduced from
35 percent to 20 percent. The currency--already on a crawling peg adjusted
with domestic Inflation--was depreciated progressively to accumulate a 25
percent real devaluation relative to July 1984. The depreciation of the US
dollar against other currencies led to a further real depreciation of the
peso of 7 percent'in 1986 and 1-1/2 percent in the first two months of
1987.
11.      the Government also strengthened export incenttives in 1985, and in
January 1986, established a Copper Stabilization Fund to avoid future ver-
valuation of the currency dule to volatile copper prices. The Fund ensures
that part of the revenues of the public copper company (CODELCO) from
higher-than-budgeted copper prices are sterilized in a reserve fund through
budget adjustments. The Government also changed investment laws to promote
exports from small-size producers and to facilitate joint ventures in the
energy sector between private firms and the state petroleum firm (ENAP).
12.        This program had positive results.  During 1985-86, noncopper
exports grew at a real rate of 13 percent annually; imports declined 1.2
percent. Import substitution occurred at a strong pace. Industry grew by
4.6 percent annualiy and agriculture grew by 7.2 percent. This growth has
continued into 1987; agricultural and industrial exports were 18 and 29
percent higher in dollar terms in the first semester of 1987.
13.        In spite of a 10 percent deterioration of its terms of trade,
Chile's trade surplus almost q1tadrupled between 1984 and 1986, rising to
US$1.1 billion (Table 1). Lower-than-expected international interest rates
and the repricing obtained through external debt negotiations complemented
Chile's trade effort. The current account deficit was reduced from US$2
billion in 1984 to US$1.1 billion in 1986 as programmed. Chile's reserves
registered a small increase in 1986. Evolution of the current account in
the first semester of 1987 indicates the deficit for the -ear will be about
US$1 billion.
Table 1: CHILE - BALANCE OF PAY1ENTS, 1981-1986
(In US$ Millions)
1981     1982    1983    1984    198.5    1986
Exports of Goods and NFS  5,009    4,642   4,629   4,494   4,469    5,030
Imports of Goods and NFS  8,386    5,134   4,095   4,635   3,958    4,319
Merchandise Balance       -2,676        63     986      293     849    1,100
Net Factor Income         -1,463   -1,921  -1,748  -2,018  -1,901   -1,888
Current Account           -4,732   -2,304  -1,117  -2,060  -1,329   -1,092
Capital Account            4,631    2,380   1,049   1,961   1,332    1,140
Reserve Change                67   -1,165    -541        17     -99      -227
(- = increase)
Source: Central Bank; see Annex I for details.



Debt Management
14.      Prudent management of Chile's external debt shaped performance in
the capital account. The first SAL, IMF EFF, and the partial IBRD guaran-
tee of a US$300 million B-Loan opened the way for a favorable agreement
with the commercial banks on the 1985-86 financial package; the Bank
guaranteed US$150 million of out-year maturities. Chile and its commercial
creditors agreed to restructure US$5.7 billion of maturities due in 1985-
87; the banks provided US$1.1 billion of new money for 1985-86. In July
1985, eight creditor governments agreed to reschedule US$145 million,
representing 65 percent of principal payments due during July 1, 1985-
December 31, 1986.
15.      The Government reached an agreement on its 1987-88 financial pro-
gram with the Bank Advisory Committee in February 1987, formally made
effective on June 17, 1987. Maturities in 1988-91 worth US$12.4 billion
were rescheduled, leaving an anticipated financial gap of US$650 million
for 1987-88. The agreement consolidated interest payments into one annual
payment, which will defer the July payments of about US$450 million to the
following January, beginning with July 1988. Also, current spreads on past
new money facilities (1983, 1984, 1985 and the cofinancing agreement) were
reduced to 1-118 percent over LIBOR, while those on restructured maturities
(1988-91) were reduced to one percent, producing savings of US$65 million
in 1987-88. In April 1987, creditor governments rescheduled 85 percent of
maturities falling due between July 1987 and end-year 1988, providing re-
lief of US$140 million.
16.      This debt management strategy was complemented by one of the
region's first and most innovative schemes to encourage the conversion of
discounted foreign debt to equity and domestic liabilities; by mid-1987 the
program had facilitated conversions of US$1.9 billion of foreign debt.
These events contributed to the improvements in creditworthiness indicators
evident in Figure 2.
Figure 2
CHILt - Mt? rw T* CDP a DENT SEUICz TO ORt5. 1929-1987
"LT IIO"I*CD9
1908  1961  1968  1982  1964  196s  1966  196"



- 6-
Fiscal Policy and Public Finances
17.       A conservative fiscal policy has markedly improved public
finances, making an important contribution to the balance of payments and
recovery. The Government increased collections by 1.2 percent of GDP be-
tween 1984 and 1986 through improvements in administration of the value-
added tax. It has made a sustained effort to restrain expenditures by
holding increases in salaries and pensions at or below the rate of infla-
tion; the fall in open unemployment permitted lower transfer payments for
unemployment; the Government also cut other subsidies, mainly affecting t'.he
middle class. Operational surpluses of the public enterprises also con-
tributed to the increase in public savings; they were three percentage
points higher as a share of GDP in 1986 than in 1984. Finally, lower
foreign and domestic interest rates helped keep expenditures down.  Public
savings increased from 0.5 percent in 1984 to 4.4 percent in 1986.
18.       With capital expenditures increasing slightly (para. 23), these
efforts led to improvements in the consol'dated public finances. The over-
all deficit of the consolidated nonfinancial public sector shrunk from 4.4
percent of GDP to 2.2 percent in 1986.
Savings a.d Investment
19.       Gross domestic savings have increased by one-third in the adjust-
ment period--from 12.6 percent of GDP in 1984 to 18.4 percent in 1986.
National savings rose to 7.7 percent of GDP in 1986, up from 2.6 percent in
1984 (Figure 3). Public savings led this effort. Private savings con-
tinued to hover around 3 percent, dipping to 1.3 percent in 1985 but re-
bounding to 3.3 percent in 1986. To improve private corporate savings, a
major tax reform initiated in 1984 reduced corporate income tax from 40 to
10 percent and suspended taxes on retained earnings; this provided fiscal
incentives for the retention and reinvestment of corporate profits. In
August 1987, the Government introduced legislation to reduce the surcharge
on profit remittances of foreign investors to 32 percent to neutralize the
effects of changes in US corporate taxes; the new law establishes a vari-
able progressive tax on remitted profits in excess of 25 percent return on
equity.
Figure 3
ClILE - INVESTMENT & SAVINCS. 1979-06
25
as Percent of CDP
20
15 1   11                          *~~~~~~~~~~~ I nve st,n t
1  Notional Savings
1o. 9 180 1981 1982 18  1984 198198FoiSin
19?9 1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986



- 7 -
20.      To increase traditionally low household savings, the tax reform,
continuing trends begun in 1975, reduced maximum marginal rates to 50 per-
cent. It also provided incentives for individuals to increase their con-
tributions to the private pension fund system and invest in quoted equities
and tradable debt instruments; these incent4ves permit up to 20 percent of
these savings/investments held for more than one year to be deducted from
taxable income, subject to certain maximum deductions.
21.      With the social security reform of 1981 (see para. 33), pension
funds may well play an important role in raising the future national sav-
ings rate. In 1986, the capital of the private pension funds amounted to
13 percent of GDP; annual contributions and earnings represented about 60
percent of private national savings; and the funds accounted for 50 percent
of the total deposits in the financial system. By late 1986, the pension
funds had bought 50 percent of the value of the shares sold of the
privatized state enterprises.
22.      With taxation primarily on consumption, some fiscal incentives for
savings and investment, and positive real interest rates that are interna-
tionally competitive, policies strongly favor savings. Aside from main-
taining a stable macroeconomic environment over a sustained period, the
principal remaining policy problem, addressed in part with this operation,
is to channel private savings mobilized in the pension funds and other
institutional investors into productive private investment.
23.      Total investment as a share of GDP continued to hover around 14
percent in 1984-86 after strong recovery from the depression nadir of 9.8
percent in 1983. Public sector investment rose to 7.6 percent of GDP in
1986, up from 6.4 percent in 1984. A Bank evaluation in December 1986
found public investment to be generally consistent with the adjustment
program. Most projects have either IBRD or IDB financing. Mining absorbs
about one-quarter of public investment. CODELCO's investment program of
$300 million was directed to upgrading processing facilities to maintain
production levels in the face of declining ore grades. Energy, power, and
water account for another quarter. ENAP continued its ambitious explora-
tion program to counteract a 9 percent production drop due to well deple-
tion. Housing and transportation each absorbs about one-fifth of the in-
vestment budget.
24.        Private fixed investment has grown by more than 10 percent annu-
ally since 1984. Analysis of the incentive system, confirmed by numerous
interviews in the private sector, could detect no major policy disincentive
facing either foreign or domestic investors. But wide swings in policy in
the past, together with lingering memories of external instability, have
left a cloud of uncertainty over investment that will only pass with time.
Overall rates of investment are only now reaching those recorded in the
mid-1970s; gross private domestic investment as a share of GDP averaged
about 8.3 percent of GDP in 1975-79 compared to about 7 percent in 1985-86.
Full recovery of investment and eventually surpassing former levels is a
major challenge facing the country.



Financial Sector
25.      The Central Bank reacted to the severe liquidity crises of private
firms and banks in 1983 by introducing a subsidized debt rescheduling pro-
gram, a preferential exchange rate for debt service, an interest subsidy
program to retain dollar deposits, and by purchasing the bad portfolio of
the commercial banks; it also placed Chile's largest private banks and the
two largest corporate groups in receivership. The cumulative transfers
from the Central Bank through 1986 from these rescue operations are esti-
mated at about US$6 billion--over one-third of 1986 GDP.
26.       To reduce these losses and return credibility to the banking
system, the Government gradually phased out by end-1986 the preferential
exchange rate for all-but-small debtors and the dollar swap and deposit
subsidies by early 1987. These policies reduced the operational deficit of
t!:e Central Bank to 3.2 percent of GDP in 1986; the Central Bank expects to
reduce losses to 1.3 percent in 1987, and below one percent for the re-
mainder of the decade.
27.       The recapitalization program begun in mid-1985 for the two major
intervened banks, the Banco de Chile and Banco de Santiago, provided for
the conversion into shares of the Central Bank's emergency loans. By
February 1987, the net equity position of both banks had improved, and the
Government completed the sale of these banks back to the private sector
through stock sales begun in 1985-86. All domestic banks were permitted to
restructure the liabilities of heavily indebted domestic productive com-
panies and, in some cases, to capitalize debts. By end-1986, the re-
structuring program was terminated.
28.       These efforts helped improve the loan portfolio of the financial
system. By end-1986, 82 percent of the portfolio was classified 'Al or 'BO
compared to 63 percent two years before, largely a consequence of the
Central Bank's purchase of the bad portfolio. Recapitalization and repro-
gramming measures allowed the financial system to make an overall profit in
1985 for the first time since 1982 and to renew lending to viable firms.
Net profits of the financial system rose slightly in 1986. The longer-term
profits of the banking system will depend on the continued growth of the
economy so that the size of the bad portfolio will shrink relative to in-
come-generating business and on greater operating efficiency of the banks.
The system is still vulnerable to interest rate shocks and recession.
Social Policies
29.       The 1982-83 depression forced the Government to compress all ou-
tlays; by 1986, expenditures of the central government were 5 percent lower
than in 1982. The Government's strategy was to maintain expenditures in
the productive spheres, minimize cuts in social security, and reduce health
and education to make room for emergency employment programs. Social
security expenditures fell in 1983 but surpassed their 1982 levels in 1986,
and by 1987 stood 10 percent higher than in 1982. Other social expendi-
tures fell 9 percent in real terms. The Government sought to maintain the



quality of social services by targeting expenditures on low income groups,
and most of the cuts were obtained by holding wages and salaries at or
below the rate of inflation. This strategy managed to preserve basic
health status, but at the cost of deteriorating infrastructure. Also, it
should be recognized that the massive increase in unemployment and the
severe cuts in the Chilean standard of living have meant unavoidable hard-
ship and a postponement of improvements in the health and other conditions
of the absolute poor.
30.      Employment.  The employment problem became acute with the onset of
the depression. By 1983, the Government's emergency employment programs
provided employment to nearly 500,000 persons, about 13 percent of the
labor force. After this peak, the employment situation improved substan-
tially because of restraint on wages and reactivation of the economy.
Public employment in the emergency programs had decreased to about 150,000
by 1987. During the first quarter of 1987, the rate of unemployment fell
to under 9 percent, though seasonal factors, the slightly more restrictive
monetary stance at the beginning of the year and reductions in public em-
ployment programs have pushed it above 10 percent in the second and third
quarters. The strong growth expected for most of the productive sectors
during 1987, particularly construction, industry and agriculture, should
translate into a continuation of medium-term trends toward reductions in
unemployment.
31.      Housing.  Although expenditures on housing fell between 1981-83,
they were subsequently increased, regaining 1981 levels by 1985, where they
have since stabilized at about US$120 million per year. These subsidies
have progressively been focused on the poor. The housing program provided
an additional 120,000 houses to low-income families during 1984-1986, re-
ducing the housing deficit to about 400,000 units. With a Bank loan in
support of the program, more than one-half million people below the urban
poverty threshold may obtain new housing during the next three years.
32.      Education.  The 18 percent fall in real educational expenditures
of the central government between 1982-86 was accommodated through wage and
salary cuts and continued transfer of schools to municipalities. Some
portion of these cuts was offset by increased municipal expenditures, in-
creased user fees for universities, and the largely self-financed private
sector.
33.      Social Security.  The Government undertook a profound reform of
the Chilean social security system in 1981. Prior to that time, the Gov-
ernment administered a highly fragmented set of pension programs, each with
its own set of rules and system of financing supervised by six different
government agencies. By 1973, privileges, exemptions, and high pension
increases eventually led this pay-as-you-go system to absorb nearly 17
percent of GDP (one of the highest in the world). Financial pressure had
led to a progressive impoverishment of those programs attempting to benefit
the lower income strata of the working population. Several changes were
introduced after 1973 to accommodate the exigencies of stabilization and
bring order to the system; these included a uniform minimum pension, equal
tetirement ages, elimination of special privileges for pensions (except the
military), and uniform adjustment of increases. Even so, the system re-
mained financially unsound.



- 10 -
34.      The 1981 reform sought to transform the pay-as-you-go system into
a privately administered, capitalized system. The purpose of the reform
was not only to put the system on sound financial footing, but also provide
the basis for private savings mobilization and the development of capital
markets, in the process providing funds for the privatization of several
companies then in the public domain. The large fiscal surpluses of the
late 19709 were thought to provide the cushion necessary to finance the
reform, since the reform transferred the younger contributing workers to
the new system, while the Government picked-up the pensions for the older
workers and existing pensioners. The new system was built around competing
private pension fund administrators (AFPs); workers are allowed to choose
their funds based on service and return. In reality, a mixed system has
evolved from the reform in which the state plays an importint role in pro-
viding coverage under the old system (now about 17 percent of insured),
closely regulating the AFPs, and guaranteeing a minimum pension for low-
income workers under the new system. The latter may entail 35-45 percent
of pensioners, depending on the performance of the economy and pension
investments over the next several decades. The reform has had a substan-
tial fiscal cost, estimated at about 5 percent of GDP (i.e. 18 percent of
government revenues) in 1986, and it will remain at this level until 1990,
when it will begin to decline.
35.      Despite the tumultuous financial times that surrounded its Inaugu-
ration, the new pension system has grown and deepened. Coverage of the
combined system has increased from 60 percent of the labor force in the
high unemployment years of the depression to 72 percent at present, levels
approximating the peak years of coverage under the old system. The size of
the pension funds have quintupled in real terms to nearly US$2 billion and
augurs the mobilization of consistently high levels of savings; the return
to workers' savings has averaged more than 15 percent in 1981-86; and the
survival and disabled pensions paid out have been almost double those of
the old system. Moreover, the new system is relatively equitable and
transparent; it is financed with a lower contribution rate, implying lower
labor costs to employers and greater incentives to create jobs.
36.      While the system is essentially sound, some problems remain.
First, the funds are overly dependent on indexed instruments, rendering
them vulnerable to shifts in Government policy and lessening the credibil-
ity of the reform. Second, the combined system's coverage, while the high-
est in Latin America, has potential to be yet higher. Third, the system
can increase its efficiency through improved administration and collection.
Finally, and perhaps most important, the reform does not enjoy widespread
public support, raising questions about not only its long-term viability
but also the underlying strategy of savings mobilization and investment of
the adjustment program. These are discussed in detail below as part of the
SAL III program.
37.      Health.  The Government enacted a major health reform in 1981 with
the objectives of promoting a private health care system and decentralizing
the public health service to be more responsive to local needs. Shortly
thereafter, the crisis ushered in an era of fiscal austerity. Public



- 11 -
sector health care revenues fell by 18 percent in constant terms between
1981 and 1986 as a consequence of changes in the system's two primary
sources of finance: the payroll deduction earmarked for health and
revenues from the national budget. The development of the private health
care system syphoned off a disproportionate share of payroll deduction
revenues since the middle and upper classes channelled their wage tax con-
tribution into the private programs (which many were using anyway); thus, 8
percent of the participants left the system, taking with them 40 percent of
the sector revenue from the health wage tax. At the same time, because of
fiscal constraints, the Government was forced to cut back public health
allocations from the national budget by 36 percent in 1981-86. To offset
these declines, the payroll deduction was increased from 4 percent to 7
percent, increasing revenue from this source by 20 percent in the same
period. However, this was not enough to compensate for the effects of
lower budgetary support and the exit of higher income contributors from the
system, so total sectoral expenditures fell 18 percent.
38.      This adjustment was accommodated by capping salaries, cutting in-
vestment, and restraining sick leave benefits paid by the national program.
In 1987, salaries remain low, but health investment, after being slashed to
one third its 1981 level, was increased steadily after 1984 to regain 72
percent of its 1981 level; nonetheless, it has not kept pace with growth in
the population served.
39.       Despite these cuts, improvements in efficiency--and particularly
the targeting effort and emphasis on maternal and child health care--have
prevented major deterioration in traditional mortality and nutrition indi-
cators. Rates of infant mortality, child mortality, and maternal mortality
have continued to fall or at least hold constant despite the depression
(Figure 4). In the space of two decades, Chile has gone from one of the
highest infant mortality rates in Latin America to one of the lowest.
After temporary contractions in 1983 and 1984, distribution of milk and
cereal to children under six and to pregnant and nursing women reached a
peak in 1986. These programs, dating back to the 1920s, have kept malnu-
trition in check. Malnutrition in children under six enrolled in the pro-
gram dropped from 15 percent in 1977 to 8 percent in 1985 and then in-
creased slightly to 9 percent in 1986.



- 12 -
Figure 4
LLr  u~aawc"wuctRwrwf 1 9,6-6
6
6                          D lnfa.it b,rtalts (pop 1.00 ")
S _  |              tF~~~~~ Infadet Diarrhea Over I,WW, 
3             o w~~~31afornitv 14ortatlts (por 1,009)
4                          0 Ch;1   1e gorttatg at(er j,000)
3
1976 1977 1979 1979  1980 1951 1982  1983 1984 19S   1986
INFANT MORTALITY:  1965, 1973, 1986
190 m       W3                                 19l6 a/
SD
60
50                                40                                 2
20 
iLwo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hl Llwl#l OR LL.o3lu
Dule BrilC atoc lWuce Unt Brzi  CR                                          X1.x  ku
Am  Col.  Ecuar  Peru            A.    Col.  £cuckr  Peru            Av.   Col.  Ecur  Peru
It Or met recent eetinate.
Souree: Worid bau. Socio-"eooaic Indicators
40.      But health problems--especially an apparent deterioration in adult
health--remain. Recent improvements in overall life expectancy seem to
have stalled. The disease profile of the country has come to reflect more
advanced countries where cancer, cardiovascular problems and other chronic
diseases are prevalent. Fifteen to 18 percent of the adult population
suffers from high blood pressure; 80 percent of adult women in the Santiago
metropolitan area have never been tested for cervical cancer. The apparent
deterioration in adult health affects mostly the poor and the 80 percent of
the population which depends on the public sector for their medical care.



- 13 -
Several factors are impeding improvements in the country's health: reduc-
tions in total public sector health expenditures on a per capita basis, the
absence of screening for and treating chronic diseases, the minimal invest-
ment in maintenance, buildings and biomedical equipment, and spot shortages
of medical supplies and drugs. These problems are addressed in this
operation.
Adjustment Priorities
41.      Chile managed its adjustment by sacrificing current consumption in
favor of savings, interest servicing, and long-term growth. The lynchpin
of this strategy was maintaining creditworthiness in the face of one of the
hemisphere's heaviest servicing burdens. As long as copper prices remain
relatively low and the enormous debt burden continues to absorb one-third
of export earnings and more than half of domestic savings, there is little
scope for changes in policy and room for only moderate increases in con-
sumption. A deterioration in the international environment, particularly
increases in interest rates, will render this strategy unviable, and leave
no alternative to suspension of interest payments. But the adjustment
process in Chile entails more than bringing expenditures into balance with
income; it also entails the medium-term structural changes diversifying the
economy away from copper and building new sources of dynamic comparative
advantage while increasing savings and investment beyond traditional rates.
These objectives can only be accomplished through maintaining the current
policy framework for some years and institutionalizing new patterns of
savings and investment.
PART III - PROPOSED PROGRAM FOR SAL III
42.      The proposed third SAL would continue Bank support for maintaining
the sound framework of economic policy; in addition, it would place special
emphasis on long-term capital markets, social security, and health. The
social security system is pivotal to the mobilization of private savings
and channelling them into productive private investment; health expendi-
tures are a large share of the budget and central to the long-term pro-
ductivity of the Chilean work force. Both directly affect the social sus-
tainability of the program. The program then would support the Government
efforts to: (i) maintain macroeconomic policies that preserve international
competitiveness and promote diversification of production and exports; (ii)
increase public sector savings and improve the efficiency of public invest-
ment; (iii) complete the rehabilitation of the financial system and develop
more fully long-term markets, with special attention to the pension funds
to better allocate long-term savings for growth; and (iv) improve the pen-
sion program and efficiency in the health care system to contribute to
public and private savings and help protect low-income groups during the
adjustment as well as maintain investments in human resources. The follow-
ing paragraphs describe the components of the SAL III program summarized in
Annexes III and IV.



- 14 -
Actions Taken and to be Taken
Macroeconomic and Export Promotion Policies
43.      The Government intends to permit only moderate increases in
domestic consumption so as to raise savings over a sustained period. It
also intends to maintain an incentive framework favoring diversification
into new export activities and efficient import substitution. While the
current policies were put in place in 1985 with the support of the first
two structural adjustment loans, history suggests a rising copper price (or
prospect of any additional foreign resources) and three years of growth
will soon translate into increased demands for consumption and pressure to
change policy. This is even more true in light of the politics attendant
to the plebiscite in 1988 or 1989. The Bank's efforts to help the Govern-
ment consolidate the macroeconomic adjustment policies thus have particular
importance.
44.      The Government's program contains measures to maintain the com-
petitiveness of nontraditional exports and import-substitution activities,
measures to offset the 20 percent uniform tariff, and measures to promote
nontraditional exports.  To maintain competitiveness, the Government will
(a) maintain and strengthen the copper stabilization fund, established in
1985 as part of the first SAL-supported program; under its provisions,
changes in budget resources due to movement in copper prices outside a
predetermined band are partially sterilized to avoid undesirable exchange
rate changes and inhibit or supplement public consumption. The fund will
become active in the third and fourth quarters of 1987 when as much as
US$35 million will be deposited because of recently increasing prices. The
Government has decided to strengthen the fund in 1988 by narrowing the band
around the reference price which activates the fund. At present, 50 per-
cent of revenues from copper prices of between 5 US cents and 12.5 cents
per pound higher than the reference price are sterilized, while those above
12.5 cents are completely sterilized; in 1988 these bands will be narrowed
to 4 and 10 cents, respectively, and the annual averaging procedure will be
abandoned.
45.      The Goveranment will also (b) maintain current exchange rate policy
of daily adjustments in the nominal exchange rate directed at preserving
the real exchange rate; and will (c) review the whole export incentive
framework if nontraditional exports fail to grow in real terms by at least
6 percent in 1987 and a projected 7 percent in 1988. These are conditions
of Board presentation and second tranche release. In addition, the Govern-
ment will (d) provide evidence that its program of external financing is
being adequately implemented to assure continuity in the adjustment pro-
gram.
46.      The Government has (e) already taken specific measures to offset
the uniform tariff through improved drawback facilities. The Government
revised Decree Law 1226 to allow for a 15 percent fiscal credit for
domestic purchases of capital goods used in export production to put
domestic producers of capital goods on equal footing with foreign sup-
pliers; capital goods can be imported free of tariffs when used in export



- 15
production. It will permit indirect exporters to have access to the
benefits for capital goods purchases under DL 1226 as well as modify
Finance Decree 409 to grant exporters rebates for an amount equal to the
tariffs paid on imported inputs used for export production, independently
of who has actually imported the product. Authorities have also modified
the automatic rebate system for small exporters (under Law No. 18480)--
which can now receive 10 percent of their value of sales in rebates--to
include partial tariff rebates for slightly larger exporters (i.e. from
US$7.5 million in exports to T'S$11.3 million) of 5 percent.
47.      Furthermore, the Government intends (f) to promote actively non-
traditional exports through an export insurance program and availing small
firms of export financing. It will establish a privately run and unsubsi-
dized export credit insurance program; the Government will change the in-
surance law to provide for specialized firms in this business line. The
Government also will enhance the access of small- and medium-sized firms to
investment credits with partial guarantees from a new fund worth US$4.4
million; this fund would cover risks associated with working capital loans
of up to US$150,000. The fund will be administered through the Banco del
Estado and will only cover 50 percent of each credit. These measures to
offset the uniform tariff and promote nontrad-tional exports are conditions
of Board presentation.
48.      These measures maintain and refine a technically sound incentive
system for exports. As long as current policy remains in place and world
economic growth continuee apace, Chilean noncopper exports could continue
to grow at 6-8 percent annually in real terms.
Public Finances and Investment
49.      Increasing domestic savings requires a concerted effort of the
Government to continue increasing public savings. This will require con-
tinued austerity, especially in the public sector wage bill, and efficiency
in certain costly sectors, including the social sectors (paras. 64-77).
The Government wills (a) increase public savings to 5 percent of GDP in
1988 (from 4.8 percent in 1987 and 4.4 in 1986); and (b) limit the overall
public sector deficit to 1.6 percent of GDP in 1987 and less in 1988. Its
monetary and fiscal program will include provisions for absorbing the cost
of the recapitalization of the banking system.
50.      Public investments will also have to increase to contribute to the
required increase in overall investment, and they must continue to have the
highest social return possible. The Government will (c) program investment
equal to about 7.5 percent of its GDP in 1987 and 1988. At present there
appear to be no major distortions in its US$1.3 billion investment budget.
We have communicated some minor reservations in selected sectors; for ex-
ample, the Government has budgeted approximately US$10 million for housing
subsidies on middle class families; this represents about 0.8 percent of
the public investment program. The investment program in railroads is
under review, and is being addressed in a railways loan. Similarly,



- 16 -
the state-owned petroleum firm, ENAP, had proposed expensive investments in
exploration and refining; after consultation with the Bank, the Government
decided in September 1987 to postpone its mild hydrocracker and oil refin-
ing investments, and reduce its four-year petroleum investment program by
US$100 million. As with previous SALs, the Government vill (d) prepare a
1988-90 investment program and review with the Bank the execution of the
1987 program as well as the progress-of the program in the last quarter of
1988. This would be a condition of the release of the second tranche. The
IMF EFF program would continue its monitoring of conditionality of the
overall public deficit through mid-1988.
Financial System
51.      Banking System.  The Government has made considerable strides in
placing the financial system on firm footing since the 1982-83 collapse.
While the cost of the rehabilitation was high, these efforts have now begun
to pay dividends in the form of renewed growth. Aware that the banking
system is now stabilized but still vulnerable to external shocks, the
Government will continue the financial reconstruction. It has refused re-
quests for additional debt reschedulings, maintained collections of pre-
viously reprogrammed debt, and continues to restrict payments of profits to
pre-crisis owners still having repurchase obligations with the Central
Bank. It will enhance these efforts by augmenting its monitoring of the
collection of debts sold to the Central Bank, and exploring ways to in-
crease competition and thereby improve the operating efficiency of the
banks; greater efficiency would permit more rapid repurchases of bad port-
folio sold to the Central Bank. Prior to Board presentation, it also will
make clearer to depositors the low limits to state guarantees so as to
avoid creating the false impression of complete guarantees.
52.      With the rehabilitation of the banking system on the verge of
completion, the Government can now turn its attention to medium-term finan-
cial issues affecting savings and investment. The most pressing concern is
the problem of channelling private savings mobilized in the private pension
funds and other institutional savers into private investment through equity
and private debt markets. A related concern is the security of the pension
funds, which are now almost solely dependent on indexed securities of the
Government and commercial banks; in this sense they have an undiversified
portfolio.
53.       apjital Markets.  Over the next several years, a sharp imbalance
in long-term financial asset markets could develop between a growing demand
for corporate-issued securities and their short supply. On the demand side
of asset markets, the private pension funds, which today comprise nearly 60
percent of private savings, face severe restrictions on where they can
invest funds.  Because the system was designed to rtminimize risk, specula-
tion, and related-party trading, the funds may hold only assets classified
as least-risk. The Government set up stringent tests for risk classifica-
tion of security-issuers, including a five-year track record for earnings
(except for the privatized state enterprises); only a few private firms
have been given the "least risk' designation. The pension funds will be



_ 17 -
permittc-d to place 30 percent of their assets in private equities issued by
the nonfinancial sector by 1991; but the companies in which they invest
cannot have any one stockholder with more than 20 percent control and its
articles of incorporation must satisfy certain conditions; and they cannot
place any more than 5 percent of their zapital in any single firm. Most of
their funds are held in government securities (45 percent), mainly Central
Bank bille, and commercial bank instruments (49 percent), mostly mortgage
bonds, and the prospects of diversification seem limited.
54.      On the supply side, the number of firms issuing quoted stock is
only about 130. While the capitalized value of the open corporations is a
reasonable 26 percent of GDP, the amount of stock actually traded is far
less. In 19.l6, the ratio of transactions to capitalized value was 7.3
percent in Chile, compared to 31 percent in Brazil and 53 percent in the
United States. In part this is because many of the traded firms are still
tightly held within particular families or groups (including the Govern-
ment); in mid-1986 for example, the 12 largest shareholders held more than
85 percent of the equity in half of the open corporations. Low trading
volume is also related to the high cost of obtaining equity funds; after
two years of improvement following the depression, pricelearnings ratios
still averaged only about 5 in 1986 and the average market value of quoted
firms relative to their book value was only 69 percent. The Government's
program of privatization has partially offset these factors and stimulated
market deepening. Twenty-three public enterprises with a capitalized value
of about US$300 million have been sold since 1985 and another US$300 mil-
lion in shares will be issued in the next two years; in fact, 7 of the 10
most actively traded firms in 1986 were privatized enterprises. Nonethe-
less, the supply of new issues coming onto the market is limited.
55.      Similarly, the bond and other debt markets are very thin. Even
though bond trading has grown rapidly in recent years, the impetus has come
from the issuance of Central Bank bills and Treasury debt as well as
instruments from financial institutions (mainly mortgage bonds). There are
virtually no corporate debt instruments or instruments with an intermediate
status between debt and equity (e.g., convertible bonds, bonds with options
for share purchases, or preferred shares). No legal obstacles prevent this
market from emerging, but companies have not yet chosen to create these
issues.
56.      This situation creates an anomaly in long-term markets:  the
potential supply of investment capital will increase with the increased
domestic private savings, and the potential demand for investment funds
will grow with the continued expansion of the economy. But the bulk of the
new savings may continue to be funnelled into Government paper and mortgage
bonds because of unnecessarily rigid regulation and the reluctance of
private firms to open their companies.
57.      The latent dangers of having the bulk of new savings funneled to
the public sector are twofold: First, the funds are heavily dependent on
indexed securities that are vulnerable to Government policies which, for
whatever macroeconomic reason, may eventually hold the index below the
actual inflation rate. (This has been the case in several other countries



-~ 18 -
of Latin America, probably including Chile in 1375-78.)   Diversifying away
from indexed securities into equities and other issuies offers protection
against this risk. Moreover, this is important to enhance the credibility
of the reform.
58.      A second danger is that newly mobilized savings may be diverted to
consumption. For example, the Government at some point in the future might
yield tc public pressures to increase spending, and finance these expendi-
tures with bond issues to the funds. In either case, savings mobilized
through institutional investors would be eventually consumed rather than
saved.
59.        The Government's program to stimulate capital markets and remove
impediments to investment in activities of acceptable risk includes:
fiscal measures to encourage equity investment and the growth of intermedi-
ation; changes in the all-important r*sk classification procedures; and
liberalizing the restrictions on the pension funds and other institutional
investors that impede diverse investments in activities of acceptable risk.
These measures are all consistent with maintaining reasonatle security for
the pension funds.
60.      Regarding fiscal measures, the authorities vill (a) ehange the
personal income tax law to permit more symmetrical treatment of capital
losses and gains on quoted stock trarnsactions, to increase exemptions of
minority shareholders from capital gains tax, and to permit deductions of
purchases of mutual funds subscribing to primary issues. These measures,
in the context of an otherwise supportive and undistorted tax system favor-
ing savings, will constitute an additional incentive for individuals to
invest and, by adding to demand for equities and creating an incentive for
companies to go public. In addition, the Government will reduce the stamp
tax from 2.4 percent to 1.2 percent on credit and bond issues to reduce
intermediation costs, with the effect of stimulating financial innovation.
61.      The Government intends (b) to stimulate the development of capital
markets by creating a new and more flexible system of risk classification.
At present, the Superintendency of tanks classifies loans and investments
of the banking system, and the Superintendency of Pension Funds classifies
marketable debt securities and equities as to their eligibility for pension
fund investments. The latter system is rather rigid, and government
appointees dominate the classification committee. The Government's program
is to facilitate the creation of a new private system of risk classifica-
tion regulate*Whrough the Superintendent of Securities; this will involve
private evaluators, be more flexible, and more forward-looking in regard to
the designation of "investment grade* equities. The absence of credible
private evaluation firms and the need to avoid destabilizing institutional
changes indicate a medium-term economic program; the Government will, after
a trial period for the new system, pet a timetable for merging the pension
system with it, and so moving to a unified system. In the interim, the
Government will change the composition of the existing risk classification
committee to give private sector representatives a majority.



- 19 -
62.      The Government is also (C) taking steps to strengthen prudential
regulation in securities markets. It has passed new legislation to prevent
mutual funds from investing in shares of related companies and to provide
for portfolio diversification. As the new risk classification system is
introduced, it will also ensure that the portfolios of the insurance in-
dustry are diversified (through ceilings on composition of various instru-
ments) and consist of the stocks of reputable companies.
63.      The Government also intends (d) to permit greater participation of
the pension funds and other institutional investors in capital markets.
Besides permitting the share of equity holdings in the AFP portfolios to
rise to 30 percent by 1991 in current law, the Government has amended the
law to relax the ownership concentration limits restricting AFP investments
to firms with less than 20 percent majority control; the new limit is 50
percent control. It will also permit pension fund investments in "invest-
ment grade" mutual funds which will enable greater diversification for the
pension funds, clarify the conditions for pension fund participation in
primary issues and new instruments, and provide a full evaluation of these
changes by November 1988. This latter is necessary because it is not pos-
sible to foresee how many private firms under the new rules and classifica-
tion system will be eligible for pension fund itnvestment.
Social Sectors
64.      Efficient pension and health systems are important to both public
and private savings generation, workers' productivity and hence the macro-
economic program. The efficient administration of the private pension
funds is essential for realizing their large potential for mobilizing
private savings. Health expenditures and the publicly funded portion of
the pension system accounted for one-third of the non-interest current
expenditures of the general government in 1986, and efficiency in these
sectors can affect public savings. Both programs are essential to the
social sustainability of the adjustment program--they directly affect the
social situation of Chilean workers, and are especially important to the
poor.
65.      Social Security.  The Government intends to undertake adjustments
to its 1981 social security reform. These are intended to protect the
security of the funds, increase the efficiency of the system, increase the
long-term coverage of the system, and enhance the acceptance of the program
among affiliates and the public at large. The Government intends to amend
the Social Security Law 3500 as well as enact administrative changes to
achieve these goals. (These are conditions of the release of the first
tranche, except where noted below.)
66.      To enhance the security of the funds, the Government will (a)
adopt those measures described above to diversify the investment opportun-
ities of the pension funds (see paras. 60-63) and affirm existing princi-
ples of portfolio management. Affirming principles of portfolio management
appears necessary because there is a groundswell of public opinion that
favors investment of funds in mortgages, privileges extant under the pre-
1981 system. No less of a danger is earmarking funds for investment in
specialized assets marketable only to the pension funds; this could take
the form of special government paper or special stock issues of the



- 20 -
privatized public companies. These proposals could undermine the viability
cf the reform by reducing the flexibility and earnings potential of the
funds while raising risks. The Government will therefore ensure that pen-
sion fund assets should only be invested in marketable assets, investments
should be in a diversified portfolio, pension funds will not lend directly
to members (e.g., in mortgages), and they will not invest in securities
restricted to particular investors.
67.      Increasing the efficiency of administration of the system could
pay substantial dividends in terms of higher returns to workers' savings in
the long run. One important measure is the unification of collection of
social security contributions; as it stands, employers may have to fill out
up to 40 different forms monthly for each of the AFPs, health and insurance
companies. Unifying and computerizing this system would speed up payments,
strengthen control of evasion and reduce administrative costs--with an
annual savings for employers and insurance companies of about US$15 mil-
lion. It would also reduce costs of those AFPs with a large number of low-
income insured, increasing the return to these workers. The Government
will (b) therefore introduce a simplified and uniform system before the end
of 1988.
68.      Increasing competition will also maintain pressures to seek max-
imum efficiency. The Government will (c) therefore encourage entry into
the pension administration business with several measures: reduced capital
requirements from 20,000 UF (US$330,000) to 5,000 UF (US$83,000), with
required equity contributions increasing in proportion to the numbers of
affiliates; encouraging formation of pension funds for individual firms;
and permitting members to buy pension shares.
69.      To help increase the coverage of the system, the Government will
(d) amend the social security law to ensure an automatic continuation of
disability and survival insurance to qualifying temporarily unemployed or
part-time workers. Workers who are temporarily unemployed will have cover-
age even though they are not actively contributing. This cost will be borne
by the other affiliates in the AFPs. The Government will (e) also study
the efficacy of encouraging affiliation of the self-employed. Only one-
fourth of the self-employed (constituting about 20 percent of -the employed
labor force) are covered. This requires careful study because the costs of
widening coverage could be high, and direct support from the fiscal budget
may be more cost-effective.
70.      Perhaps the most serious remaining problem facing the system is
the lack of public acceptance of the reform. A May 1987 survey revealed
that more than half of the respondents had more confidence in the old
system to provide them a pension than the new one; when given a choice
among institutions to administer their funds (i.e. the state, themselves,
or private enterprise), only nine percent chose the private pension funds.
While care should be taken not to read too much into one (perhaps ambig-
uous) survey, AFP managers have themselves expressed concern about this
problem. The problem stems in large measure from the misperception that
the old system was viable. Also, the public does not understand the
Syst.m, affiliates do not identify with their pension funds, and they may
perceive the system as unfair.



- 21 -
71.      To improve public understanding, the Government will (f) introduce
new measures to ensure greater consumer knowledge through simplified com-
mission structures to increase entry, and to increase choice of insurance
companies. Specifically, these include: simplifying the pension commis-
sion system to permit greater transparency and choice; improving presenta-
tion of information to the public to provide clear comparative information
on commissions and returns; and permitting members rather than the funds to
choose their insurance company for disability and survival coverage. The
private sector is also about to undertake an educational camprign through
media advertising.
72.      To address the problem of encouraging more participation and ident-
ification with their funds, the Government will (g) introduce a voluntary
savings account to be managed by the pension funds and automatically de-
ducted from payroll checks. This may have several added advantages: it
might deflect the demand for mortgages, increase the responsiveness of the
pension funds to depositors, and also increase savings of low-income
groups.   It will implement these measures in such a way to ensure that the
program does not cause dissavings from the financial institutions as well
as protect the integrity of the funds; supplementary accounts will receive
equivalent treatment to those in the banking system with regard to taxation
and guarantees and assets of supplementary accounts will be regulated in
the same way as those in the pension fund.
73.      To address concerns about equality, the Government will (h) study
ways to reduce operating costs so as to reduce or even eliminate the fixed
commissions charged for administering the system. The fixed commissions
entail a CH$180 monthly charge per account in addition to the retention of
part of the health commission (about 1.4 percent) and charges on outstand-
ing balances (.5 percent). Even though the amount is relatively small, it
implies that low-income contributors may receive 15-17 percent less in
pension relative to the highest income contributors per peso invested.
(This varies according to assumptions about growth in real wages and yields
on investments.) This problem is complicated by the fact that the pension
funds have different compositions of affiliates by income group; any direct
elimination would mean that those pension funds with a disproportionately
high share of low-income workers would receive lower incomes and, unless
workers shifted to respond to the new earnings positions, they would re-
ceive lower incomes in any event.
74.      Health.  The Government intends to increase current nonpersonnel
outlays for health in real terms by 15 percent in 1988. Over the course of
1988, it will undertake several efforts and seek to increase output for
this level of expenditure that will be conditions for the release of the
second tranche. It will (a) concentrate on consolidating progress it has
already made in improving preventive health care and broadening its pre-
ventive actions to include chronic diseases. Specifically, in primary and
preventive health care, the Government will maintain the present level of
rood distribution in maternal-child programs on a per capita basis and
improve targeting; expand preventive care to adults to decrease the inci-
dence of chronic conditions through increased efforts at health education,
screening, and community education. The latter will include new programs
on smoking, cervical and breast cancer, and cardiovascular diseases. In
addition, the Government will tax cigarette advertising to supplement the
already high sales tax on cigarettes (69 percent).



- 22 -
75.      The Government in 1981 began transferring to municipal administra-
tion the national public health service, which serves about 80 percent of
the populace. To date about 60 percent of the 2,484 facilities--mostly
rural clinics--have been transferred to municipal administration. By end-
1987, all primary health care facilities should be under the control of the
municipalities. Hospitals and their specialty outpatient clinics will
remain under central control. Nonetheless, the Government will (b) imple-
ment administrative changes to increase the efficiency of the decentralized
system. Specifically, it will improve the incentive system for cost con-
tainment embedded in the reimbursement system to regional organizations,
while continuing the practice of channelling resulting savings into health
programs where the savings are realized; improve the financial accounting
system through the implementation of a computerized data collection and
control system for all hospitals; provide incentives to service providers
to classify beneficiaries more correctly by income group; and develop a
mid-term training program to upgrade management skills of current hospital
directors (most of whom have no training in hospital administration).
76.      The 1981 health reform also transformed the informal private
sector transactions into a formally organized private system, and adopted
measures which favored the expansion of the private sector as a viable
alternative to the Government run health system. The Government created
private health insurance plans (known by the acronym ISAPRES). The law
allows the ISAPRES to receive directly the percentage of the payroll de-
duction earmarked for health from those workers who are willing to purchase
insurance, now 7 percent. In 1986, 8 percent of the population was en-
rolled in one of 20 ISAPRES. Nonetheless, many private insurers offer only
policies which are cancellable in the event of chronic illness or old age.
This has sometimes led to consumer misunderstanding and dissatisfaction.
Also, current regulatory powers for the private sector reside with the
National Fund for Health (FONASA), the executive financial agency of the
national health system. The Government wishes to eliminate any obstacles
that might impede the growth of the private sector.   The Government will
(c) take measures to strengthen regulation of the private health insurance
system and clarify its relation to the public system. Specifically, it
will improve rules regarding cancellation of policies for chronic illness
by permitting multi-year contracts and longer time periods to give notice
of nonrenewal by the contributors; separate the regulatory role of FONASA
from its financial role; and allow the public health service to contract
with the private providers to service their enrollees and allow the public
health system to charge for the full cost of treatment in its fa1cilities.
77.      The contraction in Government expenditures was felt most heavily
in investment and maintenance budgets. As a result, by 1986, many of the
facilities and machinery had fallen into disrepair; a survey conducted in
1986 determined that 25-30 percent of basic medical machinery was out of
service. Putting this equipment back into service would require an invest-
ment of about CH$3 billion. The Government now sees this as a major prior-
ity and it will (d) undertake a rehabilitation program of equipment and
repair of major facilities over two years. It will also undertake a main-
tenance training program for technicians in the hospital system.



- 23 -
ImDact of the Structural Adjustment Program
78.      The economic prospects of Chile will depend heavily on the per-
formance of the world economy as well as the continuity of its own economic
policy. The following projections are based upon a moderate annual average
growth of OECD countries and only slightly higher nominal interest rates,
increasing about 1.2 percentage points over their current annual average by
1989 where they would stabilize. Real copper prices are, according to Bank
projections, assumed to rise at 3.3 percent annually. Near-term prices may
increase more rapidly as major buyers restock, but it seems likely that
underlying long-term trends of decreasing copper usage per unit of output
and expected new sources of supply will render these increases temporary,
returning the evolution of prices to the anticipated path.
79.      With a stable external environment and the policies of the pro-
gram, GDP growth rates of 4.5 to 5.5 percent over the medium term are well
within reach. The scenario described below for 1987-92 is predicated upon
an annual average growth rate of 4.9 percent, which could increase real
consumption per capita at 3 percent annually while increasing national
savings sufficiently rapidly to fund both debt service and required invest-
ment. By 1992, average per capita consumption, though still below their
1970 level, would be well above the 1986 level. Chile in effect would have
to sacrifice potential output and consumption growth to pay interest on its
debt.
80.      A slower rate of GDP growth or a lower level of foreign exchange
earnings for more than temporary periods would probably result in unsus-
tainably slow growth in consumption and/or interruption in debt service.
More rapid growth is feasible only if the country experiences strong and
sustained gains in terms of trade; increased rates of growth predicated on
higher borrowing levels than those estimated in our scenario appears
neither feasible nor desirable because of the country's excessively high
debt service burden.
81.      This growth would be fueled by expanding exports.  Noncopper ex-
ports could well grow by 6 percent annually between 1987 and 1992, but
higher expected prices and new investment in copper production will hold
the share of copper exports about the same over the next five years. The
projected growth is predicated upon a moderate increase of copper output;
public investments in a waste removal conveyor system and concentrator
facilities are intended to produce a 11 percent output increase of copper
in 1989, boosting exports from 1.5 to 1.7 million metric tons by 1991; in
addition, the copper output of the giant copper project La Escondida would
begin to come on stream, increasing output by 50,000 metric tons in 1991
and 100,000 in 1992. If interest rate assumptions materialize (namely that
Chile's effective interest rate will hold at about 8 percent), then this
export expansion would lower Chile's total interest payments/export ratio
to 18 percent by 1992, slightly more than half the 1986 ratio.



- 24 -
Table 2: CHILE - RECENT PERFORMANCE AND GROWTH PROSPECTS
(Pereent Annual Average Real Growth Rates)
Actual                   Projected
1980-1985       1986      1987-1992
GDP                      -0.4           5.7           4.9
GNY                      -2.6           6.9           5.3
Consumption              -1.1           3.8           3.9
Total Investment        -10.6          14.1           9.5
Exports (GNFS)            1.8           9.8           5.6
Copper                   5.0           i.2          4.3
Noncopper Goods          4.5          13.9           6.1
Imports (GNFS)           -8.3           9.7          6.2
82.      This export performance would permit import levels of about 29
percent of GDP until 1990 when the exhaustion of domestic oil supplies will
gradually force the import coefficient of the economy to rise to 31 percent
by the end of the period. Nonetheless, slightly improved terms of trade
and a declining interestlGDP burden imply that the current account deficit
could continue to fall from its 1986 level of 6.5 percent of GDP to near
2.8 percent in 1992.
83.      Growth in exports and efficient import substitution will require
growth in investment of about 9 percent annually. The ratio of investment
to GDP would have to rise from 15 percent in 1986 to near 19 percent by
1992.   Moreover, private investment projects in sectors where Chile's
comparative advantage exists (mining, fruits, semi-processed fish, wood,
and pulp and paper) should be supported by public investments in infra-
structure to increase exports and import substitution.
84.      Financing this effort will have to come primarily through in-
creased savings. National savings would need to double by 1992--from about
8 percent of GDP in 1986 to 16 percent in 1992. The corresponding increase
in domestic savings would, however, be eased by the decreasing ratio of
interest payments to GDP by 1992. Public sector savings--after interest
payments--would haxe to increase gradually, from 4.4 percent of GDP in 1986
to 5.6 percent by 1990, an effort comparable to that undertaken and
achieved in the 1970s. Private savings would need to surpass 10 percent of
GDP by 1992 with the private social security system complementing the tra-
ditional banking role in mobilizing savings. The necessary increase in
corporate savings may soon materialize as profitable firms increase produc-
tion and reinvest in highly profitable internationally competitive sectors.



- 25 _
Table 3: CHILE - INVESTMENT AND SAVINGS, 1980-1992
(As Percent of Current GDP)
1980-83   1984-86   1987    1988   1989   1990   1992
Investment            16.2        14.2    15.2    15.8   16.1   16.9   18.7
Foreign Savings        9.1         8.7     5.4      4.6    3.6    3.4    2.8
National Savings       7.1         5.5     9.8    11.2   12.5   13.5   15.9
of which:
Public Sector    3.8         2.9      4.8      5.0    5.3    5.6    5.6
Private Sector   3.3         2.6      5.0      6.2    7.2    7.9   10.3
85.      In the meantime, a significant inflow of external savings will be
required. In 1987-88, the cumulative current account deficit of roughly
US$1.9 billion will be financed through foreign investment (roughly US$230
million), the interest retiming from the commercial banks (US$460 million),
multilateral lending (US$900 million) and suppliers' credits and others
(US$500 million) *l/
86.      For 1989-92, current account deficits would average roughly US$750
million per year under the assumptions above. Foreign direct investment
would fill about US$120 million. The commercial banks will probably con-
tinue to exhibit reluctance to augment their exposure and, because of re-
cent trends to provision Latin American loans, may be in a stronger posi-
tion to withstand pressure to do so. Nonetheless, it is expected they
would continue to reschedule principal repayment. This would leave the
bulk of financing to come from suppliers' credits and multilateral institu-
tions. Suppliers' credits could well approach $300 million per year be-
cause of the large hydroelectric and other public projects (e.g.,
Pehuenche, investments in mining, etc.). Given current flows projected
from our lending program and the IDB, the net flows from multilateral
sources will average about US$140 million in the 1989-92 period. The share
of total debt (DOD) owed to preferred creditors (including IMF) would rise
from 16 to 18 percent. Nonetheless, these efforts would still leave some
unidentified financing requirements. In 1989-90, the amount woula be about
US$300 million for the two years; this gap could be covered with additional
policy-based lending from the Bank and resources from other sources. It
should be noted that some of these payments have already been rescheduled
once and are part of new money packages put together in 1983-85.
1/ The debt conversion program nets o';t to zero since its accounting inflow
of US$800 million in 1987 is offset by an accounting outflow of the same
amount of private debt, and future amortization payments are cancelled
by debt conversion; the main balance of payments impact of the program
is in the current account, where interest payments are reduced and new
dividend payments postponed for five years under the terms of the
program.



- 26 -
87.      Continuing and strengthening the structural adjustment program
will not only continue to improve the country's creditworthiness; the bene-
fits of the program will become more widely diffused throughout the econ-
omy. Industry and services, secondary beneficiaries of this export-led
growth, are now feeling the strong demand attendant to rising incomes.
Increases in employment are likely to continue, eventually putting some
pressure on wage rates and improving income distribution.
88.      Social Impact of the Adiustment Program.   Despite the onerous
costs of the 1982-83 depression, the adjustment program is now paying large
dividends in terms of stable growth and rising employment. Real wages
still lag but can be expected to rise with employment gains and growth if
the program can be held in place for a sustained period. Rising employment
and incomes will directly benefit the estimated 20-25 percent of absolute
poor in Chile, as well as the near poor in the next quintile that barely
are able to meet their basic needs. Increases in public revenues will
permit eventual increases in social sector spending over and above those
envisaged in 1988.
89.      The program will have a direct benefit in the health sectors. The
continuation of the maternal and child health care system could reduce
infant mortality 8 percent over five years and reduce maternal mortality 20
percent. The improvements in adult care, while difficult to quantify be-
cause of inadequate data, would certainly be comparable. Improved focusing
of the milk distribution program (in which about 20 percent of program
expenditures still benefit the 40 percent highest income families) could
reduce malnutrition in children under the age of six by 12 percent, from
9.1 percent in 1985 to 8.0 percent in 1990. Nonetheless, it should be
noted that continued strong growth and increased employment will--by in-
creasing incomes of low-income groups and their access to food and
shelter--be a dominant force for improvement of these same statistics.
90.,     Alternative Scenarios: Higher Copper Prices.  In recent months
nominal copper prices have jumped up, suggesting a substantial improvement
in terms of trade for Chile. If this trend were to presage a new and
higher price floor over some years--and not be matched by rising oil
prices, other prices, and interest rates--Chile would be in a much sounder
economic position. A US one cent increase in copper prices yields US$32
million for Chile, and prices in the third quarter of 1987 have risen about
10 US cents. If prices were to be an average of 75 cents in 1988 (as com-
pared to the 71 cents assumed in the base scenario) and 80 cents in 1989
and hold, the resulting foreign resources could provide for a very rapid
near-term expansion; growth could be as high as 8 percent in the near term
without requiring additional financing. However, even at this higher level
of nominal copper prices, these high growth rates would be unsustainable,
and balance of payments constraints pull down growth in 1991-92 to near 3
percent annually; the effect might even be more severe because the exchange
rate could well appreciate and drive out capacity of noncopper exports. On
the other hand, if the near-term gains in terms of trade are for the most
part put into reserves, the exchange rate held in check, growth rates of
6.0 percent are conceivable, since accumulated reserves could be used at
the end of the period when the pressures from falling domestic oil reserves
and eroding real copper prices begin to be felt. Nonetheless, containing a
boom may prove as difficult as managing the recession.



- 27 -
91.      Alternative Scenarios:  High Interest Rates, Slow OECD Growth.  A
less felicitous set of policy alternatives emerges if interest rates (e.g.,
LIBOR) rise abruptly to more than 10 percent and if OECD growth were to
turn to recession. The growth rate in Chile would be cut to less than 2
percent with no increases in private per capita consumption. Even with the
best of policies, it seems unlikely that the country could avoid immediate
suspension of some portion of its interest payments. The Government may
seek cofinancing with this SAL to protect itself from this scenario. The
Bank, as part of its country strategy and recent initiatives on the debt
problem, will examine the various problems this would present not only to
Chile and other countries, but to the international community. Immediate
prospects for terms of trade, interest rates and OECD growth appear more
sanguine.
Benefits and Risks
92.      The main benefits of the program will derive from the support it
provides to the country's continuing adjustment effort at both the macro-
economic and sectoral level. To achieve a maximum growth in consumption
and output over tle medium term, given the constraints imposed by the debt
burden and exigency of reducing it, Chile will have to increase domestic
savings more rapidly than investment as well as increase exports relative
to imports. However, increasing savings sufficient to finance both re-
quired new investment and external interest payments--particularly when
present consumption cannot not be compressed further--takes time. It also
takes time for trade incentives to have a full e'ffect on export growth and
efficient import substitution. In effect, this operation provides external
finance to buy time: it allows the country to bridge this transition
period during which investment must grow without further sacrifices in
consumption while creditworthiness indicators gradually improve, until the
country can resume normal relations with external creditors. By supporting
reforms in export promotion policy, public finance and capital markets, the
loan helps augment the savings and export surpluses; by supporting new
efforts in the social sectors the loan supports efforts to protect the most
vulnerable groups from the costs of adjustment.
93.      Nonetheless, there are substantial risks tc the base-case scenario
of modest growth and enhanced creditworthiness sketched out above. The
external environment continues to be precarious. As noted above, interest
rates, OECD growth, protection, and commodity prices are all key forces
which make a difference on whether the Chilean strategy is ultimately
viable. For example, an increase in international interest rates of one
percent costs Chile US$180 million per year, and a three percentage point
increase would erase the entire improvement in the trade balance achieved
in the adjustment program thus far. The situation would be further com-
plicated because of the effects on the fragile domestic financial system.
94.      Similarly, a decrease of US 3 cents in the nominal price of copper
costs Chile US$100 million per year; while copper prices have risen lately,
the medium-term price may be less than the 25 cent nominal rise projected
by 1992 (equivalent to a 2.5 percent average annual real increase) in our
scenario. If the industrial countries do not maintain their current rates



- 28 -
of expansion (and already the present US recovery is the second longest in
post-war history), the effects will be felt with the price and volume of
all Chilean exports. Potential trade-restricting measures in the indus-
trial countries, such as the US action on Chilean table grapes and cut
flowers, have as yet had marginal impact on Chilean exports, but this situ-
ation could change. Finally, a more entrenched reluctance on the part of
the commercial banks to provide additional finance or at least rescheduling
would precipitate a substantial balance of payments problem.
95.      A second set of risks concerns the problem of amortizing the
foreign debt of the Central Bank, which accounts for 22 percent of the
total debt. To date, the Central Bank has met its foreign obligations
through domestic and foreign borrowing to pay interest and rescheduling its
principal repayments. In the long run, the Treasury must generate re-
sources to transfer to the Central Bank to meet operating expenses and
amortize its foreign debt. If the Treasury cannot generate a surplus and
the Central Bank has to borrow indefinitely, domestic interest rates might
follow an explosive path and speculation about monetization of the Central
Bank's debt might reach a critical level.
96.      The political situation also constitutes risks.  The constitution
of 1980 provides for a plebiscite before March of 1989 to vote on the can-
didate unanimously proposed by the commanders of the four branches of the
Chilean military. If the proposed candidate loses the plebiscite, the
constitution provides for direct elections within one year. Whatever the
outcome, elections for a limited number of legislators in a reopened but
controlled Congress are also provided for in 1990. The political campaign
could threaten the policy framework as the Government strives to mobilize a
majority in the plebiscite; the demands to increase consumption, especially
if copper prices are rising, will be loud.
97.      Regardless of the politics of the transition or even the actual
course of policy, uncertainty itself surrounding these events may affect
private savings and investment in ways sufficiently strong to derail the
adjustment process. For the growth scenario to materialize, the private
savings rate must double during precisely this period and private invest-
ment must grow by about 10 percent annually. Some private commercial
political risk evaluators perceive a substantial risk that a smooth growth
scenario might not occur.
98.      The Bank's exposure under the current lending program is to in-
crease from its end-1986 position of US$808 million to nearly US$1.7 bil-
lion at end-1992. This would mark a rise from 4.9 percent of total out-
standing and disbursed debt (excluding IMF) to 9.5 percent. The IBRD share
of total debt service would rise from 1.6 percent to 9.8 percent over the
same period. Bank disbursements would amount to about one quarter of all
gross disbursements in 1987-90, falling to about half that level in the out
years. If events unfold as in the growth scenario, these numbers would be
acceptable as the ratio of medium- and long-term debt to GDP would fall
from 98 percent to 74 percent by 1992, and the interest burden (MLT) on
exports would fall from 33 percent to 16 percent.



- 29 -
99.      This operation therefore entails high risks since the base-case
growth scenario is surrounded by uncertainties. On the other hand, it is
clear that without continued strong policy efforts to attack structural
problems and support from the international financial community, Chile
would almost certainly not be able to avoid recession andlor an interrup-
tion of debt service in the next few years--with all the hardship that
implies.
Loan Amount and Tranching
100.     Because of the steady progress made by the Government in imple-
menting the policies supported in SAL I and II, the magnitude of Chile's
requirement for quick-disbursing capital to finance the adjustment program,
we recommend a SAL of US$250 million. The size would assist the Government
in financing the significant near-term imports gc-nerated by the ongoing
export-led investments in the agricultural, forestry and industrial
sectors. A first tranche of $125 million would be disbursed upon effec-
tiveness, which is expected to be shortly after Board approval in December
1987. This first tranche disbursement is part of the 1987-88 external
financial package. According to the rescheduling agreement with the com-
mercial banks, if the World Bank approves a third SAL before January 1,
1988, Chilean compliance with the structural adjustment program as
evidenced by disbursement of the first tranche would be a condition of
effectiveness for the 1988 restructuring of commercial bank loans. A
second tranche would be expected to be disbursed in December 1988, pending
fulfillment of the conditions listed in Annex III, Section III.
Disbursement, Procurement, Administration and Auditing
101.     Procurement would be in accordance with the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines. Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less
than US$5 million each and contracts for petroleum products will be awarded
following the normal procurement procedures of the purchaser. Private
firms would follow normal commercial practice. Public sector imports would
be in accordance with standard government practices, which ensure reas3n-
able prices. Unless otherwise specified by the Bank, all purchases, except
petroleum imports, exceeding US$5 million vould be through international
competitive bidding.
102.     The loan would finance the CIF cost of eligible imports, subject
to documentary evidence that they have been paid for on or after loan sign-
ing. However, retroactive financing will be permitted for those eligible
imports made before the date of agreement but not before July 1, 1987, up
to an amount equal to the loan's first tranche. Public and private sector
imports would be eligible, except for military equipment and luxury con-
sumer goods. The Central Bank would be responsible for the coordination
and collection of relevant documentation and preparing withdrawal applica-
tions under the loan. The applications would be submitted to the Bank
using statements of expenditure, with the detailed documentation retained
by the Government for review by the Bank as required.



I
- 30 -
MF Extended Fund Facility
103.     The IMF, as noted above, is supporting Chile's adjustment program
with a three year Extended Fund Facility of SDR 750 million, initiated in
August 1-985. This followed a two year Standby Arrangement in 1983-84.
Both the IMF and the Bank share the goals of export promotion, a more effi-
cient public sector, and improved intermediation of larger amounts ;f sav-
ings and investment. The EFF includes specific fiscal, monetary and re-
serve targets for 1987; discussions on the 1988 program will be conducted
in November 1987. The EFF will end in August 1988, but the Government has
indicated to the Bank that it will seek a new arrangement with the Fund to
continue their ongoing relationship. During the preparation of this opera-
tion--as with the previous SAL--Fund and Bank staff cooperated closely to
ensure consistency between stabilization and structural adjustment meas-
ures.
PART IV - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY
104.     By September 30, 1987, the Bank had made 41 loans to Chile amount-
ing to US$1,673 million (net of cancellations) of which 10 were not yet
fully disbursed. Two other loans totalling US$116.5 million, for the power
sector, had been approved but not yet signed. IDA has also extended a
US$22.9 million credit to the country for a road project. IFC gross com-
mitments in Chile as of the same date stood at US$130 million.
105.     Of total Bank and IDA lending to Chile, 37 percent has been for
infrastructure (water, irrigation, power, transportation), 32 percent for
structural adjustment, 24 percent for productive sectors (industry, mining,
agriculture) and the balance (7 percent) for social sectors (education,
housing) and technical assistance.
106.     Historically, the volume of Bank lending to Chile has fluctuated
widely, depending on the country's economic needs and policy performance
and the availability of suitable projects. The Bank did not lend to Chile
in FY78-79, but in FY80-85 the Bank approved eight loans totaling US$531
million, including innovative sector loans for housing and roads. The Bank
also modified existing operations over the last three years to permit al-
most US$50 million in proceeds to be used for earthquake- and flood-related
emergency repairs and reconstruction. In FY86-87 Bank lending significant-
ly increased with the approval of the two SALS, together with two important
industrial loans aimed at rehabilitating that sector. Additionally, the
US$300 million B-Loan was approved to complement the Road Sector Loan.
107.     Execution of Bank-financed projects in Chile has been satisfac-
tory. Disbursement of Bank loans to Chile declined to US$22.3 million in
FY83, when Chile's depression was at its nadir. They rebounded thereafter
however. In FY86 Bank disbursements to Chile surged above US$350 million,
US$250 million of this from the first SAL and in FY87, disbursements re-
mained high at $326 million.



- 31 -
108.     The Bank's lending strategy is to support the Government's medium-
term economic adjustment program by focusing on: (i) maintenance of ex-
ternal trade policies intended to accelerate export growth and efficient
import substitution based upon a more diversified economy; (ii) improve-
ments in policy affecting the social sectors; (iii) public sector manage-
ment and fiscal policies to maintain economic recovery and strengthen
public savings, emphasizing better use of existing infrastructure and pro-
ductive capacity; (iv) financial policies to stimulate domestic savings and
to allocate funds more efficiently; and (v) policy incentives to expand
productive employment.
109.     The Bank intends to support the Go. ernment's adjustment program
over the next two years with additional policy-based adjustment lending.
Several other proposed lending operations are being considered that would
complement the adjustment lending and reinforce the effort to meet the
objective's of the Government's structural adjustment program. Lending for
energy, forestry and mining would not only contribute to expanding output
and employment, but would also increase foreign exchange earnings and sav-
ings. In addition, railway rehabilitation and port reconstruction projects
now being processed would help avoid transportation obstacles to export
expansion, as wull as accelerate the use of container technology. Subse-
quent loans for housing and water and sewerage facilities would build on
the sectoral, institutional and policy improvements addressed in ongoing
lending operations, and the Bank will explore new lending in social
sectors.
110.     The IDB has a sizeable program in Chile; it is focusing primarily
on agriculture, industry, power, and transportation, sectors in which the
Bank is also undertaking operations. Parallel cofinancing with IDB of a
major power project was approved in PY87. Some future Bank operations may
attract cofinancing from suppliers, bilateral sources as well.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
111.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 20, 1987



-32 -                             ANNEX I
CHILE - iy ECO140M4IC IPOICATORS                         Page  1  of  5
Populaticni 12.07S (nid-1S tlVousends)
1985 GNP P  Capita  USI 1.440
Actual           fFt.                  Projected
1980    1084    1983    1986    1987    19s8    1r89    1990   19l   1092
Cro-.th Ftet  (prcpot) 
CDP , .......   .......         .....   7.8   ..3    2.5         5.7     5.6     d.8     5.0     4.5     6.o     6.0
... ,     .               .-  ..   7..4      4.0     4.5     8.1     7. 2    S. It    .it  4.6  5.b          5.0
C..                            .  .    7.1       1.7    3.7      6.0    6.7      5.0     4,9     5.5     5.6     5.4
-    por ct     ......                   5.6     2.3     2.6     4.4     5.    4.1      8.      3.0     8.s    S.5
Pr 'et* conos4mpt o' par cap;ta  ....   5.2   -0.4   -2.8        3.2     4.5    2.0      2-4    9.5      2.9    2.6
Debt lpd;catora ../
0D00 H91 (Pvill;on US,)                9,413  16,963  17,279  16.428  16.100  15.620  16,249  16,850  17.364  17.82
IM  C;EDIT (,ll,on USS)  . .             123     782   1.085   1,828   1.289   1.189      1e8    603    829      440
Total SOC OT. ict  I4 (FIion USS) e.s36  17,745  1B,3S4  17,755  17.389  16,809  17.167  17,453  17.82  16.822
DOD HLT/Exports CS (i)     O..         100   352.4  368.2  812.3  271.3  236.6  217.1  213.7  201.1  190.7
DOD MLT/Cur-ent CDP ()  . .             34.1 S 8.4  107.9   97.6   86.2   76.9   71.7   71.3   69.2   67.1
Debt servica (million USS)..           2.30   2.513   2,386   2,728  2,609   2,?54   2,092   2.033  2.655  2.934
Debt *orv.c*/Curr9At CDP () ..           8.6   13,1   14.9   16.2   14.0   13.4    9.2           8.6   11.4   11.0
Debt sorvice/Esporto CS ()   ...        379    62.2   S0.8   51.8   44.0   41.7   28.0   25.8   33.1   SS.3
Interest MtLT (Million USS) d/ ..        932   1.793   1,702   1.740   1.447   1.417   1,5.04   1.430   1,418   1,458
Interest HLT/Ewports CS (8) d ..        14.8   37.2   36.3   33.1   24.4   21.5   20.1   18.1    16.4   15.6
Interest M4LT/Current GOP (S) d/         3.4    9.3   10.6   10.3        7.7    6.9      6.6    6.1      5.7     5.5
National Accounte as S of Currant CDP
ln.ostent.                              21.0   13.6   13.7   14.6   1S.2   15.8   16.1   16.9   17.7   18.7
Domestic Svings .16.8   12.6   16.5   18.4   17.9   18.0   19.1   19.9   21.1   22.2
National Seaings C/                     13.9    2.6      5.0     7.7     9.8   11.2   12.5   13.5   14.7   1s.9
Public Invest.Ct .5.4                            6.4    7.0      7.6     7.5     7.5     7.5     7.5    7.6      7.5
Public Nat;onal Sav       ..ga.10.5              0.5     3.7     4.4    4.8      5.0    5.3      5.6     6.6     5.6
Pe.vate ;'Vatmont .                     16.6     7.2    6.7      7.0    7.7      6.s     8.6     9.4   10.2    11.2
Privete Nat.z'nal Savings .              3.4     2.1     1.3     3.3    5.0      6.2     7.2     7.9     9.1   10.3
Rati; of Publ;c/Private Investment      34.7   88.5  104.3  109.6   97.8   90.2   87.4   80.2   73.7   66.9
Non Financial Public Sector as S of Current ODP
Current Revenues b/ .5.0   31.2   33.3   31.65   30.    30.1   29.9   30.1   30.1   30.1
Current E.pendituros .24.5   30.7   29.6   27.1   25.5   25.1   24.8   24.5   24.5   24.5
Def,cit (-) or Sjrpl.a .10.5    0.5                      3.7    4,4      4.8    5.0    6.3       5.6    5.6    .S6
Ovorall Deficit (-) or Surpiv,           5.5   -4.4   -2.6   -2.2    -1.6   -1.3   -1.0    -.07    -0.7    -07
External Trade tndicstror  (peent)
Copper e,porta real grooth rate          5 0    -0 5    10.9     1.2    0.9    8.1    11.4   -2.6    3.8         3.o
Exports CNFS reaf  vrowth rate          14.3    6.8      6.9    0.8      s.4    6.4      8.2     2.7     6.0     5 2
E.Vo'ts of CNFS/Current CDP ..          22.    24.3   29 1   30.6   30.9   30.8   31 7   32.3   33.6   34.4
Imports CtFS oeol aro*ti' rate          18 7    16 5   -11.0     9.7     7.6    5.4      6.1     6.1     7.2    6.7
Inl,orts of GNFS/Current COP..          27.0   25.3   26.7   23.1   28.6   28.7   29.3   30.1   30.9   31.5
Current Account (Mitlion Sa) ..       (1,970) (2,060) (1,320) (1,092) (1,004)   (943)  (607)  (799)   (734)   (754)
Current Account/Currant CDP             -7 1  -10.7   -8.3   -6.5   -5.4   -4.6   -3.6   -3.4   -2.9   -2.8
Ters of T(rae  Index 11i4o . 100)      100.0   83.2   ?8 5   82 0    77.4    75.1   74.7   77.3    -9.0   80.1
*/. iecludee uwe of IMF credit, except where other.ies indicated. SrcJudo e-ffect of debt conversione.
hi. Includes operational aurplus of public onterpr ^** and net transfer..
c/. Includes current trCanfere
d4/  Data on M1T interest parnec t fro. lre C.,tral ft-.k of C4.J4  It include  IF intoret. It. my diffor from  5 data.
LA4CO. September 30. 1987



-33-                               ANNEXI
41LE - 9CE  OF PA4TS                   Page  2  of  5
PopIlation  12,075 (id-lOS5 tbound.)
198S GP per Copita: U!#  ,4.40                                            (Millont U S8)
Actual ft.                                              Projected
1980    1981    1982    1963    1984    1983    1988    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1492
Export of Ogods &1WF5                S. 5969   5,009   4,642   4.629   4,494   4,496   5.040   5.772   6.338   7.191   7,629   8,421   9,169
l4archendies (F.0.8)                . 4,706   3,837   3,706   8,831   3,650   3,804   4,199   4,847   6,371   6,094   6,466   7,137   7,770
Non Factor Servicea .                  1,263   1.172.   936       798      844     692     841      925     987   1,097   1,164   1,285   1,899
lnort af Coded & NFS .                    (7,122) (8.386) (5,134) (4.095) (4,635) (3,984) (4,328) (5,257) (5.880) (68503) (6,915) (7.557) (8,23)
Merchandise (F.O.8)                  . (5,46q) (6,613) (3.643) (2,845) (3,357) (2,955) (3.090) (3,87) (4,353) (4,821) (3,144) (5,644) (6,176)
Non PsCtor Se rviC   ...              (1,653) (1,973) (1,491) (1,250) (1,278) (1.030) (1,229) (1.390) (1.524) (1,682) (1.771) (1,913) (2,057)
Resource   tanc ...                       (1,1S3) (3,377)   (492)    634    (141)    512       712      S1S     459     668      714     864     938
Not Factor T^com        .(930) (1,463) (1,921) (1.748) (2.018) (1,901) (1,88) (1,633) (1,522) (1,82) (1,640) (1,726) (1.819)
Factor Receipt .                         308      806     612     202     320      197     221      162     264     293     256      211     207
F%ctor Payment.                       (1,238) (2,069) (2,433) (1,950) (2,338) (2,098) (2,109) (1,795) (1,786) (1,915) (1,896) (1,937) (2,026)
(4L.T interest)   / ..                  (932) (1,434) (1,750) (1,349) (1,793) (1,702) (1,740) (1,447) (1,417) (1,804) (1,430) (1,418) (1,456)
Not Current Trenefer .113                             1oe     109      97       99      61      84      114     120     127      128     128     130
Transfer Pecipts.                        194      193     1f8    i61       16S     125     1a0       --      --      --       --      --      -
Transfer Payments .(81)    (85)    (77)    (64)    (66)    (64)    (46)                              -
Current Account SIefnce .(1,970) (4,732) (2.304) (1,117) (2,060) (1.329) (1,092) (1,004)   (943)   (807)   (799)   (734)   (754)
Direct Foreign Investments .       ,         170      362     384     132       67      62      67      147      80     110      120     130     135
Debit Conversion */.--                                 --      --       --      --     371     969    1000    1000        0        0       0       0
Not Tt Loans. .                            2,073   3,220   1,297   2,283   1,142   1,051       786      871     520     629      600     514     818
Other Net M.LT ,      ,(1)                            (3)      0     (40)       0    (235)   (701) (1,006)   (S40)      (0)      (0)      0       0
Not SFort Term Capit  l /.                   423   1,119    (466) (1,867)    769        86     163       57     118     118      129     140     151
Error. and Omie;ions .49                              101     (76)     68       99      (3)    (49)       0       0       0       0        0       0
Change  n Rserves (() * inres . . . 1,244              67  (1,165)   (541)      17      (4)   (154)    135    (235)    (50)    (50)    (50)    (50)
Net Credit from I     -.F                (52)    (64)    (40)    625      221      205     115      (39)   (100)   (271)   (315)    (74)    (89)
Shares of current MP (Percent):
Resource slnc. .-4.2  -10.3   -2.0                                2.7   -0.7       8.2     4.2     2.8      2.2     3.0     3.0      8.4     3.5
"LT Interest Payments ej      .        . -3.4   -4.4   -7.2    -6.8    -9.3  -10.6   -10.3    -7.7    -6.9    -.6    -6.1   -S.7    -S5.
Current Accourt Selnce       .        . -7.    -14.5    -9.S    -5.7  -10.7   -8.3   -6.5   -S.4    -4.6   -3.6    -3.4   -2.9   -2.8
Total MCIY Capital Inflow .7.5                    9.9     5.3    11.4     6.0      5.1     0.6   -1.8   -0.1        2.8     2.5      2.0     1.9
Net Cradit from IMF          . .        -0.2   -0.2   -0.2        3.2     1.2      1.3     0.7   -0.2   -OS    -1.2   -1.3   -0.3   -0.3
For;gn Exchange Reserves:
International Reserve. (US$ million)  4,074   3,775   2,578   2,023   2,056   1,867   1,778   1,643   1,878   1,928   1,978   2,028   2,078
Reserves as Months of Imports            6,9     5.4      6.0    5.9      5.3      5.6     4.9     3.8      3.8     3.6     3.4     3.2      3.0
Croso Res  inc. Cold (USI million)..  4.086   3,873   2,471   2,630   2,843   2,990   2.801         --       --      '-      --      --       --
Eacxhnse Ret..:
Pe*so  per USs (period average)         39.0    39.0   50.9    78.8   98,7  160.9  192.9  216.4   237.6   261.6  303.0  344.5   391.6
Pesos per SDR (Deceber) .49.7    45.4    81.0    91.6   125.7  202.0  250,4                         --       --      --      --      --       --
Real Effective X-Rate (1980=100) c/  100.00   86.20   98.44  117.34  119.10  132.92  173.99         --       --      --      --      --       --
COP in Currant USS (          d/ ..;o  .. 27,S71  32.644  24,339  19,758  19,191  16.018  16.825  18,675  20,576  22,665  23,623  25.088  26,644
a/. Includeo conver,ior, of osternel liabilities to doseatic *assts (articles XIX and related
transactions) and prepayment of debt throuah purchas abroad of Ch;lean  xiternal debt
(article XVIII and related transact;ono). The contra-account of the debt conversion entry
is reflected in the increase of amortization paymento under Other Net HIT Loane.
b/. Fro  1985 on, e.cludwo short tear  external lieb;lit;** of the C-ntral  ank.
c/. Trade e.;ghtd real *ffoctive *echange rate using period averagee nominal eachange rate. end
period everagoe coamer p,-cice ;ndiea. Trading partners inelude: US, Canada, France, Cermany, Italy,
Spafin, lt, VAnueaula., Japan, Argentina, Brazil, Peru and Ec,ad,o
d/. Translated froe pooo to US$ using average annual noiniet ichenge rates.
D Oate on MILT interet payment from the Central qSrk of Chile. It includes IMF interest  it may d;f4or fro  ODRS data.
LA4CO, September 30, 1987



041t.S - scO'a4C VVItAcRo                                  Page  3  of  S
population: 12,075 (mid-1985 thousands)--------------
195i CNP par Capite: USS 1.440
Pro.                          Actual                              Pro.             Projected
mil i ons)          1980    ln 1981  02    1988    1984    1985    1906    198?    1968    1980    1M*
NATIONAL ACCCUNr4S                       1986 S/         -----------------------------------
-----------                   ----         ---------------  --Re-alo Annual Growth                    ~ Ra..--- -       -- -----
cross Oo.wstic Product         .          1.. 8  .2,625  I   7.5     8.5  -14.1   .0.7    611.8       2.5     5.7     8.5     4.8      5.0    4.8
Agricult.ur  .   ............1.610                  if    5.5      8.6   -1.2   -2.5        7.8     8.6    08.      4.6     5.0     5.0      4.8
Industry end I4ining              .....8.8603        1     8.2     6.8  -14.9      0.7      7.8     5.6     6.1     5.4     8.0     8.0     4.8
Bernicou bl          . .       ....9,886                   8.1     8.8  -15.5   -1.-S      8.4      1.1     4.9     8.4     8.0     8.0     4.8
Cot~eupt~o.18,6..58.  .     .4.2                                8.7  -10.7    -8.0      1.8    -1.0      38 a    8.0     8.3    8.5      4.6
Cross Investment .   .. . ....2,458                  1 31.2   22.0  -$8.3  -17.5    78.8   -6.8    14.~.   10.8   10.8               6.9    9.4
ESPort. of Goods and NFS .8...  .         940             14.8   -9.0      4.7     0.8      6.8     8.9     9.0     8.4     6.4     8.2      2.7
Imports of Goode, and NFS. ......(4.328)             I 18.7   1.8.7  -85.8  -15.1    16.5   -11.0           9.7     7.8     5.4     8.!      6.1
Cross Doe,est;c So.ing  .   .......3.169               I 28.9   ..9.5  -83.7   17.0    89.0   18.8   12.9             8.0     7.9   10.-0    6.0
PRICES
CDP Deflatw.  (1977.100).                                298.9   881.9  378.0  478.1 8,44.2  722.9  8651.9  1017.0  1178.8  1358.7  1565.6
Enchagse Rate Index - lJS$/Ch. Paso  ...         ..    85.8-   58.8   42.4   27.4   21.9   13,4    11.2   10.0              9.1     8.2      7.1
NATIONAL ACCOuNTS AS I OF GOP s1
Gross Iloseatic Product.....            ....               100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  M000   100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Agriculture                             ...........    8.8         8.1     9.4     9.2      9.8     9.6     9.9     9.8     9.8     9.8     9.8
Industry and Mining .8.........                           6.2    8. 36. 1 W       36.6   87.0   87.5    11.8    81.9   81.8   81.8   81.8
Services b/ .58.8   ....        ..                                55.4    84.5   54.2   58.7   86.8   58.8    58.8   50.4    58.4   58.4
Cons,sePtion,.6...........II ...... 83.2    87.6   90.6   87.5i   87.4   68.8    61.6   62.1   62.0   80.9   80.1
Cr~oss In.oats,nt.   .....I...........21.0    22.7    11.8                         9.8    18.6   13.7   14.6   15.2    15.8    16.1   16.9
Exports of Goods and NFS ...............22.6    16.4   19.4   24.0   24.8   29.1   80.6   80.9   30.6   81.7   82.3
Import* of Goods and WFS. ..............27.0    26.8   21.8   21.3    28.8   26.8   28.8   28.1   28.8   28.7   29.8
Gross Dom,estic Sa'-.gs. ................16.8    12.4                        9.4   12.5   12.6    16.8   18.4    17.9 .18.0   19.1   19.9
CONSOLIDATED NON FINANCIAL PUBLIC SECTOR PINANCE  AS S OF CDP
Current Rerenue&:               ......s                . .58.0   82.1    81.0    80.5    81.2    33.3    31.8    80.8    80.1    29.9   80.1
C.r,.ant Eivendltu.rez. ................24.S    26.6    81.9   80.8   30.7   29.6    27.1    25.5    25.1    24.6   24.5
Public Sector Sa inga/Doficit (-).   .........10.8                 5.8   -0.9      0.0     0.8     3.7      4.4     4.6     8.0     8.8     5.6
Capital Formatio .8..........                           .4         5.2     4.7     4.9     6.4      7.0     7.6     7.5     7.5     7.5     7.8
Oneroll Surplua/o.f.cit...............85.5                         0.8   -3.4   -3.0   -4.4    -2.6    -2.2    -1.6    -1.8    -1.0   -0.7
OTHER INDICATORS                                         1970-73 1975-80 1980-88    1988    1984    1985    1988    1987    1968    1989    1990
COP Grcwth Rate (S) .-................ .2.2                        7.5   -0.4   -0.7       6.3      2.8     8.7     8.8    4.8      8.0     4.5
rJ4P Par Cepits Growth Rat. (S)   ........... .4.2                 8.6    -8.0   -8.7      2.8      2.6     4.4     5.5     4.1    8.8      8.0
ICOR (lapsed) .-........ ..                        9. 7            2.1    -44.7  -12.9     2.8     5.8      2.8     2.7     8.3     8.8     3.8
Marginal Ss,.ngs Rate (GNS/aY).5,009   0.261   1.384   5 136   1.434   1.681   0.809   0.889   0.437   0.393  0.321
Import Elasticity   d n,.8~.......                          .5     2.8    21.4   21.8      2.6    -4.8      1.7     1.4     1.2     1.0     1.4
a/. Industrial origin CDP based on contsnt. .trices; expendl;ture MOP based an~ current. Pr~ice.s.
b/. Includes, imputed bank service charge and import duti.s.
Cl Include. Operational o.rplus of public enterpriage and not transfer..
d/. Includes imports of non-factor oer.ices. 5 Yr. Point elasticities, using compounded growth rates.
LA4CO, September 80, 1967



- 35 -                                             ANN=CI
Page 4 of 5
@111. - 6M,MI2 OP PAlWu. 661&IJ. CAPIAL No V
Papylstioni 12.075 (.1d-1955 thoweende)                  ----------   
195 @EW 9ef Ca.lte: UBSI 1,440
ActUal                             Plre.                 Pr.e#be6
P.ANMJC  OF PA l(BVs                       1960    1461    1962    191154   194    1965   1t66    196        1985    lug.    190    1991    199
Net Exports of Goods & NF      ...     .  (1. 163) (8,877    (492)   554    (141)    812     712     5151    489      s       714     664     956
Ezporte of Goods  a* .F 5.9609  8,009   4.642   4.629   4,494   4.495   5,040   5.772   6.8811  7.191   7.629   5.421   9.169
tIports of Goods 4 WS3                 (11.2) (5.41111) (5,28) (4,095  (4,685) (5,8964) (4.68W  (5.2512 (86     (6.105  (695)(.B51  (1.255)
NoAt Trmf~                .                  115   .....        i  lO  109  97  9     St6     54     114    1t0       127     i2n     125     10
Current Account bliance...         . . .I (1,970) (4.78) (2.3064) (I.117) (2,060) (1.829) (1.092  (1.004)   (948)   (607)   (7991)  (784)   (754)
0.rect Foreign Innastent. & Obt. Conv.a/    170     882      864     182      87     189     512     522     455      110     11     1no      185
Not. M41. (Loan.)  ... .......  2.527   4.084                004   1.7*5   2..650  I.,051    785     all    520      620      SW0      14    518
Other Copicl toIbf c/     ......            517     885    (149) (1,271)    850       92     147    (824)   205       116    1I9      140    181
Chang* in Reeerv*s (C)   increase) ,. ..1.244         67  (1,186)   (541)     17      (4)   (154)    lo5'  (28        (50)    (50)    (50)   (80
Internotional Ranervee (not)......    4,074   8.778   2.575   2,023  2,055   1,857   1.775   1.643   1575   1,225   1.97    2,025   2.075
Reeervesas omnth. of imports .6...            .9    5.4      6.0     8.9     5.8     5.6     4,9     5.5     8.6    .8.       5.4     6.2     5.0`
OR=S OIS84S S@O! 8/
Officat Crant . ............                  0       0        0       0       0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0
Grown Disburseaments of 11T Loans . . . . 8,584   8.204   2.675   2,042   2.240   1,470   1.218   1.008      958   1,801   1.254   2.059   2.09?
Pu.bl ic S Publl.cly Gurorntead. . . .    0S0   1.102   1.300   1.609   2.128   1,470   1,215   1,005     063   1,801   1,254   2.059   2.097
mu.tt; lateral .48...           ...74                     64     293     869     485     468     88      60      5M0      400     400     no0
0/0 IRM.   ............                 14      80      32       24      40     231     855     881     296      15'    200      224    217
Si lateral .15...             ...        t        12       0       0      21      61      24      17      17       25      25      25      25
Private Guaranteed A Unidentifiev!      262   1,016   1.255   1,576   1,7358    921      71.1    4*4     S45     77       829   1,584   1,692
Ptivate Non O.uarante, d  .   ......2.694   4.108   1.876         234     114       0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0
TOITAL lILT WCTS4l.051 OM    f9,415  12,3588  18.618  14,682  16,985  17,279  15,4258  15,100  18,692  15,249  16,550  17,854  17,86
PublIi c A Pub 11 aly Guaranteed  f/. . . .4,720   4,415   5.157   6.559  10.601  22,141  122,942  18,625  14,151  14,785  18,859  15.961  15,5856
Mu Iltilo to re    ...l.8...             51     402      489     648     984   1,425   1,905   2,885   2,510   8,095   8,286  5,816  8.858
O/e lOD.   ............ 168                     181    200      213    281      441     O06   1.12    1,566   1,442   1,882   1,625   1.692
a/* IDA.  ............                  21      20       20      19      15      to      17      La       16      is      18      14      14
Di loterol.... ........  1.010                  680      788     602     709     a80     547     688     62     5S0       52      502     479
Private Guaranteed A Unidentified .  8,889   3.158   8,951   5,244   8,988  10.106  10.591  10.680  10,711  11.1*09  11,62   12.148  12.700
Private Nont Guaranteed  a/.  ~....4.69385,185   6,685   8,148   6.862   5. 115   5.405   2,477   1.469   1.465   1,451   1.408   1.548
TOTAL SHORTER  OM DT.   ........1,671   2,159   8,888   2.599   1.914   1,848   1,874   1,681   1,749   1.567   1.998  2.135   2,207
OE81r SBIVICE
Total P.bilic and Privatei MLT
Debt Sarvi4e Paymente .1/ #.1.   ...2,880   3.222   3.202   2,805   2.513   2,386   2.728   2,602   2.754   2,002   2,088   2.6515  2.984
0/a Interest j/.i.   ........            932   1,434   1,780   1.849   1.793   1,702   1,740   1,447   1.417   1,504   1,480   1.418   1,4588
Debt Sep, ice so U of EnoteQt GaS . . .    8 7.9   57.4   62.1   47.7   52.2   80.5   81.5a   44.0   41.7   28.0   25.8   88.1   81.3
Totsal Short Tore Debt Sor. ice Payoente .   161    872     891   1,098      808     408     292     272     192     205     220    285       252
Short Term. Payments as S of Exporte  GAS   2.6     6.5      7.6   22.7      6.8     5.7     7.0     8.6    8.6      8.4      3.4     8.8     8.2
Avg. Int. Rote on Loon.        IN .    /   ..18.5   15.0   18.2    11.8    12.5      9.1     9.7     5.2    6.2      5.8     7.6     7.5      7.2
Avg. Loon Maoturity  (yre.) el    .          .8   10.8      9.2    .6.       9.8   14.0   15.0   171.0   17.8    16.5    15.8   17.9    19.1I
Officiol ..    ..       .8.....            .4     4.5    6.2      3.4    2.6    14.0   15.0    17.0   17.8    16.5   15.8   17.9   19.1
SAW( OROUP EXPOSIJRE (3)
1TM  DOD/TotalI 000..........               1.7    1.4      1.4     1.4     1.4     2.6     4.9     7.0    0.9      6.9    9.1       9.5     9.5
IOFt Die./Total Gross Disbursements        0.4     0.5     1.2      1.2     1.5   1S. 7    29.9   886.0   80.6    12.1    15.9   10.9   10,4
IRV0 Debt Ser,vice/Total Dobt Service i/   1.0    0.5a    0.9       1.2     1.5     1.4     1.6    8.5      4.8     9.4    10.9     9.1     9.0
IDA DOD/Tots I DOD .   ......... 0.2               0.2    0.1      0.1      0.1     0.1    0.1      0.1     0.1    0.1      0.1     0.1     0.1
el. Froe 1958 on, includes debt conversion Chapter XIX end related transaction..
b/ Includes e,traordinary an.ortizotion Contra-account to debt converoeione, Chapters IIVIII and XIX.
t/. Includes other not lILT capital, Debt Conversion Chapter XIX, not short-term capital. retiming (1965), and errore, end oeieeion.. Eveludso, IN?
8/. Eexcl..deo DIP disbursements. Actual data source: ORS  1985-87e4? in
e/. Fxcludas use of IMF credit, includle. reduction in 0OM due to debt Conversion schemes.
f/. In 198846, the Chilean Gave"ma.nt guaranteed a largle portion of the Private financial ey.tom
external debt, a. 4port of renegotiation., with its Commercial creditor..
p1. Includee the 1985-85188S3.34 bilIlion reduetion in 00W from debt convercion under Articles XVIII. XIX and related traneactiors.
S/. Includoe short term debt A interest paymenta. Includee average epread.
i.Includes 1MA debt eervic..
U.Date on 141. infteret payeent from. the Central Bank of Chi le, It includoe IlMF intereet.. It my differ free OM5 data.
LA4C0, September 80, 1987



-36 -                         ANNEX I
CHIL  - OfOWLTRAMPage  5  of  5
Popui*tio,n: 12,076 (~-9Stoim*)------                                         -
1085 0JP P,ar Capita: 1.15S 1,440
----------  ----------------------- -~------ -8.                       - --w. -~t - - ---------------------------
(UNS                         cts               Pr..            ProJoct.d
MHRCHWMISE TRADE                         1088           1982  1low    1494   1085   1086   1907   1986   1980   1900   1991   1392
Herchvndi,. Exports,       .....        4.199         13.6    6.3    0.1   10.8    6.3    58         7.5    8.8    2.2    5.8    4.9
Hinig coods.        .....2,008                        9.8    1.6    0.0    8.8    0.8    0.9    7.1   10.1   -2.2    3.3    2.8
ole Copper. ...........1,757                    I 16.4    0.8   -0.5   10.9    1.2    0.0    6.1   11.4   -2.6    3.8    8.0
Agricuiturol004 God.68..      ..         3           13.0    1.8   15.5   20.6   25.4   11,7   11.6    7,4    6.2    8.2    q.4
Manufset~.,'d Goods       . ..   ..1.420         1 21.7   12.7   -3.0   11.8   1313    0.1    6.3    6.7    4.7    8.8    a.5
Me.,chand,ds, Importo Ft L            304            -38.0  -13.5   15.4  -13.4    7.6    7.8    6.9    5.2    5.2    T.4    .8.
Conasuer Coeds.680   ...      .I  -35.2  -30.5    5.4  -3e.3    7.5    7.8    4.'.                          4,6    5.0    5.6    4.9
c/a, Foo  .   .  ........ 152                  17.5    7.8    3.6    4.1    5.1    4.4    4.2
Intermadiato Gocod. ......           1,7158         -32.0    3.2   13.0  -10.7    7.7    7.8    5.4    5.2    6.8    7.1    6.2
Cepitel Goods..663                                  -50.5  -43.4   66.1   11.4    7.5    7.6    9.8    6.2    0.4   10.3   11.2
PRICES AND TEFMs OF TRADOE (1080.100)    1080   1981   1982   1983   1004   1985   1086   1087   1080   1960   1090   31901   1902
Export Price index. .........100 0    64.8   72.4   71.1   67.8   63.6   44.6   70.6   72.8   76.3   70.2   62.8   05.0
Import Price Index..........   100.0  102.7   00.1   01.3   81.5   60.0   78.8   91.2   97.0  102.1  102.15  104.6  107.3
Terms of Tradle Index. ........ 10C.0   84.3   60.4   87.5   83.2   78.5   82.0   77.4   75.1   74.7   77.3   70.0   60.1
EXTERNAL TRADE AS PERCeRT OF TOTAL (3)
Mscado E,port.s. ........100 0   100 0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
M,finfl Goods .6...                    5.6   56.8   57.3   61.0   53.7   55.7   49.9   49.7   48.2   47.6   46.4   46.2   46.5
o/. (cpp*r. ............45.2   45,3   4S.5   46.0   43.9   47.0   41.8   42.2   41.2   41.1   30.8   40.0   40.5
Aqricv1t,,xoJ Goods .7....              .2    0.5   10.1    8.6   11.7   13.5   16.3   15.5   16.5,  16.5   17.1   17.1   17.4
Manufact,red G-oods. ........ 37.2   83.7   32.6   30.5   34.5   30.7   33.8   34.8   35.8   35.9   36.5   36.7   38.1
M*rchandizo Imports ClF      .        100.   100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.   100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Cor,Ourer Goods .......... 33.7   87.3   88.3   32.8   27.9   23.0   21.9   10.5   10.3   19.4   10.6   189   18.41
o/w Food.   ............13.0   11.3   14.4   16.6   13.2    7.5    4.9    4.8    4.9    5.0    5.2    5.0    4.8
Intermed,sts Goods ........ 45.6   43.0   46.7   55.4   56.1   57.1   48.6   48.0   47.0   46.8   45.0   45.1   44.
Cspitsi Goods. ...          .... 20.7   19.8   1.7.0   12.4   16.0   19.0   21.4   24.3   25.0   25.3   25.8   26.3   27.1
DIREC'TION OF TRADE AS I OF TOTAL                                                                       Period Averuge,
Dir*ction 04 Exports   . . .         .  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0 .   . .100.0
Unit.*d States.12.6   15 0   21.6   28.2   25.0   22.8   281.0 .   ..                                   .  22.0
.Jeopn      .. . ...10 7   10.0   10.8   11.0    0.1   11.2    8.9 .   ..                               .  10.5
E E C Cc..rt-.av                       34.7   31 1   31 A   32.5   20.0   32.1   34.1.   ....              32.1
Germ-an                              13.1   11.5   11.5   12.6   10.0    0.7    0.0 .   ..             .  11.1
Ital        ..  ..5.4   45.4    4.7    4.4    4.4    6,2    4.8 .   ..                                .   10.6
Frv~~~~ca ~4.6    4.9    4.1    4.6    4.5    3.8    3.6 ..                              I     .  4.3
L.A.F.T.A Co,.tres  .       .......23.7   21.3   10.0   11.7   14.7   14.0   16l.2 .   ..               .   17.2
8rez,1          .                     01.8    7.3    8 3    4.3    6.2    5.5,   7.4 ..            I     .  6.0
Argentine&                   . .I 6.0    4.8    4.1    3.1    3.2    2.2    3.0 .   ..                .   8.8
Othe,rs                                18.3   21.8   17.3   15.7   21.2   20.0   12.7 .I      .             18.1
Direction of Imports.   ........100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0 .   ..                   .    100.0
United Stntes  .... .    . . ....28.6   215.6   23.9   28.7   21.5   21.8   10.2 .I..                   .  23.5,
Japn    ~. ..   ..   .    ..     . 7.2   10.6    6.0    5.4    0.0    6.3   10.7    .     I..     .    7.0
E E.C Couetries.      .      .         17 1   16,8   15 8   15 1   15.7   16.4   1.7.   ....                i6 5
Germany  .... .    .....6.0    5.6    5.6    6.2    6.2    7.0    8.8 .j..                            .    6.5
Italy.     .. .    ......2.0    2.3    1.9    1~7                   1.9    1.7    2.1 .   ....            1.9
france,.....     . ..      . ....    3.8    3.5    3 3    2 P    2.8    2.6    3.3 ..              1..     3.1
L.A.F.T.A Countries.     .    .       22.7   21.4   20.8   25.7   255.9   246.1   23.2 .   ..           .  23.7
Breuil . I       .      .7.7    0.0    6.8    6.4    8.6    8.3    7.6.   ....                             7.7
Argantinv                             3.1    2.2    3.9    6.8    4.6    3.5    8.9 .   ..             .   4.0
Other ....                             24.4   26.7   33.5   80.1   26 0   20.5   28.3         .      I-.       .  28.5
LA4CO, Sr.ptombar 30. 1087



- 37 -
ANREX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BAR GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHILE
A. STATNIER OF BARK LQANS AND IDA CREDITS (as at September 30, 198')
Loan or                                                    US$ million
Credit                                             Amounts (less cancellations)
Number      Year    Borrower    Purpose              Bank      IDA  Undisbursed
29 loans and one credit fully disbursed             902.6     22.9 1/      -
1832        1980    Chile      Water Supply          32.4      -          0.4
2297        1983    Chile      Highway Recon. II   128.0       -         23.5
2481        1984    Chile      Agri. Serv./Credit   56.0       -         46.3
2482        1984    Chile      Housing               80.0      -         14.6
2504        1985    Chile      Public Sector Mgt.   11.0       -         10.0
2589        1985    Chile      Road Sector          140.0      -         96.1
2606        1985    Chile      Ind. Fin. Rest.      100.0      -         80.8
2613        1985    CORFO      Small & Ned. Ind.    40.0       -         33.0
2651        1986    EMOS       Sant. Wat. Sup.       60.0      -         58.8
2652        1986    ESVAL      Val. Wat. Supply       6.0      -          5.9
2832 21     1987    CORFO      Hydroelectric         95.0      -         95.0
2833 2/     1987    ENDESA    Power Transmission   21.5        -         21.5
Total                                             1,672.5     22.9
of which has been repaid                          271.6      6.2
Total now outstanding                             1,400.9     16.7
Amount sold                      7.2
of which has been repaid                            7.2
Total now held by Bank and IDA                    1,393.7    16.7
Total undisbursed                                                       485.9
1/ Includes exchange rate adjustments. The original amount of the credit
was US$19.0 million.
2/ Not yet signed.



- 38 -
ANX= II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATRE#N  0F IFC INVETMSTS (as at September 30, 1987)
Type' of           Amount in USS million
Year        Obligor               Business           Loan    Equity    Total
1958, 1959, Empresa Minera de
1966, 1984     Mantos Blancos       Copper mining      35.10    4.25    39.35
1959, and    Fideos y Alimentos
1965           Carozzi S.A.         Food products       1.50    0.15      1.65
1960, 1961
and 1965     Cemento Bio-Bio S.A.  Cement               1.20    0.10      1.30
1963        Cia. Manufacturera de
Papeles y Cartones  Pulp and paper      3.00      -       3.00
1970        Minera Sagasa S.A.      Copper mining      10.45    0.45    10.90
1982        Inverchile              Money and capital   -       0.20      0.20
markets
1986        Signal Methanol         Chemicals & Petro-
Chemicals       50.00    5.00    55.00
1986        Compania de Carbones   Mining              16.50    2.20    18.70
de Chile (COCAR)
1987        Arauco                  Pulp and Paper    15.00       -      15.00
Total gross commitments               132.75   12.35   145.10
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                   82.84    0.78    83.62
Total Commitments now held by IFC   49.91   11.57    61.49
= -        __==   __
Total Undisbursed                    35.00    5.92    40.92



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
SUPPLEMENTARY LOAN DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events:
(a) Time taken by the Country to Prepare Project: 2 months
(b) Project Prepared by: Ministries of Economy and Finance and the
Central Bank
(c) First Presentation to the Bank: May 1987
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:  July 1987
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:       October 30, 1987
(f)  Planned date for Effectiveness:  December 1987
Section II: Svecial Bank Imolementation Action:
None.
Section III: Special Conditions:
The following conditions have been established for the release of the
second tranche:
1. Macroeconomic and Ex=ort Policy
(a) strengthen Copper Stabilization Fund;
(b) continue present policy of frequent and regular adjustments in the
nominal exchange rate to maintain the real effective exchange rate;
lc) modify incentive framework if nontraditional exports are projected to
grow by less than 7 percent in real terms in 1988; and
(d) provide satisfactory evidence that the Borrower's program of external
financing will continue to be adequate.



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
2.   Public Finance and Investment
(a)  increase public savings to at least a projected 5 percent of GDP in
1988;
(b)  prepare a public investment program for the years 1988-90, including
investments in 1988 of about 7.5 percent of GDP, and review with the
Bank the execution of the 1987 and 1988 public investment program; and
(c) maintain current program of public expenditure restraint to limit
overall deficit of nonfinancial public sector to less than 1.6 percent
of GDP for 1988.
3.   Financial System
(a) modify tax law to encourage investment and the development of capital
markets through revisions in the tax treatment of income from secur-
ities and reduce stamp tax by about 50 percent;
(b) improve system of risk classification to stimulate capital markets;
and
(c) carry out studies on (i) banking efficiency and competition among
financial institutions; (ii) broadening the range of available finan-
cial instruments; and (iii) means to encourage companies to develop
into open corporations (Sociedades An6nimas Abiertas).
4.   Social Security
(a) introduce administrative and collection procedures to increase effi-
ciency of private pension funds;
(b) complete a study of (i) ways to augment the participation of the self-
employed in pension system and (ii) ways to reduce operating costs so
to reduce fixed commissions; and
(c) take measures to increase public understanding of reform.
5.   Health
(a) improve preventive health care and broaden preventive action to in-
clude adult chronic diseases;
(b) implement administrative systems to improve cost contaiunent, account-
ing, user fee collection, and hospital management;
(c) strengthen regulation of private health care industry (e.g.: cancel-
lation of policies) and clarify contracting relations witn public
sector; and
(d) undertake Ch$3 billion two-year program to rehabilitate machinery and
hospitals starting January 1, 1988.



- 41 -
CHILE - PIIIPOSEP STRUCTURAL  WUSTIWI  PIUMs ISSUES AN D         E                   tllb   IV
Page I of 3
Structural lsu                      he#au        Taken by                   Cnitoni of                            Prior to Secnd            Test
Ibfnrf   t                         bard Prntetation                      Trenche Disburtemt          Para.
uwaacuuic An
EIPORT PO0ION
Iaintain coptitiveness of            eneal of Copper                    laintain Coppr                            Strangthen Copper Stabilization        44
exports,  speially non-             Stabilization Fund                  Stibiliation Fund.                        Fund in 198  by narrowing
traditional experts.                nt'blisbe  in 15.                                                            bans that activate ftund and
substitute quarterly for nnual
averaging.
Attractie real tichaqn              Continue present policy of                Continue presnt policy of reglar  4f
rate.                               nominal adjustents in                     adjustents in the noninal
the exchange rate to imintain            enchag  rate to mtintain
the real effctive exchne rate.           the real effctive exchange rate.
Promote nontraditional exports      Legislation that provides             odify incentive traork if               Nodify incentive framer it            45
to continUe efforts of              incentivn to waell                  nontraditional exports are projected to nontraditionar aports are pro-
divtrsification.                    nontraditional e%porters.           grow by less tha 61 in real term  in  jected to grow by les  than n  in
1917.                                    real term  in m8.
Evidence that Chile's progra  of      45
external finaning will continue
to be adequate.
offset disdvantae of                Unified 201 tariff rate             Revis  DKer  Lan 1226 and 409                                                   46
tariff systn  for exports.          for imports. Established            to expand;tariff rebate syste  to
lisited drawback prograe            include indirKct exporters in
for emports.                        drawback system.
Promte nontraditional exports                                                   47
by ntablishing legal fraewrk for
etport credit insurance systea and
partial gurantes for small exporters.



- 42 -
CHILE - PIWUPUSED       M U IDUSTIMI PIUHi lItS AND   w                          lii  IV
Page 2 of 3
Structural ssus                       awrn  Taken by                       Coition  of                          Priort o  ceKnd          Text
sovrnant                          Sard Presentation                    Tranche Dishorsent          fare.
PJIC FINAlES IID INVEST
Increase thw contribution of       Publication of 1996-89              Increas  public savings to a pro-        Incruu puelic uvings to a pro-    49
th  public actor to                d loplt program.                    JKtd 4.81 of 1   in 1M.                  jKctd 5.0 of GP in 11.
dometic uvings.
Maintain erform o Of overall                                                                                    Ibintain current program of           4
pblic sector consistent                                                                                         public expenditure
with sustainable growth.                                                                                        restraint to liait overall
deficit of nonfinancial plic
sector to 1.6 Z of SUP for 1997
ad Ins for 19M1.
Impro  social returns to           Prepared public invntant            Prp     an invetmet progra  with         Prepre a public inetmtnt             50
public invtm nt.                   program 1987-9.                     invntmnt lenvls of 7.1t of UP            progra  for the years 198-0,
in 19"  consistent with sustainable    including investmnt of 7.1  of UP
increas  in overall invstmnt.           in 11; revie  with the Onk the
exKution of the 1981 an  195 publit
invstment  rogr".
FINIALIM. SYSTEN
Continue rehabilitation            Ruapitalization  procns for         Continu  banking sector rehabilitation, Coplete a study of banking             51
of tte banking system.             intervened banks.                   aum ting mitoring, and inproving    sKtor efficiency and coptition.
public disclosure of
Cospleted privatization of         depoit limits.
intervented banks.
Enacted nef banking la  of 199,
including depsit insurance
schm.
Improve efficiency of              Incou tan refore in 194 to                                                  Modify tas I  to entcurage            60
intermdiation in long-term         encourage reinvestment of                                                   equity investmns and
tincial mrkets, enhance            corporate profits and                                                       reuce stp tax from 2.42
security of pension funds,         private svings.                                                             to 1.2 1
and deelop capital urkets.
New cortprate legislation          Amnd DL 3500 to                          Create more flexible syste  of        61
isproving transparency of          permit enhanced participation            risk classification for secritin    63
controlling stockholders and       of pension funds in equity               to stiulate capital urrets.
reucing cros-participation         mrkets.
twten fires.
Strengthen regulation of                                                      62
insurance companies and mutual
funds with prudent portfolio
guidelin  for divenification and
lisits to related-party investments.



- 43 -
CHILE - PIWOPSE  STRUCTUL  ADJUSTIENT PROIRAlK ISSUES AND SCIIPE                    Awll IV
Page S.of 3
------------------------------- ~ . -  -_ _ __--__         ,    .. ._ .. . __                          -  -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -     -  -- __  --
Pg3etS~~~~se
S"
Structural Isom                     Neasueu  Tan  by                          Conditions of                         Prior to Second            Text
kvwentmt                            Saud Presntation                      Tranche Disursent            Pars.
SOCIAL SECTORS
SCial Security Systei
Protection and seurity              Pension systen refora of  MiI.         odify social security law to                                                    66
of pension funds.                                                         pmit greater investmts in
equity markets (noted above)
and affirm principles of
portfolio manmot.
Reduce costs and increase                                                 lacrean  cepetition among                 Introduce administrative and           47
coeptitivems of ARPs.                                                    pension funds by loering capital           collecton prordurff  to                68
requirents for entry and                  increas  efficiency of private
rncouragiag n   fire-bae  funds.          pension funds.
Increase long-tere                                                       Increase tht coverage by                   Complete a study of the coverage    4N
coverae of systn.                                                        extending autmtic disability               of self-emplyed.
and survival benefits to
tempirarily unemployed workers.
Encourag  widespread knoeiedge                                            leprove presentation of                   Complete study of ways to cut          71
of ne system and enhance vorkers                                         information on AFP yields,                 operating costs so as to reduce        72
identification vith their funds.                                         commissions and benefits is                fixed coseisions.                      73
quarterly reports to affiliates;
perait voluntary savings accounts.
Health Systemt
Consolidate gains of past           Focusing program on                                                            lprove preventive health care          74
health instuents, especially         lowest income groups.                                                          and broaden preventive action
in primry and preventive                                                                                            to include chronic diamses of
health care                                                                                                         adults, including cancer, cardio-
vascular and other disca es.
lprov  efficiency in us  of        Partial decentralization  nd                                                    lpleent adeiaistrative systems         75
resurcs allocated to MSIIS.         municipalization of                                                             to isprove cost containmnt,
health syste  oeginning in m    .                                              accounting, user fee collection,
and hespital sanageent.
Improve efficiency of the                                                                                          Strengthen regulation of private        76
private health core system.                                                                                        health care industry
(e.g.: cancellation of policiesl
and clarify contracting relations
with public sector.
tmprove efficiency of                                                                                              Undertake ChDO  b. tw-year program   77
investmnt in health.                                                                                                to rehabilitate machinery & hospitals.
1 1/2/87



_44                           ANNEX V
Page 1 of 9
November 2, 1987
Mr. Barber B. Conable
President
The World Bank
Dear Mr. Conable:
1.          The Chilean economy has undergone a profound process of change
in its structure. Starting in 1975, the country's economy has been liberalized
and opened up, with the virtual elimination of nontariff barriers to imports,
the unification and substantial reduction in customs tariffs, the lifting
of price controls and deregulation of domestic markets, the gradual reduction
in the size of the state through privatization of public enterprises and
the curbing of public outlays, together with the application of responsible
fiscal and monetary policies.
2.          As a result of this strategy,  economic activity grew steadily
between 1975 and 1980, with GDP showing an average yearly rate of increase
of 7.5 percent.  This growth was led by exports of goods and services, which
increased 15.1 percent in volume, while at the same time displaying ever
greater diversification in terms of products and markets. Economic expansion
was accompanied by a strengthening of the public finances, a gradual reduction
in inflation from 340 percent in 1975 to 30 percent in 1980, and a 23 percent
decline in real net external debt between 1975 and 1980.
3.          The deterioration in the terms of trade that occurred in 1981
(estimated at 21 percent), plus the rise in international interest rates
on external financial markets, put an end to this period of expansion and
created the need for a drastic adjustment in domestic expenditure. The impact
on the Chilean economy of these changes in the external economic environment
was particularly severe, as the period from mid-1980 on had witnessed a massive
influx of external funds to the private sector, favored by the high worldwide
liquidity prevailing at the time, the deregulation of the domestic capital
market, and the application of a fixed exchange rate policy. The resultant
adjustment led to a sharp recession in 1982-83, with a drop in GDP, increased
unemployment, and a proliferation of financial problems within companies
and banks.



-45-                          ANNEX V
Page 2 of 9
4.          Since then, the Governnent has applied an economic policy combining
the short-term objective of encouraging the maximum expansion of economic
activity  compatible  with  a  gradual  diminution  of  external  financing
requirements, and the longer-term objective of laying the foundations for
sustained growth through intensification of the structural adjustment initiated
in  1975.   The  first  of  these  objectives  was  given  concrete  form  in  a
macroeconomic program for 1985-88, supported by an IMF Extended Fund Facility.
The second objective has been pursued through a program of structural
adjustment, supported by the World Bank through SAL I in 1985-86, SAL 1I
in 1986-87, and the proposed SAL III in 1987-88. The program also received
support from the international creditor banks and the official creditor
agencies through flinancial packages negotiated in 1985 and 1987.
5.          The  aim  of  the  structural  adjustment  program  is  to  promote
increased exports, improve the quality and quantity of investment, and expand
domestic savings.   In this way it is expected to lay the foundations for
sustained growth in output and employment, in conjunction with a gradual
improvement in the credit worthiness of the Chilean economy.
Progress of the Structural Adjustment
6.          In  accordance  with  the  program  objectives,  the  Government's
economic policy has  constantly  sought  to promote  increased exports.   The
following measures have been taken in this regard:
(a)   A realistic exchange rate policy, allowing a 97 percent increase in
the effective real exchange rate (defined as the peso price of foreign
exchange) between the final quarter of 1981 and the same period in
1986.
(b)   Moderate and virtually uniform customs tariffs set at the 20 percent
level, with the sole exception of products subject to proven unfair
competition from imports from any trading partner.
(c)   Establishment of an efficient mechanism form returning indirect taxes
paid on small-scale export transactions, defined as those with a value
of less than Us$7.5 million, taking the form of a drawback equivalent
to 10 percent of the export value.
(d)   improved system for returning the Value Added Tax to exporters, making
the regulations both more flexible and less time-consuming.
(e)   Elimination of stamp duty on export credit transactions.
(f)   Increase in individual bank credit margins to exporters from 5 percent
to 10 percent for loans without real collateral and from 25 percent



- 46 -                        ANNEX V
Page 3 of 9
to 30 percent with such collateral.
(g)   Extension of the period within which exporters are required to convert
the proceeds from their foreign sales into pesos.
7.          The  structural  adjustment  program  seeks to create a favorable
environment for increasing and making good use of savings and investment.
Particular attention has accordingly been paid to strengthening the financial
sector, which had been severely shaken by the 1981-83 economic crisis.  In
order to lessen the effects of that crisis, the Government between 1982 and
1984 took over certain financial institutions and liquidated others; in
addition, small and medium-sized domestic debts were rescheduled with Central
Bank support, a preferential exchange rate was maintained for the servicing
of debts in foreign currency, and the Central Bank purchased -with a
repurchased agreement- that portion of the banks' portfolio deemed to be
uncollectible.   These measures helped the system overcome the worst moments
of the crisis.   However,  as indicated in the SAL I program,  initiated in
1985, sound fiscal and monetary policy management required that the Central
Bank refrain from any new subsidy programs and, wherever possible, gradually
eliminate existing programs of that nature. These commitments were faithfully
implemented during 1985 and 1986, with the elimination of the preferential
exchange rate and other subsidy programs.
8.          During 1986, thp situation of the private banks improved in terms
of net assets and results from operations. The same year saw the introduction
of a new Banking Law, designed to increase the transparency of banking
operations and to facilitate supervision of banking institutions. With the
strengthening   of   the   banking   system,   financing   operations   expanded
significantly, as evidenced by a healthy growth in the various monetary and
financial aggregates.  Finally, the first quarter of 1987 brought to a close
the process of reprivatization of the banks that had been taken over earlier,
with the transfer to private ownership of Banco de Chile and Banco de Santiago.
In both cases, the Government employed privatization procedures that encouraged
wide spread ownership.
9.          In pursuing  the  goal  of  raising  saving and investment rates,
the structural adjustment program has assigned a major role to the public
sector. The program proposed that public savings be increased from 0.6 percent
of GDP in 1984 to 4.5 percent in 1986 and to 4.8 percent in 1987. The actual
rate achieved in 1986 was 4.6 percent, and the 1987 target is again expected
to be exceeded.   Public investment amounted to 7.1 percent of GDP in 1985
and 7.6 percent in 1'386: the projected figure for 1987 is 7.5 percent.  It
should be noted that sizable shareholdings in such companies as CAP, Endesa,
Ecom, Chilmetro, Chilquinta and Soquimich were privatized in 1986-87. This
process of privatization, seeks to transfer important savings and investment
decisions to the private sector.  It should also be noted that the increase



-47 -                        ANNEX V
Page 4 of 9
in public savings has been brought about largely by holding down current
outlays.   The period  1984-87 has witnessed the progressive implementation
of a major tax reform that has reduced the double taxation of individual
savings and partially exempted undistributed business profits from income
tax.
10.         The  structural  adjustment  program  currently  being  implemented
has achieved significant results in terms of the pattern of exports, savings
and investment.   Between 1984 and 1986, the physical volume of non-copper
exports expanded at an average annual rate of, 13.4 percent. Exports of goods
and services, measured as a percentage of GDP at constant prices, which had
represented only 11.5 percent of GDP in 1970, grew from 20.4 percent in 1981
to 27.7 percent in 1986.  The gross domestic savings rate, rose from 12.5
perceni of GDP in 1984 to 18.5 percent in 1986. This increase made it possible
to raise the gross national savlngs rate (the fraction of domestic savings
used to finance investment) from 3 percent in 1984 to 8 percent in 1986.
The investment rate rose to 14.4 percent in 1986, compared with 13.6 percent
in 1984.
11.         The aforementioned results have been accompanied by encouraging
results in economic growth, employment, real wages, social indicators,
inflation and external debt. GDP groifth average 4.7 percent per annum between
1984 and 1986, while a 5.5 percent yearly average growth in employment took
place over the same period, making it possible to bring the unemployment
rate down to approximately 10 percent, from the more than 20 percent figure
it had reached during the worst periods of the recession. It should be noted
that the number of persons enrolled in the emergency employment programs
(PEM and POJH) has fallen from 9.5 percent of the labor force at the end
of 1984 to 4.5 percent at the end of 1986.  Meanwhile real wages grew by
2 percent in 1986, after declining 1985. Social indicators such as the infant
mortality rate, professional care during childbirth and programs to increase
coverage of basic services all continued to improve.  The rate of inflation
remained moderate, averaging 23 percent a year over the period 1984-86.
Lastly, mention should be made of the decline in the country's external debt
ratios.  As a multiple of exports of goods and services, the external debt
outstanding  fell  from 4.3  in  1984  to 4.0 in 1986.   The debt conversion
mechanisms first introduce in mid 1985 played a crucial role in reducing
the country's debt indicators.  These mechanisms not only helped reduce the
magnitude of the country's financial commitments, but also (among other
beneficial effects) strengthened the net assets situation of banks and other
enterprises, thereby facilitating an effective increase in the level of
activity and investment.
Economic Program for 1987-88
12.         The economic program for 1987-88 is consistent with the structural



- 48 -                        ANNEX V
Pag 5 of 9
adjustment strategy described above.   The program calls for a 4-5 percept
average yearly increase in GDP over the two-year period, and an annual
inflation rate within the 15-20 percent range.  As regards the balance of
payments, the program projects a current account deficit of approximately
U$$900-1,000 million per annum, stemming essentially from the payment of
interests on the external debts; excluding this item .and other non-factor
services, the trade balance is expected to record a surplus of some US$900-
1,000 million.   Net international  reserves are expected to show a slight
increase.
13.         The financing of the 1987-88 program takes account of the resources
obtained in the 1987 negotlations with creditor banks, multilateral agencies
and  government  lending  institutions.   The  international  banks  will  be
participating as follows: (a) change in the frequency of interest payments
from a semiannual to an annual basis ('retiming") effective January 1, 1988;
(b) reduction in the rate of interest effective January 1, 1987 ('repricing")
by eliminating the prime as the basis for determining the cost of "new money"
borrowed by the Central Bank and reducing the spreads above LIBOR both for
"new money' and for old debt; (c) restructuring of loans in a total amount
of US$12,486 million, as a result of which no payments will be required before
1991 on all bank loans outstanding in 1983 plus all new money negotiated
since then;  (d) finally, it was agreed to extend the availability of short-
term credit lines,  representing a minimum amount of US$1.7 billion, until
the  end  of  1989.   The  1987-88  financial  package  is  completed  with  the
refinancing of public sector loans with official agencies  (Paris Club) and
an additional World Bank participation in the amount of US$250 million under
SAL III.
SAL III Program
14.         The SAL III program largely seeks to consolidate the gains made
since 1985 in adjusting the structure of production and expenditure in the
Chilean economy.   In each of the main areas of focus -exports, investment,
and savings- the program also provides for specific policies to improve and
strengthen the incentives offered. The program also places particular emphasis
on the social sectors, to ensure that efforts toward structural adjustment
will continue to be accompanied by constant improvements in living conditions,
particularly for the poorest segments of society.
15.         As regards exports, stress will continue to be laid on maintaining
a systeia of macroeconomic conditions designed to promote balanced development
of sectors with export potential and providing tax and other measures to
offset the disincentives stemming from customs tariffs and ohter distortions.
The policies and measures envisaged include the following:
(a)   Maintenance of the exchange rate policy that has been in effect since



-49-                         ANNMEV
g  6Of 9
1983, which takes the form of a daily devaluation of the peso reflecting
the difference between domestic and external inflation, in order to maintain
a realistic exchange rate.
(b)   Maintenance  of  the current  policy with  regard to  customs  tariffs,
involving a virtually uniform 20 percent tariff.
(c)   Maintenance and enhancement of the Copper Stabilization Fund, set up
under SAL I to lessen the impact of short-term fluctuations in the
price of copper on the country's international reserves (and hence
on  the  exchange  rate),  as  well  as  on  the  national  budget.   The
strengthening of this mechanism is particulary important in light of
the recent rise in copper prices on international markets, as a means
of demonstrating yet again that the country's exchange rate policy
will continue to be governed by long-term considerations.
(d)   The  enactment  and/or  implementation  of  various  statutory  measures
designed to improve the system of drawbacks for small-scale exporters,
to include "indirect exporters" under the system for refunding customs
tariffs on imported inputs and capital goods, to establish the legal
framework for an export credit insurance scheme, and to set up a partial
guarantee fund for small and medium-scales exporters.
16.         As regards fiscal policy,  the program will continue to stress
higher public savings and maintenance of a high rate of public investment.
The rate of public savings and maintenance of a high rate of public investment.
The rate of public savings (the surplus on the consolidated nonfinancial
public sector's current budget) is expected to grow from 4.8 percent to 5.0
percent of GDP. Public investment is expected to remain at about 7.5 percent
of GDP, with projects subject to rigorous socioeconomic evaluation to ensure
that they are of optimum quality.
17.         The  policies  designed  to  promote  private  sector  savings  and
investment includes, as in previous years, the maintenance of a macroeconomic
climate conducive to this goal (stable rules of the game, adequate relative
prices, prudent management of aggregate demand policies) and a tax system
with the smallest  possible disincentives  for savings and investment.   In
addition, given their obvious impact on the volume and quality of investment,
the  structural  adjustment  program  has  devoted  special  attention  to
institutional  aspects of the capital market.   The following measures are
envisaged in this area for 1987-88:
(a)   Full application  of  the provisions  contained  in the recent Banking
Law reforms, in particular as regards supervision by SIB, of the system
of government guarantees for deposits, and regulations affecting the
services provided by banks and other financial intermediaries, in order



- 50 -                        ANNEX V
Page 7 of 9
to encourage proper competition in the capital market.
(b)   Implementation  of  certain  tax  initiatives  designed  to  further  the
development of the capital market, notably:
-     reduction in the stamp duty on loans;
-     revision of the Income Tax Law in the direction of more symmetrical
treatment of capital gains and losses;
-     wider margins for exemption  from taxes on income derived from
capital gains, in order to promote equity financing.
-     Introduction of tax exemption for incomes derived from securities
issued by open corporation (Sociedades An6nimas Abiertas), in
orden to foster their development.
-     revision of the tax treatmet accorded investments in mutual funds.
(c)   Implementation  of  certain  studies  and  measures  designed  to  improve
the regulations governing institutional investors, notably:
-     proceed with plans to promote the development of flexible private
systems  for  rating  the  risks associated with publicly offered
securities and shares.  Initially, these mechanisms will operate
in parallel with that currently existing for investments by Pension
Fund Administrators (AFPs), but in the medium term (and after
a trial period) the intention is to include them in the new system;
-     amend the regulations governing investments by insurance companies
and mutual funds, to make them more flexible and ensure that
they lead to a healthy diversification of investments. In the
case of the insurance companies, the rules governing reserve
accounting will also be revised;
application of the new rules governing AFP investments in shares
(recent changes in Decree-Law 3500) and more flexible regulations
governing their participation in primary markets;
revision  of  regulations  that  might  stand  in  the way  of  the
introduction of new financial instruments, such as preference
shares, options, etc.
18.         In the social sphere, the program calls for measures in the social
welfare and health care sectors, as follows:



-51 -                         ANNEX V
Page 8 of 9
(a)   In the social welfare field, it is planned to push ahead with the recent
changes in Decree-Law 3500 designed to improve the new pension scheme.
In addition, efforts will continue to better inform the public about
these provisions, and studies will be carried out into formulas that
would reduce the system's operating costs.
(b)   In the health care sector, measures are planned to:
-     consolidate the advances made in maternal and child health care
and improve the effectiveness of the strategy for prevention
and early diagnosis of certain chronic ailments;
-     improve the efficiency with which the human and financial resources
assigned to the National Health Service (SNS) are employed in
order to direct the fiscal outlays in question primarily toward
tJs low-income population;
-     improve  the  efficiency  with  which  SNS  resources  are assigned
by strengthening the management of the public services in question
and introducing proper systems of planning and control;
-     improve the regulations of new private health insurance system
(ISAPRES) in order to augment its coverage.
-     increase  the  efficiency  of  certain  public  investments  in the
sector, particularly in equipment maintenance and rehabilitation.
19.   The program as set forth above is consistent with the stated objective
of guiding the Chilean economy along the path of a 4-5 percent yearly growth
in GDP, based on a 6-7 percent yearly increase in non-copper exports in terms
of volume and a sustained domestic savings effort (gross domestic savings
are projected to groit from 18.5 percent in 1986 to 24 percent in 1990), with
a consequent reduction in Chile's dependence on external credit. The external
debt indicators are accordingly expected to continue their downward trend,
with the debt-export ratio declining from 4.0 in 1986 to 2.7 in 1990. The
government plans to apply macroeconomic policies consistent with the targets
mentioned in this paragraph and will seek the continued support of the
International Monetary Fund, as well as from Chile's official, multilateral
and private creditors.
20.         The path that lies ahead for the Chilean economy, while it has
certainly been brightened by the results achieved to date, will continue
to require continued effort and will be subject to uncertainties stemming
from external factors. On the one hand, the savings effort will entail the
inevitable corollary of a continuing patern of austerity and moderate growth
in consumption. On the other, the high external interest payments expected



-52 -                        ANNEX V
Page 9 of 9
over the years ahead, in the context of a still hesitant and uncertain recovery
in the terms of trade, will continue to absorb a very significant proportion
of domestic savings and will likewise limit the financing of the important
investment projects that are now taking shape in the export sectors and in
other parts of the economy. As a result, while persevering with the structural
adjustment policies described above and until such time as these policies
bear full fruit (it must be emphasized that structural adjustment is an
inherently long-term undertaking), Chile will continue to require substaitial
support from the international financial community. SAL III is a key element
of World Bank's valuable contribution, for the period 1987-88, to Chile's
economic and social progress.
Yours sincerely
nister of Finance



P E RU                            qAQ120eDv   
pA,,nacolal%      <       REGION      L a L4gUa   g  A       Z       REGION        S
Ari    t;                        V \     ALPARAISOF|  <at                    OIUNB           _
X-Si\4~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ °                       osuo  Anass 0  SEEl4 ? 3
tt   TAs^PACA   C  l   ;0    S      E      924_                               ;jt6    P ^  R :  Q  } 3  «i  n as And|
F REGION                                  Sa Ant                                     WeC§t  DOIjMALE
ANOFG5tF r                                     m-(J<v/80t    be 
0 X   :rt d                      i t    aEGlON                 X                            22 |~~.~,REION  So A
O ~~~~~~~~~~~~40                                  MET         NA-
REGiON~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~RGO  DEL LiBRTAOR                             \
28 -;x;r.   iJREGION                                                     MAULEo\ 
DE                              9#X                                 aqllJ  >URO<z<
ANTOFAGArerS/ fTA                                                           ca k
HudsCog~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6                                                                          3 6r}
_m                                                S t4r           As'    1       X    )                         I
r30    *^* R E9t              geJ"-res>-n~~ 30-R/GION DEL                            9
CO 'JM8 TO                               ." A   *<   -..                                     ) c
I  1 ! X   z   /             ,  ^>   ;, ar                i  -     4      7      2     jX               70~alost



IBRD 14306R1
,JD                                  O B
Feto>    Sj,  zz.   ,*    pr               ~~        ~        ~       ~~~~~~~444  ;
Llgua               Z       REGION            ,                                          i t2,)
San Fe~~pe       DE   ~~
JD7 sa YId a         COQUIMBO                                                   C                       S o u th
Fei.w                                                                        me
0Sos A.'OeS'      SEE      D 0  'n             32*                                                      A  m  e r  c a
la     %.,Ande  cc                                                                      P
hO                                                                                 COI?IAIUK
t ANTIA6O1 n t  t 4 Vlb                         |   8REGIOi4 AISEN DEl        S      v         46
lEa ane ~ OuenteAlto  al.AMAS                A.-*-   GENE-RAL CARLOSq
IBANEZ DEL CAMPO                    0.
IMaipo  REGION                              GO* Ant                              Generai   cI
UEfOSIIANA
LIE SANTIAGOA  1WCarolr7aI
_________                                                                -   vMAIN ROADS
REGION DEL LIBERTADOR                                                              \RAILWAYS
GENERAL BERNARDO O'HIGGIN,S                 crq                                                      -   CONTOURS lOOOm INTERVALS
REGION COM§iVO6"    rd{C a  Caplt4fl Prat                      RIVERS
REGION Cq"ttitvci6*'   Talca                                                   (SLN   AE
MAULE            P           m                       ,v,s,                  J                 ICE FIELDS
MAULE    C.UqUeSCTErN-9ZnG  PP > ;  /  .                               !                MINES
303e'--LiW  am:ts!v§   >   &                   t +   INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
)4.  PORTS THROUGH-PUT
REGION DEL Tolcoha                 -EXCEEDING 300.000 TONS
*   CAPITAL
I   REGIONAL CAPITALS
y 2    A  BraBlo  \                                     <9            -PR PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
b)u           _tsAngeleg                        
oc P           i1.      'jREGIONAL BOUNDARIES
uttifla Esperanza               _-- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
.3rr            3a/eofV: 
REGION        TEMUCO L         4
DE         CZ.
LA ARAUCANIA        n           ;
UlaIidI L PjZ                                                  Magailanes    ^ A
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
,40                                                   40' DVlvaf                                           P-rvmit
Tierra
RE6ION    _f4* S                                                                                          Del F ego
DE                                                        REGION DE MAGALLANES Y
LOS LAGOS      /    P  Voo- '<                               DE LA ANTARTICA CHILENA       /
tanqi'?h;e PCUERTO                                                                                    -   I
42'        Anu                                        42'                                               Ant*elica Ghiema
CHILE
f  (\~~~~~~A,2) ~~~~~561                                                                               56-
/   P a5en a6. F E  O   S O  K IL O M E T E R S
Palena9 ~0      100  150  200  250
\~~~~~~~~                                50~~~~~~~~~    160        IlO
/~ ~ '5   tMILES
t   *4i 72  e     7p                7ta          74IT 72EM7R
DECEMBER 1984



