Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2892 CH
(Third Structural Adjustment Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO CENTRAL DE CHILE
Dated December 16, 1987
LOAN NUMBER 2892 CH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 16, 1987, between the REPUBLIC OF CHILE (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank), and BANCO 
CENTRAL DE CHILE (Banco Central).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has made loans Nos. 2625-CH and 2767-CH to the Borrower 
through loan agreements dated October 25, 1985 and November 21, 1986, respectively in 
support of a program for the structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy;
(B)
the Bank has received a letter dated October 30, 1987 from the Borrower 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to continue the 
structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently needed imports required during 
such execution; and
(C)
Banco Central has agreed to undertake certain obligations vis-a-vis the 
Borrower and the Bank as hereinafter provided;
Page  2
(D)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan 
in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
 
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be financed 
out of the proceeds 
of the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Loan Agreement.";
(b)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
 
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed 
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower 
shall prepare and furnish to the  Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the program referred 
to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by 
the Borrower 
and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."; and
(c)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 
34/Rev.3 (1986);
(b)
"Public Sector Budget" means the Borrower's consolidated budget for all 
entities and bodies of the public sector, including parastatal companies, but 
excluding financial institutions; and 
(c)
"Peso" means the currency of the Borrower.
 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to two hundred and fifty million dollars ($250,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1989, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Page  3
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest 
Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest 
Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each 
date specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the 
Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
 
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding 
borrowings of the 
Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed as a 
percentage per annum, as 
reasonably determined by the Bank. 
 
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on June 
15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Borrower hereby entrusts Banco Central with responsibility for 
the preparation of withdrawal applications under the Loan and for the collection of 
the documents and other evidence to be furnished to the Bank in support of such 
applications.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall, on or about December 31, 
1988, and from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the 
progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 4 
to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound 
accounting practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four 
months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
Page  4
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audits referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
thereafter maintain in Banco Central an account (hereinafter called the Project 
Account) in Pesos and shall deposit in the Project Account upon each withdrawal from 
the Loan Account, the equivalent in Pesos of the currency or currencies withdrawn from 
the Loan Account, such equivalent to be determined
as of the respective date of such withdrawal. The proceeds of the Project Account 
shall be used exclusively to finance capital and recurrent expenditures included in 
the Public Sector Budget.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out. 
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date March 15, 1988 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Teatinos 120, Piso 12
Santiago, Chile
Page  5
Telex:
352-240658
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD 440098 
(ITT)
Washington, D.C. 
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
By /s/ Hernan Felipe Errazuriz
Authorized Representative
BANCO CENTRAL DE CHILE
By /s/ Hernan Felipe Errazuriz
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Countersigned on behalf of the
Controller General and of the
Treasurer General of the
Republic of Chile
By /s/ Hernan Felipe Errazuriz
       Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Page  6
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the 
proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account for expenditures made (or, 
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods 
required during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or 
sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, 
as designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
     Group                Sub-group         Description of Items
      112                    -              Alcoholic beverages
      121                    -              Tobacco, unmanufac-
                                            tured, tobacco refuse
      122                    -              Tobacco, manufactured
                                            (whether or not con-
                                            taining tobacco sub-
                                            stitutes)
      525                    -              Radioactive and asso-
                                            ciated materials
      667                    -              Pearls, precious and
                                            semi-precious stones,
                                            unworked or worked
     718                     718.7          Nuclear reactors, and
                                            parts thereof, fuel
                                            elements (cartridges),
                                            non-irradiated for
                                            nuclear reactors
      897                    897.3          Jewelry of gold,
                                            silver or platinum
                                            group metals (except
                                            watches and watch
                                            cases) and goldsmiths'
                                            or silversmiths' wares
                                            (including set gems)
       971                      -           Gold, non-monetary
                                            (excluding gold ores
                                            and concentrates)
(b)
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied from 
the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals up to the limit specified in paragraph 3 of this Schedule may 
be made on account of payments made for such expenditures before that date but after 
July 1, 1987;
(d)
expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $5,000 
equivalent;
(e)
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency shall have financed or agreed to 
finance; and
(f)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose 
Page  7
or for luxury consumption.
3.
No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay 
amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have 
reached the equivalent of $125,000,000, unless the Bank
shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views on or about December 31, 1988, as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Bank: (a) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the 
Program, and (b) that the actions described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been 
taken.
4.
If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 3 above, the Bank shall 
have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken are not 
satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have 
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank may, by 
notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.  
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
     beginning June 15, 1992
     through June 15, 2004                           9,615,000
On December 15, 2004                                 9,625,000
______________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of 
withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
   Time of Prepayment                            Premium
Page  8
                                         The interest rate (ex-
                                         pressed as a percentage
                                         per annum) applicable to
                                         the balance outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.73
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.87
     more than 13 years
     before maturity
More than 13 years                                 1.00
     before maturity
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.
Contracts for the procurement of goods, other than petroleum products, estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through 
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures consistent with those 
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the 
following modifications:
(a)
Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is 
substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a timely manner of the 
opportunity to 
bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply 
for inclusion in a bidder's invitation 
list, to apply for prequalification, or to 
bid; such advertisements should be placed in at least 
one newspaper of general 
circulation in the Borrower's country  and, in addition, in at least one  of the 
following forms:
(i)
a notice in the United Nations publication, Development Forum, 
Business Edition; or
(ii)
an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical journal 
of wide 
international circulation; or
 
(iii)
a notice to local representatives of countries and territories 
referred to in the 
Guidelines, that are potential suppliers of 
the goods required."
(b)
The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the Guidelines:
 
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the bidder to 
state the bid price 
in a single currency widely used in international trade and 
specified in the bidding documents."
(c)
Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
 
Page  9
2.
Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $5,000,000 
each and contracts for petroleum products may be awarded on the basis of the normal 
procurement procedures of the purchaser of such goods.
3.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the first 
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, 
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective 
bids and recommendations for award, a description of the advertising and tendering 
procedures followed and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
4.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the first 
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such 
documentation and information as the Bank may reasonably request to support withdrawal 
applications in respect of such contract.
5.
The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 3 and 4 shall not apply to contracts 
on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
SCHEDULE 4
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
The Borrower shall have:
(a)
strengthened its fund for the stabilization of fiscal income stemming 
from the copper export receipts of the Borrower's Corporacion del Cobre;
(b)
maintained its current policy of frequently and regular adjustments in 
the nominal exchange rate in order to maintain the real effective exchange rate;
(c)
reviewed the Borrower's non-copper export performance during 1988 and, 
unless a 7 percent growth in real terms shall have been projected, modified the export 
incentive structure as required to improve export performance;
(d)
provided evidence that the Borrower's program of external financing will 
continue to be adequate;
(e)
achieved public savings of at least 5 percent of its projected gross 
domestic product for 1988;
(f)
prepared a public investment program for the years 1988 through 1990, 
which shall include, for 1988, investments of about 7.5 percent of the projected gross 
domestic product;
(g)
satisfactorily carried out its public investment program for 1987 and 
1988;
(h)
maintained its current program of public expenditures restraint so as to 
limit the overall deficit of the non-financial public sector to no more than 1.6 
percent of its gross domestic product for 1988 or the percentage set forth for such 
purpose in its 1988 financial program, whichever is lower;
(i)
taken measures to encourage investment, and the development of capital 
markets, especially equity markets, through revisions of the tax treatment of income 
from securities holdings and a reduction of the stamp tax rate by about 50 percent;  
(j)
taken all measures necessary to improve the Borrower's system of risk 
classification of securities in order to stimulate the Borrower's capital markets;
(k)
carried out studies on (i) banking efficiency and competition among 
financial institutions; (ii) broadening the range of available financial instruments; 
and (iii) means to encourage companies to develop into open corporations (Sociedades 
Page  10
Anonimas Abiertas);
(l)
introduced administrative procedures to increase the efficiency of the 
collection of social security contributions; 
(m)
carried out a study on (i) the viability of augmenting the participation 
of the self-employed in the social security system, and (ii) means to reduce operating 
costs of private pension funds so as to enable them to reduce fixed commissions; 
(n)
taken all necessary measures to increase public understanding of the 
reforms of its social security system; 
(o)
strengthened its preventive health care programs, including actions to 
include under such programs, chronic diseases;
(p)
put into effect administrative systems to improve cost containment and 
accounting and user's fee collection by the public health system, as well as to 
strengthen its management;
(q)
strengthened the regulatory framework for the private health insurance 
industry, as well as clarified rules applicable to transactions between the public 
health system and private health insurers; and
(r)
undertaken a program to rehabilitate public hospitals, including 
machinery and equipment, starting on January 1, 1988. 
