Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 12774-IVC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY PROJECT
JUNE 6, 1995
Industry and Energy Operations Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                CFA franc
CFA franc 1                  US$0.001852
US$ 1                        CFA franc 540
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I hectare (ha)                          2.47 acres
I cubic meter (m3)                      37.3 cubic feet
1 kilovolt (kV)                         1000 volts
I kilowatt hour (kWh)                   1000 watt hours
I Megawatt (MW)                         1000 kilowatts
I Gigawatt hour (GWh)                   I million kilowatt hours
I mcf                                   1 thousand cubic feet
I bcf                                   I billion cubic feet
I bpd                                   I barrel per day
I barrel (bbl)                          0.16 cubic meters
I Ton of Oil Equivalent (TOE)           about 7 bbl of Crude oil
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOAD               Banque Ouest Africaine de Developpement
BOOT               Build-Own-Operate-Transfer
CAA                Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CFD                Caisse Francaise de Developpement
CIE                Compagnie Ivoirienne d'Electricite
CIPREL             Compagnie Ivoirienne de Production d'Electricite
DCGTx              Direction et Controle des Grands Travaux
EDF                Electricite de France
EECI               Energie Electrique de C6te d'Ivoire
ESAL               Energy Sector Adjustment Loan
FNEE               Fonds National de l'Energie Electrique
GOCI               Government of C6te d'Ivoire
IPP                Independent Power Producer
PETROCI            Societe Nationale d'Operations Petrolieres de Cote d'lvoire
SAUR               Societe d'Amenagement Urbain et Rural
SIR                Societe Ivoirienne de Raffinage
FISCAL YEAR
Government:                      January 1 - December 31
Energy Sector Enterprises:       October 1 - September 30



REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ............................................................i
I. INTRODUCTION ...........................................................1I
11. MACROECONOMIC SETTING...................
III. ENERGY SECTOR ............................................................3
A.      Background ............................................................3
B.      Energy Sector Reform and the Energy Sector Adjustment Loan (ESAL) ............      ...............4
C.      Power Sector Reform ............................................................5
D.      Current Issues of Power Sector Reform ........................... .................................5
IV. THE PROJECT ............................................................                           10
A.  Background to Project Development .10
B. Project Objectives .13
C. Project Description .14
D. Project Cost .16
E. Financing Plan .16
F. Procurement .17
G. Disbursements.                                                                                  1
H.   Project Implementation, Monitoring and Reporting .19
T.  Environmental Impact .21
V.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ................................... 21
A.      Financial Assessment of CIPREL                     ................................... 22
B.      Electricity Sector Financial Evaluation ................................... 23
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ................................... 23
A. Introduction .23
B. Electricity Demand .23
C. Electricity Supply .24
D. Demand Supply Balance.                                                                          25
E.  Least-Cost System Expansion Program .25
F.  Economic Worth of CIPREL Phase I .25
G.  Sensitivity Tests ..........                                                            ,  26
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ............................................... 26
J i        ,uTh,IsZs;:sfui ':.t-I   l' u A ,   i.i'm, stsr4.u.w...u0'1  r .:4*M*) i*t ,~ ,
Salid Mihail, Task Manager (Senior Power Engineer, AF4IE), Mark Segal (Senior Economist, AF4IE), and
Moiffak Hassan (Petroleum Specialist, Consultant). Legal support was provided by Claudine Morin. Support for
Project procurement aangemtnent and disbursement plan was provided by Thu Ha Nguyen. Mess. WilLm
Porter (IENOG) and Winston Hay (IENPD) were peer reviewers. Secretarial assistance was provided by Panea
Blytba and Sylvianne Mossu. Mrs. Mary Oakes Smith (AF4IE) and Mr. Olivier Lafourcade (AF4DR), are the
managing Division Chief and Department Director, respectively.



Annexes
Annex 2-1        Selected Economic Indicators
Annex 3-1        Energy Balance
Annex 3-2        Existing Power Generating Facilities
Annex 3-3        The Power Sector Structure
Annex 4-1        Summary of the CIPRELIGOCI Convention
Annex 4-2        Detailed Project Description
Annex 4-3        Detailed Cost Estimates
Annex 4-4        Summary of Procurement Methods
Annex 4-5        Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Annex 4-6        Project Implementation Schedule
Annex 4-7        Supervision Plan
Annex 4-8        Environmental Mitigation Measures
Annex 5-1        Project Financial Analysis
Annex 5-2        Electricity Tariff Formula
Annex 6-1        Economic Analysis
Annex 7-1        Selected Documents in the Project File
MAPS AND DIAGRAMS
Ref. IBRD 26926         C6te d'lvoire - Transmission System
Ref. IBRD 26927         C6te d'Ivoire - Hydrocarbons Concessions and Fields



REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of C8te d'Ivoire (RCI).
Beneficiaries:      Compagnie Ivoirienne de Production d'Electricite (CIPREL); and
Republic of CMte d'lvoire (RCI)
Poverty Category:    Not Applicable
Amount:             SDR 50.6 million (US$79.66 million equivalent).
Terms:              Standard IDA, with 40 years maturity including a ten year grace period.
Onlending
Terms:              RCI would onlend to CIPREL US$50 million equivalent of the credit at an interest
rate of 8 percent for 17 years including a five year grace period. The credit
balance of US$29.66 million remains with Government to finance the
Complementary Sector Investments and the Institutional Building Components of
the project. This amount would also refinance the PPF advances of US$2.0
million.
Financing Plan:     See para. 4.16
Rate of Return:     34 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:              12774-IVC
Map:                IBRD 26926        C6te d'Ivoire - Transmission System
IBRD 26927       C6te d'Ivoire - Hydrocarbons Concessions and Fields



L. INTRODUCTION
1.1    Cote d'lvoire is one of the principal countries in the CFA zone, with a population of about
13.5 million and a GDP of US$6.7 billion in 1994. High population growth and the deep recession
of the 1986-1993 period have resulted in a steady fall of living standards. GNP per capita in 1994
was estimated at about US$525 compared to well over US$1,000 in the early 1980s. Following
the devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994, the economic decline has been reversed and the
Government is now attempting to accelerate economic growth through the implementation of a
stabilization program and of structural reforns as well as through the promotion of investment
projects, including the proposed Private Sector Energy project.
1.2   The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) was prepared in the wake of the devaluation
and discussed by the Board in June 1994. The CAS supports the Government's objectives of
increasing real GDP growth and strengthening extemal and internal competitiveness, as formulated
in last year's PFP and its recent update covering the 1995-97 period which has been circulated to
the Board in April 1995. Major priorities in the FY95-97 CAS are to help the Govermment: (i)
maintain macroeconomic stability and strengthen public sector finances through reforms in both
revenue and expenditure, (ii) promote private sector development through continued liberalization
of trade, financial and labor markets, and through investments in productive activities, including
energy, (iii) increase the effectiveness of the human resources development progran through
increased focus on primary health care, AIDS, basic education, and population policy, (iv)
strengthen institutional capacity through existing IDA-supported technical assistance programs,
and (v) intensify environmental work through projects and the National Environment Action Plan
(NEAP) process.
1.3   The assistance strategy is being implemented through (i) active portfolio management,
involving enhanced project supervision and elimination of undisbursed IBRD balances, (ii) an
intensified policy dialogue on macroeconomic, sector-specific, social, and environmental issues,
(iii) adjustment lending in support of policy reforms in agriculture, transport, private sector
development, and finance, and (iv) a reactivation of the project pipeline. The proposed Private
Sector Energy project is an integral part of this effort.
1.4   The proposed project aims to continue C6te d'Ivoire's process of reform in the energy
sector which was initiated under the Energy Sector Adjustment Loan (ESAL) (Loan 3150-IVC) in
1989/90 . The ESAL made a significant contribution in improving efficiency in the energy sector
as well as in promoting private sector participation through the privatization of the management of
the electricity production, transport, and distribution. The proposed project continues this effort to
stiengthen private sector development in this sector through the financing of Phase II of the
privately owned and operated power plant developed under a Build-Own-Operate-Transfer
(BOOT) arrangement. The proposed project has been closely coordinated and prepared with the
IFC which is cofinancing Phase I of the power plant.
H. MACROECONOMIC SE1TING
2.1    Medium  Term  Strategy.  Following the CFA franc devaluation, the Government
reformulated its economic and social program and spelled out its new stabilization and structural
adjustment program in a Policy Framework Paper (PFP) which has been updated to cover the



-2-
1995-97 period. The PFP aims at: (i) increasing real GDP growth to annual rates in excess of 6.5
percent, beginning in 1995 (Annex 2-1), (ii) generating sustained and increasing primary budget
surpluses, (iii) increasing public sector efficiency through institutional reforms and an acceleration
of the privatization program, (iv) strengthening external competitiveness through trade, price, and
regulatory reforms, and (v) intensifying human resource development and increasing efforts to
alleviate poverty. These objectives have been translated into a comprehensive reform program
ranging from policy actions in the fiscal, trade, and price areas to reforms that stimulate private
sector development and improve the delivery of basic social services.
2.2    Deepening public sector reform is a central element of the strategy, involving reduction
and streamlining of the civil service, institutional capacity building and public enterprise
divestiture. Inter alia, this will involve strengthening certain ministerial capacities, improving the
management of domestic budgeting and the external public debt, accelerating the privatization
process, creating a legal framework compatible with dynamic private sector development (as
business confidence is presently undermined by outdated laws and shortcomings in the judiciary
system). The Government has selected 42 enterprises for privatization during the 1994-1996
period. For monopolistic enterprises, the privatization process will include the adoption of a clear
and transparent regulatory framework defining the conditions under which they will operate'.
2.3    In addition to the rehabilitation effort, important steps were taken in 1994 toward
liberalizing the economy and reducing the role of the public sector. The Government dismantled
some non-tariff barriers, adopted a new labor code which liberalized hiring and firing procedures,
privatized several enterprises, and started restructuring several public enterprises in the agricultural
and transportation sectors.
2.4    Economic Trends in 1994. Preliminary results for 1994 suggest that with the parity
change and the implementation of the accompanying fiscal, monetary, and structural adjustment
policies, the Ivorian economy has been able to strengthen its international competitiveness and
restore economic growth. Real GDP growth was 1.7 percent in 1994 versus -0.8 percent in 1993.
The Government succeeded in reducing inflation to pre-devaluation levels within 8 months
following the parity change. During the last quarter of 1994 the monthly inflation rate was 0.3
percent. This was largely achieved by a restrictive monetary and fiscal policy. In this context,
fiscal policy has been the cornerstone of the stabilization program. The Government met its
revenue and expenditure targets throughout 1994 and generated its first primary balance surplus in
the 1990s. Expenditures were tightly controlled by increasing base wages on average only by 10
percent, thereby reducing the Government's wage bill from almost 13 percent of GDP in 1993 to
9.5 percent of GDP in 1994. The same policy stance was adopted by the private sector. The
Government also unblocked on schedule the three-month price freeze on 34 products it had enacted
immediately following the devaluation and adjusted utility tariffs, including water (15 percent),
electricity (20 percent), and public transport (40 percent).
These provisions reflect forthcoming developments in the power sector. While EECI is not yet on
the privatization agenda, this is an option to be examined in the power sector institutional study to be
funded under the proposed project. This study will also include proposals for improving power
sector regulation, insofar as some aspects of the supply system will require a regulatory framework.



-3-
m. ENERGY SECTOR
A.    Background
3.1    Total energy consumption in 1990 amounts to 3.2 million tons oil equivalent (TOE)
(Annex 3-1). The main sources of energy are biomass, hydrocarbons, and hydroelectric power.
Abundant forestry reserves have traditionally been the major source of energy (over two-thirds of
total energy consumption), but intensive exploitation and land clearing are threatening both the
sustainability of fuelwood supply and the environment.
3.2    Fuelwood and charcoal supply originates mainly from land clearance for agriculture, at
the expense of rapidly diminishing forestry reserves, now reduced to about 8 million hectares.
Clearing is expected to continue at a rate of at least 250,000 bectares per year, compared to
replanting of only 5,000 hectares. The widespread and growing use of charcoal as a fuel and the
low conversion efficiency of wood into charcoal (only 12 percent of the primary energy is
conserved in the final product) accounts for a large indirect demand for fuelwood. There is a risk
of fuelwood shortages in the not-too-distant future, and, more importantly, the concomitant risk of
irreversible damage to the environment, unless more efficient ways of producing, replenishing and
using fuelwood are widely introduced and household consumers switch to alternative fuels such as
butane and kerosene.
3.3    Exploration for hydrocarbons commenced onshore in the 1950s but failed to identify
significant hydrocarbon deposits there. Since 1971, exploration focused on the offshore basin,
initially conducted by major companies such as Exxon, Shell and Phillips, then by the national
company PETROCI and small independcnts like United Meridian of the USA. The early efforts
resulted in the discovery of several significant oil and gas accumulations: Exxon found the Belier
oil field in 1974; and Phillips discovered in 1979 the Espoir oil field and several oil and gas
structures including Foxtrot, Lion and Panthere. Belier and Espoir were developed and exploited,
but abandoned recently due to either depletion or high operational cost.  In 1989, Phillips
relinquished all their acreage and termiinated their activities in C6te d'lvoire due to the lack of a
remunerative market for gas. Since 1990, the Government, with the help of the Bank, the Japanese
Government and the African Development Bank has successfully revived the interest of foreign
investors in the hydrocarbon sector, amended the fiscal and contractual terms to provide more
incentive for exploration and development of oil and gas resources, and carried out two exploration
promotion campaigns. These efforts resulted in the conclusion of several Production Sharing
Contracts (PSC), with the private sector, for the exploration and development of hydrocarbon
resources. Two PSCs were signed with a group of investors represented by United Meridian Co.
(UMC)) of USA, for the offshore blocks Cl-l I (Lion and Panthere fields), Cl- I and CI-2. Another
PSC was concluded with another group of investors represented by Apache of USA for the
offshore block CI-27.  The latter agreement replaced the Convention Generale concluded
previously with the same group for the development of the Foxtrot field. (Map IBRD 26927 shows
the location of the different concessions and hydrocarbon fields).
3.4    Petroleum products are supplied from an efficient modern refinery - "Socite ivoirienne
de Raffinage "-SIR (3 million tons per year capacity) owned by the Ivorian subsidiaries of seven
international petroleum companies and the Governments of C6te d'lvoire and Burkina Faso. The
refinery is located at Vridi near Abidjan and in addition to supplying the Ivorian market, exports



-4-
significant quantities of petroleum products within the West African region. The refinery produces
about 22,000 tons of Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG) per annum. Its utilization is concentrated in
urban areas. The stagnation of utilization is mainly due to supply and marketing constraints. The
proposed project includes preparation of a program for developing the LPG market.
3.5    About 25 percent of the population has access to electricity. Supply of electricity is
provided by a combination of hydro and thermal facilities. Total system capacity is about 918
MW (Annex 3-2). The hydroelectric system, with 604 MW, represents two-thirds of the installed
capacity. The Kossou hydroelectric plant, designed as a multi-annual storage reservoir, has never
functioned anywhere near its design capacity, because the reservoir has never filled up since its
construction in 1972. The hydro-electric production potential is highly variable from year to year,
depending mainly upon rainfall. CMte d'lvoire also possesses a thermal power plant located in Vridi
on the outskirts of Abidjan . This plant has an installed capacity of 314 MW, but due to
inadequate maintenance over the years, operates at much below capacity. CMte d'Ivoire has been
purchasing electricity from Ghana; however, growing Ghanaian demand and the need to
rehabilitate its hydro system have curtailed exports to CMte d'Ivoire. Ghana now imports some of
its electricity needs from CMte d'Ivoire. With the improving macro-economic climate in C6te
d'lvoire, domestic demand for electricity is expected to resume the growth recently interrupted by
several years of recession. These developments mean that new generation capacity is urgently
needed. (Further analysis of electricity supply and demand is in Chapter VI).
B.    Energy Sector Reform and the Energy Sector Adjustment Loan (ESAL)
3.6    Before the ESAL was implemented in 1989, electricity and petroleum supply were in the
public sector, with little private sector investment. Until the late 1970's, energy sector performance
was satisfactory; however, the heavy public sector investment progran triggered by the coffee and
cocoa boom did not leave the energy sector untouched. The public sector electric utility "Energie
Electrique de C6te d'Ivoire" (EECI) launched an investment program of questionable economic
justification, which ultimately jeopardized the very existence of the company. In 1975, the
Government created a national petroleum company (PETROCI) and at about the same time
induced the petroleum distribution companies to build, and subsequently expand, the SIR refinery
(in which the Government holds 45 percent). The Government took fifty percent share holding in
two private petroleum product distribution companies, and a public sector petroleum product
storage company (GESTOCI) was created, as was a bitumen company (SMB).
3.7    The debt service associated with this public investment program and the inefficiency of
public sector management substantially increased the fixed costs of supplying energy. Thus, by the
time the ESAL was under preparation in 1989, the prices of electricity had risen to an average of
US$0.18/kWh and gasoline to over US$4.50 per US gallon (at the exchange rate of the day).
Nonetheless, EECI was unable to maintain a positive cashflow and built up very substantial
arrears. By the time the sector was reorganized (Section C below), arrears had reached over one-
fifth of the country's total internal arrears, placing the country's fiscal position at risk. At the
same time, international oil prices were declining. Therefore international petroleum companies lost
interest in marginal exploration territories such as CMte d'Ivoire, and private investment in the
country's energy sector declined to zero.
3.8   In 1988, the Government undertook a reform of the energy sector, supported by the Bank
in the form of the ESAL, presented to the Board in December 1989. In the hydrocarbons subsector,
the program sought to redefine and refocus the role of PETROCI, promote the hydrocarbon



-5-
potential of Cote d'Ivoire to the international petroleum industry to encourage investment in
petroleum exploration, and rationalize petroleum product pricing and taxation. The Project
Completion Report of this operation (Report No. P-5165-RCI) indicates that the program was
largely successful in these areas. Subsidies have been removed from petroleum product prices and
taxation was rationalized; however, product price changes are not systematically linked to
international price movements.
C.    Power Sector Reform
3.9   It was in the electricity subsector that the Government undertook the most far-reaching
reforms. At the time the program was implemented in 1990, EECI was effectively insolvent (losses
for this year alone amounted to more than US$240 million). Rather than undertaking a financial
restructuring, the Government decided to privatize management of the power sector. In November
1990, with the assistance of the Bank, the Government negotiated and signed a Concession
Agreement with a group of two foreign companies, transferring operation and regular maintenance
of the power system to the "Compagnie Ivoirienne d'Electrcit " (CIE), which pays a leasing fee
to the Government for its use, while leaving in the hands of EECI the sector's assets, stewardship
over system expansion and renovation and supervision of the concession agreement between GOCI
and CIE. The tariff to the consumer was brought down by about 10 percent, but recently increased
as a result of the January 1994 devaluation. It now averages 57.3 CFA franc per kWh (or
US$0. 106/kWh at the current exchange rate).
3.10   Building upon this first success with private sector participation, the Government invited
the private sector to build, own and operate a new power plant, which is being done by CIPREL, a
consortium owned largely by Bouygues and "Electricite de France" (EDF). The CIPREL facility
is being built in two phases: as provided for in the agreement between GOCI and CIPREL, Phase I
(the first 99 MW) was financed by the private sector, while Phase 11 is to be financed by public
funds. The proposed project supports the Phase II development under the GOCI/CIPREL
agreement. CIPREL assumes responsibility for the commissioning date of Phase I and plant
availability for the whole facility (about 165 MW total capacity operating at a minimum
availability factor of 77 percent), while CIE (through FNEE) undertakes to buy energy at a
minirnum load factor of 77 percent, the amount depending upon the installed capacity. Phase I
was conmmissioned on schedule in March 1995.
3.11   Given the need to re-establish the power sector's financial equilibrium and the presence of
new corporate entities in the industry, the Government has created a new financial mechanism, the
"Fonds National de l'Energie Electnique" (FNEE), lodged within the "Caisse Autonome
d'Amortissement" (CAA), for better tracking and managing the flow of funds through the power
sector. The present structure of the power sector and the relationships between the various entities
is shown in Annex 3-3.
D.    Current Issues of Power Sector Reform
3.12   Largely on account of the structural transition occurring in the sector, it has become
imnportant to review and refine the allocation of certain power sector responsibilities, in order to
assure an orderly and efficient future development of the power system. The experience of the past
several years has indicated that the following five subject areas deserve further attention:
(a)    Responsibility for and implementation of system planning



-6-
(b)    Responsibility for and implementation of renewal/rehabilitation
(c)    basis of tariff setting and mechanism for tariff adjustment
(d)    Financial regulation of debt service and consumption arrears
(e)    Functional responsibilities and competition policy
System Planning
3.13   There does not appear to be an institutional focal point adequately equipped to carry on
system planning, and assure on-going coherence between the investment programs in generation,
transmission and distribution. Furthermore, the very role of public sector system planning needs to
be re-conceptualized in the context of a system with private sector participation. System planning
will most likely remain a necessary public sector function, both to help identify requirements for
which the Governnent will seek and negotiate private sector support, and to indicate those areas of
complementary investment in which the public sector may have to participate. Hence the issues
which need to be resolved in this area are as follows:
-  What is the role of system planning in a market-oriented private sector "IPP"
environment?
-  Should the three planning functions (generation, transmission, distribution) be
allocated to one institution, and if so, to which one? If not, how will coherence of
system planning be assured?
e All three areas of system planning need technical strengthening.
These matters will be addressed in the institutional arrangements study (para 4.13 (a)(i)).
Renewal and Rehabilitation:
3.14   As operator of the power system, CIE is not responsible for major maintenance and
rehabilitation. This remains the responsibility of EECI. As system operator, CUE notifies EECI of
actual or impending problems involving maintenance and rehabilitation beyond the terms of CIE's
concession, whereupon EECI is supposed to remedy these difficulties. In practice, CIE has been
undertaking rehabilitation, according to two supplements to the agreement between CIE and the
Government (supplements "A and B')2  Supplement "A" is financed through a fee which CE
levies at source through the tariff. Supplement 'B"is supposed to be financed through FNEE, but
the sector is not generating enough net cash flow through FNEE to support this work.3 It would
appear that the split of responsibility between EECI and CIE, while clear in principle, in practice
has been recast for reasons of expediency. Hence the key issues which need resolution in this area
are:
2   The supplements are available from the project fle.
3 Part of the problem is due to arrears on Govermnent's electricity bills, discussed below.



-7-
*      Which entity should be responsible for major maintenance and rehabilitation, the
private sector operator, or the public utility? If not the private sector operator,
how will this responsibility be addressed effectively?
*      How should this work be financed?
These questions will be addressed in the Institutional Arrangements study (para 4.13(a)(i)).
Tariffs: Basis and Adjustment Procedures
3.15   The present level of tariffs in Cote d'Ivoire appears reasonable, however, three tariff
matters deserves review for the future: (i) the level of the tariff, (ii) the tariff structure, and (iii) the
tariff adjustment mechanism. Regarding the level, at US$0.106/kWh, the Cote d'Ivoire electricity
tariff is in the higher range of international retail electricity prices. GOCI would like to reduce the
tariff if the introduction of natural gas-based energy supply made this feasible. A key factor
affecting future tariff requirements are the incremental expenditures on transmission and
distribution (T&D). In countries at C6te d'Ivoire's level of electricity market penetration, the cost
of T&D can exceed the cost of generation. Available data indicates that this is indeed likely to be
the case in Cote d'Ivoire. Hence the grid extension program, the technical standards adopted and
implementation arrangements will add to Long Run Marginal Cost (LRMC) and contribute to
tariff requirements, making it necessary to review and integrate the investment program for these
items in the tariff setting process. Also germaine to the tariff setting process is the structure of the
tariff - that is the prices charged to each customer class, and the shaping of the tariff within these
classes. These matters have not been reviewed for quite some time in C6te d'Ivoire, hence the
economic appropriateness of the price signals going to the consumers is not self-evident, and
deserves review.
3.16   There is not a regular, systematic process in place for reviewing and adjusting the
electricity tariff. The latest tariff change after the devaluation was prepared by "the Direction et
Controle des Grands Travaux" (DCGTx)4 and agreed between the Ministries of Mines and
Energy, Industry and Commerce and the Finance and Planning Ministry (on behalf of the Prime
Minister's office). It consisted of a devaluation adjustment based on the pre-existing structure.5 To
some extent, tariff adjustment "looks after itself' through the contracts entered into between the
State and the private sector operator. The private sector insures that its services are adequately
remunerated, and the State enables it to collect these revenues from customers. However, because
these contracts do not cover all of the aspects of electricity supply which incur costs, the
contractual mechanism is not a sufficient approach for tariff setting. The FNEE has been
established recently as a mechanism for assuring the financial equilibrium of the sector, but it is
not authorized to set tariffs. Furthermore, its structure is embryonic. It consists of a designated
group of officials which meets periodically, but has no supporting secretariat to co-ordinate and
follow-up on the work of the delegates. This arrangement will be examined in the proposed
institutional study under the project.
4   DCGTx is the Government arm exercising control on the investment projects.
Given the already high level of tariffs, the increase was less than proportionate to the devaluation.



-8-
3.17 These considerations suggest that the following tariff issues deserve attention:
*      The level and the structure of the tariff should be reviewed for (i) their adequacy
to satisfy financial performance criteria and (ii) their economic efficiency.
*      Appropriate institutional arrangements for adjusting tariffs remain to be
developed. The tariff adjustment process should be timely, transparent, systematic
and technically based.
A tariff study is proposed under the Power System Investment study (para 4.13(a)(ii)) to
address these matters. Pending completion of this study, the Government is committed to
introduce a formula which adjusts the current tariff so as to meet satisfactory financial
performance criteria. The proposed tariff formula and implementation are discussed in
Chapter V (para 5.8).
Financial Regulation of Debt Service and Consumption Arrears
3.18   Before the devaluation, relevant power sector institutions knew what was the initial debt
contracted with each creditor. Since these loans were contracted, there have been cancellations, re-
schedulings and early pay-outs. With devaluation, the sector's total obligations have been packaged
and rescheduled. This is handled by the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA), and the power
sector does not have a clear picture of the debt being serviced on its behalf. For purposes of
assessing the financial adequacy of the tariff, it would be essential to re-construct a comprehensive
debt service schedule by creditor under existing debt-service and "on-lending" arrangements.
3.19   The financial equilibrium of the sector is impaired by the accumulation of Governmental
arrears for its own electricity consumption. Annual Governmental consumption amounts to about
CFA franc 12 billion (US$22 million), and the estimate of the unpaid balance in December 1994
was CFA franc 32 billion (US$59 million) or 2.7 years' worth of Governmental consumption. With
1994 sales revenue at about US$215 million, annual Government consumption is about 10 percent
of the total and Government accumulated arrears amount to about 27 percent of one years' sales.
The Government has been '"vorking down" these gross outstandings by paying contributions to
debt service directly to the CAA. However, this is a situation which, for both financial and
economic reasons, cannot be allowed to persist. At present, the Treasury is responsible for paying
all of the Government's electricity bills, after the bills have been verified. This approach is not
conducive to adequate discipline over electricity use at the point of consumption.
3.20   The following issues need to be addressed in order to rectify the Governmental role in the
financial status of the power sector:
*      An up-to-date, detailed debt service schedule by creditor needs to be compiled, and
a commercially-based "charge-back" to the power sector determined. This will be
addressed in the tariff study.
*      A plan is needed for capping the amount of Governmental arrears on electricity
consumption, and settling it and a system is needed to insure that no further
arrears will accumulate on Governmental consumption.



-9-
These matters will also be addressed in the tariff and institutional arrangement studies.
During negotiations, agreement was reached that CAA will prepare a detailed schedule for
the sector debts no later than February 1, 1996 and that Government arrears to the sector
will be settled by June 30, 1996.
Functional Responsibilities and Competition Policy
3.21   While EECI is titularly the "maitre d'oeuvre" and "maltre d'ouvrage6" of the power
sector, in practice its role is more limited. For example, (i) the Government has assumed ownership
of the sector's productive assets; (ii) DCGTx has a major role in system planning, contracting and
implementation, (iii) the FNEE is in charge of the sector's financial equilibrium, and (iv) the
Ministry of Mining and Energy has a role in supervision of the sector. Nonetheless, EECI has a
staff of about 180 people and a current budget projection in the range of US$5.5 million. The
company has a core of well-qualified technical staff who know the sector and have considerable
expertise to contribute. However, as a corporate group, its functional pre-eminence in the power
system has been eclipsed due to problems of corporate performance which the new structures have
been created to resolve. Today, EECI's work is complementary rather than competitive with CIE:
it undertakes transmission and distribution project planning and implementation (some of which is
done in-house, some contracted out). While it is responsible for renovation of the power system, a
good part of this work has been contracted to CIE .
3.22   EECI, an entity of considerable prominence within the political hierarchy of the country,
will have to re-define its role in the context of a restructured power system. While some
"unbundling" of power generation from transmission and distribution is necessary to the
introduction of competition and private sector participation, it carries special transitional problems
for the incumbent and the system as a whole, such as moving from control to collaboration, and
adapting from a supplier-oriented to a customer-oriented market mentality. The company faces a
difficult challenge to make this transition, and it is a concern of GOCI and lenders to the power
sector.
3.23   The present system structure is not competitive. It is a set of complementary institutions,
which need to be well co-ordinated so as to minimize overlapping control and responsibility, while
insuring that important matters which need co-operation do not "slip between the cracks". To some
notable extent, this is being achieved on certain project initiatives by teamwork between the
relevant parties - for example the CIPREL project was conceived and negotiated on the Cote
d'Ivoire side by a working-level team of staff from the Ministry of Energy, EECI and DCGTx,
reporting to the Minister of Mines and Energy. The same team structure is now handling Phase II
of the project. Important to the longer-term sustainability of sector efficiency is the introduction
of: (i) competition where competition can efficiently regulate prices and supply, and (ii)
appropriate regulation or co-ordinating mechanisms, as needed to manage or co-ordinate other
aspects of system operation.
3.24   Hence the issues arising from this overview of sector structure and competition policy are:
6   "Maitre d'oeuvre" is the party responsible for supervising the tendering, contracting and project
supervision process. "Maitre d'ouvrage" is the owner of the assets.



-10-
*     the future role and structure of EECI should be re-defined in the context of a
power system likely to become increasingly unbundled over time;
*     arrangements remain to be developed for systematically opening the sector to
competition at such a time and for those functions where competition would
enhance sectoral efficiency;
*     appropriate regulatory and co-ordinating mechanisms are needed to administer
non-competitive functions and those requiring co-ordination to assure the system's
efficacy.
3.25   The project includes four provisions for addressing the above-mentioned issues, to result
in specific implementation measures over 1996-1997 to be coordinated with IDA.
*     a review of system planning
*     a tariff study and tariff adjustment mechanism.
*     a review  of sector structure, allocation of responsibilities and financial
management of the sector.
*     preparation of standard bidding documents for IPPs.
3.26   During negotiations agreement was reached that GOCI will consult annually with IDA and
other donors in the sector on the power sector investment program, and that before undertaking
major changes to the organizational structure of the electricity sub-sector which may have an
adverse impact on the objectives of the Project, GOCI shall exchange views with IDA.
3.27   GOCI supports the encouragement of more private investor participation in the power
sector as weli as the above mentioned institutional development initiatives (para 3.25). These
commitments are reflected in the GOCI Letter of Sector Development Policy (LSDP) (available in
the Project File). Agreement on the LSDP was reached during negotiations, and IDA has received
the LSDP, signed June 1, 1995.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.    Background to Project Development and Rationale for IDA Participation
4.1    GOCI has made a solid commitment to private investor participation in the power sector
(Chapter III), firstly in 1990 by leasing the system to a private consortium, subsequently
proceeding with the development of the "Foxtrot" project, then modified, as explained in para 4.3
and 4.4, to become the United Meridian Corporation (UMC) natural gas development and CIPREL
power projects. The CIPREL project is the first commissioned IPP in Africa.
4.2    The Bank has been assisting GOCI since the late 1980s with refonn of the energy sector
under the ESAL and since 1990 with the development of the Foxtrot project. Foxtrot, and the
subsequent UMC and CIPREL projects, were designed to involve private sector resources and
skills in the development of C8te d'Ivoire's indigenous natural gas resources in line with a least-cost



-11-
electricity supply strategy. Foxtrot was the first field to have demonstrated sufficient reserves to be
of interest for project development. Thus, Foxtrot was to have been an integrated scheme in which
a new private energy company would sell electricity and natural gas to CIE, natural gas to SIR and
industrial customers, and Natural Gas Liquids (NGLs) to SIR.
4.3    However, during project preparation in late 1993/early 1994, work was proceeding (by
UMC with financial support from IFC) on proving-up the potential of the Lion and Panthere fields.
Through this period there was an open issue of the gas development strategy - i.e. the sequencing
of field development. During this period, the Bank was assisting GOCI's energy strategy
development through in-situ technical assistance and on-going dialogue between Bank staff and
their Ivorian counterparts. At the time of the Foxtrot project appraisal (January 1994), the Foxtrot
field was the most obviously "ready" candidate for early development, and it appeared to be an
economic fuel source. The timing and nature of the final results from work on the other two fields
was not known at the time, and there was some urgency to moving forward, given the importance
of securing the power supply with additional thermal capacity. Hence the appraisal proceeded on
the basis of priority to the Foxtrot field.
4.4    Within a few months after appraisal, UMC confirmed sufficient hydrocarbon potential in
the Lion and Panthere fields to justify reconsidering the gas development strategy. Moreover, the
Lion field contains oil and associated gas, whereas Foxtrot is only non-associated gas. Therefore
GOCI approached the Bank with the idea of delaying Foxtrot, but moving forward with Lion and
Panthere in order to produce the oil from the Lion field, while at the same time generating
electricity with the associated natural gas. This necessitated splitting the natural gas and electricity
components into separate projects, and negotiating new agreements with the different entities for
each component. The Bank indicated its willingness to appraise an amended project development
strategy involving private investors in the electricity subsector, indicating that any eventual
financing from the Bank would only be complementary to that of the private sector and supportive
of a stronger private sector role in the power system. GOCI issued requests for proposals to private
sponsors and selected a consortium of Bouygues/EDF which formed the nucleus of CIPREL
(Compagnie Ivoirienne de Production d'Electricite).
4.5    CIPREL's proposal was to develop a power plant in two phases with total capacity of
165 MW, costing approximately US$106 million of 1994 (Phase I US$68 million, Phase II,
US$38 million). During contract negotiations 7 all reasonable attempts were made to achieve a
substantial equity share in CIPREL, and to find private money to finance Phase II. The financial
structure which emerged reflected the exposure limits of the private sector and other lenders on this
operation: GOCI and CIPREL signed a contract wherein the CIPREL group assumed
responsibility for financing the first 100MW (Phase I), and which required that the Government be
responsible for financing the remainder (Phase II). CIPREL's financing of Phase I is 25 percent
equity and 75 percent debt, the lenders being IFC, Cafssefranpalse de Developpement (CFD) and
the Banque Ouest-Africaine de Developpement (BOAD). Under the proposed project, GOCI
would borrow from IDA the financing it is committed to provide for Phase II. The Government
loan of IDA funds to CIPREL on commercial terms would be complementary to the resources that
it was possible to raise from the private sector. The financial structure (firm for Phase I and
envisaged for Phase II) is given in the table below:
7   The Bank's on-going technical assistance to GOCI's energy sector development strategy provided
support to this process.



-12-
Table 4.1: Project Financial Structure
CFA franc million
ouw         Phane       Percent    Phase II    Percent      Total      Parecmk
ToWa Colt       36,700                 20,700                  57,400
Equity           9,200       25.0         n/a                   9,200        16.0
WFC A Loon       9,200       25.0         Ufa                   9,200        16.0
CFDlLon          13,800      37.7         n/a                  13,800        24.1
BOAD Loan        4,500       12.3         n/a                   4,500         7.9
IDA on-lent        ILA                 2Q7           10        20.Q70 
Total Debt       27,500      75.0       20,700       100       48,200        84.0
4.6    The GOCI/CIPREL General Agreement of July 1994 is a significant event in the
development of private power in sub-Saharan Africa, insofar as it is the first of its kind in that
area: an IPP BOOT (without an obligatory transfer of the property back to the Government). The
key cmmarcial features of this agreenent are summaized in Annex 4-1. In essence, CIPREL
assumes responsibilities to the State for completion, completion delay, cost over-rn, annual
act quantity, maintenance, repair and renovation, while the State has a minimum payment
oligation, a fuel supply obligation, and a right to buy-back the plant after ten years of operation.
Every year GOCI and CIPREL will agree on actual production from the CIPREL units, so as to
dispatch the entire electricity supply at least cost.
4.7    The proposed credit, would support significant and far-reaching developmental objectives
with respect to the overall technical integrity of the power system, and most importantly, the
efficacy and sustainability of reformed sector structures (see chapter III). The LSDP stated
objectives include reducing costs, improving efficiency, and avoiding monopoly in power
generation. To this effect, it wiU invite independent power producers (IPP) to build the power
plants needed in the future. No one group would be allowed to hold more than a predefined
percentage of the country's electrical capacity, the intention being to foster competition.
4.8    System expansion analysis undertaken for the proposed project indicates that future
competition among private power producers should be possible. Three kinds of competition may
be envisaged: competition for the market, competition within the market, and competition in
procurement. As a result of the economic recovery accompanying the structural adjustment
program agreed with the Bank and the IMF, over the past year electricity demand grew by about 7
percet. Future demand is expected to grow by at least 5 percent per year, given that only 25
percent of the population have now access to electricity. Under these demand conditions, Cote
d'Ivoire would need about 260 MW beyond the CIPREL project, over the next 10 years to be
developed in four or five increments individually timed to match requirements. This would allow
open competition (based on least-cost criteria) for different groups to enter the market with new
capacity, fueled by naturl gas (Chapter VI). Hence the beginnigs of compettive market
conditons are foreseeable. The process of selecting CIPREL was competitive and the contract cost
of Phase I was at CIPREL's risk. The Phase II gas turbine costs (resulting from ICB and
negotiaed financing terms) will be passed through the power price which CIPREL charges the
power sector. In these conditions, another element of competition - competitive procurement - is
needed to assure least-cost inplementation of Phase II. IDA financing of these turbines entails the
support and advice required to achieve this objective.



-13-
4.9   CMte d'Ivoire requires financial and technical support to pursue its agenda of institutional
and structural reform along the lines indicated above. This is consistent with the main objective of
IDA's on-going participation in the development of CMte dlvoire's power sector, which is to
support the necessary deepening and progression of institutional and structural reform. In
particular, IDA would be providing important support to the development of competitive market
structures in the power sector, thereby increasing the role of future private investors in the sector.
This includes the development of transparent arms' length regulatory processes, clear principles of
tariff setting, clarification of the roles and responsibilities of the various public sector entities
active in the power sector, and establishment of pro-competitive "rules of the game" through
standard bidding documents for forthcoming IPPs, which are all necessary components for
implementing a sectoral framework conducive to attracting a wide range of competitors for a
market share in the generation segment of CMte d'lvoire's power sector.
4.10   "Complementary investments" are necessary to assure the technical integrity of the power
system, and the proposed project makes provision for them (para 4.13(c)). These investments relate
mainly to the power transmission and transformation segments of the system. These segments are
under private sector management, but the public sector owns these assets and is responsible for
major maintenance and renovation, which is now essential to system reliability and the
effectiveness of private sector operations - be it for CIE's management functions or the utility of
the CIPREL investment. Hence, here as well, IDA financing is complementary to the private sector
input and necessary to sustain it.
4.11   The Bank's policy on lending to the electric power sector states that Bank lending for
electric power will focus on countries with a clear commitment to improving sector performance in
respect of (i) transparent regulation, (ii) corporatization, commercialization and private sector
participation, and (iii) contracting-out of services. C6te d'Ivoire has demonsaed this clear
commitment with the actions it has taken on sector reform to date, including those embodied in this
project (chapter mI and para 4.13(a)). The use of IDA resources for this project also recognizes
that C6te d'lvoire is a heavily indebted country, recently emerging frorn a long period of recession
with the help of a Bank/Fund adjustment program, an important element of which Was the halving
of the exchange rate between the CFA franc and the French franc. In sum, the proposed IDA
credit is consistent with the country assistance strategy (Chapter I) and would support an
integrated package of goods, services and advice all designed to assist the progress of C8te
d'Ivoire's power sector into increasingly pro-competitive, private sector modes of operation.
B.    Project Objectives
4.12   The objectives of the proposed project are to:
(a)    continue the restructuring of power sector institutions begun under the ESAL,
particularly an appropriate regulatory fiamework and strengthened institutional
capabilities, thus enabling the development of competitive and expanded private
sector participation;
(b)   improve power supply reliability, reduce enviromnental impacts and reduce the
cost of electricity by supporting efficient gas-fired capacity using indigenous
natural gas developed under a private sector BOOT arrangement; and



-14-
(c)    enhance operational reliability and efficiency through  reinforcement and
improvements of the transmission system.
C.    Project Description
4.13   The project includes the following three major components, contents of which are detailed
in Annex 4-2
(a)    Institutional Development Component
(i)    Power Sector Management Study, including:
*      distribution of sector responsibilities
*     development of a power sector regulatory framework
*      assessment of manpower planning and training requirements
*      implementation proposals
This work arises out of needs identified in paras 3.12 to 3.25. It will identify the
roles and responsibilities of each entity in the sector. The regulatory framework
will be designed to operate within the Government's policy framework at arms'
length of the utilities and the Government. It will help promote an environment of
efficient private sector participation, while protecting the public interest. It will
mainly cover entry, performance monitoring and terms and conditions of service.
Training needs for public administration of the recommended sector structures will
be identified, and arrangements for implementing these proposals put in place.
(terms of reference are in the Implementation Manual). Detailed terms of
reference were agreed during negotiations.
(ii)    Power System Investment, Operations and Pricing Study, including:
*     preparation of load forecast (including scope for demand management)
*      development of a least-cost system expansion (generation, transmission,
distribution, loss reduction)
*     tariff study (including revaluation of major fixed assets and pricing
formulas)
Load forecasting and system planning work will be necessary for administering an
orderly and efficient process of expanding private sector involvemnent. It will give
guidance to the Government for the kinds and amounts of investments to elicit
from the private sector, evaluating the merits of proposals put before it, and - as
the private sector will not finance everything - judiciously selecting a
complementary public investment program. The tariff study is essential for putting
the process of electricity pricing and price adjustment on a transparent, arms'
length, technical basis which meets satisfactory economic efficiency and financial
performance criteria (terns of reference are in the Implementation Manual).
Detailed terms of reference were agreed during negotiations.
(iii)   Measures to Encourage Further Sector Privatization:



-15-
*      standard IPP bid document
*      study to determine the cost of energy from Vridi steam thermal units and
their future role in the power generation in RCI.
The standard IPP document will give the Government an instrument for efficiently
attracting and evaluating a broader range of potential private sector entrants into
future, new generation projects. With regard to existing capacity, the steam units
cannot produce at design capabilities without substantial rehabilitation.
Alternative studies have varied on the merits of undertaking this work. A study
will be carried out to determine the feasibility of withdrawing these units from the
CIE concession for a private sector rehabilitation and operation under a power
purchase agreement with CIE (terms of reference for the preparation of these
documents are in the Implementation Manual). Detailed terms of reference were
agreed during negotiations.
(iv)   Hydrocarbon Sector Studies:
*      hydrocarbon production and distribution system planning
*      butane utilization and implementation arrangements
This group of studies will focus particularly on the organization and allocation of
responsibilities for up-stream activities, relationships between private sector
participants and electricity producers, enabling conditions for competition, safety
standards, technical standards, and environmental legislation. Also, an analysis is
needed of prospective hydrocarbons supply, demand and production/marketing
strategy, to assure an optimal exploitation of the resource base. The development
of the natural gas resource will also enable the development of an LPG industry
for domestic consumption and export, for which a development and production
strategy analysis is needed (terms of reference are in the Implementation Manual).
(b)    Generation Expansion
Generation expansion comprises supply and erection of one or two identical simple
cycle gas turbines of capacity between approximately 75 MW and 105 MW'; The
gas turbines will constitute Phase II of the CIPREL power plant, located at Vridi;
the plant layout for the gas turbines will be designed such that a heat recovery
boiler could be added at a later stage in order to operate the units as a combined-
cycle plant; and engineering and construction supervision.
(c)    Complementary Sector Investments
This includes extension of the 90 kV substation at Vridi to accommodate the
CIPREL power plant capacity expansion; reinforcement of the transmission
system around Abidjan in order to improve system reliability in case of loss of the
225 kV transmission line, including for this purpose: extending the 90kV
This capacity range is designed to allow the maximum number of manufacturers of gas turbines to
participate in the bidding process, within the limits of the capacity required at this time.



-16-
transmission system between Treichville and Plateau substations (comprising two
circuits of 90kV cables of about four kilometers each and associated substation
equipment), and tapping the 90kV transmission line between BiaSud and Ayame
at Riviera substation; rebuilding the Treichville 90/15kV substation; and
replacement of some 60 kilometers of l5kV paper-insulated cables.
D.      Project Cost
4.14    The total cost of the project, including contingencies and interest during construction, is
estimated at US$86.29 million. The foreign exchange component is about US$81.94 million,
equivalent to approximately 95 percent of the total project cost. The cost of the private sector
generation component is about US$50 million.
4.15    The project base cost is in January 1995 prices.  Physical contingencies of about 10
percent for goods, works and services have been applied except for the power plant (CIPREL
Phase II), no contingencies have been included. Price escalation based on the Unit Value Index of
Manufactured Exports (MUV Index) of 2.5 percent per year, are also included. In accordance
with agreements entered between the Government and CIPREL there are no taxes and duties
applicable to the project. A summary of project cost is provided in the table below; Annex 4-3
provides a detailed cost estimate.
Table 4.2: Components Pro ect Cost Summary
*~~~~~~~~~~~O                     I ,6'i ,40 :  .          ,,     i: ::.   , 
tCMA frame m.)                  (UB$  U..)               P.MW4U         Xd
Local    Fore4n     Total    L-oa    }konlg     Taiy    Luhampl.       Coart
1. Power Genration Expansion        -  27,000.00   27,000.00     -     50.00    50.00     100          63
2. Power Systn Reinforcement  1,714.50   9,652.50   11,367.00    3.13   17.88    21.05     85           27
3. Institutional Building      299.70   4,139.05    4,48S.75    0.56    7.76     8.31      93           12
Total Baseline Coas     2,014.20  40,841.55   42,855.75    3.73  75.63    79.36      95          100
Physical Contingencies        200.34   1,363.64    1,563.98    0.37    2.53    92.90     87            4
Price Contingencies           130.66    877.31    1,007.97    0.24     1.62     1.87     87            2
Total Project Cosb      2,345.20  43,082.49   45,427.69    4.34  79.78    24.13     95          106
IntaereDuingConst.uction            -   1,166.30    1,166.30     -      2.16     2.16     100           3
Tota Costs to be Fbnunced  2,345.20  44,248.79   46,594.00    4.34  81.94    86.29     95          109
Figures may not add-up due to rounding.
E.      Financing Plan
4.16    An IDA  Credit of US$79.66 million equivalent is proposed to the Republic of Cote
dlvoire. Of this amount US$50 million would be on-lent to CIPREL under a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between the Government and CIPREL for the Phase II of CIPREL power plant. The
on-lending terms would be 17 years (the duration of the concession of CIPREL) including 5 years
grace at 8 percent per year. The S years grace are to allow for the debt service payment for
CIPREL Phase I, which has an average amortization period of about 10 years, without
jeopardizing the sector. The balance of the project cost US$6.62 million will be financed by the
sector. Tle remaining US$29.66 million of the lDA Credit would finance the foreign exchange
component of the Power System Reinforcement and the Institutional Building Components. Ihe
financing plan is given in the table below. The signature of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between



-17-
GOCI and CIPREL satisfactory to IDA, would be a condiion of Credit Effediveness (para
7.2(a)).
Table 4.3: Components by Financiers
(USS million)
Amout    %-    A&6rn         No                    ...........
Power Plant                  50.00    100.0    -          -    50.00      59.4     50.00       -
Goods, and Works             20.25     87.2   2.96      12.8  23.21       27.6     20.54       2.67
Cosulking Services            8.26     84.6   1.50      15.4   9.76       11.6      8.26       1.50
Training                      1.16    100.0    -          -     1.16       1.4      0.98       0.17
Total               79.66     94.7   4.46        53   84.13      100.0     79.78      4.34
F.      Procurement
4.17    The following procurement arrangements have been agreed with the GOCI and the
developer of the BOOT power plant (CIPREL).
Table 4.4: Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
16tirnational    Limited
C:::I :Xompetitive   Interoational
0:4Biddlnz      Bidding         Other       N.BLF.      Total
Power Plant                          48.30                                                 48.30
(48.30)                                              (48.30)
Transmission and Substations         21.98                                                 21.98
(19.60)                                              (19.60)
Goods                                               0.35           0.30         0.59       1.24
(0.35)        (0.30)                  (0.65)
Consultant Services                                                9.45                    9.45
(7.95)                 (7.95)
Training                                                            1.16                   1.16
(1.16)                 (1.16)
Miscellaneous PPF Advance                                          2.00                    2.00
(2.00)                 (2.00)
Interest During Construction                                                    2.16       2.16
Total                       70.28           0.35          12.91        2.75       86.29
(67.90)        (0.35)        (11.41)                 (79.66)
Note:   Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
NBF denotes non-bank financing.
4.18    The Power Plant (CIPREL Phase II) will be procured through ICB in a single lot (supply
and erection) including civil works and all auxiliaries. No prequalification was carried out,
however, the bid documents include post-qualification requirements. The capacity of the power
plant has been defined in the bidding documents as a range between 75 and 105 MW in order to



-18-
allow the maximum number of manufacturers and suppliers to bid while fulfilling the power
system capacity requirement.
4.19   The substation and transmission system expansion and reinforcement will be procured
through ICB in four separate lots for supply and erection. No prequalification will be carried out,
however, post-qualification requirements will be included in the bidding documents. The 15kV
cables will be procured through ICB. The installation of the cables will be carried out by local
contractors and supervised by EECI.
4.20   Goods contracts for the supply of equipment and vehicles will be procured through ICB
with the exception of (i) goods estimated to cost less than US$200,000, which in aggregate will not
exceed US$350,000, and will be procured through LIB, and (ii) goods estimated to cost less than
US$50,000, which in aggregate will not exceed US$300,000, will be procured through Shopping
by comparing price quotations obtained from at least three reliable suppliers, to ensure competitive
prices.
4.21   IDA-financed consultancy contracts totaling about US$8 million will be awarded in
accordance with IDA's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August 1981). During negotiations,
it was agreed that all construction will be supervised by consultants acceptable to the Association
under agreed terms of reference and following Bank guidelines. Training programs would be
approved annually. A detailed procurement table giving the estimated man-months for consulting
services and the procurement methods is given in Annex 4-4.
4.22   Procurement review. All contracts for goods and works exceeding USS200,000 will be
subject to prior review. Bank standard bidding documents and standard contracts appropriately
modified to meet project needs, would be used for procurement of goods, works and services.
Contracts for goods under international or local shopping will be subject to random post review.
All procurement for services exceeding US$100,000 for consulting firms and US$50,000 for
individuals will be subject to prior review, and other procurement for services will be subject to
post review. IDA continues to require prior review for (i) terms of reference of consultant contracts
regardless of value; and (ii) any standard documents that the Borrower(s) intends to use repeatedly.
Prior review will consist of reviewing bidding documents, advertisements, advertising procedures,
prior to solicitation of bids, as well as reviewing bid evaluation reports and proposed contract
awards. Agreement on the above procurement arrangements was reached during negotiations.
G.    Disbursements
4.23   The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999 as shown in Annex 4-5.
Disbursement per category is indicated in the following table. Given the availability of the Special
Account (SA), the minimum application for direct payment by IDA would normally be for the
equivalent of 20 percent of the initial deposit to the SA. All withdrawals from the credit account
would be fully documented except for expenditures relating to trining, contrcts for goods and
works costing less than US$200,000, which will be eligible for reimbursement on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures (SOE). SOE would also be used for consultants services contracts
costing less than US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 equivalent for each individual.
Documentation of SOEs will be retained by DCGTx on behalf of the Project Unit and will be made
available for review by IDA supervision missions and auditors.



-19-
Table 4.5: Disbursements
Category                   Amount (USS MW)          04Fibinced by MA- 04 
1. CIPREL
A. Power Plant                         48.30          100 FE and 80 LE
B. Engineering Services                 1.70          100 T
2. GOCI
A. Transmission and Substations        17.00          100 FE and 80 LE
B. Equipment and Vehicles               0.65          100 FE, 100 LEXF, 80 LE
C. Consultant Services and Training     6.74          100 T
3. Refinancing of PPF                         2.00           Amount Due
4. Unallocated                                 3.27
Total                                  79.66
4.24   Special Account. To facilitate disbursements, a SA for GOCI would be opened in the
CAA. The initial deposit would be in CFA franc equivalent to US$1.0 million estimated to cover
project expenditures for about four months. The SA will be replenished by submitting withdrawal
applications to IDA on a monthly basis, or more often when the account is diminished by one-third.
Replenishment applications submitted against the SA will include a bank statement showing
account activity since the last application, with the balance certified by the CAA holding the SA, a
reconciliation statement and supporting documents as required by IDA. As a condition of
effectiveness, GOCI will open a Project Account (PA) and deposit CFA franc equivalent to
US$200,000 (para 7.2(b)). It was agreed during negotiations that the amount in the Project
Account would be replenished on a quarterly basis up to US$200,000 equivalent or when the PA
balance is less than US$50,000 equivalent.
4.25   Accounting and Auditing.  Project account will be maintained by the Project Unit
(para 4.26) in accordance with generally accepted accounting standards (IASC). Audited accounts
and reports, prepared by independent auditors, would be submitted to IDA no later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year. These will include the audit of CIPREL accounts. The auditor's
report on project expenditures will verify that (i) project accounts pennit identification of all
receipts and payments, (ii) goods had been received or work performed, (iii) payments had been
made, (iv) all expenditures had been legitimate, and (v) the SA have been used appropriately. The
auditors will provide an opinion on the reliability of the SOE procedures and on whether the goods
and services acquired under the project were being utilized in accordance with its objectives. The
auditors would also prepare the audit report including the management letter revealing possible
shortcomings in the staffing, accounting system and efficiency of the internal control procedures.
The appointment of auditors, acceptable to IDA will occur no later than six months after credit
effectiveness. Assurances on the foregoing were obtained during negotiations.
H.    Project Implementation, Monitoring, Reporting
4.26   The power generation component will be implemented by CIPREL. CIPREL, the owner,
will also be the engineer supervising the construction of the plant.  CIPREL has already
implemented Phase I of the power plant (99 MW), which is now in service less than eight months
from contract signature. With the capacity of Phase II being defined as a range between 75 to 105
MW, the convention between GOCI and CIPREL and the legal agreement between CIPREL and
its lenders, for Phase I will have to be amended to reflect the capacity of the lowest evaluated
bidder. During negotiations, agreement was reached with GOCI on all the articles that will have to



-20-
be amended in the General Agreement between GOCI and CIPREL and the Loan Agreements
between CIPREL and its Phase I lenders prior to contract award for Phase HI. As a condition of
credit effectiveness, all amendments to existing contractual agreements wil have to be approved
and signed by the respective parties (para 7.2(c)). The Complementary Sector Investments,
including the reinforcement and extension of the transmission system, will be implemented by the
existing Project Unit assited by EECI. The Project Unit, which comprises staff from DCGTx,
EECI and the Ministry of Mines and Energy was established by Ministerial Order No. 028 of
January 15, 1995 in support of activities financed under the PPF. The Institutional Development
Component will be implemented by Project Unit assisted by the Ministry of Mines and Energy,
DCGTx and PETROCI. During negotiations, agreement was reached with GOCI to maintain the
Project Unit for the duration of the Project with membership and responsibilities satisfactory
to IDA.
4.27   Consulting firms will be retained to assist the Project Unit in the preparation of engineering
studies, preparation of tender and contract documents, and evaluation of bids for the proposed
Complementary Sector Investments. These consulting firms will also assist in the construction
supervision for the substations and line works. All lines and substations works will be well
coordinated with CIE, the power system operator, who will also participate in the review of the
engineering design and construction supervision. Terms of Reference for the studies and technical
services have been agreed during negotiations.
4.28   The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999. The combustion turbines will
be operational by early 1997. The Project Unit is preparing an implementation manual for the
project. This implementation manual will include all terms of reference for the studies, the
implementation timetable, performance targets and performance indicators.  Contents of the
implementation manual were agreed during negotiations. Presentation of the final Implementation
Manual by GOCI to IDA is a condition of effectiveness (para 7.2(d)) A project implementation
schedule is set out in Annex 4-6.
4.29   Supervision Plan. The proposed project would require careful coordination and frequent
IDA supervision. The key areas for supervision are (i) periodic monitoring of the progress on
institutional studies and development plans, (ii) periodic review of the implementation of
institutional studies recommendations, (iii) periodic review of regulatory initiatives, (iv) monitoring
the compliance with covenants and the Letter of Sector Development Policy, (v) technical
supervision of CIPREL Phase R power plant and the complementary power system reinforcements,
and (vi) review and follow-up of procurement and disbursement. During supervision, the Bank
would undertake a review of the Bank-financed procurement.
4.30   Procurement information would be collected and recorded as follows: (i) prompt reporting
of contract award information by the borrower, (ii) comprehensive quarterly reports to the Bank by
the borrower (assisted by consultants), indicating: (a) revised cost estimates for individual
contracts and the total project, including best estimates of allowance for physical and price
contingencies, (b) revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding contract
award and completion time for individual contracts; and (iii) a completion report by the borrower
within six months of the credit's closing date. Supervision of the project would require expertise in
power systems engineering, economic and financial analysis and environmental engineenng. There
will be a review of implementation progress for CIPREL Phase II, no later than June 30, 1996,
covering CIPREL's performance on execution of Phase II, procurement, record keeping, audit and
environment. There would be a mid-term review in early 1997, with the participation of the



-21-
Government and IDA. The review will conduct a comprehensive assessment of progress of
physical components and agree on actions required, if necessary to ensure the meeting of project
targets. Among other things, the review will cover performance of CIPREL, EECI, DCGTx and
the Project Unit, achievement of institutional objective, Borrower, FNEE and CIPREL compliance
with financial and audit obligations, execution of Phase II of the CIPREL Power Plant and
complementary sector investments, evolution of key performance indicators and environmental
factors.
I.     Environmental Impact
4.31   Key project objectives are to improve the efficiency and reliability of the power supply and
to reduce the environmental impacts through the transition from the use of liquid fuels and biomass
to natural gas. Positive global environmental impacts are therefore expected from the project as
well as localized benefits through a decrease in air pollution in the Abidjan area (reduction of No.
SO  and C02). A full Environmental Assessment (EA) has been carried out in a form acceptable
to IDA for the Foxtrot project. The EA was later amended to reflect the changes in the project
scope. The project design includes a series of measures that the project sponsor (CIPREL) will
take to minimize all potential negative environmental impacts. These measures are summarized in
para 4.32 and listed in detail in Annex 4-8.
4.32   The main environmental issues identified in the EA relate to noise level, risk of oil spills,
waste disposal and risks of fires and explosions. The noise level of the gas turbines will not exceed
85dB at one meter, as a result of adding acoustic enclosures. The new gas turbines will not affect
the present noise level at nearest residential areas. With regard to oil spills, the existing oil tanks in
VRIDI site have been refurbished and checked before use. For the tanks on CIPREL site, a
retention basin is installed with a complete fire protection and detection system. Liquid wastes are
drained to an existing settling pit and after separation, water is sent to the VRIDI collection and
rejection system. There are no other liquid effluents from the gas turbines. Gas and fire detection
systems, as well as fire fighting systems consisting of CO2 for the gas turbines, water for the
overall site and foam injection for the oil storage tanks will greatly minimize the risks of fires and
explosions. In addition, there will be regular monitoring of alarm and fire fighting systems. The
project envisages significant amount of training and skills development for staffing in the area of
safety and environmental monitoring.
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
5.1    The financial analysis provides an assessment of the financial status of CIPREL, and of
the electricity sector's financial equilibrium over 1994/95 - 2004/05. The analysis assumes a 189
MW installation in accordance with IDA proposed financing. Annex 5-1 provides a detailed
financial analysis of CIPREL and Annex 5-2 an analysis of the electricity sector financial
equilibrium.



-22-
A.    Financial Assessment of CIPREL
CIPREL Ownership and Financing Structure
5.2    CIPREL is a private holding company created for the purpose of the project. The majority
stake in CIPREL (75 percent) is held by VALENER a company incorporated in C6te d'lvoire of
which 65 percent is held by SAUR, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Bouygues and 35 percent by
EDF International, a wholly-owned subsidiary of EDF. Other project lenders (IFC, CFD and
BOAD) and PETROCI hold the remaining 25 percent of CIPREL's equity.
5.3    For the financing of the first phase (99 MW), equity financed 25 percent of project costs
and private long term debt the remaining 75 percent. The second phase (75 to 105 MW ISO
Conditions or 65-90 MW site rating) will be financed by a long term loan from the Republic of
CMte d'ivoire to CIPREL, onlending IDA resources. As a result, the initial debt:equity ratio of
75:25 will be increased to 86:14 (Annex 5-1, Table 1).
CIPREL Key Financial Information
5.4    The Convention between the Republic of CMte d'Ivoire and CIPREL  provides the
frarnework for defining CIPREL production levels and revenues. With gas turbines totaling 189
MW of site capacity and annual production levels and pricing based on provisions of the
Convention, CIPREL's base case annual revenues in constant 1994 units are estimated to be about
$28.8 million (Annex 5-1). CIPREL key financial indicators are shown in table below.
Table 5.1: CIPREL - Key Financial Indicators
-1995196   1997198   2007/08    2012/13
Revenues                  15.10     28.80      28.80      28.80
Operating Income           5.83     14.30      14.20      14.20
Net Income                 0.02      5.49       7.69       9.21
RATIOS
Operating Income/Net revenues   0.39  0.50     0.49        0.49
Operating Income/Average   0.09      0.14      0.28        4.88
fixed assets in operation
Debt Service Coverage       .90      2.63       3.29        n/a
Debt:Equity Ratio          86/14    86/14      42/58      0/100
Project Financial Returns
5.5    With an installation of about 189 MW, the CIPREL financial rate of return is estimated to
be 15.8 percent and the rate of return on equity is estimated to be 21.4 percent. Tax on dividends
depends on nationality, and is 12 percent for French investors; there is no withholding tax on
dividends paid to international institutions such as IFC, CFD and BOAD.



-23-
B.    Electricity Sector Financial Equilibrium
5.6    This analysis compares the electricity sector financial requirements once the project is
commissioned with the revenues provided by the current tariffs and develops proposals for
electricity tariff policy. The sector includes operating entities such as CIE (managing public sector
assets), EECI (holding public sector assets), CIPREL, FNEE and certain functions of DCGTx
charged to the sector.
5.7    The 1995 average revenue of CF'A franc 571kWh (US$0.106/kWh) will be adequate to
cover all costs, service the sector debt and provide for a self-financing ratio usually exceeding 20
percent (Annex 5-2). Given the reduction of fuel costs due to use of natural gas, there would
appear to be some room for a slight decrease in tariffs. However an immediate tariff reduction is
not recommended. Tariff reduction may leave the sector with little flexibility in face of unexpected
events such as poor rainfall or unavailability of gas. Finally, a review of external debt service
obligations and the sector investment program is necessary for underpinning future tariff policy.
Electricity Tariff Adjustment Formula
5.8    Adjustment to electricity tariffs does not follow well-established and transparent rules. In
order to provide for a rational and transparent tariff setting framework, the Government will
establish a periodic adjustment mechanism ensuring that: (i) tariffs are adequate to cover operating
costs, debt service and a minimum 20 percent self-financing of the investment program; (ii)
increases or decreases in costs are born by or benefit the end-users. During negotiations, the GOCI
Delegation put forward a proposal for annual adjustment of the tariff based on the tariff being
sufficient to meet certain financial performance criteria, details of which are outlined in Annex 5-2.
Under this proposal, the tariff would be sufficient for the power sector to earn at least 8 percent
rate of return on its net assets in operation, provided that this rate of return is consistent with a debt
service ratio of 1.5, an operating ratio below 0.85 and self-financing ratio of at least 0.2.
Assurances to that effect were obtained during negotiations.
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.    Introduction
6.1    The economic analysis of the project begins with the load forecast, the supply capability of
the existing system, and identifies the need for additional capacity as the deficit between expected
demand and available supply. The analysis then assesses whether the proposed project is the least-
cost system expansion option. Once confirmed as the least-cost option, the internal economic rate
of return is calculated on the basis of incremental economic benefits relative to incremental
economic costs, and sensitivity tests are done to assess the impact of changes in key uncertain
variables on the project's internal rate of return.
B.    Electricity Demand Forecast
6.2    The base case load growth projection broadly reflects a positive medium term economic
outlook for the country. Most significantly:



-24-
*  GDP growth is expected to be about 6 percent in 1995/96, with expected good
performance of the industrial sector and an up-take of private consumption induced partly
by the devaluation of the CFA franc;
* the Government has indicated its intention to pursue a high growth strategy combined with
sound monetary and fiscal policies, and has established targets as well as an enabling
strategy in close consultation with the IMF and the Bank;
*  over the long term in the past (Annex 6-1, page 1), growth of electricity consumption has
outpaced that of the key economic variables underlying that consumption, largely
reflecting a relatively high growth rate of new customer connections and resilience of
consumption per customer, which are expected to continue into the future.
6.3    Under the circumstances, load growth should be no less than 5 percent per year over the
next three years, and based on an econometric projection, 5.2 percent per year thereafter9. In the
case of Cote d'Ivoire, provided that the load will not actually decline, the accuracy of the longer
term load forecast is not critical to project risk: once the natural gas supply is established, current
information indicates that the least-cost generation expansion program should consist of gas
turbines, which can be sized and timed appropriately with load growth, as perceived quite soon
before investment. The load forecast assumes no real increase of tariffs.'0
6.4    With the development of economic natural gas-based gas turbine capacity, C&te d'Ivoire
will become well positioned to export electricity to neighboring countries. An export contract for
60 GWh/year to Burkina Faso is in place, and the transmission interconnection project underway.
This export is included as a firm load in the forecast. Two other export contracts were under
negofiation at time of post-appraisal: 50 MW continuous to VRA (Ghana) and 30 MW continuous
to CEB (Togo and Benin), subject to annual review of quantity and price. These recent
developments are not included in the load forecast.
C.    Electricity Supply
Hydro Plants
6.5    Performance of the hydro system has been highly variable; however, it is reasonable to
use a figure of 1216 GWh/year to represent "expected" hydro production for simulating "normal"
operation of the systen and 565 GWh for firm supply capability. (Annex 6-1, page 2)
Thermal Plants
6.6    The mission reviewed recent operational experience with the existing thermal plants, and
the contractual performance commitments for the CIPREL Phase I facility, which has been
commissioned in March 1995. Annex 6-1, page 2 shows the up-dated estimates adopted for
systen planning and simulation.
9      This would reflect a long-tenn GDP growth projection of about 5 percent per year.
l0     Since the early 1980s, the real average tariff has fluctuated within a very narrow range, with no trend either
up or down. A case could be made for reducing tariffs once natural-gas and hydro based generation provide
a substantial portion of total supply, however, before doing so, it is important to establish the future
program and costing of transmission and distribution system expansion.



-25-
D.    Demand: Supply Balance
6.7    Annex 6-1 (page 2) indicates that the system as presently installed (including CIPREL
Phase I) is energy constrained: there is not enough energy generation capability to meet the
system's annual energy requirements on a firm basis. Before considering any export to VRA or
CEB, and including CIPREL Phase I, without additional capacity there would be an energy-related
capacity deficit of about 44 MW in 1995, growing to 63 MW in 1996 and 323 MW by 2005. The
required timing and amount of new capacity was broadly confirmed in modeled system simulation
runs, which provide a more detailed assessment of usable capacity and optimal dispatching on a
month to month basis over the entire simulation period.
E.    Least-Cost System Expansion Program
6.8    Generation system expansion costs are determined primarily by the cost, size and timing of
new power plants, and the cost of fuel. Gas turbines provide the lowest capital cost per kW and
quickest construction and commissioning cycle of any thermal plant. CMte d'Ivoire's gas turbine
expansion program is based on indigenous natural gas, which is now being developed in parallel
with the CIPREL Phase I power plant. The existing gas turbine plant, currently using oil, will be
converted to natural gas in late 1995/early 1996. The natural gas volumes likely to be needed for
power generation and SIR over the next twenty years were estimated and compared with the known
deliverable reserves from Lion, Panthere and Foxtrot. These reserves will be adequate to meet the
requirements till near the end of the study period (2009/10), when small make-up volumes from
other sources (identified but not delineated) may be needed.
6.9    The economic cost per mcf of natural gas to the power sector was estimated on the basis of
the gas sales contract, taking into account current projections of requirements and world oil prices
yielding US$0.87/mcf (equivalent to about $5.20/bbl oil). As there is no cheaper combination of
capital and fuel costs for thermal generation, and no hydro development of this size in CMte d'lvoire
which could compete with these costs or be developed as quickly, gas turbines using natural gas is
the least cost strategy of system generation capacity expansion. Nonetheless, the economic cost of
substituting low-speed Diesel plant for the proposed investment was estimated in order to measure
the extent of the gas turbines' advantage over the next best option. The present worth costs (10
percent discount rate) of the gas turbines versus low speed Diesel as the first plant after CIPREL
Phase I are as follows:
Table 6.1: Present Worth Cost Comparison
.USS millionX
Technolo gytttff- 0000t0:000000000-t;0900-00$-0030itft Ca ig0ta  Operat ng Fuel  T otal
Low Speed Diesel                    165       62          73       300
CIPREL Phase n                      132       53          60       245
Net Advantage of CIPREL Phase II                                    55
F.    Economic Worth of CIPREL Phase II
6.10   The economic worth of the investment is indicated by the economic internal rate of return
(EIRR) of incremental benefits relative to incremental costs over a twenty year period of system
development and operation based on the least cost system expansion strategy. The incremental



-26-
benefit per kWh is the average tariff (US$0.106/kWh) ", less the incremental economic costs of
transmission and distribution (T&D) estimated at USS0.058/kWh (at 10 percent social discount
rate), yielding USS0.048/kWh at point of generation. Incremental energy sales in GWh are the
difference between sales which the system can supply with system expansion and those assuming
no expansion. Total incremental benefits are incremental sales times US$0.048/kWh.
6.11   Incremental costs are derived from sinulating system operation with and without the
generation expansion program over the twenty year economic life of the proposed project. With
CIPREL Phase n1 of 66 MW, the EIRR to the net cash flow is 34 percent (Annex 6-1, page 3 & 4).
If CIPREL Phase II were a 90 MW plant, and assuming about 5 percent decrease of plant cost per
kW, 7 percent fuel efficiency increase, displacement of fuel oil use in 1996 and reduction in size of
the first increment aflter CIPREL, the EIRR would be 35 percent with no change in the load
forecast. The apparently high EIRRs occur because the average tariff is high, while the
incremental system cost of generation (at 10 percent social discount rate) is relatively low
(US$0.042/kWh).
G.    Sensitivity Tests:
6.12   The Base Case EIRR is tested for uncertainty of key factors as follows:
Table 6.2: Sensitivty Tests
a'ab les                                                           New E          ---
Incremental T&D cost increased from US$0.058/kWh to USS0.064/kWh          10
Load growth reduced from 5.2 percent to 3.5 percent per year              15
Project commissioning delayed by one year                                 19
Plant cost increased by 20 percent                                        26
Fuel Cost increased by 20 percent                                         21
Plant and fuel cost increased by 20 percent each                          16
Plant and fuel cost increased by 20 percent each with low load growth     7
CHAPTER VII
AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1    During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following matters:
(a)    CAA will prepare a detailed schedule for the Power Sector debts no later than
February 1, 1996 (para 3.20);
(b)    GOCI commitment on settlement of Government electricity bills within three
months of billing date and settlement of arrears by June 30, 1996 (para 3.20);
This implicitly assumes that neither the real tariff netback nor the struture of sales between tariff
categories will change significantly over the evaluation period.



-27-
(c)    annual consultation between GOCI and IDA on the power sector investment
program (para 3.26);
(d)    before understanding major changes to the organizational structure of the
electricity sub-sector which may have an adverse impact on the objectives of the
Project, GOCI will exchange views with IDA (para 3.26);
(e)   letter of sector development policy (para 3.27);
(f)    detailed terms of reference for the studies to be financed with the IDA credit (para
4.13).
(g)    procurement to be done according to World Bank policies and procedures (para
4.17 to 4.22);
(h)    project account to be replenished when the balance reaches US$50,000 equivalent
(para 4.24).
(i)    audits of the project accounts and the special accounts and the status of IDA
credit disbursements to be done by independent auditors to be appointed no later
han six months after credit effectiveness (para 4.25);
(j)    annual financial audit of CIPREL (para 4.25);
(k)    agreement on the list of clauses in GOCI/CIPREL Convention that need to be
modified prior to the award of the contract for Phase II Gas Turbines (para 4.26);
(I)    GOCI to maintain the Project Unit for the duration of the project (para 4.26);
(m)   Implementation Manual (para 4.28);
(n)    presentation of semi-annual progress reports by the Ministry of Mines and Energy
through the Project Unit (para 4.30);
(o)   implementation review of CIPREL Phase II by June 30, 1996 and mid-term
review of project implementation before June 30, 1996 (para 4.30);
(p)    principles and timing for periodic adjustment of electricity tariffs (para 5.8);
(q)    contents of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement (para 4.16).
7.2    Conditions of Credit Effectiveness:
(a)     Signing of Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and CIPREL
(para 4.16);
(b)     Opening by GOCI a project Account and depositing US$200,000 equivalent
(para 4.24);



-28-
(c)    Signing of all amendments to the convention between GOCI and CIPREL and the
Loan Agreement between CIPREL and its lenders for Phase I (para 4.26);
(d)    Adoption and presentation by GOCI to IDA an Implementation Manual for the
Project satisfactory to IDA (para 4.28).
7.5    Recommendation: On the basis of the above agreements, the proposed project is suitable
for an IDA credit of SDR 50.6 million (US$79.66 million) to the Republic of Cote d'Ivoire at
standard terms with maturity of 40 years including 10 years grace.



ANNEX 2-1
COTE D'IVOIRE
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY PROJECT
SELECTED ECONOMIC INDICATORS
1994     1995     1990   1597
*st   rev. pam.
A. Baance of Paymonts (1)
Exports                                1538.4    1749.7  1886.3  2050.4
Imports                                -784.6    -916.8 -1048.1 -1187.5
Service reciepts                        240.7     281.1  308.7  340.2
Service payments                       -995.8   -1102.5 -1127.5 -1150.4
Net transfers                          -141.6    -157.2  -174.0  -191.0
Current Account                        -142.9    -145.7  -154.6  -138.3
Official project loans                   64.3      87.7  105.2  115.8
Other bi/multilateral                    495      329.8  284.8       0
Central Gov. amortization              -360.6    -422.5  -369.8  -324.2
Public entr. amortization               -19.4     -16.7  -15.7  -15.6
Other capital (priv. etc.)              206.1         9    21.2    6.2
Capita Account                          385.4     -12.7   25.7  -217.8
Overall Balance                         242.5    -158.4  -128.9  -356.1
Financing                              -242.5     158.4  128.9   49.7
Balance                                    0          0      0  -306.4
B. Selected Macro-Economic Indicators (1)
Real GDP; % per year                      1.3       6.5    6.4    6.6
Nominal GDP (FCFA billion)              3729       4382   4850   5374
GDP deflator (%/year)                    39.2      10.3    4.0    3.9
Consumer Price Index (%/year)            25.9       6.4    5.6    5.6
e As a percent of Nominal GDP:
'Public Sector Consumption              14.4       12.8   11.8   11.0
'Private sector consumption             60.2       61.3   63.1   64.0
'Public sector gross fixed capital formation  4.6   4.5    4.2    4.4
*Private sector gross fixed capital format'n  7.7   9.4   10.2   10.8
Net Savings                             12.3      14.0   14.8   16.2
Nomina Exchange Rate (rounded)           555        534    538    544
Source: Draft Policy Framework Paper, February 16, 1995,



COTE D'IVOIRE
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY PROJECT
Energy Balnce 1989/90
(toe)
PRIMARY ENERGY                                                              DERIVED ENERGY
Agdl &                                                                              DomeuTo Totl                             Total non   TOTAL
Foet   Hyr1.-              Other                              Supe  nd              Db..d l          In-Procm   Pct,oemm  Enery rated
Flrewood Residue.  Elect.  Crude 01 Feedtock Charcoal  Ebeotdahy   LPG    petrol    Kogene    Ge ON    Fuel  Feedutock   Producat      Product.
Raw Supply
Production            3,283      595    326       106        10                                                                                                        4.320
Impors                                           2,354      539                   25                                                                                   2,918
Prknary Exports                                                                                                                                                            O
Unused Supply                   -172                                                                                                                                    -172
Stock Movemwnts                                  -128        24                                                                                                         -104
Total Aval. Supply    3,283     423    326    2,332         573                  25                                                                                   6*,f2
Conversion
Petoeum Refinig                                  2,332     -573                          28       429        504       822    801        177       2.561          67   -277
Charcoal Production   -1,623    -106                                 415                                                                                               -1,314
Elatukity Production
Thermal                                                                        48                                    -37   -118                  -155                -107
Eleobiity Prdo
Hydno                                -326                                     126                                                                                    -200
Trans. & Dist. Leases                                                            -32                                                                                     -32
Stock Movernents                                                                          1        -19       -12        28      37                   35                   35
Not upIy 1m660                  317                                 416         167    29        410       492        813    520        177      2,441           67  5,067
Secondwry Exports                                                                         -3       -234      -346       -352   -394       -177     -1,506          -49  -1,555
Bunker                                                                                                        -76       -122    -79                 -277                 -277
Not ntemnl Con.      1,660      317                                 415         167    26        176        70        339     47                   G6M           18  3,236
ndustry                           311                                              52      1                              39     48                   86            18    467
Service                  167                                           96          66      6                    7          1                           14                 343
Rsidential              1,493       6                                 319          49    19                    49                                     68                 1,935
Transport                                                                                          154         14        279      1                  448                  448
Agriculture,                                                                                        22                    20                          42                   42



ANNEX 3-2
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY PROJECT
EXISTING POWER GENERATING FACILITIES
A- Hydroelectric Plants
Power Plant    Year put  Installed Cap.   Turbines    Reservoir Cap.    Annual Output (GWh)1
in service    (MW)                    (million m3)    Average      Firm
Ayame I       1959          20        2 Kaplan        846            65         52
Ayame II      1965          30         2 Kaplan        68            100         94
Kossou       1972          174        3 Francis     23,260          80          80
Taabo        1979         210        3 Francis       340           416         339
Buyo        1980          165        3 Kaplan       6,812          561        388
Rapid Grah     1983          5          2 Bulbe         0             2           0
TOTAL                      604                                     1224        953
01) source: Plan National de l'Energie. SNC-Shawinigan Inc. May-1993.
B- Vridl Thermal Plant
Unit       Year put   Fuel Consum.    Fuel       Availability      Capacity (MW)
in service   g/kWh         Type        Factor %      Nameplate   Operating
Steam #1       1968         351         FO 380         60             32         29
Steam #2       1970         319         FO 380         50             32         32
Steam #3       1976         306         FO 380         35             75         50
Steam #4       1976         308         FO 380         35             75         50
GT #1        1984          360         HVO            67            25         21.5
GT #2        1984          360         HVO            67            25         21.5
GT #3        1984          360         HVO            67            25         21.5
GT #4        1984          360         HVO            67            25         21.5
Total                                                              314         247



Cote dlivoire Power Sector Structure
Government         |    t  CFD   |   | EDF  |   | Other                   DCGTx:
10 D%              92.3%          4.7%          1.3%         1.7%         oversight of policy,
strategy, works
and procurement
Power sector                                    EECI
assets excluding                  Project ImplementatiornOversight
CIPREL:                           Monitors CIE technical/financial
approx. 918 MW
| SAUR  || EDF
gas supply
1000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~UMIC, IFC,
SISP        SAUR       I        Staff   Public                      Petroci, Gov.
sales
operator  -           ~~~CIE                   provides fuel and CIPREL    FrE/A
ISAURI I EDF I            operator           Concessionaire for generation,                              services sector debt
65%    35%                                  transmission, distribution,             remits revenues       title holder of gas,
connections, billings, collectionssector finiance mgmt
VALENER                                     power sales           pay bills
175% share      >|CIPREL c.100-200|                            
others 25     MW gas turbines.                     Customer
+                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~provides gas; buys CIPREL elecricity



ANNEX 4-1
Page I of 2
COTE D'IVOIRE
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY PROJECT
Summary of Key Features of the Convention between C8te d'Ivoire and CIPREL
The following summary is provided only to give the reader a general understanding of the nature of
the agreement. It is not a substitute for the Convention for any purpose. All provisions of the
Convention are considerably more detailed.
1.    CIPREL assumes certain responsibilities vis-a-vis C6te d'Ivoire with respect  to
completion, completion delay for Phase I and capital cost over-run. The capital cost and capital
portion of the price relating to Phase I capacity became fixed and firm as of the conclusion of the
relevant financing agreements. For Phase II, cost adjustment is provided for differences between
the actual costs and on-lending terms relative to those suggested in the Convention, once the
contract is awarded and the on-lending terms between the Government and CIPREL are finalized.
I
Thereafter, CIPREL is at risk for cost over-run, completion and completion delay
2.     CIPREL has an annual supply obligation (as of dates certain covering the first 99MW)
for the duration of the Convention, in default of which penalties apply. For example, with 165 MW
of capacity, the maximum obligation is for 1150 GWh (availability factor of almost 80%). The
penalty applies to differences between programmed and actual deliveries, and can be either 8% or a
combination of 8% and 38% of the price, depending upon the volume of the shortfall. If in two
successive years CIPREL is unable to deliver the cumulative ACQ2, the Convention can be
annulled.
3.     CIPREL earns a bonus for energy requested and delivered over and above the ACQ. The
bonus for the marginal kWh beyond ACQ can range from about 5% to 38% of the base price,
depending upon the volumes taken in excess of ACQ.
4.     CIPREL is obligated to undertake all inspections, maintenance, repairs and renewals to
keep the units in proper operating condition for the life of the Convention, and to undertake a
perfornance test of each unit every year.
5.     CIPREL is responsible for an environmental impact study and implementation of measures
it considers necessary in light of the study conclusions.
6.     On the authority of the State, CIE has an obligation to pay CIPREL for the ACQ2, the
price per kWh decreasing as capacity increases through three, four or five turbines commissioned.
This is equivalent to a capacity charge, because given the capacity to which it applies, it is
invariant with respect to actual kWh taken, and the State provides the fuel separately. The plant is
fully dispatchable, which allows the system operator to minimize the variable cost of meeting the
' Completion delay penalties are defined for Phase I, which was commissioned on schedule. For Phase II,
the cost to CIPREL of completion delay would be the absence of revenue to cover costs incurred.
2Annual Contract Quantity



ANNEX 4-1
Page 2 of 2
load. Failure of the State to remedy a notified payment gap within 30 days of notification is
grounds for annulment of the Convention. The same applies for the State's failure to supply fuel.
7.    Take over and indemnity provisions are specified in case of annulment.
8.    Every year the State, CIE and CIPREL will agree on CIPREL's production, taking into
account optimal system dispatching requirements anticipated for the coming year.
9.    CIPREL is to invest its own equity for 25% of the Phase I costs, and the remaining 75% is
borrowed from IFC, CFD and BOAD. The State is to finance Phase II through public debt on-lent
to CIPREL.
10.   CIPREL is solely responsible for studies, technical specifications and documents, except
that the State has rights of approval for Phase II documents. CIPREL is solely responsible for
tendering on Phase I, while for Phase I, there wil be obligatory ICB, managed by CIPREL but
subject to State approval.
11.   CIPREL is solely responsible for implementation of tendering and construction. The State
has open access to the construction and manufacturing sites. CIPREL will report progress monthly
to the State. The State has the right to inspect and approve the acceptance of all CIPREL works.
12.   The State has the right to buy-back the CIPREL plant after the first ten years of operation,
in which case a specific agreement would be negotiated including compensation for the present
value (at time of buy-back) of foregone dividends to CIPREL and CIPREL's capital, and the take-
over of remaing debt service obligations.



ANNEX 4-2
Page 1 of 3
COTE D'IVOIRE
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The project includes the following investments components:
Extension of CIPREL II Power Plant:
CIPREL Power Plant consists of CIPREL phase I (99MW) went in service in late
February and early March, 1995. The IDA project finances the CIPREL phase II which
consists of supply and erection of one or two Gas Turbines with total ISO rating between
75MW and 105MW. This gives a site rating of between 65MW and 90MW
approximately. This capacity range was defined with two purposes in mind: (a) meet the
capacity need for the sector; and (b) allow as mnany as possible manufacturers of Gas
Turbines to bid. The scope of work to be supplied include: the civil works, supply and
erection of the Gas Turbines, all electro mechanical accessories including power
transformers, extension to the 225kV substations and auxiliaries, supply of spare parts,
tools and a warehouse to store the parts and tools, and training for local staff.
2.    Rebuilding of the 90kV/15kV Treichville Substation
With more than 50 MVA transit (more than 10% of the system load) and seventeen 15kV
feeders, the Treicheville substation, is a crucial injection point for the power supply of
Abidjan. The present poor reliability of the substation directly impacts the quality of
supply and causes numerous power shortage in the Abidjan area. The new substation will
have:
-     two 90kV breakers
-     four 90kV line bays
-     three 90/15kV transformer bays
-     twenty 15kV feeders
The scope of work will include the demolition of the existing installation, the civil work for
the new equipment including the construction of a control and switchgear building and the
supply and erection of the following equipment:
-     two 90kV outdoor busbars
-     eight 90kV circuit breakers
-     sixteen 90kV disconnecting switches
-     four 90kV earthing switches
-     four 90kV current and voltage transformners
-     four 90kV line traps
-     four 90kV surge arrestors
-     auxiliaries
-     twenty 15kV circuit breakers including the 15kV switchgear
-     three block of 15kV capacitors
-     protection relays and control system



ANNEX 4-2
Page 2 of 3
teleconnmunication system
-  auxiliaries
3.             of te    _ktatioatRD
This incudes cexension of the 90kV bus including circuit breakers switches and
i ons ntation to accommodat the additional 165MW of CIPREL generating plant. The
ngieeng and design will be carried out by Consulting Eogineers and the work will be
conrcd on a supply erection basis. The scope of work will include the necessary civil
work and the supply and eection of the following equipment:
a set of new 90kV bars (O 100 mm instead of 80 nun)
-     a set of new connectors fbr each equipment
-      eight 90kV circuit breakers
-     twenty-five 90kV disconnecting switches
4.    S       g  the transnission system around Abidjan
In case of loss of the 22OkV semi ring around Abidjan, the existing 90kV system will not
be able to transit all the generating capacity at VRIDI during the peak. In order to provide
ths additonal reliability to the system, the following will be carried out.
(a)   In      eng the existing Plateau with the rebuilt Treicheville substation. The
work scope includes: about 4 km of two 90kV circuits, and two new 90kV
positions at the 90kV bus in Plateau substations.
Each 4 kn, 90kV circuit will be made of three insulated cables, including aU
necsary joints and accessories. The section of each cable will be 630 mm 2
aluminum.
The instllauon of two additional line bays at the 90kV Plateau substation wil
include the necessary civil work and the supply and erection of the foUowing
equipment:
the existing 90kV busbar extension
two 90kV discting switches
two 90kV earthing switches
two 90kV current transfomers
two 90kV voltage transfonnmers
protection relays and control system extension
telecommunication system extension
(b)   Taping the 90kV line between Bia-Sud and Amaye 2 at the Riviera substation,
including the modification of the overhead line and the installation of two 90kV
positions and the associated modifications in the substation.
The insbllation of two new line bays at the 90kV Riviera substation will include
the ncessay civil work and the supply and erection of the following equipment:



ANNEX 4-2
Pags 3 of 3
-     the existing 90kV busbar extension
-     three 90kV circuit breakers
-     six 90kV disconnecting switches
-     two 90kV earthing switches
-     three 90kV current transforners
-     two 90kV voltage transformers
-     four 90kV line taps
-     two 90kV surge arrestors
-     protection relays and control system extension
-     telecommunication system extension
5.    The replacement of about 60 km of 15kV underground cables
The urban distribution network of Abidjan includes 700 km of l5kV cables, of which
about 60 km have been identified as unreliable and source of numerous power faults and
the loss of supply. These cables are very old (around 40 years) with an average of 20
splices per mn, a low insulation level (dried up oil impregnated paper), a poor trsit
capacity and high losses (22mm2 diameter conductor). These cables wifl be replaceod by
XLP 15kV cables, with 150 mm2 conductors.



REPUBLIC OF COTE D0IVOIRE
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY PROJECT
Table 1. POWER GENERATION EXPANSION
Detailed Costs
(USS Million)
Breakdown of Totals
Incl. Cont
Local
Base Cost                         Totals Including Contingencies         For.  (Excl.
1995    1996    1997    1998    Total      1995    1996    1997    1998    Total      Exch.  Taxes)  Total
1. investment Costs
A. CIPREL STEP 2
Supply and Erection of rew GT Plant  24.15   24.15    -           48.30      24.15   24.15               -   48.30       48.30      -   48.30
Eng.& Constion Spn.                1.70       -       -       -    1.70       1.70       -       -       -    1.70        1.70      -    1.70
Total                  25.85   24.15       -           50.00      25.85   24.15       -       -   50.00      50.00      -   50.00
Table 2. POWER SYSTEM REINFORCEMENT
Detailed Costs
(USS Millon)
Breakdown of Totals
Inc. Cant
Local
Base Cost                        Totals Including Contingencies         For.  (Excl.
1995    1996    1997    1998    Total      1995    1996    1997    1998    Total      Exch.  Taxes)  Total
1. Investnent Costs
A. Reinf. of Vridi 90 kV Syst. & Connection    0.60    1.20    0.90    0.30    3.00  0.67    1.37    1.05    0.36    3.45   3.11   0.35    3.45
B. Reinforcement of Abidjan Transm. System
9OkV Treichville-Plateau Intercon.  0.00    0.90    1.80    1.80    4.50      0.00    1.03    2.11    2.16    5.29        4.76   0.53    5.29
Taping Bia Sud-Abrobakro line @ Rivier    0.00    0.35    0.70    0.70    1.75  0.00    0.40    0.82    0.84    2.06      1.85   0.21    2.06
Subtotal Reinforcement of Abidjan Tra    0.00    1.25    2.50    2.50    6.25   0.00    1.43    2.93    3.00    7.35        6.62   0.74    7.35
C. Rebulding Trechvlle Substaon      0.00    1.10    2.20    2.20    5.50       0.00    1.26    2.57    2.64    6.47        5.17   1.29    6.47
D. Replacement of 15 kV Cables
Supply of Cabls and Materials      0.00    0.80    1.60    1.60    4.00       0.00    0.91    1.87    1.92    4.70        4.70   0.00    4.70
Insaliation of Cables              0.00    0.10    0.20    0.20    0.50       0.00    0.11    0.23    0.24    0.59        0.29   0.29    0.59
Subtotal Replacementof16kVCables     0.00    0.90    1.80    180    450         000    1.03    2.11    2.16    5.29         500   029    5.29
E. Engneering and Constr. Spn.       0.36    0.72    0.36    0.36    1.80       0.40    0.82    0.42    0.43    2.08        1.04   1.04    2.08
TOTAL                   0.96    5.17    7.76    7.16   21.05        1.07    5.90    9.08    8.59   24.64      20.93   3.71   24.64
SI



REPUBLIC OF COTE O'IVOIRE
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY PROJECT
Table 3. Insabutional Building
Detailed Costs
(USS Million)
Brekdown of Totals Inc. Cont
Local
Sesa Cost                        Totals Including Contingencies     For.    (Excl.
1996    1996    1897   198     Total     1996    189    1997    1996   Total   Exch.   TAX4s)    Total
1. Investment Codst
A. Sector Oranisatlon A MAnpowr Planning
Study by aManageert Cons. Firm                         0.18    0.18       -       -    0.35      0.19    0.20      -       -    0.39     0.39        -      0.39
Impkementon of te Study Recom.                            -       -    0.30    0.30    0.60        -            0.35    036    0.71      0.64     0.07      0.71
SubtotISectoOrganisationaManpower Planning               0.18    0.18    0.30    0.30    0.95      0.19    0.20    0.35    0.36    1.11    1.03     0.07      1.11
B. Regubtion and TA to Min. of Energy                    0.20    0.30    0.25    0.25    1.00      0.22    0.34    0.29    0.30    1.16    1.04     0.12      1.16
C. Studs for Systm Planning
Power Sysern E4Nlon Studies                            0.90    0.36    0.36    0.18    1.80      1.00    0.41    0.42    0.22    2.05    2.05        -      2.05
Hydrocarbon System Planning Studies                    0.64    0.16       -       -    0.80      0.68    0.17       -      -    0.85     0.81     0.04      0.85
PFpwationof Standar dlPPBidDoc                         0.15    0.15       -       -    0.30      0.17    0.17       -           0.34     0.34        -      0.34
Prparton ofidDoctfrPflvat oSteamUnits                     -       -    0.10    0.10    0.20         -            0.12    0.12    0.24    0.24        -      0.24
Taff Study                                             0.24    0.36       -       -    0.60      0.27    0.41       -            0.68     0.64    0.03      0.68
SubtotalStudes forSystmrnPbtnning                        1.93    1.03    0.46    0.28    3.70      2.12    1.17    0.54    0.34    4.16    4.08     0.08      4.16
D. Energy Effcicency
ButaneU lzatonStudyandImpewtabon                       0.06    0.09    0.15       -    0.30      0.07    0.10    0.18      -    0.35     0.33     0.02      0.35
Loe Reducton Study and lmpemeitl                       0.09    0.09    0.12       -    0.30      0.10    0.10    0.14           0.34     0.27     0.07      0.34
DSM Study and Implementation                           0.15    0.20    0.15       -    0.50      0.17    0.23    0.18      -    0.57     0.46     011       0.57
Subtotl E ErgykeWncy                                     0.30    0.38    0.42       -    1 10      0.33    0.43    0.49           1.26     1.06     020       1.26
E.TrwllngfortheSectorStWf                                0.25    0.25    0.25    0.25    1.00      0.28    0.29    0.29    0.30    1.16    0.98     0.17      1.16
F. Mlis_oeoux Equpment & Supples                        0.15    0.15    0.15    0.11    0.56      0.17    0.17    0.18    0.13    0.65    0.65        -      0.65
Total                          3.01    2.29    1.83    1.19    8.31      3.31    2.60    2.14    1.43    9.49     8.85    0.64       9.49
512195 12.39 PM IDT.3.XLS



ANNEX 44
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT METHODS
Volume of
Description                                              Procurement        Timing         consulting
method          for award         work
(men-month)
1.Power Generation Expansion
( CIPREL phase ll l
1.1 Engineering & construction supervision              single source      awarded            55
1.2 Supply & erection of Ciprel phase 11                    ICB             Sep-95
2.Pow-r System Reinforcement
2.1 Engineering & construction supervision                 shortlist        Oct-95            50
2.2 Extension of Vridi 90KV substation                      ICB             Oct-96
Supply & erection
2.3 Rebuilding of Treichville substation                    ICB             Oct-96
Supply & erection
2.4 Extension of Plateau and Riviera substations            ICB             Oct-96
Supply & erection (including taping
of the line Bia-Sud Amaya2 at Riviera)
2.5 90kV cable from Treichvilile to Plateau                 ICB             Sep-96
Supply & erection
2.6 Replacement of 57km of 15kV underground cable           ICB             Feb-96
Supply
2.7 Replacement of 57km of 15kV underground cable      local procedures     Oct-96
Erection
3.1natitutional Development
3.1 Institutional restructuration and man power analysis   shortlist        Oct-95            40
3.2 Demand forcast and system planning study               shortlist        Jan-96            52
3.3 Financial analysis and tarif adjustment study          shortlist        Jan-97            32
3.4 Preparation of bidding documents for the next IPP      shortlist        Jan-96             20
3.5 Hydrocarbone subsector development plan                shortlist        Jun-96             28



ANNEX 4-5
COTE D'IVOIRE
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY PROJECT
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ million)
BANK  :SE3MSTEO   -:4f : DISBURSEMENT                     DISBURSEMENT
PROFILE
PROJECT
____ ___   __ ___ ___   ___   _    C  UM  ULA f V   % )
________ -.ANNUAL  CUMULATIVE
1996                I             7.0         7.0                   9.0
II            3.0         10.0                  12.6
1997                I            30.0        40.0                  50.2
II           10.0         50.0                  62.8
1998                I            10.0        60.0                  75.3
II            7.0         67.0                  84.1
1999                I             7.0        74.0                  92.9
II            5.66       79.66                100.0
The above disbursement profile reflects the private sector involvement in the project and
does not match available disbursement profiles in the country.



Annex 4-S
REWUSU OF COTE OWVOIE
PRIVATE SECTOR iMeOY PROJECT
SUMMARtY SiPUMENTATION SCHEDULE
Description                                                          1995                                  1998                                 1997                                  1999                        1999
1.PowwOenwsthn Expewice~   2 3  4  5  8  7 8  9 lOll1 12 1 2 3  4  5  8  7  II   10 ll  t2 I 2  3  4 8  8  7 8    80 1Ol  12   2 3  4  5  0  7 8  8  10 It 12 I 2 3  4 a 
I IOMW single cy'cl combustin tuorbine)
- muence of bidin doctN,nt
-tender period
-tender evaluation
*contrect eward
*commiessoning
2.Power Ssvtem Reinforoemaent                                                            1
Extension of Vrid 90CV substation
*design end boding process
*supply end orection
Reinforcement of Abidfan transmnission system
*design end biding process....    ......
*supply and orection
Rebuilding Treinchiviles substationr
-design and biding proes
*supply and erection
Rteplaement of I15KV cables
-design end biding process
-supply
-instelletion.. ....
3.1notitutionel Development
Electnicity eubsector manegmlent study                                                                                                                               11-                           t
Electricity subsecetor menegment implementation
Power System Investment, Operstions & Pricing Study                                                                                   I                           II                                            I
Investment, operation and pricing implementationI
Sub-sector privetiuation strengthening situdy
Sub-sectoiprivetizetion strengthening imiplementation
Hydrocarbon seubsctor reform study
Hydroerbone subeector refrm imptemsntation                                     I                                                                                                            



ANNEX 4-7
COTE D'IVOIRE
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
P.-  - 7 m m ,  .... :.7..    Ef7-f:- .-i7 .(f.    :.. ...i. ; .-E -;;ii'  ''    '' '' ''"   '''
7/95       Project launch       Power Engineer, Economist       6
workshop            and Disbursement officer
11/95       Supervision Mission   Power Engineer, Economist,     4
Environmentalist
3/96       Supervision Mission   Power Engineer, Regulation     6
Specialist, and Financial
Analyst
7/96       Supervision Mission   Power Engineer, Economist      4
11/96       Supervision Mission   Power Engineer, Economnist,    6
Financial Analyst, and
Institutional Specialist
3/97       Mid-Term Review      Power Engineer, Economist,      6
Financial Analyst,
Institutional Specialist and
Environmentalist
7/97       Supervision Mission   Power Engineer, Economist      4
11/97       Supervision Mission   Power Engineer, Economist      4
3/98       Supervision Mission   Power Engineer, Economist      5
and Financial Analyst
7/98       Supervision Mission   Power Engineer, Economist      4
11/98       Supervision Mission   Power Engineer, Economist      4
4/99       Final Supervision    Power Engineer, Economist,      6
Mission             Financial Analyst and
Environmentalist



ANNEX 448
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGIE PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW SUhMMARY
1. This project consists of the construction and operation of a 75 - 105 MW ISO gas turbine
power plant as an expansion to the existing CIPREL power plant which is already equipped
with three turbines of 33 MW each (100 MWe in site conditions). The new turbines will be
installed in the same industrial area as the 3 others, adjacent to an existing power plant which
is oil-fired and in poor operational condition.
2. The plant will use natural gas as the prinary energy source, but it will also be able to use
heavy vacuum oil (HVO) as a back-up fuel.
3. The key environmental issues that were evaluated during the environmental review of this
project included:
- air emissions
- noise levels
4. Natural gas will be free of sulfur, fuel oil, if used in the new power plant, will have less than
0.5 percent sulfur by weight. S02 emissions, therefore, are expected to be negligible and in
compliance with Bank guidelines. NOx emission design specifications for the turbines are
expected not to exceed 115 ppm for 38 MW gas turbines. The high tempeature (5400C) and
high velocity (40m/s) of exhaust gses at the exit of the stack will lead to a very low NOx
concentration at ground level (few ug/m3). The use of natural gas fired turbines instead of oil-
fired units would result in a significant reduction of NOx enissions over current levels. It will
also reduce particulate emissions to virtuaDy zero.
5. Noise levels are generally of low significance in power plants using gas-fired turbines, and are
particularly of little concern in this industrial area. The new power plant will generate less
noise than the existing power plant.
6. The project will comply with local environmental regulations and World Bank guidelines.
7. The following table gives the nmtigation measures adopted by CIPREL m accordance with all
the potial negative impacts listed in the Environmental Assment Study made in April
1992 on FOXTROT BOOT Project by 'Vater & SOILS Ltd".



ANX 44
Page 2 of 2
INVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION MEASURES
MPACT                                   MEASURIS TAKEN IMTO ACCOUNT
1. Retriction in land-ue becuse of the  1. The CIPREL power plant location fotlows the salfety zone requirment of
safety of local people                 SOOm from the naest village
2. Noise level of 85 dB(A) at a dice of  2. The nois level of ga; turbines will not exceed 85 d13(A) at one meter by
3 m firm the tubines                   adding acoutic enclosues. The new gs turbina will not affect the prest
noise level at the narest residential as.
3. Dranae of the paved plant res.      3. Drainage of the paved plant area is collcted direly in an exstng sttng
Dicarge of waters from the              pit There is no demineralization unit in the CIPREL site. Ihe deminerlized
demineraliraton unit and other possible  water needed by CIPREL for boilers and compresor washing unit is derived
rocess water.                          directly from the existing demineralization unit at VRHI site.
4. Emissions of C02                     4. The efficiency of the new gas tubines wiIl be higher than exiding ones and
as efficient as the existing steam power plants in VRIDI site.
5. Risb of PCB emisions frm             5. The transformers are oiled ones and when burning oils do not develop
tmnsfonmer and capacitor oils during fires.   PCB.
6. Risk of oil spills frm  the oil storwage  6. The existing oil tnks in VRIDI site have been refibisbed and duly
tanks and pipelines.                   cebcked before use. For the daily tnks on CHPRE  site, a retention baxin is
installed with a complete fire protection and detection system.
7. Risk of chemical spiLs (NaO'H, NaCL,   7. Thre is no demin aized plant in CIPREL site.
HIS04) wbhen sxing and handling.
8. Emitsions of nitigen oxides (NOx).  8. The nitrogen oxide emissions are low due to natual gas use as main fuel.
If the new gas turbines are more often used than existing thermal power plants
which operate on fuel, the global NOx emissions frm VRIDI site will be
reduced
9. Emissios of paticles and S02, when    9. The CIPREL plant will use natual ps s its main fuel. The S02 emissions
using heavy vacuum oil as fuel.        wiIl be negligible. The particle emissions will be less than 10 mg/nm3,
thanks to the air filtration at the inlet of the gas turbines, the high enrgy and
excess air combustion and the negligible ash content in the naual gas used.
10. Recruitment of personnel.          10. The new ps turbines will not create many new jobs as most employees
wil be from the existing plant The person in charge of plat safety will also
be responsible for the envirowment and wiU receive the prope training.
11. Waste disposal                      11. Ordinay wastes should be disposed to a municipal landfill. Liquids are
drained to an existing settling pit and after sepamtion, water is sent to the
VRIDI collection and rejection system.
12. Discha   of the sewa  to the       12. For the oily waters, after separation, the water is sent to the existing
municipal waste water system.           coectio and rejection system. There are no other liquid effluents from he
gas turbines
13. Risk of sbotge.                     13. The power plant area is fenced by concrete walls of 3m height There is a
genl lighting system instaUed in the tation. Thre is a guard houe where
there wiU be in pernanence sewity peronnel.
14. Risk of fires and explosions.       14. There are gas and fire detection systems. The fire fighting systen are:
- C02 for the gas turbirnes compartmentr,
- water for the overall site;
- foam injection for the oil storage tanks.
There wiUl be regular checking of the alarm systems and fire fighting  stems.
There will be braining of the whole penonnel and firemen.



AMNX 5-1
Page I of 5
COTE D'IVOIRE
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY PROjECT
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF CIPREL
1.    This financial analysis provides an assessment of the financial status of CIPREL,
assumiing a 189 MW (site conditions) installation. Financial statements for CIPREL are simulated
on the basis of relevant provisions in the agroments between the State and CIPREL and CIPREL
and its financiers.
CIPREL Ownership and Financing Structure
2.     CIPREL is a private electricity generating company, in which 75% of the equity is held by
VALENER, a holding company incorporated in. Cte d'Ivoire of which 65% is held by SAUR ( a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Bouygues) and 35% by EDF International (a wholly-owned subsidiary
of EDF). The other 25% of the equity islheld in varying shares by IFC, PETROCI and other
investors.
3.    For Phase 1 (99MW), 25 percent of project costs are equity financed and 75% debt-
financed. Phase 2 (75MW to 105MW ISO conditions or 65MW to 90MW site conditions) will be
financed by a long-term loan from GOCI to CIPREL, consisting of funds onlent from IDA. For the
two phases together, the'resulting debt equity ratio will be 86:14. Table I shows a summary of the
financing plan.
Table 1: CIPREL Summary Financing Plan
(USS million)
Phase 1             Phase 2               Total
Costs                         68.0                 50.0                118.0
Finuacing
Equity                      17.1 (25)               -                 17.1 (14)
Private Long Term Debt      50.9 (75)               -                 50.9i(43)
Public Long Term Debt          -                50.0 (100)            50.0 (43)
Total Financing         68.0 (100)           50.0 (100)          118.0 (100)
Revenues:
4.    The July 1994 Convention between the Republic of CMte d'lvoire and CIPREL provides
the framework for defining annual contract quantities and prices according to the number of
megawatts of productive capacity. Annual revenue is estimated based on 189 MW (site conditions)
of capacity, using estimates of price and annual contract quantity to be derived by the contracting
party on the basis of the framework in the Convention. In the Convention, the price esfimate
assumes that Phase 2 financing will be made available at an interest rate of 7% and amorized over
18 years. The price will be similar for an on-lending agreement carrying 8% interest and 17 years'
amortization. This analysis does not include bonus revenues applicable in the Convention for
production exceeding the annual contract quantity. CIPREL's base case annual revenues are
estimated to be about $28.8 million.
! / I.



ANNEX-5-A
Page 2 of 5
Operating Expenses
5.     Tbe selling price of electrical energy from CIPREL to CIE covers debt service and all
operating costs other than fuel, which will be provided by the FNEE and the cost of which will be
recovered in the end-user tariff. CIE will operate and maintain the turbines under an operating
agreement between CIPREL and CIE. Annual maintenance costs are estimated at about 2.4 billion
CFA francs.
Net Income and Cash Flow
6.     CIPREL's simplified income statements for representative years and for a 189MW
scenario are shown in Table 2. Over each year of the period, CIPREL's net income will be
positive. Net operating income over revenues will be maintained at about 40 percent to 50 percent.
Operating income over net fixed assets in operation will increase steadily from 10 percent to about
62 percent in the last year of the Convention.
Table 2. Projected Income Statement
(constant US$ million equivalent)
1995/96       1997/98        2007/08       2012/13
Revenues
Operating costs (non-fuel)           15.1          28.8           28.8           28.8
Depreciation                          3.4           6.1            6.1            6.1
Operating Income                      5.8          14.3           14.2           14.2
Interest                              5.8            8.9           2.3             0
Net income before tax                 .02            5.4          11.8           14.2
Income tax                              -              -           4.1            5.0
Net Income                            .02            5.5           7.7            9.2
RATIOS
Operating Income/Net Revenue          0.4           0.5            0.5            0.5
Operating Income/Average fixed        0.1           0.1            0.3            4.9
assets in operation
Sources and Uses of Funds
7.     Despite a high initial debt:equity ratio, CIPREL will generally meet its covenants to the
Phase 1 lenders, in particular the debt-service coverage ratio (minimum agreed value of 1.2) and a
six-month equivalent of debt service to private lenders (to be held in an offshore escrow account).
The five year grace period preceding debt service for the Phase 2 loan will moderate overall debt
service during the first five years of operations; however, when all debt service will be concurrent
(in FY 2002/03 and FY 2003/04) the debt service ratio will fall to between 1.0 and 1.1 in those
two years.
Balance Sheet Projection
8.     The projected balance sheet is sumnmaized in Table 3 for representative years.
Shareholders' equity increases over the first several years as debt repayment and dividend
distribution restrictions force CIPREL to retain most of its earnings.



ANNEX S-1
Page 3 of 5
Table 3: Projected Balance Sheet (189 MW~
(constant US S million equivalent)
1995/96        1997!98         2007/08         2012/13
Current Assets                   2.2             4.9            12.3            34.4
Fixed Assets                   114.9           103.2            50.1             3.0
Total Assets                   117.1           108.1            62.4            37.4
Current Liabilities (1)          7.2             8.2             7.3             3.2
Long-term Debt                  92.9            83.3            20.8             0.0
Shareholders' Equity            17.1            16.5            34.2            34.2
Total Liabilities              117.1           108.1            62.4            37.4
(1) Includes current portion of long-term debt.
Financial Returns
9.    The financial rate of return is estimated to be about 15.8%. The rate of return on equity
is estirnated to be 21.4%. Taxes on dividends depends upon nationality, and is 12% for French
investors. There is no withholding tax on dividends paid to international institutions such as IFC,
CFD and BOAD.
ASSUMPTIONS FOR THE FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
I.     FINANCIAL COVENANTS
1.    As part of the undertaking of Phase I of the project, financial covenants relevant to this
financial analysis are as follows:
(i)    Dividends Payment:  Dividends will be paid out of cumulative net
earnings and if the current ratio of CIPREL (including debt due within 12
months) exceeds 1.0 after payrnent of such dividends.
(ii)    Debt Service Coverage. Debt service coverage should not be less than
1.2.
(iii)   Escrow Account Reserve. An offshore escrow account reserve wiln be
established and be kept at the level needed to support six-month debt
payment, effective March 1996.



ANNEX 5-1
Page 4 of 5
II.     ASSUMPTIONS
Forecasting period                            17 years (FY 1995/96 - FY 2012/13)
Fiscal Year                                   October I - September 30
Exchange Rate:                                US $= 540 FCFA*
*Valid at time of appraisal
All figures are in constant 1994 units.
2.     For the purpose of the financial analysis of CIPREL, the installed generating capacity is
assumed to be 189MW (Phase I: 99 MW; Phase II: 90MW). Results for an installed capacity of
165MW (i.e. Phase II 66MW) are not significantly different. Bid analysis will lead to a decision
for a phase II capacity within this range.
Project Costs and Financing Plan
PHASE I   PHASE IITOTAL
(99MW)    (90MW)               ~~~~(189 MW)~
MFCFA       USS        MFCFA       USS   MFCFA          USS
Total Costs    36,700        68.0      27,000     50.0    63,700        118.0
Equity          9,200        17.1        -         -        9,200        17.1
Long Ter-m Debt
IFC ALoan       9,200        17.1        -         -        9,200        17.1
CFD Loans      13,800       25.6         -         -       13,800        25.6
BOAD Loan       4,500         8.3        -         -        4,500         8.3
IDA on lent         -         -        27,000     50.0    27,000         50.0
Total Debt     27,500        51.0      27,000     50.0    54,500        100.9
Debt + Equity   36,700       68.0      27,000     50.0    63,700        118.0
Financing Terms
Phase I Long Term Debt
Currency  Duration    E~qu eivaet   ~~~~~~~Aznortization    InJterest Rt
IFC ALoan           FF             1 + 9              9 200         9            12.00
CFD Loan            FF             I + 9             13 800         9            11.00
BOAD Loan           FF             I + 9              4 500         9            12.75
Phase 11 Long Term Debt (Government of C6te d'lvoire to CIPREL)
:Currency-- :Duration    Amount Azn lotizaiionj    0Iterest Ratd-
IDA Credit             FCFA         5 + 12
On lent to CIPREL       FCFA        5 + 12      50.0          12              8
CIPREL Unit Revenues
3.     As envisaged in the Convention, CIPREL unit revenues will vary depending upon the
contracted facilities cost and financing conditions for Phase 11 investment.



ANNEX S-1
Page 5 of 5
Annual Oneratin! ExDenses
4.    These expenses are defined in the Convention between CIPREL and the State of C8te
d'Ivoire for an installation of 165MW. For a 189MW installation such costs have been adjusted
accordingly.
Depreciation
5.    Equipment costs are depreciated over 17 years on a straight-line basis, coincident with the
raining years in the Convention. Other non-project capital expenditures are depreciated also on a
straight-line basis at a rate of 20%/o/year.
Income Tax
6.    Income taxes are 35% of income before taxes. A tax holiday regime has been granted to
CIPREL according to which the tax exemption phases out gradually over a five year period.
Dividends
7.    Gross Dividends are paid out from cumulative cash subject to the condition that the
current ratio at the end of the fiscal year is no less than one and a minimum cash balance is
maintained. Gross dividends are subject to the following dividend tax:
FY95-02             18%
FY03-FY13           12%
Current Assets
Minimum cash balance MFCFA 300 (US$ 0.56 million)
8.    Lone Term Debt Service Account: An offshore debt service account for the debt
provided by the private lenders is to be maintained at the level of six-months of the next year's debt
service, subject to the condition that no short-term debt is incurred. This requirement does not
apply to IDA fiuds on-lent to CIPREL.
Accounts Receivable: 30 days of net revenues
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable: 30 days of operating expenses.
VAT Payable:   15 days
Interest on Short-Term Debts:  10% p.a.
Interest on Short-Tenn Deposits:4% p.a.



AneL 5
Page 1 of 3
Electricity Tariff Formula
General Provisions
1.    The average price per kilowatt hour of electricity sales to domestic customers will
be sufficient for the power sector to earn 8% rate of return on its net assets in operation
(hereafter "RRA") every year, subject to the RRA being adequate to achieve a debt
service ratio of at least 1.5, a self-financing ratio of at least 0.2 and an operating ratio of
less than 0.85, all terms as defined below and according to the following procedure.
2.    Every November, GOCI will prepare a power system investment, operation and
financial performance forecast in a manner satisfactory to IDA using the current "base
tariff" in order to determine the tariff sufficient to achieve the adequate RRA (hereafter
"the sufficient tariff'). The effective base tariff for November 1995 is FCFA 57.3/kWh.
3.    The tariff will be adjusted to achieve the adequate RRA if the sufficient tariff is at
least 5% above or 10% below the base tariff. The adjusted tariff will be the base tariff for
purposes of each November's tariff assessment.
Definitions:
"RRA" (Rate of Return on ANFA) = operating income/ANFA.
ANFA = Average net fixed assets, defined as one half of the sum of the sector's (non-
CIPREL) fixed assets in operation at the beginning and at the end of the fiscal year.
Operating Income = revenue minus operating expenditures.
Revenue = proceeds of domestic and export electricity sales from CIE to FNEE, and the
rural electrification fee paid into FNEE.
Operating expenditures = Fees and expenses paid to CIE, CIPREL, EECI and DCGTx,
electricity imports, the commercial cost of fuel supply to CIE and CIPREL, depreciation
and net payment of value-added tax.
Annual debt-service coverage ratio = operating income plus depreciation both divided
by net debt service.
Net Debt Service = the year's projected payment of principal and interest on all of the
sector's net debt.
Self-financing ratio = internal funds available for investment divided by total investment.
Internal Funds available for investment = operating income plus depreciation minus the
sum of changes in working capital, interest and debt service.



Annex 5-2
Page 2 of 3
Irvesment - construction plus interest during construction.
Operating ratio = operating expenditures divided by revenue.
A sample accounting format is provided on page 3 of this Annex. Data is subject to
change.
Specific Provisions for 1995/1996
Book value of assets will be used instead of revalued assets until asset revaluation is
completed as pan of the forthcoming tariff study. Asset revaluation will be done under the
project so that RRA can be computed on the basis of net revalued assets, defined as non-
CIPREL, non-CIE operable assets in current value net of accumulated revalued
depreciation.
External debt service is a working estimate agreed between GOCI and the IMF, and it will
be used pending a review and specification of external power sector debt service to be
conducted as part of the tariff study.
The first application of the formula for 1995/1996 will be in November 1995.



Accounting Format for Financial Tariff Formula            Annex 5-2
Page 3 of 3
Item                     1993194   11994/95   1995/96   1996/97
FCFA million except as noted
Income Statement
Revenue
Domestic Sales in GWh        1904.0    2032.0    21340    2241.0
Export Sales in GWh             0.0        0.0      60.0       80.0
Dom. Sales Revenue          98969.9  116433.6  122278.2  128409.3
Export + Other Revenue       7323.8    8818.1   11274.6   11728.3
Total Revenue              106293.7  125049.7  133552.8  140137.6
Operating Expenses('l       87963.6   98456.5   95435.4  102225.0
Operating Income            18330.1   26593.2   38117.4   37912.6
Balance Sheet Items
Net Assets                 300000.0  303788.0  308438.4  313101.2
Accumulated New Debt        13811.0   28676.2   43705.4   58851.4
Fund Flow Items
New Investment
Construction                  12788     13764      13916     14024
Interest during construction  1023.04   1101. 12   1113.28   1121.92
Total New Investment       13811.04  14865.12  15029.28  15145.92
Internal Funds
Operating Income            18330.1   26593.2   38117.4   37912.6
Depreciation                 900.0    9113.6    9253.2    9393.0
Internal Funds              27330.1   35706.9   47370.5   47305.6
domestic debt service        7409.0   10478.0    8495.0    8495.0
external debt service       12500.0   12500.0   12500.0   12500.0
debt service new loans       2201.0    3493.8    4712.0    9185.0
Intemal Funds for Inv        5220.1    9235.1   21663.5   17125.6
Ratio Anal sis     _l
operating ratio                0.83      0.79       071        0.73
debt servic coverag rato       1.24       1.35      1.84       1.57
self-financing ratio           0.38      062        1.44       1.13
Rats of Fetum on Net AsWt     0.061     0.088      a 124      0.121
critical ratio:          debt service
required internal funds     33165.0   39707.7   3856a5   4527ao
available internal funds    27330. 1   35706.9   473705   47305.6
incremental income req.      5834.9    400.8   -881ao    -2035.6
incremental FCFA/kWh           3.06       1.97     -4 13      -0.91
Adequate Rate of Return       0.081     0.101      0.095      0. 115
* Operating expenses includes: communal and value added tax, CIE remuneration,
fuel costs, CIPREL remuneration, DCGTx and FNEE services, EECI budget,
connection subsidiy and depreciation.
Non-italic data from CMte d 'Ivoire; italicized data from Bank stff
_  , .  w___~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Annex 8-1 Page 1 of 4
Electricity Consumption 1970-1994
2500      --       LV cons
i 2000          *    MV + HVcons
1500            - Total Cons
15000 _  t _ _=
.7500
0
0    c_  N    It to *o     C r O  0     0  -  N   I V  D  0o rt  00 0  0 o  N _t 4
1N    N   - r   N r-   -   - 1          co      - co 0    0   co a     co o  r  - c  a
0 al      CD Ot    0  0  0 1      al  at  0  CD CD co  0  m  0  im Q   CDc
Predicted Versus Actual Load Growth: 1970-1993
2500   |     *     Actual |
2000
0~~~~~ Predicted
0.
1  2  3  4  5  8  7  8  9  10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24
Predicted versus Actual Customer Growth 1970-1993
500000         *     Actual
* 400000          -    Predicted
E 300000
* 200000
100000 
.
1 2 3 4 5 8 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 18 17 18 19 20 21 22 23
Growth of Selected Economic Indicators and Electricity Consumption
1970-1993/94
8.00
6.00
'S4.00
22.00
*0.00
-2.00    Cl                  a                            0    c         >         >,     
GDPr - Real GDP. INDVAr - real Indusral value added; PDYr - reel personal disposable come; POP =
population; PDYIC - PDYr por capita; column. 6.7,8 armeeity consumption



Annex 6-1
page 2 of 4
Hydro Energy Production (GWh per year): 1980 - 1993
1980  1981  198    18    1984  198   198    198   198    198   122Q  199    12    199
1660  1759  1198  351   1176  1387  878   1216  1518  1465  1288  1116  1046  971
Average: 1216 GWh per year
Estimates of Future Power Plant Performance
Plant Type        MW op.            Ayailability/Year                   Retire
Firm              Average
Hydro             485               565 GWh           1216 GWh
Stean #1, #2       61               0.548             0.548              1997/98
Steam #3, #4      100               0.350             0.700
Gas Turbines 1-4   86               0.670             0.700             2004/05
CIPREL I           99               0.770             0.770
Source: Mission estimates.
Notes: The hydro capacity is the firm power available at time of system peak. For the
thermal plants, the fraction under "Availability/Year" indicates the proportion of the year
for which the capacity is available; e.g. 0.548 means 54.8% of the hours of the year. The
availability of the steam plant assumes no further rehabilitation work.
Balances:
Energy (GWh per year)                                                        Cagaav
|Demand Requirements:                    Supply Cumulative Balance   Peak Load     Plant
Year   Growth Dom. Sales    Export Losses Total Total     GWh        MW  + reserve  Available
1992/93             1863               382 2245  2245          0         0       MW         S
1993194  1.039      1936               398 2333  2333          0         0       434       732
1994(95  1.050      2032               416 2449  2449          0         0       449       732
1995/96  1.050      2134         60    437 2631  2337       -294       -44       489       831
1996/97   1.060     2241         60    459 2760 2337        -423       -63       529       831
1997/98   1.052     2357         60    416 2833  2337       -496       -74       555       831
1998/99   1.052     2480         60    438 2977  2337       -641       -95       570       831
99/2000  1.052      2609         60    460 3129  2044      -1085      -161       587       770
2000/01   1.052     2744         60    484 3289  2044      -1245      -185       626       770
2001102  1.052      2887         60    510 3457  2044      -1413      -209       658       770
2002/03   1.052     3037         60    536 3633  2044      -1589      -236       692       770
2003/04   1.052     3195         60    564 3819 2044       -1775      -263       727       770
2004/05   1.052     3361         60    593 4015  2044      -1970      -292       765       770
2005/06  1.052      3536         60    624 4220  2044      -2176      -323       804       770
Note: Growth rates for domestic market only w/o mining loads (as yet not confirmedl.
Growth rates 1993/4 to 1996/7 inclusive reflect experience of 1993194 over 1992193 and macro-economic prospects
Export only includes 60 GWh to Burkina.
Hydro production is historical and producable till 1994/95 inclusive; thereafter firm value assessed for system planning.
Thermal production is historical till 1993/94, and at sustainable availability thereafter; includes CIPREL Phase 1.



8eae Case                                                         Economic Rate of Return Analysis
1. De_md                                     M. hIvestment              11l. Opaating Cost                                             IV. Net hnemnwntal Benefit
8Bas    No hv hkr. Load  kwr. Val.                              Fuel                      O+ M
Yee     (3Wh      OWh _     Wh  USDmm Inv. Ant  Ann. Cha. Ann. Cost     Bse   No.hv  Net Fuel    Bae   No. hIv. Net 0 +M  Net OpC    hIc. ben  Inc Cost  Not Bn
1994     2032     2032        0     0.00                          0    31.91    31.91      0.00    10.08    10.06     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1906     2194     2104       90     4.32     37.0      4.36     4.36    16.17    17.44    -1.27    11.21     9.41     1.80     0.53     4.32     4.87    .0.55
1996     2301     2157      144     6.91     36.2      4.13     8.48    17.90    18.21    -0.30    12.69     9.41     3.28     2.97     6.91    11.45    -4.64
1097     2417     2229      188     9.02                        8.48    18.80    18.56     0.25    12.69     9.41     3.28     3.62     9.02    12.00    -2.98
1998     2640     2127      413    19.82      29.7     3.49    11.97    20.17    16.21     3.96    12.11     7.36     4.75     8.72    19.82    20.80    -0.86
1999     2669     2153      518    24.77     29.7      3.49    16.46    19.96    16.61     3.35    12.19     7.36     4.83     8.18    24.77    23.64     1.13
2000     2804     2179      626    30.00                       15.46    23.15    17.00     6.15    13.59     7.36     6.23    12.39    30.00    27.84     2.16
2001     2947     2193      754    36.19      29.7     3.49    18.96    25.50    17.22     8.27    15.07     7.36     7.71    16.99    36.19    34.93     1.26
2002     3097     2207      890    42.72                       18.96    27.59    17.45    10.14    15.07     7.36     7.71    17.86    42.72    36.80     5.92
2003     3255     2220     1036    49.68      29.7     3.49    22.43    29.58    17.66    11.93    16.55     7.36     9.19    21.12    49.68    43.56     6.12
2004     3421     2233     1188    67.02                       22.43    31.89    17.88    14.04    16.55     7.36     9.19    23.23    57.02    45.86    11.38
2006     3696     2241     1365    65.04      29.7     3.49    26.92    33.85    18.03    15.81    18.03     7.36    10.67    26.49    66.04    52.41    12.63
2006     3596     2241     1366    65.04                       25.92    33.85    18.03    15.81    18.03     7.36    10.67    26.49    65.04    52.41    12.63
2007     3696     2241     1356    65.04                       25.92    33.85    18.03    15.81    18.03     7.36    10.67    26.49    65.04    52.41    12.63
2006     3696     2241     1365    65.04                       25.92    33.85    18.03    15.81    18.03     7.36    10.67    26.49    66.04    52.41    12.63
2009     3696     2241     1365    65.04                       25.92    33.85    18.03    15.81    18.03     7.36    10.67    26.49    66.04    52.41    12.63
2010     3696     2241     1365    65.04                       25.92    33.85    18.03    16.81    18.03     7.36    10.67    26.49    66.04    62.41    12.63
2011     3696     2241     1365    66.04                       25.92    33.85    18.03    15.81    18.03     7.36    10.67    26.49    65.04    52.41    12.63
2012     3596     2241     1355    65.04                       25.92    33.85    18.03    15.81    18.03     7.36    10.67    26.49    66.04    52.41    12.63
2013     3696     2241     1355    66.04                       26.92    33.65    18.03    15.81    18.03     7.36    10.67    26.49    66.04    52.41    12.63
2014     369s     2241     1366    65.04                       25.92    33.65    18.03    15.81    18.03     7.36    10.67    26.49    65.04    52.41    12.63
2016     3696     2241     1365    65.04                       26.92    33.85    18.03    15.81    18.03     7.36    10.67    26.49    66.04    52.41    12.63
RRk:
NPV 10%                       5S09       279                         132                         60                         53      113      279      245     34%
hicil/kWh:                              0.048                     0.0228                     0.0103                     0.0091   0.0195   0.0480   0.0422
Value:    Taitf    T&D   Notbackl  IRRA |       DR       Yr      CRF|
0.106    0.058    0.048   34%         o.1       20  0.1174
6/3195 3:46 PM CiBUF64.XLS



Investment and Operating Cost Data for System Simulations
Plant Type &          Fuel      heat rate  fuel price    cap. cost  fixed O+M var O+M   available  plant life
Scenario                        kJ/kWh    USD/mmkj  USDmm    USDmm    USD/kWh                    (years)
Phase II 2x 33MW GT   nat gas       13,000    0.87        36.7       1.8*    inc. fixed    0.77      20
Phase II 90 MW GT     nat gas       12,090    0.87         48        2.5*    inc. fixed    0.77      20
Low speed Diesel      hfo 380         8560    1.50        72.6       1.8      0.0095      0.77       20
No new investment:    (operates existing system; show unserved energy)
delay 1 33MW 1 yr
delay 2 33MW 1 yr
low load forecast
value unserved kWh:    $0.37/kWh           I 200FCFA at 1994 exchange rate - viz 1991 value of 100FCFA)
TAG 1-4 existing      nat gas       13,800    0.87        sunk       1.3               .67F;.7 OP  to 2004/5
TAV existing:         hfo           12,200    1.50        sunk   $33.65/kW              see note  see note
GTs beyond Phase II:
first 55MW            nat gas       13,000    0.87      $640/kW      1.48    inc. fixed    0.77      20
other 55MW            nat gas       13,000    0.87      $560/kW      1.48    inc. fixed    0.77      20
TAG not converted     hvo           13,800    3.50
hydro system:                                             sunk                               565 firm
1216 expected
Derivation of Phase 11 GT cost:                        USDmm
3 turbines                                                   63.9
4 turbines                                                   82.2
5 turbines                                                  100.6
net cost Phase II @ 66MW                                     36.7
Phase II @ 90 MW                                             48.0
(^) based on French francs converted at appraisal exchange rate of 5.4/ USD 1
Notes: based on fixed cost of $0.004/kWh.
hfo value based on export value of $60/tonne, 40GJ/tonne
TAV availability: units 1&2: 0.548 (till 1998); units 3&4: .35 firm, .7 'expected" (till 2004/5).
Firm value for investment planning; expected value for operation
>
x
0



ANNEX 7-1
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.    Plan National de l'Energie - Etude Complementaire - SNC Shaminigam Inc. -
Mai 1993
2.    Convention de concession du Service Public National de Production, de
Transport, de Distribution, d'Exploitation et d'Importation de l'Energie
Electrique - Etat de CMte d'Ivoire /CIE - Octobre 1990
3.    Avenant No 1 a la Convention Etat/CIE - Dcembre 1993
4.    Avenant No 2 a la Convention Etat/CIE - Aout 1994
5.    Avenant No 3 a la Convention Etat/CIE - Mars 1995
6.    Convention pour la Construction, l'Exploitation et le Transfert de propriete
d'une centrale thermique de Production d'Electritie - Etat de CMte
d'Ivoire/CIPREL - Juillet 1994
7.    Avenant No 1 a la Convention - Etat/Ciprel - Aouit 1994
8.    Environmental Impact Assessment Study of Exploration of Gas Foxtrot -
Cote d'Ivoire-Soil and Water Ltd. - October 1992
9.    Environmental Impact Assessment Study of Oil and Gas Transport - Cote
d'Ivoire - UMIC Cote d'Ivoire Corp. - April 1994
10.   CENCI - Etude d'Impact sur l'Enrvironnement pour la Construction et
l'Exploitation du Projet de Gaz Naturel et d'Electricite - CENCI -F6vrier
1993
11.   CIPREL - Etude d'Impact sur l'Environnement pour la Construction et
l'Exploitation de la Centrale de production d'Electricite a Base Turbines a
Combustion au Gaz Naturel - Etape II du Projet VRIDI II - CIPREL -
Fvrier 1995
12.   Letter of Sector Development Policy, "Strategie Sectorielle dans le Domaine
de l'Energie" - MIME - Juin 1995
13.   Etude de Faisabilit6 - Mise en faleur de Foxtrot - CENCI/DCGTx - Janvier
1994
14.   Comparison Study Between Foxtrot and Panthere Projects - CENCI -
November 1993
15.   Foxtrot - Pr6sentation MB - CENCI - Avril 1993
16.   Foxtrot - Avant Projet Sommaire - Vol I-II-IV-V - CENCI - Avril 1993
17.   Foxtrot - Analyse Economique et Financiere - Institut Fran9ais du Petrole -
Janvier 1993



MAP SECTION



                ~~~~~M A LI      5eg                                                                                                       C O T E  D'I V O I R E                    IP
*-<> rf- \) --J' ot r>~-u BURKINA FASO                                                               PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY PROJECT
- j ., t --o l (_ jo 4g- ~~~~~~~~~~TRANSMISSION  SYSTEM
>  oM -< oC { z M Ws2 \; ff , i U S2 CON : 90 IV TRANSMISSIOS IIN L S tS- -~~~~~904V TRNSMISIONLINE
X C   vv-    \  /  twX  Sr1  jf /   00_ \       l-                                    _           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~22S kV TRANSM115510N LINES
\  Oufi*nRe~~~~~~l O   ^~~~~ /  8  =  8 j=  W =   X         ln              \  \                   ;                         0~~~~~~~~~s    90 kV SUBSTATIONS
_ <>C 0s0 1 8 \ /% A I-rl S^ HY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"DROfLECTRIC STATIONS
(,> _  i \   <     j  ^,     o g             ,                       ,                                                 T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HERMAL STATIONS
G U I N EA    1           t                 nt                     _5 |        __<)NATIONAL CAPITAL
\N r \ D.o'- t | t 6  DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
_ _g \ ,) e ss 7- : i ; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
<S_ [ < >  - \ u- e~~~~~~~~~~D.6.ko.*6 _                                                                                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1~,    Kh.ubo                                                              B...k                                                      T.S 6.b T. .9  ''46
8*   <_  l  Es.4wO\^powic lneMonLono ,/$e\ tKohob _ Bonciulode ( < ti t ABIDJANABIDJADETAAI
p ~~~ ~~~~s ) r    e t        so ^N                                     P vc           1 b T~~~~~~~~~~~~~.d. P1 - 
=_  Vsv    do *'ar MBbor  _CO  n
,'5 >)> >~~~~~-  o%/16
A                                                                       Ad..- r QZ5I   h  ~~v
-_. @Tdwu ~~~~~~~~GulIf o f G u in eo                       a            t    l      -e  d           rsA !               i cn*jc*>> 
_ _ | _#w=_ ; r _wt _ -r | | bv/ a / < _ l [1 G.



5 Tiassolbe(3                                  Agboville    ,                                                                3-
0EDevo
C O T E    D' I VOI RE
0Sikensi                       Azaguie 
Ale6e,                         0 Ayom6               ''
,Guitry 
oAnyarno                                                          Mo0Ire
Aboisso0             0
. Dabou,         Abidjno l 
: _ r ^ t -G d . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a                                             Adideq;,08tGHAkN
GHANA
I , ' ' 4 Jacqu~~~~~~'Ie                                7                 sSOnv'00
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---    -< Cl 02S '                                                    _       .xj  Ft/
t:  : 0   ,   . 0   ,. . .    :.   JrOMEO                           SURtfG  ZEILL , , E            ,  0 
C1-28                    C--25 .-"
GRAND                                     C$OR-26 
The boundaries, colors, denominations
and any other information shown on
this mop do not imply, on the port of
The World Bank Group, ony judgment
on the legal stotus of any territory, or
COTE   D'IVOIRE                                                                                                               such boundaries. r 
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY PROJECT
HYDROCARBONS CONCESSSIONS AND FIELDS                                                                                                           MrLI
} 5  '               ~~~~~~~M A L t                 
CONCESSION AGREEMENT SIGNED                                                        SENEGAL?                                      Nr (N GER
CONCESSION BOUNDARIES                                    >                                  2 *Ba      mao )
t@     OIL FIELD IN EVALUATION CONCESSIONS                                                          v'-"'                          BURKINA *Ouagodougo,,K~X     J
tK s   OIL/GAS FIELD IN EVALUATION CONCESSIONS                                                    G U I N E A                        FASO
Z::0: ;?  PROSPECTS                                                                       oor       -              >|7,                             j          ,f
40                                   BATHYMETRIC CONTOURS IN METERS                                                 XSE NSIERN <-'    '~                           
DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                                                                     LEONE             ,        CGT E                       oo
0     OTHER SELECTED CITIES                                                                 F ek                                                     0  D'IVOE  2  GHANA
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                    /         -  . Yamoussoukro
Moo,nrosa   LIBERIA s      __-__            Acr        >
0         20        40          60        80 KILOMETERS                                                                                   i5
Area of mop
o  so 5o                                                                                                           l r                  59             ff                0
'0                                        40                                                                                                        '0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



IMAGING
Report No:       12774 IVC
Type: SAR






