                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 30038

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                 (PPFI-Q1750 PPFI-Q1751 IDA-33190)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 1.3 MILLION
                                  (US$3.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                                 BENIN

                                                 FOR A

                                DISTANCE LEARNING PROJECT - LIL




                                             January 6, 2005




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective December 10, 2004)

                            Currency Unit = FCFA
                                FCFA 520 = US$ 1.00

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1    December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



AFR                   Africa Region
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CO                    Country Office
DAMA                  Demand Assigned Multiple Access
DLC                   Distance Learning Center
DLP                   Distance Learning Project
ECA                   Europe and Central Asia
FY                    Fiscal Year
GDLN                  Global Distance Learning Network
IBRD                  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                   International Competitive Bidding
ICR                   Implementation Completion Report
IDA                   International Development Association
ISG                   Information Solutions Group
LAC                   Latin America and Caribbean Region
LIL                   Learning and Innovation Loan
MENA                  Middle East and Northern Africa Region
MFE                   Ministry of Finance and Economy
NCB                   National Competitive Bidding
NEI                   National Economics Institute
NGO(s)                Non Government Organization(s)
NS                    National Shopping
PAD                   Project Appraisal Document
PPF                   Project Preparation Facility
PR                    Prior Review
SA                    Special Account
SDR                   Special Drawing Rights
SOE(s)                Statement(s) of Expenditure
VSAT                  Very Small Aperture Terminal
WBI                   World Bank Institute

                           Vice President:     Gobind T. Nankani
                        Country Director:      Pedro Alba
                         Sector Manager:       C. Sanjivi Rajasingham
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Alexandre K. Dossou

                                            BENIN
                               Distance Learning Project - LIL


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             38
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             40
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                41
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            42
Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's Contribution                                      43

Project ID: P067329                                                  Project Name: BJ Distance Learning Project - LIL
Team Leader: Alexandre K. Dossou                                     TL Unit: AFTTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: January 6, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: BJ Distance Learning Project - LIL                       L/C/TF Number: PPFI-Q1750;
                                                                                                     PPFI-Q1751; IDA-33190
   Country/Department: BENIN                                                               Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Telecommunications (50%); Vocational training (50%)
                  Theme: Education for the knowledge economy (P); Infrastructure services for
                            private sector development (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/30/1999                                     Effective: 06/22/2000                11/22/2000
     Appraisal: 05/30/1999                                         MTR:
      Approval: 02/18/2000                                      Closing: 04/30/2004                 04/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF BENIN/MINISTRY OF FINANCE/DISTANCE
                                           LEARNING CENTER
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Pedro Alba                                     Theodore Ahlers
Sector Manager:                 C. Sanjivi Rajasingham                         Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Team Leader at ICR:             Alexandre K. Dossou                            Hedi Larbi
ICR Primary Author:             Robert Fishbein


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The development objective is to test the viability and sustainability of distance learning as a means
of increasing access to high-quality, up-to-date and cost-effective training for public and private
decision-makers and implementors to improve their capacity to design, plan and manage
economic and social development policies.

The Benin Distance Learning Project (DLP) was developed within the context of a growing
awareness of the possibilities for global information technologies in support of development
objectives. By the late 1990s, the Bank had been in the forefront of harnessing such technologies
for its own operations, and was exploring ways in which its own experience may be adapted to
directly serve development goals of its client countries. At the same time, Benin was addressing
human resource and institutional deficiencies in pursuing economic reforms and managing a
market economy. It was therefore logical for Benin to be one of ten countries in Africa and Latin
America to participate in pilot initiatives to test the concept and institutional arrangements
associated with distance learning. The Benin DLP was designed and processed under streamlined
procedures, with initial investments being carried out utilizing Project Preparation Facility Funds
(PPF).

The main objective of the project was to test the viability and sustainability of distance learning as
a means of increasing access to high-quality, up-to-date and cost-effective training for public and
private decision-makers and implementers in order to improve their capacity to design, plan and
manage economic and social development policies. A secondary objective was to establish a
center of excellence in the region for distance learning and exchange of information and
experience. The project aimed to accomplish these objectives by providing access to high-quality
training and information on the latest advancement through distance learning using the
state-of-the-art communications technology.

The project objectives coincided with country priorities at the time, which emphasized
strengthening both the public and private sectors to play their respective roles in market-led
economic growth.       It also supported objectives in the CAS, particularly those focused on:
"reinforcing sectoral administrative/institutional capacity" and "support the state in its new role as
facilitator and promoter of an appropriate environment for private activity."

3.2 Revised Objective:

The original objectives were not modified during implementation.

3.3 Original Components:

Component 1: Retrofitting and Equipment for the Distance Learning Center (DLC)

Cost: US$ 0.91 million. Component 1 consisted of upgrading facilities made available by the
National Economics Institute (INE) for establishment of the DLC to provide a videoconference



                                                 - 2 -

room with a 30-person capacity, a computer room outfitted for 30 computer stations (hardware,
software and internet hook-up), a technical and administrative center, and installation and/or
upgrading of electrical and telephone wiring. It also comprised equipment of the DLC including
purchase and installation of a Very Small Aperture Terminal (VSAT) (satellite communication
terminal), video, telecommunications and microprocessor equipment, office and classroom
furniture and various other equipment for DLC operation and security.

Component 2: Support for DLC Establishment and Operation

Cost: US$ 2.09 million. Component 2 aimed to assist the DLC begin operation and become
financially viable. It included: (i) financing of DLC operation costs on a decreasing basis over the
first 3 years of operation; (ii) purchase of a vehicle to facilitate transport and marketing of DLC
services; and (iii) technical assistance for the training of Center staff, periodic evaluation of Center
operation and management effectiveness and establishment of financial accounts and their annual
audit.

Both components were clearly related to the above development objectives. In order to test the
concept and sustainability of distance learning in the Benin context, a physical capacity, which did
not previously exist, had to be established and the newly established facility needed to be launched
with operational cost support for a reasonable period of time to establish its own financial footing.


3.4 Revised Components:

No fundamental revisions were made to the two components during implementation. However,
the second component was expanded somewhat in scope to include construction of an additional
classroom and two offices.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Quality at entry is rated satisfactory based on the strengths of: (i) consistency with government
priorities and CAS objectives; (ii) the project design, which took advantage of existing products,
technologies, networking and technical support capabilities of the Bank; (iii) manifest government
commitment through the rapid establishment of the Distance Learning Center; and (iv) effective
fast-track preparation, which enabled the DLC to become rapidly established and hit the ground
running at the start of effectiveness. In addition to directly supporting two secondary CAS
objectives, the establishment of the DLC as an autonomous entity provided an organizational
framework that enabled flexible management and promoted opportunistic marketing of DLC
services. In addition to affirming the Government's commitment to market-based solutions, this
enhanced the Center's chances of financial sustainability. The fast-track design included the
establishment of the DLC in a reasonable period of time, and was also facilitated by the use of
in-house expertise through the Global Distance Learning Center (GDLN), the World Bank
Institute (WBI) and the Information Solutions Group (ISG). GDLN also offered the possibility
for bulk procurement of the equipment and an immediate access to the distance learning network
being set up by the Bank.




                                                   - 3 -

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) effectively identified several project risks. While GDLN
in theory offered "off the shelf" courses, the PAD noted that non-availability of relevant courses
in French was a moderate risk, and this turned out to be the case, making it difficult for the DLC
to effectively market and plan such courses in a timely manner. The other major risk identified in
the PAD and which also came to pass was the difficulty in generating sufficient revenues to cover
operating costs. The minimization measure was that the Government commits to use and pay for
30% of the DLC capacity over the first 3 years. In practice, the implementation of the 30% rule
had to be translated into a fixed budget commitment by the Government, which came irregularly
and not commensurate with the timing of the courses.

There was some duplication and overlap in the specification of the indicators of the Project
Design Summary. For example, the "Distance Learning Facility Utilization Rate" is mentioned in
both the Outcome/Impact Indicators and the Output Indicators, while several of the Follow-on
Development indicators (such as number of professionals trained) overlap with the Output
Indicators. Also, while the financial analysis focused on achieving self-financing over a five year
period, the Project Design Summary squeezed that objective into four years, and the financial
analysis assumed that both fixed and variable costs remained constant for the life of the project,
which is clearly not realistic. It should also be noted that the progressive reduction of the IDA Credit
subsidy to the DLC, as presented in the PAD, was not carried forward to the DCA. This was apparently
mutually agreed at the time of negotiations. It should also be kept in mind, however, that this was a "first of
its kind" pilot project, with no precedents on what constituted success, and the designers were "plowing
new ground" in terms of formulating performance indicators.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Achievement of outcome is considered satisfactory. The project successfully introduced and
showed the value and possibilities of distance learning as a tool for increasing up-to-date and
cost-effective training. It impacted a large number of public and private decision makers who
were unanimous in its value.         During the Evaluation Workshop, participants of the video
conference and E-learning courses were unanimous in their enthusiasm for this type of learning
and its potential for the future. Many in the public and private sectors, including ministry
personnel, municipalities, NGOs, firms and individuals, stated they are applying skills and
knowledge gained through these courses in the planning and implementation of development
programs. It was also noted that effects were multiplied when training educators.                    It was,
however, difficult to assess the outcome impact on worker productivity and the quality and
timeliness of policy formulation, as there was no baseline or systematic survey carried out for this
purpose.

The main shortcoming involved the DLC's failure to achieve financial sustainability during the
project period. At the end of the project, the Center's revenues were covering only about 58% of
its operating costs.     Regular financing by IDA of 90% of operating costs, rather than the
progressive reduction envisioned in the PAD, tended to mask the financial deficit that the Center
was incurring. The Government has made an additional three-year commitment to subsidize the
DLC and guarantee a portion of its revenues, which, combined with additional IDA investments in



                                                     - 4 -

equipment renewal, might have provided the Center with a further opportunity to bring its cost
and revenue structure into a more sustainable mode by 2007. However, these post-project
transitional arrangements were derailed on July 1, 2004, when a fire completely destroyed the
video room and a large portion of the Center's equipment, and partially damaged the multimedia
room. The investigation by the insurer concluded that the source was a short circuit in the ceiling
above the video conference room. Unfortunately, because the IDA Credit was closed in April
2004, the Bank has no mechanism to mobilize funds for the reinstatement of the video capacity,
although at least a part will be covered by the Insurer and part by a special Government subsidy
for this purpose; additional funds are currently being sought (see 5.2 Factors General Subject to
Government Control and 6.2 Transitional Arrangements to Regular Operation).

Despite the financial shortcomings of Benin DLC, the judgment on outcome needs to bear in mind
the pilot nature of the project, as well as its learning function as a LIL. From this point of view,
the project was definitely successful in demonstrating the application of new information
technologies to training, opening up new avenues of training opportunities without travel and
providing valuable experience on how DLCs can achieve better sustainability in the future.

4.2 Outputs by components:


Component 1: Retrofitting and Equipment for the Distance Learning Center (DLC)
(US$ 0.91 million PAD, US$ 0.81 million Actual)

This component is rated satisfactory. PPF-financed fast track retrofitting and VSAT and other
equipment installation at the National Economic Institute (INE) took about nine months to
accomplish and provisional reception of the works occurred in May 2000, two months following
the signing of the Credit Agreement. This enabled the DLC to participate in the inaugural video
conference chaired by Mr. Wolfensohn on June 21, 2000 and begin full operations immediately
following effectiveness. From the beginning, the main technical problems during operation arose
from electrical supply in the building. Frequent power surges led to a blowout of the voltage
stabilizer, which had to be replaced, and the fire which destroyed the video room in July 2004
likely originated in the electrical wiring above that room. The installed elevator is currently
non-functional due to insufficient power supply. Although the retrofitting included a generator for
backup supply, this was not intended to guarantee power over extended periods, and although it
was frequently used, extended generator operation increased operating costs and has likely
amortized the generator already. It is difficult to say whether the initial needs assessment could
have foreseen these events; the retrofitting component explicitly included provisions for upgrading
of electrical and telephone wiring. In hindsight, it appears that it would have been preferable to
establish a line independent of the INE electrical supply. ISG has learned from this and other
experiences with more recent configurations in Mauritania and Burkina Faso DLCs, where
transformers are installed to interface with the direct current provided by the utility, combined
with 3-phase rotation protection, which then feeds to the backup generator voltage stabilizer.

Component 2: Support for DLC Establishment and Operation (US$ 2.1 million PAD,
US$ 1.7 million Actual).

This component is rated as marginally satisfactory, based on the following results:


                                                  - 5 -

Establishment of the Center and training outputs. The legal statutes of the DLC were adopted
in September 1999, well before its physical establishment, and the DLC team was recruited in a
timely manner.    As planned, the DLC Director conducted a market study and developed a
Business Plan in the first year. Based on this, three types of training were pursued ­ video
conferencing, E-learning, and local training ­ in addition to the use of the multimedia room for
internet connections. When all types of training are included, the number of student-days achieved
far exceeds the PAD targets ­ 5545 vs. a target of 800 in 2001; 7065 vs. a target of 1475 in year
2002; and 6165 vs. a target of 2360 in the year 2003. However, video conferencing accounted
for only 14% of this total in 2002 and 22% in 2003. E-learning accounted for more than half of
these student-days, with local training accounting for between 1/5 and 1/4.

Center of excellence for information technologies in service of development. The Evaluation
Workshop revealed that the DLC established itself as a center for high quality and sought-after
training programs in Benin. In all, it trained over 3,000 participants from 21 public sector
agencies, 7 municipalities, 6 international organizations, 49 private companies, 5 NGOs, and 8
educational establishments, an impressive physical result. Moreover, the DLC became a prime
promoter of information technologies for education, organizing courses for students to become
familiar with New Technologies for Information and Communications (NTIC) during school
holidays. The DLC also contributed to the development of the regional GDLN network for DLCs.
It has hosted regional meetings and conferences and has been active in the organization of the
Regional Association for Distance Learning Centers in Africa.

Choice and distribution of training activities. While the PAD anticipated video-conferencing
student-days as the basic indicator for training accomplishment, in reality the DLC diversified its
training mix to include E-learning and local training, as well as internet access. The table below
provides a broader picture of the distribution of the training activities accomplished.




                                                - 6 -

  Video Conference

                            2001      2002     2003     2004 ­ Apr

  No. of Courses                29        19        20          11

  No. of Sessions               141       88       100          51

  Total Students                635       430      508         215

  Total Student-days          1,410       997    1,364         619


  E-Learning

                            2001      2002     2003     2004 ­ Apr

  No. of Courses                  3         5        5           1

  No. of Sessions               353       795   N/A            100

  Total Students                41        55        55          21

  Total Student-days          2,480     4,526    3,261       1,050


  Local Training

                            2001      2002     2003     2004 ­ Apr

  No. of Courses                23        24        18           6

  No. of Sessions           N/A       N/A       N/A       N/A

  Total Students                517       460      334          76

  Total Student-days          1,655     1,542    1,540         294


   Source : Benin DLC


Video conferencing. The Center achieved 79 video conferences over the project period. The
number dropped from 29 to 19 in the second year, then began to recover in the year 3, while in
the first trimester of 2004, it was approaching the first year's rate of accomplishment. A total of
1,788 persons participated over the project period. Video conferences covered a wide range of
topics, including international and development finance, project evaluation, economic intelligence,
macroeconomic planning, administrative reform, sustainable rural development, governance,
protection of vulnerable groups, decentralization, journalism, micro-finance, public procurement,
fight against corruption, telemedicine, rural infrastructure services, HIV/AIDS and small business
management.

A number of logistical challenges faced the initial introduction of video conferencing through the
Bank's GDLN network and the newly established regional network of DLCs. The first involved
achieving, in coordination with GDLN/WBI and the other Centers, a program of video
conferences, such that courses could be offered to prospective students in three participating
countries with an advance notice of a minimum of 45 days. This tended to make it difficult to
advertise and attract students to these courses. (Rapport d'Activités Annuel Exercise 2001, p.
15-16; Rapport d'Activités Annuel Exercise 2002, p. 13; Rapport d'Activités Annuel Exercise
2003, p. 46; Aide Memoire November 2002, p. 3, para. 6). A second difficulty involved the
availability and quality of French language courses, since some of the early courses in the program
were in English and had to be translated. This issue was brought up during a regional meeting of
DLC directors in May 2001 (Rapport d'Atelier des Directeurs et Coordinateurs des Centres
d'Education à Distance Francophone de l'Afrique de l'Ouest à Cotonou 24-27 May 2001,
Section 4.1).       Several discussions were also carried out between the TTL and WBI., and was



                                                  - 7 -

mentioned by a number of participants during the ICR review workshop. Despite these problems,
the Center and the GDLN network managed to implement an impressive array of courses during
the project period, which, as noted, were largely well-received and appreciated by public and
private sector participants. Over time, the French language constraint has been reduced, as more
linkages with French institutions were forged through GDLN/Paris and the Centers have engaged
in direct marketing, while coordinating among themselves through their Association. Although, it
is clear that the Francophone countries face a continuing challenge since the main source of
material comes from a limited set of countries (mainly France, Belgium and Canada), whereas
there is a wider worldwide potential source of material in English.

E-learning. E-learning represented a major portion of the total student-days accomplished, with
relatively few numbers of courses and partners. Over the project period, 172 persons took
advantage of this opportunity on 14 courses. The DLC entered into agreements with
SDNP/UNDP/CISCO Systems (USA) for courses in network administration; and CIESA
(Canada) for the DESS diplomas in Microfinance. Due to a payment misunderstanding, CIESA
courses were suspended for a time in 2002, but have now resumed. Efforts to negotiate an
agreement with the Mercure Foundation (Belgium) came to naught in 2003, but are continuing.

Local training. Over the 3 1/3 year period, 1,387 people were trained in 71 localized courses.
The majority of these courses focused on computers, software applications, internet and
information technology.      However, some courses were provided in disciplines such as
management, administration, human resources, monitoring and evaluation. Most of the local
courses were carried out in the DLC video conference or multi-media rooms, with 12 of the
courses outside the Center, sometimes up-country. Local trainers were hired for their
implementation.

Partnerships. The DLC Benin actively sought institutional partnerships and marketing potentials
both within and outside the country. Although it is clear that the DLC has a special relationship
with GDLN, and GDLN/Paris in particular for French courses, this does not seem to have
prevented the DLC from broadening its reach to institutions in Belgium, Canada and the USA,
especially for E-learning. The DLC made agreements with, among others, UNICEF, UNDP, the
British Council, World Health Organization, USAID, UNISA/South Africa, EduFrance and the
International Labor Organization for video conferences and local training courses. As noted
above, the DLC has established working relations with a broad range of ministerial, local
government, research and educational institutions, as well as private sector and civil society.

Utilization. The DLC disposed of a 30-seat video conference room and 29-seat multi-media
room, in addition to a 30-seat classroom constructed toward the end of the project period. The
Center used the VC room for E-learning and local training when it was not in use. The PAD
calculated total capacity based on student-days (260 working days per year x seating capacity),
and projected utilization rates of the VC room at 10%, 19%, 30%, 44% and 60% over a 5-year
period. Using these assumptions, the overall use of the VC room, including E-learning and local
training, attained rates of 77%, 68% and 60% in 2001, 2002 and 2003, respectively, although
video conferencing alone achieved rates of 18%, 13% and 17% during the same three years (see
Annex 1 for details).



                                               - 8 -

GDLN has since changed its method for calculating utilization rates, based on 1,260 hours =
100% annum. For video conferencing alone, this provides the following picture of VC room
utilization for video conferences:

                           2001       2002      2003      April
                                                           2004
 Hours of Video               423       345        417       220
 Courses
100% Utilization              1260     1260       1260      1260
 % Utilized                   34%       27%       33%       17%

Technical bandwidth issue. Since the "migration" of the bandwidth in May 2003, the DLC
claims it experiences a "slowdown" in internet-based and voice-based transmissions during
video-conferences. These difficulties were experienced to various degrees by other Centers
(notably Ethiopia and Ghana) and were reported in GDLN regional meetings in Dar Es Salaam
(June 2003) and Accra (June 2004). The ICR examined this question further with ISG, and a
Background on Bandwidth Issue is included in Section 10, "Other Information". Essentially, the
change involved a shift from a 512 kb/s bandwidth which was shared by all the Centers to a
dedicated link for each Center, with a 384 kb/s bandwidth. This new "Internet Protocol" also
includes a quality of service (QoS) package, which prioritizes the three functions occurring at any
one time as: video (1st priority), voice (2nd priority) and data (3rd priority). This provides a
higher quality and dedicated medium for video conferences in each Center. However, since video
conferences consume 300 kb/s, this leaves 84 kb/s for voice and data transmission, and when such
activities approach or exceed 84 kb/s, the bandwidth becomes "saturated" leading to slowdowns.
In response to this issue, ISG points out that virus activity has been identified as an important
source of bandwidth consumption. ISG is also able to monitor bandwidth activity in all the
Centers and showed the ICR cases where video and data were occurring simultaneously well
below the saturation point. Thus, it is not fully clear to what extent this problem could be largely
solved through virus elimination, or whether because of rising E-learning, cyber and voice
activity, there is a need to increase the available bandwidth or other technical solutions (potential
solutions are discussed in Transition arrangements in regular operations).

Management and financial performance. The DLC had a strong and promising start, achieving
87% of the projected breakeven revenues and recording a 91% coverage rate of its operational
costs in the first year (Annex 3, Table 1). However, in the ensuing years, the Center's costs
increased dramatically, while overall revenues decreased, yielding coverage rates of 55% and 54%
in 2002 and 2003; and 58% in the first trimester 2004. During the same period, the overall
utilization rate of the facility declined from 75% to 63% (Annex 1). Clearly, the progressive
achievement of self-sufficiency over the project period has not occurred, and under its current
cost structure, the DLC has little hope of becoming self-financing.

As noted above, the level of video conference activity decreased in 2002, increased slightly in
2003 and was on the rise in early 2004. Even with reduced activity, video conference revenues in
2003 reached almost 2001 levels and were already half those revenues in Quarter 1 2004,



                                                 - 9 -

indicating strong revenues per student for that activity. It is also noteworthy that the video
courses were expected to be provided free of charge (part of the bandwidth provision), but after
the first year charges were made for these courses, apart from those provided by WBI. Still, the
GDLN bandwidth subscription cost has reduced significantly from the first year, and even
combined with video purchases, has remained less than the year 1 bandwidth cost.

In 2002, the DLC compensated for reduced video activity with increased E-learning revenues.
However, these revenues dropped significantly because of the lull in CIESA activity in 2003 (see
E-learning above). In that year, higher revenues from video conference and local training
compensated somewhat for E-learning losses, but were only enough to maintain cost coverage at
54%. This can be largely explained by major increases in operational costs starting in 2002. For
example, electricity jumped from FCFA 600,000 to FCFA 8.4 million in 2002, then to FCFA 9.8
million in 2003; telephone expenses spiked from FCFA 4.3 million to 15.3 million in 2002;
Transport rose from FCFA 350,000 to FCFA 1.4 million in 2002 and to FCFA 2.1 million in
2003, while personnel costs jumped 40% in 2002. Prime de Stages doubled to FCFA 5.4 million
in 2002 and almost doubled again to FCFA 10.3 million in 2003. Other items that seem high and
have grown disproportionately include: Maintenance; Publicity; Personnel Training; Purchase of
Local Courses; and Receptions/Coffee Breaks. It would therefore seem that there are major
opportunities for general cost-cutting by DLC. In addition, as the DLC became an expanding
center of technology-based education initiatives, it also moved into various local training
activities, which involved hiring local trainers, obtaining course material, paying per diems, hiring
venues, etc., which appear to be another factor in ballooning costs. Hence, a more selective
approach to local training, with a view towards their costs, would seem to be in order. These
issues were discussed with the DLC during the ICR, who recognized this problem and pledged to
take action.

In sum, the DLC made honest efforts to diversify its revenue base, but seemed to lose its focus on
cost recovery and cost control in its choice and management of the activities after the first year.
This was facilitated by the regular, rather than digressing, IDA subsidy of annual operational
costs, which provided the Center with an artificially positive cash flow and tended to mask the
true financial predicament of the DLC.

Comparison with other DLCs. In order to gain some perspective on the Benin DLC results,
financial information was obtained from the Cote d'Ivoire and Senegal DLCs. Although the three
Centers' budget figures are presented for slightly different time frames and different terminology
is used for certain items, the overall structures are the same, which permits a selective comparison
of comparable figures (See Section 10.2 Selected Financial Comparisons with Cote d'Ivoire DLC
for more details). Overall, the comparison shows that, over the period 2001 ­ April 2004, 41% of
Benin's revenues came from video conferencing, while from 2000 ­ June 2004, Cote d'Ivoire's
VC revenues amounted to 60% of its total revenues. Senegal's revenues were not broken down
by source. Cote d'Ivoire is not generating revenue from local training, while Benin relied on local
training for 32% of its revenues. Over the same period, Benin covered its operational expenditure
at a declining rate, while Cote d'Ivoire and Senegal seem to be covering an increasing percentage
of their operational expenses ­ Cote d'Ivoire growing from 26% in 2000-2002 to 61% in June
2004; and Senegal growing from 36% to 77% in Year 3. An examination of several comparable



                                                 - 10 -

cost items suggests that: (i) several costs for Benin are high relative to Cote d'Ivoire, namely:
telecommunications and coffee breaks; (ii) "Bandwidth rental" for Benin is high compared to
"Satellite and Costs" for Senegal; (iii) maintenance costs are high in Benin and Cote d'Ivoire,
compared to Senegal; (iv) Personnel costs are much higher for Cote d'Ivoire than for Benin but
are between the two for Senegal; and (v) Insurance costs are somewhat higher than for Benin, but
not extraordinarily so.       In addition, Cote d'Ivoire includes an allowance for equipment
depreciation in its annual fixed cost figures, while Benin and Senegal do not. Although revenue
sources were not broken down for Senegal, a major difference was noted between Cote d'Ivoire
and Benin suggesting that Benin may have relied too heavily on local training, which generated
higher costs with lower per student revenues, than video conferencing.

Conclusion. As a pilot project, the DLC should be given credit for very successfully introducing
and applying the new concept of distance learning and communications technologies for
development training. It achieved impressive physical results and impacted a large number and
wide range of participants. It made major efforts to diversify its activities in the face of uncertain
market conditions and logistical and technical constraints. However, although revenue prospects
for video conferencing were promising before the fire, the Center's expanding vision led it to
relatively costly local training and increased operational expenditures that simply could not be
covered by its revenue base. It was therefore not able to conclusively prove the financial viability
of distance learning, as it had not become self-sufficient at the close of the project.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The cost-effectiveness of delivering training through the DLC was still found to be below the
equivalent cost for similar overseas training. In particular, the actual cost per student-day for
video conferences was US$154 in 2003 and US$139 in the first trimester 2004. This compares
with estimated course costs of US$296 in the year 2000, which clearly have increased since then.
During the Evaluation Workshop, it was noted that the DESS-CIESA E-learning course cost
FCFA 2.5 million, which was the same cost at the University in Dakar, but without the cost of
travel and lodging.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

During its 3 1/3 years of operation, the DLC achieved a financial coverage rate (revenues, less
operating costs, excluding depreciation) of 91% in year 1; 55% in year 2; 54% in year 3; and 58%
in the first trimester of year 4. This is compared to the projected PAD rates of 22%, 41%, 66%
and 97%, respectively, in years 1 - 4. Evidently, the actual trend is the opposite of that projected
in the PAD, and the DLC clearly has not reached self-sufficiency.

The DLC achieved an overall facility utilization rate of 75% in year 1; 65% in year 2; and 63% in
year 3. This is compared to the projected PAD rates of 10%, 19% , 30%, 44% and 60% during a
five-year period. As with coverage rates, this trend was opposite of what was projected. Overall,
these results suggest that the break-even facility utilization rate is closer to 70 ­ 80%, rather than
the projected 60% rate.




                                                - 11 -

The PAD assumed a steady rise in revenues, while holding costs constant. In fact, the Center
achieved almost 87% of projected breakeven revenues in the first year, but then experienced a
spike in variable costs (+300%), a modest rise in total fixed costs, and a 24% reduction in total
revenues in ensuing years. The huge jump in variable costs might have been attributed to
accumulated costs from year 1, but the amount was only marginally reduced in the next year,
indicating a structural change. Although bandwidth rental costs reduced significantly after the first
year, other fixed and variable costs, such as maintenance, electricity, classroom rental, receptions
and training honoraria (prime de stages), rose dramatically such that these savings were wiped
out.

Although the number of student-days far exceeded annual targets, the number of video days
accounted for 25% or less of these days. Video course student-days dropped by a third in year 2,
then increased to almost 2001 levels in 2003.           In the first trimester 2004, video course
student-days accounted for about 32% of total student-days. In all years, E-learning accounted
for over half the student-days.

The actual cost per student-day (all training types) in 2003 was US$93, vis-à-vis a year 3
breakeven projection of        US$150 in the PAD, but this was almost twice the revenues per
student-day in that year. In the same year, the cost per student-day for video courses alone was
US$154 per day (close to the projected amount), and was US$139 per student-day in the first
trimester 2004. Cost per student-day for local training rose hugely from US$19 in year 1 to
US$88 in 2003 and US$192 in first trimester 2004.

Given the first year performance, financial self-sufficiency may be attainable. Rough simulations of
DLC operations suggest that the DLC could possibly breakeven, but only with major cuts and
restructuring in costs and a significant increase in the share of video conferencing. This would
involve doubling the 2003 video conferencing student-days (increasing the 2001 days by 50% ),
cutting 2003 fixed costs by 20%; and reducing 2003 variable costs by 50%. In this case, the
breakeven cost per student-day would be about US$60. If one assumed video conferencing alone
(allocating all bandwidth, personnel and attributed fixed costs) the Center could break even by
achieving 40 conferences per year, shaving fixed costs by 20% and reducing 2003 variable costs
by 30%. In this case, the break-even cost per student-day is about US$100, in fact close to that
projected in the PAD.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The project's institutional development impact is considered substantial. The DLC has become a
high-profile center known for quality training in Benin and the region. It has raised awareness of
the possibilities for distance learning among the public and private sectors and has contributed to
expanding the horizons of over 3,000 trainees and numerous organizations ­ including ministries,
mayors, municipalities, NGOs, private firms, UN bodies (i.e. UNICEF, UNDP) and individuals.
Areas     of   particular   benefit  cited include:    strategic planning,   project   development,
time-management techniques, pedagogy, and communication skills. The Evaluation Workshop
revealed that the training of teachers has a multiplier effect on the benefits of the courses. Some
public sector participants, however, noted that they are often stymied in applying these skills,
particularly when the upper echelons are not familiar or committed to introducing such


                                                - 12 -

approaches in their day-to-day work; the courses have limited impact when the system within
which the worker resides is dysfunctional or not receptive. This would imply a more intensive
effort is needed to engage high echelon ministry officials in the training as part of a more
comprehensive public sector agency training program.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

As noted, the DLC's video conferencing capacity is entirely dependant on the GDLN/ISG
network. The challenge of scheduling and coordinating the video conferences among three
Centers tended to limit the number of VCs that were held per year; which had implications for
covering the high fixed costs associated with the video capacity. For example, no conferences
were carried out in the third quarter 2002, other than coordination meetings with GDLN. (Aide
Memoire, 25-30 November 2002, PSR 1/22/2003, verified with DLC list of video conferences in
2003). Another factor has been the bandwidth saturation issue mentioned above, although it is
still not clear to what extent this has been caused by virus activity. The other major external factor
is the July 2004 fire which destroyed the video conference room and much of the Center's video
and computer equipment. The insurance investigation concluded that the fire resulted from a
short circuit in the ceiling of the video conference room.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

During the project, the Government honored its commitment to finance 30% of the DLC's
capacity through courses for the public sector over the first three years. However, the timing of
the payments was irregular and not commensurate of the timing of the courses. All commitments
for 2001-2003 were finally made in March 2004. As a further show of support, the Government
made a three-year commitment of FCFA 250 million per year, consisting of FCFA 150 million for
operating costs and FCFA 100 million for training courses. In its letter dated September 29, 2004
the Government approved a special subsidy of FCFA 75 million for the rehabilitation of the DLC
following the fire. Moreover, the Ministry of Finance requested in the same letter the release of
the FCFA 150 million of the FCFA 250 million allocated to DLC for 2004. As of November 5,
2004, the final step in the release for these funds was accomplished and the funds were expected
within the next week. The Government is also seeking donor support.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The DLC actively embraced its role as a pioneer in distance learning, both in Benin and in the
region. It has hosted regional meetings and actively participated in the evolution of the GDLN. It
has also made serious attempts at scoping new markets and revenue-generating activities. The
major shortcomings involve strategic choices of activities and management of its finances. In
particular, the DLC let its cost structure grow out of proportion with its revenues, which diverted
it from the path of self-sufficiency.




                                                     - 13 -

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total amount of the credit remained the same (US$ 3.0 million). Two reallocations were
made: (i) one in August 2002, which redirected the US$ 70,000 unallocated funds to a new Civil
Works category for the construction of a new classroom and offices; and (ii) another one in
December 2003, which reallocated US$ 172,000 to finance new and renewal equipment from
savings from the Satellite Rent, Consultant Services, PPF Reimbursement and Civil Works
categories. Estimated total disbursements amount to US$ 2.52 million, which is 84% of the
principal credit amount. Overall, IDA disbursed 96% and the Government disbursed 72% of the
appraisal estimate.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The project sustainability is rated as likely, with the caveat that it will: (i) receive continued
Government support in the form of guaranteed course attendees; and (ii) continue to benefit from
network support on behalf of GDLN and ISG. The former involves an explicit subsidy from the
Government, which is in keeping with the objective of training as a "public good." The latter
involves an "in-kind" support through the benefits of volume discounts, technology transfer and
engineering support, and is in keeping with the World Bank's interest in promoting innovative
development approaches. Although the Center was not able to prove full financial self-sufficiency
during the project period, it has learned hard lessons during the pilot period and, during the ICR
preparation has pledged to restructure its costs so as to cover operational expenses. As for
rebuilding following the fire, the Insurer's commitment for partial equipment replacement and
rebuilding the video room, combined with the Government's special subsidy in November 2004,
indicate that the Center has a reasonable chance to recover from this tragedy.

It is acknowledged that even before the fire, the DLC was saddled with a large deficit and cost
structure that could only be covered through an operating cost subsidy from the Government,
who had in fact committed to meeting that subsidy for a period of three years, during which time
the DLC would need to take drastic measures to bring its cost structure into line and become
self-financing in its operations. The danger, of course, is that this subsidy would perpetuate the
same chronic deficit. Simulations showed that self-financing is possible, but with major
cost-cutting and an increase in video course implementation; and comparative results with other
DLCs show that increasing coverage of operational costs over time is possible. As noted, the
DLC has pledged to take immediate and drastic cost-cutting measures and refocus its local
training activities to those which do not aggravate the deficit (see Transitional Arrangements
below).

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

In the wake of the fire which destroyed the video room, the DLC and the Government are actively
pursuing bilateral or other financing arrangements to re-establish the video capacity. The Insurer
has issued its report, specifying its reimbursement at FCFA 83 million for equipment and
rehabilitation of the video room. This is combined with the Ministry of Finance commitment of


                                                  - 14 -

FCFA 75 million plus FCFA 150 million mentioned above. In the meantime, ISG has developed a
specifications package for establishing minimum capacity, and for which it expects a price
quotation during the month of November 2004.             Depending on the quotation amount and
availability of insurance/other funds, the equipment could be purchased sole source on an
exceptional basis, in view of this emergency case. According to ISG, the next steps would
involve about 3 months including: (i) delivery to ISG (4-6 weeks); (ii) staging at ISG (1 week);
(iii) shipping (2 weeks); and (iv) installation. In view of the project closure, the issue arises who
will finance the time and travel for ISG.

In any case, the reinstatement of the video and multimedia capacity needs to include a
comprehensive solution to the electrical problem, which may include establishing a separate line
independent from INE. ISG is currently waiting for such a plan from DLC (see Lessons Learned
regarding electricity). The DLC also proposes moving to its own building or new location, but,
unless such a building or location is already in place, this would seem a longer term solution. In
the meantime, the DLC will be dependent on local training, which has proven to be a major factor
in driving up costs beyond its revenues. During the ICR mission, these issues were discussed with
the DLC, who has pledged to immediately reassess its cost structure and take drastic measures to
establish a minimal base and set of activities that will not aggravate the deficit.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's lending performance was satisfactory. The Learning and Innovative Loan (LIL) was
the appropriate lending instrument and the concept fits well with the CAS objectives, as well as
Government strategy at the time. The preparation team did a good job of scoping the institutional
possibilities, engaging the appropriate stakeholders and guiding the Government in setting up a
completely new institution and promoting a new development concept. Establishment of the
Center with PPF funding was an effective way to ensure the DLC would be ready for operations
immediately following credit effectiveness. Weaknesses in the design included overlap and
duplication of indicators and several unrealistic assumptions in the financial analysis. In practice,
the 30% Government guaranteed training fee was difficult to implement, since it was impossible
to know what the total annual training volumes would be, and it thus had to be translated to a
fixed annual budgeted amount. Presented as risk minimization measure, timely Government
funding itself turned out to be a risk.

The PAD approach of a declining operating grant was not reflected in the actual IDA budget, nor
in the DCA. This, in and of itself is not unreasonable, since as a pilot program, the DLC needed
to have dependable resources to survive during the project period, and in fact this was needed in
the face of Government arrears. However, as noted, the regular reimbursement of operating costs
tended to mask the accumulating deficit and "send the wrong signals" to the recipient, whose
costs grew disproportionately more than revenues. Although as seen below, Bank supervision
missions repeatedly raised this issue with the DLC. Perhaps the Project Agreement could have
signaled that any surplus generated from the subsidy would be placed in an escrow depreciation or
equipment replacement account.



                                                 - 15 -

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank's supervision performance fell short of fully satisfactory. The "Bank" consists of
collectively AFTTR, GDLN, WBI and ISG.

AFTTR, through regular supervision missions kept abreast and reported on the DLC's overall
progress. Management was flexible to changing needs, reallocating funds twice in response to
additional capacity and equipment requirements and cost savings. From 2002, supervision
missions had a sense of the gathering financial difficulties and attempted to focus on the financial
sustainability of the DLC (For example, Aide Memoire November 2002, para. 13; para. 24, and
following Aide Memoires). However, this was stymied by the lack of clear data and delays in
carrying out a sustainability study. Although a more positive picture was provided in several PSRs
by not including the bandwidth rental in the self-sufficiency calculations, supervision missions
repeatedly warned the DLC that it is not approaching self-sufficiency, and this was taken up in the
PSRs from September 2002.

AFTTR initiated dialogue with WBI and GDLN concerning the issue of French language courses,
but it did not regularly convene meetings or discussions on issues raised in the Aide Memoires and
PSRs, such as the bandwidth problems and financial coverage, with GDLN or ISG. Two changes
in TTLs also made continuity difficult. It is clear that, although AFTTR provided conscientious
supervision, Distance Learning is not its prime area of expertise, and one may question why it
remained with this Department following effectiveness, as the only DLC not supervised by
GDLN.

In the face of technical complexities, diversity of participants and variability of conditions, the
GDLN got the regional program off the ground and kept it running. The creation of GDLN Paris,
and enabling DLCs to independently seek potential video conferences partners, went a long way
to addressing the French language constraint (and as noted above does not seem to have created
undue dependence). On the other hand, as the overall program manager, it did not take a
pro-active approach to convening joint discussions with AFTTR on issues (such as French
language courses and the bandwidth complaints) that were raised in regional meetings or other
GDLN fora.

ISG, for its part, has provided the fundamental technical support which enables the entire network
to function. This has been adequate when it arrived, but funding within the Bank for its services
to the network has become an issue. For example, it is not clear who will fund ISG's travel and
time to reinstall the equipment destroyed by the fire.

In sum, the DLC was dealing with several "faces of the Bank", who were working diligently, but
not necessarily communicating with each other. Because Benin was the only Center not directly
managed by GDLN, its supervision did not benefit from a perspective on what was happening in
other Centers. With the benefit of hindsight, better two-way communication between GDLN and
AFTTR, or an outright transfer of supervision responsibility to GDLN might have mitigated this
problem.




                                               - 16 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

On balance, overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory.           Even though there were
shortcomings in communication and monitoring of indicators, and a questionable placement of
supervision responsibilities, an appropriate lending instrument was applied to introduce a
completely novel idea, and the Borrower was assisted to establish an institution that is widely
perceived to be important and useful.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Borrower performance during preparation was satisfactory. The Government showed its strong
interest by expeditiously establishing and staffing the DLC, as well as locating it within an
educational establishment in Cotonou. Because of its innovative nature, placing it under the
titular head of the Ministry of Finance and Economy was a good strategy, especially in view of the
objective to improve public policy formulation and implementation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Government implementation performance is rated as satisfactory. It eventually met all its financial
commitments to pay for public sector trainees, although these were late in coming. In general,
Government ministries were supportive and benefited from the training courses, and the Center
benefited from being under the titular head of the Ministry of Finance and Economy.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

DLC's performance fell short of fully satisfactory.       It showed management deficiencies by
presiding over a spike in costs, which far exceeded the revenue base and diverted it from the
self-financing path. To its credit, the DLC has recognized this shortcoming and has pledged to
take appropriate measures. Despite this shortcoming, the DLC must also be given credit for
introducing and exhibiting the benefits of the distance learning concept to the country, establishing
a positive reputation for quality training and impacting a large number of participants, despite
logistical constraints in scheduling courses and chronic power supply problems.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall, the Borrower's performance was on balance satisfactory. Even though there were
shortcomings in financial management and some Government payments arrived late, the
Government exhibited strong support throughout the project period and the DLC successfully
introduced the distance learning concept and trained an impressive number of people. Following
the July 2004 fire, the Government has continued to exhibit this support with funding for the
reconstruction of the video room, increasing the likelihood of sustainability.

8. Lessons Learned

The project has shown that distance learning clearly has a role to play in training and human
development strategies in the developing world. The project has also pointed up a number of
lessons in implementing distance learning, notably:


                                                - 17 -

Choosing DLC activities, management and sustainability. A major lesson from the Benin
DLC is that Centers should guard against being drawn into costly local training activities, in the
interest of diversification. The post-project financial analysis, as well as the comparison between
Benin and Cote d'Ivoire (although very limited), seem to suggest that, in pursuing sustainability,
Centers should stay focused on maximizing video conferencing and E-learning activities, as well
as low-cost income earners, such as room rentals, while being very selective in expanding into
local training. Centers also need to stay vigilant with respect to cost control, and in this regard, it
may be useful for the GDLN to organize a workshop among the Centers to share experience and
methods of addressing these questions.

Financial viability and training as a public good. The first year performance of the Benin DLC
and the Cote d'Ivoire experience suggest that, with the appropriate mix of video and non-video
activities and cost-conscious management, the DLC could cover its operational costs, assuming a
guaranteed amount of training paid by the public sector. This guaranteed amount is tantamount to
public support, and should not be ignored when describing the Center as a "self-financing" entity,
even beyond the three year Government commitment. In this context, it is suggested that concept
of financial self-sustainability be re-examined, given that training and education may be considered
"public goods", and perhaps the appropriate instrument for such projects in the future should be
grants rather than credits.

The issue of depreciation. One should also consider that the Benin operational cost coverage
calculation did not include depreciation and equipment renewal (based on the PAD model,
depreciation is shown after operational cost coverage). Experience with other centers is mixed:
while the Cote d'Ivoire figures include depreciation (with increasing cost coverage), the Senegal
figures do not (also with increasing cost coverage). In any case, in view of the "public good"
nature of training, public subsidies may include investment in new equipment or, in effect
depreciation. As noted, more information from other Centers is needed to establish a policy in
this regard, particularly in respect of the method for calculating depreciation charges. However, a
recommendation is to avoid the project situation where operating profits appear artificially
positive through World Bank and/or Government subsidies, and that generated surpluses be
earmarked to establish depreciation reserves.

Monitoring and indicators.           The Benin DLC LIL was a first-of-its-kind project. In this
context, the initial set of indicators and monitoring arrangements were reasonable estimates, given
the lack of previous experience. In view of the focus on sustainability, the PAD approach of
linking financial returns to student-days would still appear a valid and important concept for
future monitoring. Utilization rate is certainly important, and GDLN has developed a revised and
comparable basis for calculating utilization rates. Operational cost coverage is also important with
respect to sustainability. Other useful indicators to consider for future monitoring would include
number of courses and the number of people trained in various disciplines, and of course
operational cost coverage. In any case, it would be useful to formulate standard indicator formats,
which would facilitate comparisons among DLCs. It is also recommended that projects carry out
follow up surveys of a sample of public and/or private sector participants to get a better
assessment of social and economic impact of distance learning.



                                                 - 18 -

Coordination within the network and maximizing video utilization. The number of video
courses in any given year is limited by the need to coordinate with GDLN, WBI, other course
providers and other countries. The Center achieved 29 courses in 2001, but was unable to sustain
that number, dropping to 20 courses in 2003. On the other hand, DLC has also increased the
number of paying students per video course, by expanding seating to the multi-media room, which
is a good strategy to pursue in the future.

Electrical and technical challenges. The constant and continuing problems of power supply
(which ultimately destroyed the video room) are a poignant reminder of the primordial need for
rigorous and continuous assessment of this factor. One cannot say that the issue was ignored
from the start ­ electrical rewiring formed a part of the initial works ­ however the main lesson
here seems to be that the electrical supply should be completely direct and independent so as to
avoid undue fluctuations. As noted, ISG is applying this lesson to newly established Centers,
where transformers are installed to interface with the direct current provided by the utility,
combined with 3-phase rotation protection, which then feeds to the backup generator voltage
stabilizer.

Dependency and Bank support. The issue of dependency is a continuing theme for the DLCs.
The Centers owe their existence to the GDLN network and the engineering value offered by ISG.
Moreover, the actual bandwidth costs offered to individual Centers benefit from the network's
ability to achieve volume discounts. Thus even though they are required to become self-sufficient
in terms of operating costs, one should recognize and accept an element of Bank subsidy for this
activity, and explore avenues to ensure resources for technical support by ISG and others.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The report's conclusion regarding the project's satisfactory impact is consistent with the
Government's assessment, as noted in its final report, annexed to this ICR. In particular, the
Government shares the view that, as a pilot project, the DLC successfully introduced the concept
of distance learning and the application of new communication technologies in service of
development.

In addition, the report highlighted the fact that the local training activities, while permitting a
wider national coverage, incurred high costs which were not able to be covered. It is also noted
that during the report preparation, the Center already was taking measures to gain better control
over local training costs, as well as increase revenues, which are designed to achieve financial
autonomy, within the conditions created by the Government's continued support.

In respect of the sustainability of the project, the Government agrees with the conditions under
which this must be achieved, namely : (i) receive continued Government support in the form of
guaranteed course attendees; and (ii) continue to benefit from network support on behalf of
GDLN and ISG. The former involves an explicit subsidy from the Government, which is in
keeping with the objective of training as a "public good."




                                                - 19 -

The Government's actions to provide financial support, despite its own budgetary constraints
(release of FCFA 150 million from the 2004 budget, plus a special allocation of FCFA 75 million
to assist in rebuilding the Center after the fire), bear witness to its commitment to ensure that the
above noted conditions for sustainability are achieved. These funds, plus the FCFA 83 million
released by the insurer, has permitted the DLC to initiate rehabilitation of the facilities and
equipment. Moreover, the Center has already undertaken, as recommended by the Association, to
identify an alternate location provided by the Government, which in the medium term will
guarantee a more appropriate environment.

In view of the above, it would be desirable if World Bank support not be restricted to technical
support from GDLN and ISG. Given the Government's commitment and the efforts underway by
the Center's management to achieve sustainability, it would seem advisable to envisage further
financial support through a renewal of the IDA credit, so as to help the Center pursue its mission
of capacity strengthening for political and economic decision makers.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

10.1 Background on the Bandwidth Issue

Bandwidth Capacity

The participating Distance Learning Centers (DLCs) were created based on links with the World
Bank's 3 major ISG networks. These networks provide video, voice and data transmission to
WB Country Offices (COs) and include: (i) the "DAMA" network, consisting of 3 sub-networks:
Network 1(AFR); Network 2 (LAC); and Network 3 (MENA); (ii) Network 4 (ARN); and (iii)
Orion (ECA).

The ISG system is continuously being updated and revised, in response to constantly changing
needs and conditions. In the year 2002, the COs were provided with differentiated links for
video, voice and data transmission. Video was provided, on a first-come-first-served basis,
through 25 shared channels, and voice through 60 shared channels. Data, on the other hand, was
transmitted through an "Asymmetrical Profile" involving 2 megabytes/second (mega/s) for
download and 64 kilobytes/second (kb/s) for upload. During this time, the DLCs were provided
with a shared "Asymmetrical Profile", which enabled them, on first-come-first-served basis, to
download video, voice and data at 512 kb/s and upload at 64 kb/s.

In May 2003, the bandwidth was "migrated" to the CISCO Internet Protocol (IP), which
provided a single link for each CO and for each DLC. Under this single link, each CO has 768
kb/s download and 8 mega/s for upload. Instead of having differentiated service channels for
video, voice and data, the IP service is enhanced with a "quality of service" (QoS) package, which
prioritizes the three functions occurring at any one time as: video (1st priority), voice (2nd
priority) and data (3rd priority). Within this context, the DLCs bandwidth was also migrated, but



                                                 - 20 -

with a download speed of 384 kb/s. Because of the dedicated link to each Center and
prioritization given to video, the migration to IP improved the quality and performance of video
conferences.

Bandwidth consumption and performance

Video conferences consume 300 kb/s. Thus, under the IP arrangement, when the DLCs are
carrying out a video conference, there remains 84 kb/s available for voice and/or data
transmission. If such second and/or third priority activities consume more than 84 kb/s, the
bandwidth reaches "saturation" and these activities experience a slowdown (since the video
retains priority). According to the Benin DLC, this phenomenon has been occurring whenever a
video conference is in session, making it difficult to pursue E-learning and cyber activities
simultaneously.    Similar observations have been made by other Centers at regional GDLN
meetings in Dar es Salaam (June 2003) and Accra (June 2004).

With regard to this problem, ISG notes that high bandwidth consumption in the Centers has been
observed to be caused by virus infections, which can lead to saturation of the bandwidth. In
addition, ISG monitors bandwidth consumption by the Centers, and is able to observe the portions
of the bandwidth being consumed by each of the three functions over time. During the ICR, a
sample observation was observed in the ISG office, which showed several video conferences
being held simultaneous with data downloads, and which did not reach the saturation points.
While, solid data saturation times were observed during off-peak hours, which suggests possible
virus activity. Thus, it is not fully clear to what extent this problem could be largely solved
through virus elimination, or whether because of rising E-learning, cyber and voice activity, there
is a need to increase the available bandwidth.

It is clear that the previous arrangement, which provided 512 kb/s shared download capacity
provided a wider bandwidth, which could be used for data and voice together with video, as long
as there was not much competing demand. However, this must be balanced against the advantages
of the IP migration, which has provided a dedicated link per Center, and improved quality of
video conferences, which after all was envisioned as the core activity of the DLCs.

Future perspectives

In view of the problems experienced, the Centers (notably Ethiopia and Ghana) have proposed
several solutions to GDLN and ISG, which have been under discussion and consideration:

l Purchasing additional bandwidth through an additional DSL line purchased by the Center;
l Network sharing with the host organization in the country (INE in the case of Benin). This
    and the above solution is not readily acceptable to ISG, because they would introduce other
    networks into the system, which poses network security risks;
l Purchasing additional bandwidth through the IP. This solution is feasible according to ISG,
    but the issue is who pays for this additional capacity. ISG feels that the Centers should
    negotiate this directly with Intelsat, according to their needs.




                                                 - 21 -

Other solutions may be considered as ISG is continually updating its CO networks and IPs. What
seems to be needed at this point is a consensus among the Centers, ISG and GDLN on the nature
and severity of the problem and agreed solutions, including addressing the virus issue.              A
dedicated conference on this subject organized by GDLN might be useful in this regard.

10.2 Selected Financial Comparisons with Cote d'Ivoire DLC

Financial information was provided to the ICR from the Cote d'Ivoire and Senegal DLCs. The
figures provided are not all directly comparable, because of: (i) different time frames; (ii) the three
DLCs consider different items as "fixed" and "variable" costs; and they use different terms for, or
combine certain items. However, the ICR team was able to carry out a rough analysis below,
which yields some useful comparisons.

Overall Revenue and Cost Structures
Total Revenues and costs were compared for the total reporting periods of the DLCs in Table 1.
The comparison shows that Benin is depending less on video conference (41% of its revenues)
than Cote d'Ivoire (67% of its revenues). Cote d'Ivoire is not carrying out any local training, but
is generating more income from room rentals. Benin's reports about 60% fixed and 40% variable
costs, while Cote d'Ivoire considers most of its costs (84%) as fixed, with only three items
considered variable: (i) purchase of courses, (ii) coffee breaks and (iii) consulting fees. Senegal's
revenue figures were not broken out by source.

Operating Deficits and Coverage

Over the period January 2000 to June 2004, the Cote d'Ivoire seems to be covering an increasing
amount of its operational expenses, growing from 26% in 2000-2002 to 61% in June 2004. Benin
is at a slightly lower coverage rate in April 2004. Benin's coverage attained 91% in year 1,
dropped to 55% and 54% in years 2 and 3, then increased its coverage to 58% in the first 4
months of year 4. Senegal's coverage climbed from 36% in year 1 to 61% and 77% respectively
in years 2 and 3.

Selected Cost Items Comparison

The ICR sought to compare several comparable cost items that appeared to be disproportionately
high for Benin, as shown in Table 3. As can be seen it is difficult to get a comparison between
bandwidth cost and purchase. For comparable items, the following may be mentioned:

l Telecommunications for Benin seem quite high compared to Cote d'Ivoire.
l "Bandwidth rental" for Benin is high compared to "Satellite and Costs" for Senegal
l Maintenance costs are of the same order of magnitude for Cote d'Ivoire and Benin, but much
    less for Senegal
l Coffee breaks for Benin are far higher than Cote d'Ivoire.
l Personnel costs for Cote d'Ivoire are much higher than Benin, while Senegal is between the
    other two
l Insurance costs are somewhat higher than for Benin, but not extraordinarily so.




                                                  - 22 -

Table 1: Revenue and Cost Structure

                   Benin                         Cote d'Ivoire               Senegal
           Jan. 2001 ­ April 2004            Jan. 2000 - June 2004    Jan. 2000 - April 2004
      Revenues          FCFA         %        FCFA             %        FCFA            %

 Video Conference      270,425,665   41%      309,779,898     67%

 E-learning             70,560,496   11%       40,802,772      9%

 Local Training        208,529,530   32%                0      0%

 Cyber                  64,575,085   10%        8,792,020      2%

 Room Rental            42,470,245   6%       101,314,956     22%

 Total               656,561,021              460,689,646              388,288,793


 Operating Costs

 Fixed Costs         656,812,983     63%    1,238,459,604     86%      562,277,489     83%

 Variable Costs      378,424,791     37%      205,656,420     14%      117,773,010     17%

 Total               1,035,237,774          1,444,116,024              680,050,499




Table 2: Operating Deficits and Coverage (FCFA)

  Cote d'Ivoire         2000-2002          2003            June 2004
Operating Deficit        -644,167,132    -270,322,849       -68,936,397
% Coverage                         26%           31%               61%

       Benin                2001           2002               2003          Apr-04
Operating Deficit    -   20,402,064    - 147,233,243     - 151,443,777  - 59,597,669

% Coverage                         91%           55%               54%             58%

      Senegal             Year 1          Year 2             Year 3
Operating Deficit          -164,216,843   -70,605,362       -56,939,501
% Coverage                        36%            61%               77%




                                                  - 23 -

Table 3: Selected Cost Items Comparison (FCFA)

                          Benin         Cote d'Ivoire    Senegal
                          2003              2003         Year 3
Course Purchase          12,085,348        36,879,466      **
Bandwidth Rental         47,969,016          **            22,357,239
Telecommunication        13,187,931           8,179,001    **
Maintenance              19,480,223        17,833,480      8,713,000
Pause Café               18,257,010          10,890,499    **
Personnel                62,032,315       119,232,749    85,183,951
Insurance                 5,986,053          7,995,624     **
** Not distinguishable from information provided.




                                                 - 24 -

        Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


 Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators                Projected in PAD                       Actual/ Latest Estimate
                                                    2001  2002      2003     2004       2001          2002        2003       2004-Apr
                                                                                                                             il
PDO                            Training                                      $ 110      $ 56          $ 68        $ 93       $ 135
Test the viability and         Cost/Student/Day                                         (Video
sustainability of distance     ($US)                                                    +Elearn+
learning as a means of                                                                  Local
increasing access to                                                                    Training)
high-quality, up-to date and   Facility Utilization                 45%      60%        75%           65%         63%        19%
cost effective training for    Rate (%)                                                 (Video +
public and private                                                                      MM)
decision-makers and                                                                     77%           68%         60%        20%
implementers to design,                                                                 (Video
plan and manage economic                                                                only)
and social development         Operating                                     1.0        1.6           2.4         2.3        2.0
policies.                      Cost/Income Ratio
                               Number of             +5    +5       +5       +5         +18           +7          +14        +6
                               Providers
                               Quality &                                     WBI        High degree of relevance and satisfaction as per
                               Relevance of                                  Standard   beneficiary survey and workshop.
                               Courses

Outputs from each              No. & Variety of                              All        Ministries: 21
Component                      Organizations                                 ministries Municipalities: 7
1. Distance Learning                                                         and 30%    International Organ.: 6
facilities extensively used to                                               of big &   Private Sector: 49
train decision makers,                                                       medium     NGO: 5
private sector managers and                                                  organizati Educational Institutions: 8
community leaders.                                                           ons
                               No. of Public &       800   1,475    2,360    3,465      5,545         7,065       6,164      1,962
                               Private Trainees                                         (Video
                               (person-days)                                            +Elearn+
                                                                                        Local
                                                                                        Training)
                                                                                        1410          997         1364       619
                                                                                        (Video
                                                                                        only)
2. Viable cost recovery plan   DLC                   20%   41%      66%      100%       91%           55%         54%        58%
in place and operational.      Self-Financing
                               (Income/Operating
                               Cost ratio)




                                                                     - 25 -

Training and Person-Days
                            2001       2002      2003     2004-Apr
Projected in PAD (Video     800        1475      2360       3465
conference only)
(student-days)

Training (student days)
Video-Conference            1410       997       1364       619
E-learning                  2480       4526      3261       1050
Local training              1655       1542      1540       294
Total Training              5545       7065      6165       1963

Multimedia (person-days)    3768       2954      4076       1180
Room Rental (person-days)
Video Conference            2190       690        510        90
Multimedia                  928        638        58         0
Total                       3118       1328      568        90



Facility Utilization Rate
                            2001       2002      2003     2004-Apr
Video Room
Video Conference            18%        13%       17%         8%
E-learning                  20%        37%       27%         9%
Local Training              10%        10%       10%         2%
Room Rental                 28%         9%       7%          1%
Total Video Room            77%        68%       60%        20%
Multimedia Room
E-learning                   5%        10%       7%          2%
Local Training              11%        10%       10%         2%
Cyber                       50%        39%       54%        16%
Room Rental                 12%         8%       1%          0%
Total Multimedia Room       72%        62%       66%        19%
Total Both Rooms            75%        65%       63%        19%



Number and Distribution of People Trained
                   2001    2002        2003    2004 - Apr   Total
Public Sector      887      624        639        234       2,384
Private Sector     306      321        258        78         963
Total             1,193    945         897        312       3,347




                                        - 26 -

Participating Organizations
Names
                                  No.
Ministries/Public Sector             21
Municipalities                       7
International Organizations          6
Private Sector                       49
NGOs                                 5
Schools                              8
Grand Total                          96




                               - 27 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing



                                                                 Appraisal       Actual/Latest Percentage of
                          Project Component                      estimate         estimate          Appraisal


    1 DLC Retrofitting and Equipment                               0.91              0.81              89%

    2 Support for DLC establishment and operation                  2.09              1.71              82%

       Total                                                       3.00              2.52


                                         Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (in US$ million equivalent)



                Expenditure Category                          Procurement method
                                                               Appraisal Estimates

                                                       ICB        NCB             Other


1. Civil Works                                                                       128,700
                                                                                     (128,700)
2. Goods
    a) Network...                                                                    392,934
                                                                                     (392,934)


    b) Office furniture/other equip.                                                 387,750
                                                                                     (387,750)


3. Consultant services, audit and training                                           227,700
                                                                                     (227,700)
4. Operating cost
   a) Satellite bandwidth rent                                                       693,480
                                                                                     (235,950)
   b) Operating cost                                                               1,107,867
                                                                                     (388,158)
5. Management fees
   a) AGETUR                                                                           30,000
                                                                                      (30,000)
   b) SERHAU                                                                           35,000
                                                                                      (35,000)


                          Total                                                    3,003,431
                                                                                  (1,826,193)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements Actual/Latest Estimates (in US$ million equivalent)




                                                         - 28 -

                Expenditure Category                           Procurement method
                                                              Actual/Latest Estimates
                                                    DIR        NCB          Other        Total


1. Civil Works                                                140,008                      140,008
                                                              (120,946)                  (120,946)
2. Goods
    a) Network...                                   261,211                                261,211
                                                   (261,211)                             (261,211)


    b) Office furniture/other equip.                 60,846   118,587         234,113      413,546
                                                    (60,846)  (106,728)      (172,024)   (339,598)


3. Consultant services, audit and training                                    149,118      149,118
                                                                             (149,118)   (149,118)
4. Operating cost
   a) Satellite bandwidth rent                      260,169                                260,169
                                                   (259,972)                             (259,972)
   b) Operating cost                                                        1,254,974   1,254,974
                                                                             (509,969)   (509,969)
5. Management fees
   a) AGETUR                                                   18,212                      18,212
                                                               (18,212)                    (18,212)
   b) SERHAU                                                   25,589                      25,589
                                                               (25,589)                    (25,589)


                         Total                                                          2,522,828
                                                                                        (1,684,615)




Project Financing by component (in US$ million equivalent)


             Project Component            Appraisal estimate   Actual/Latest estimate  Percentage of Appraisal
                                           IDA        DLC        IDA           DLC        IDA         DLC


  1 DLC Retrofitting and                     0.91         0.00      0.72          0.09        79%        -
    Equipment


  2 Support for DLC establishment
    and operation                            0.92         1.17       0.96          0.75      105%     64%


    Total                                    1.83         1.17      1.68          0.84




                                                      - 29 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Objective

A post-project financial analysis was carried out to test the assumptions made during project
design and to reassess the future financial viability of the Benin Distance Learning Center (DLC),
based on actual data and experience during the project.

Original Assumptions

The PAD included a financial analysis of the proposed Benin DLC in order to assess the potential
of the Center to become financially self-sustaining. It was assumed that the DLC consisted of a
video conference room with a 30 student capacity, or 7800 student-days per year, plus a
computer room with 30 computer stations, including internet hookup. The analysis showed it was
possible for the DLC to cover its fixed and variable operating costs (excluding depreciation) over
a five year period, if it achieved a facility utilization rate of 60% (video room) and at a cost per
student-day of US$ 114. During the first four years, these costs would be subsidized through the
IDA Credit on a declining basis, such that increasing revenues would grow to cover 100% of the
annual operating costs in year 5. In addition, it was agreed that the Government would guarantee
30% of the revenues through direct purchase of courses for the public sector. Two additional key
assumptions were: (i) all video conference courses provided through GDLN would be supplied
free of charge, that is, part of DLC's annual bandwidth rent paid to the GDLN satellite network;
and (ii) variable costs were assumed to be constant over the five year period, even though the
volume of activity and generated revenues increased.

Actual Experience Regarding Original Assumptions

The project became effective in late November 2000. During the first year of operations (2001),
the courses obtained through the GDLN were free of charge, but in ensuing years the DLC paid
for these courses. Additionally, since it was difficult to determine the actual volume of annual
courses that would be carried out, the Government's 30% contribution was evaluated at FCFA
150 million per year. To this effect, an original deposit of FCFA 50 million was made in 2001,
but the timing of further payments was not made commensurate with the courses provided. The
Government finally met all its commitments for 2001 ­ 2003 in early 2004. Also, the subsidy to
be provided through the IDA credit was not made on a declining basis as originally assumed. In
effect, 90% of DLC operating costs were regularly reimbursed, as with a normal IDA credit. This
had the salutary effect of keeping the Center operational during the pilot period and even enabled
the accumulation of some reserves, but it also tended to mask the true financial situation of the
Center, as Government arrears accumulated and certain fixed and variable costs increased
dramatically.

Another departure from the original assumptions was the expansion of DLC training activities to
include E-learning, local training courses and a multimedia (cyber) room. This was done in
response to local demand, but also served to increase exposure of the DLC, increase facility
utilization and generate additional revenue. In this context, the DLC facility was expanded to
include a multi-media room and general purpose training room during the project period. In year


                                                  - 30 -

3, additional and renewal computer equipment was also purchased, which could be considered an
additional investment and/or an additional subsidy to cover depreciation costs.

Methodology

Annual cost and revenue data was generated from January 2001 to April 2004 (3 1/3 years). In
addition, basic data tables were generated on the number of student-days completed for the three
types of training ­ video conference, E-learning and local training ­ as well as the number of
person-days for cyber activities and room rentals. The distribution of these activities among the
two rooms (video conference and multimedia) was also identified to determine the utilization rate
of the facilities. The distribution of fixed and variable costs among the training, cyber and rental
activities was discussed and agreed with DLC, which provided a rough "analytical accounting"
framework in spreadsheet format to assess the costs and returns for the DLC as a whole, as well
as for the various training sub-activities.

Results

Operational Cost Coverage

Table 1 provides details on the breakdown and evolution of DLC revenues and costs (in FCFA).
During its 3 1/3 years of operation, the DLC achieved a financial coverage rate (revenues, less
operating costs, excluding depreciation) of 91% in year 1; 55% in year 2; 54% in year 3; and 58%
in the first trimester of year 4. This is compared to the projected PAD rates of 22%, 41%, 66%
and 97%, respectively, in years 1 - 4. Evidently, the actual trend is the opposite of that projected
in the PAD, and the DLC clearly has not reached self-sufficiency.

After a promising first year, the Center experienced a spike in variable costs (+300%), a modest
rise in total fixed costs, and a 24% reduction in total revenues in ensuing years. The huge jump in
variable costs might have been attributed to accumulated costs from year 1, but the amount was
only marginally reduced in the next year, indicating a structural change in these costs. Although
bandwidth rental costs reduced significantly after the first year, other fixed costs rose dramatically
such that these savings were wiped out.




                                                - 31 -

Table 1: DLC Annual Revenues and Costs (FCFA)

                     DESIGNATION                       2001           2002           2003           2004
              RESSOURCES / PRODUITS
Ressources vidéo conférences                         89,380,188     51,586,893     81,133,607     48,324,977
Ressouces Elearning                                   8,950,000     57,023,055      4,587,441
Ressources formations locales                        55,655,000     50,610,000     74,627,415     27,637,115
Ressources salle multimédia                          31,733,050     11,816,310     16,305,345      4,720,380
Ressouces locations salles, autres accessoires       24,596,095     11,239,250      4,685,200      1,949,700
                           Total                     210,314,333    182,275,508    181,339,008    82,632,172
                EMPLOIS / CHARGES
Charges fixes
Location bande                                       85,165,386     32,771,702     47,969,016      3,222,860
Frais de personnel                                   45,874,845     64,439,017     62,032,315     20,444,520
Maintenance, entretien                                3,651,723     16,785,134     19,480,223      3,119,842
   Prime d'assurance                                  5,011,422      5,793,494      5,986,053      1,912,926
   Consultants auditeurs                              1,315,800      2,975,000      2,975,000      1,500,000
  Gardiennage                                         2,560,229      2,220,000      2,220,000        555,000
  Frais de recrutement personnel                      1,300,000        500,000
  Frais de formation personnel                         700,000       4,769,000      6,201,919      2,920,878
  Frais de mission                                    1,181,450      5,712,720      5,309,500        866,064
  Autres Rémunérations                                4,526,350      4,985,620      4,829,304      4,180,000
   Publicité                                         32,341,228     29,578,286     16,466,860      7,534,918
   Consultants juridiques                             1,348,000      1,400,000      1,500,000
   Assistance comptable                                              6,000,000      6,000,000
   Transports consommés                                353,600       1,392,650      2,078,200        285,500
  Frais bancaires                                      275,110         664,310        698,147      1,362,722
   SBEE                                                600,922       8,463,509      9,831,525      4,183,184
   MOD SERHAU                                                                                     17,280,000
   Honoraires suivi dossier MFE                                                     3,120,000     16,090,000
 Total charges fixes                                 186,206,065    188,450,442    196,698,062    85,458,414
 Charges variables
   Achat de cours video                                              5,629,200     12,085,348      6,981,383
   Fournitures de bureaux                            14,750,120     16,393,420     17,202,749     11,950,415
   Locations de salles et équipements                 2,670,884      6,801,000      5,014,816      4,855,000
   Achat de cours locaux & honoraires formations      6,325,000     72,017,059     47,416,972      8,648,330
  Honoraires formations vidéo                                        2,055,680      2,743,012        701,682
   Agents commerciaux                                  750,000       1,200,000      3,250,000      2,630,000
  Distributions courriers                              543,300         544,800        979,070        536,300
  Photocopies et saisies                               398,715         563,686      1,887,430      1,704,510
  Autres rémunérations                                 863,500         960,000      2,877,250      1,273,053
  Primes de stage                                     2,750,000      5,404,670     10,294,655      3,680,000
 Diverses charges                                      174,752         919,581        888,480        553,600
   OPT                                                4,334,049     15,346,251     13,187,931      4,722,805
   Réceptions, pauses café formations                10,950,012     13,222,962     18,257,010      8,534,349
Total charges variables                              44,510,332     141,058,309    136,084,723    56,771,427
 Total charges                                       230,716,397    329,508,751    332,782,785    142,229,841
 Bilan d'operations                                -  20,402,064  - 141,058,309  - 136,084,723  -  56,771,427
 Taux de couverture                                           91%            55%            54%            58%
Subventions d'operations (IDA)                      181,162,169     149,777,197    133,728,117    72,852,704
Bilan total d'operations                            160,760,105      8,718,888   -   2,356,606    16,081,277
Amortissements                                      100,515,207     108,687,321    100,014,077    22,138,247
 Bilan Net                                            60,244,898  -  99,968,433  - 102,370,683  -   6,056,970




                                                           - 32 -

Table 2 compares the financial results projected in the PAD with the actual results in US$
equivalents. Total revenues throughout the period exceeded those projected, as did the fixed and
variable operating costs. The actual operating deficit (not including the IDA Credit subsidy ­
"Grant for Operating Cost") increased, rather than declined, during the period. This is not
surprising, considering that the original analysis held fixed and variable costs constant. On the
other hand, because the IDA subsidy regularly financed 90% of the operating cost, the Total
Operating Profit/Loss was artificially positive throughout the period.

Table 2: Financial Summary Comparison ­ PAD and Actual (US$ equivalent)

                                                       US$*

  PAD PROJECTION             2001        2002       2003     2004      2005
  Capacity Utilization       10%         19%        30%      44%       60%
  Total Revenue              80,000      147,500    236,000  346,000   458,000
  Total Operating Costs      356,869     356,869    356,869  356,869   356,869
  Operating Profit/Deficit   -276,869    -209,369   -120,869 -10,369   101,131
  Coverage Rate              88%         41%        66%      97%       128%
  Grant for Operating Cost
  (IDA Credit Subsidy)       276,869     209,369    120,869  -         -
  Total Operating Profit/
  Deficit                    -           -          -        -10,369   101,131
  Depreciation               157,189     153,023    158,023  163,023   163,023
  Net Income                 -157,189    153,023    158,023  -173,392  -61,892

  ACTUAL                     2001        2002       2003     2004-Apr  2005
  Capacity Utilization       75%         65%        63%      19%       -
  Total Revenue              281,545     264,551    312,653  153,591   -
  Total Operating Costs      308,857     478,242    573,763  264,368   -
  Operating Surplus/deficit  -27,312     -213,691   -261,110 -110,776  -
  Coverage Rate              91.2%       55.3%      54.5%    58.1%     -
  Grant for Operating Cost
  (IDA Credit Subsidy)       242,520     217,384    230,566  135,413   -
  Total           Operating
  Profit/Deficit             215,208     3,693      -30,544  24,637
  Depreciation               134,559     157,746    172,438  41,149    -
  Net Income                 80,649      -154,053   -202,982 -16,512   -



*Annual average exchange rates (FCFA per US$)
2001: 747
2002: 689
2003: 580
2004 (Apr): 538




                                                 - 33 -

Table 3 shows the actual cost, revenues and margins per student-day for the Center as a whole.
Even though the cost per student-day is lower than the projected break-even cost during the three
full years of operation (2001, 2002, 2003), the margins per student-day decreased from ­US$
5.00 to ­US$ 42 in 2003. This indicates that the Center increasingly lost money on each student
it trained.

Table 3: Total Cost* and Revenues per Student-Day

                                                       US$
                                2001       2002           2003          2004-Apr
   Projected break-even cost/
    student-day                                                                114
   Actual cost/student-day            56               68           93         135
   Actual revenue/student-day         51               37           51          78
   Actual margin/student-day          -5              -30          -42          -56


*not including depreciation.


Activity Analysis

Tables 4 through 6 present an individualized analysis of cost and revenues for the three training
activities and multimedia (cyber), based on an estimated distribution of fixed and variable costs
among these activities. Although video conferencing has the highest revenue per student day, it
also has the highest share of fixed costs, resulting in relatively large negative margins, although
this seems to have turned positive in first trimester 2004. Also, when one considers only variable
costs, video conferencing has the highest margins per student-day. E-learning is essentially
breaking even, while local training began losing money on each student day in 2003 and at an
alarming rate in 2004.

Table 4: Cost and Revenues per Student-Day: Video Conference



                                                      US$
                                     2001         2002      2003      2004
   Student-days                        1410          997     1364       619
   Revenue/student-day US$                85           75     103       145
   Cost/student-day US$                   87         143      154       139
   Margin/student-day US$                  -3         -68      -51        6
   Variable Cost Margin/student-day       70           31      49        77




                                                - 34 -

Table 5: Cost and Revenues per Student-Day: Elearning

                                                      US$
                                   2001       2002          2003       2004
  Student-days                          2480        4526         3261   1050
  Revenue/student-day                      5           18            2      0
  Cost/student-day                         1           18            2      0
  Margin/student-day                       4         0.09         0.02      0
  Variable cost margin/student-day         4         0.09         0.02      0



Table 6: Cost and Revenues per Student-Day: Local Training
                                                      US$
                                   2001       2002       2003         2004
  Student-days                          1655      1542         1540      294
  Revenue/student-day                     45         48          84      175
  Cost/student-day                        19         44          88      192
  Margin/student-day                      26          4           -4      -18
  Variable cost margin/student-day        26       3.74        -4.03      -18



Table 7: Cost and Revenues per Person-Day: Multimedia (Cyber)
                                                      US$
                                   2001       2002       2003         2004
  Student-days                          3768      2954         4076     1180
  Revenue/student-day                     11          6           7         7
  Cost/student-day                         1          3           4         5
  Margin/student-day                      10          3           3         2
  Variable cost margin/student-day        10       2.75         3.12        2


Conclusion and Future Perspectives

Notwithstanding the destruction by fire of the video conference room in July 2004, the above
results indicate that, given its current cost and revenue structure, the DLC has not become
financially self-sustaining. The total costs and negative margins per student-day have increased
(table 3), and the total revenues generated in 2003 would have to increase by 83% (table 1) to
meet that year's operating costs.     The analysis also shows, however, that there are major
opportunities for reducing both fixed and variable costs. This needs to be combined with an
increase in video conferencing student-days, which would have the effect of bringing higher
revenue per student-day, while more effectively amortizing the Center's fixed cost.

In order to assess future perspectives, rough simulations were carried out for two major cases: (i)
the DLC with its current mix of training activities; and (ii) the DLC as a purely video conferencing
center, as originally envisioned. The simulations used 2003 as the reference year, with three
scenarios, reflecting assumptions on increased video training activity and/or reduction in fixed and
variable costs.



                                                - 35 -

The DLC with its Current Activities

Although the Center completed 20 video conferences in 2003, it accomplished 29 in 2001. It was
therefore felt not unreasonable to assume that the Center could aim to achieve 40 video
conferences per year, effectively doubling those accomplished in 2003. Based on this, the
following scenarios were developed to examine under what indicative conditions the DLC could
achieve self-sufficiency:

Scenario 1:       Increase the 2003 number of video conference student days by 100% (40
                  video conferences)
Scenario 2:       Increase the 2003 number of video conference student days by 100%
                  Decrease all fixed costs by 80%
Scenario 3:       Increase the 2003 number of video conference student days by 100%
                  Decrease video conference fixed costs by 20%
                  Maintain video conference variable costs
                  Decrease all other fixed and variable cost by 50%

Table 8 summarizes the results of this analysis, which indicates that by increasing the number of
video conference-days, one can improve the rate of cost recovery, and when combined with
cost-cutting for other activities, can result in bringing revenues and costs into line. The break
even cost per student-day is about US$ 60.

Table 8: Simulations of DLC ­ All Activities

                                      Reference
                                        Year
                                         2003        Scenario 1     Scenario 2   Scenario 3

 Revenues FCFA                         181,339,008    262,472,615    262,472,615 262,472,615
 Operating Costs
Fixed Cost                              196,698,062     157,358,450  157,358,450 122,051,734
Variable Cost                           136,084,723     178,711,438  142,094,024 134,258,021
 Total Cost                            332,782,785    336,069,887    299,452,474 256,309,755
 Surplus/deficit FCFA                 -151,443,777     -73,597,272   -36,979,859   6,162,860
 Coverage Rate                               54%             78%            88%        102%
 Student-days                                6,164           7,528         7,528       7,528
Revenue per student-day FCFA                 29,419          34,868       34,868      34,868
Revenue per student-day US$                      51              65           65          65
Cost per student-day FCFA                    53,988          44,646       39,781      34,050
Cost per student-day US$                         93              83           74          63
 Margin per student-day US$                    -42             -18            -9           2
Facility Utilization Rate
Video conference room                          59%             76%          76%         76%
Multimedia room                                68%             68%          68%         68%
 Total                                       62%             71%            71%         71%




                                                  - 36 -

Video Conferencing Alone

In this simulation, it was assumed that the Center would engage only in video conferencing.
Thus, operating costs would consist of all DLC fixed costs, plus video conferencing variable costs
as previously defined. Under these conditions the following scenarios were tested:

Scenario 1:          Increase the 2003 student days by 50%
Scenario 2:          Increase the 2003 student days by 100%
                     Decrease variable costs by 20%
Scenario 3:          Increase the 2003 student days by 100%
                     Decrease fixed costs by 20%
                     Decrease variable costs by 20%


Table 9 shows the results of this analysis, which indicates that the DLC could break even if it
doubled the 2003 number of video conference student-days and was able to reduce the Center's
fixed cost by 20%. Under these conditions, the break even cost per student day is about US$
100, about the same that was estimated in the PAD. This would, however, only utilize 35% of
the video rooms' annual capacity, suggesting that further utilization could be generated from
room rentals or E-learning.

Table 9: Simulations of DLC ­ Video Conferencing Alone

                                         Reference
                                          Year
              DESIGNATION                  2003         Scenario 1      Scenario 2    Scenario 3

Revenues                                   81,133,607      121,700,411   162,267,214  162,267,214
 Operational Costs
Fixed Costs                               140,212,905      140,212,905   140,212,905  112,170,324
Variable Costs                             42,626,715       42,626,715    34,101,372   34,101,372
 Total Costs                             182,839,620     182,839,620     174,314,277  146,271,696
 Operational Surplus/deficit            -101,706,013      -61,139,210    -12,047,063   15,995,518
 Coverage Rate                                 44%              67%             93%        111%
 Student-days                                   1,364           2,045           2,727        2,727
Revenues/student-day FCFA                       59,504           59,504        59,504       59,504
Revenues/student-day US$                           103              111           111          111
Costs/student-day FCFA                         134,096           89,397        63,922       53,638
Costs/student-day US$                              231              166           119          100
 Margin/student-day US$                          -129             -56              -8           11
 Utilization Rate (Video room)                 17%              26%             35%         35%




                                                     - 37 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              04/15/1999                8    Sr .Urban Transport Spec. (TTL)
                                             (1); Urban Planner (1) FMS (1);
                                             Procurement Specialist (1);
                                             Intern (1) Distance Learning
                                             Technician (1); Disbursement
                                             Officer (1); Capacity Building &
                                             Training (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/23/1999                8    Sr .Urban Transport Spec.
                                             (TTL) (1); Urban Planner (1)
                                             FMS (1); Procurement
                                             Specialist (1); Intern (1) ;
                                             Disbursement Officer (1);
                                             Capacity Building &
                                             Training (1); Res.
                                             Representative (1)

 Supervision

              02/16/2001                1    Task Team Leader (1)                 HS             HS
              06/15/2001                2    Task Team Leader (1); Program        HS             HS
                                             Assistant (1)
              12/07/2001                2    Task Team Leader (1); Program        HS             HS
                                             Assistant (1)
              05/03/2002                2    Task Team Leader (1); Program        HS             HS
                                             Assistant (1)
              11/30/2002                3    Task Team Leader(1); Program         HS             HS
                                             Assistant (1) FMS (1)
              05/23/2003                4    Task Team Leader (1); Program        HS             HS
                                             Assistant (1)FMS (1),
                                             Procument Analyst (1)
              12/01/2003                4    Task Team Leader (1); Program        S               S
                                             Assistant (1) FMS (1);
                                             Procurement Analyst (1)
              04/23/2004                4     Task Team Leader(1); FMS (1);       S               S
                                             Procurement Analyst (1);
                                             Program Assistant (1)


 ICR
              07/26/2004                4     Task Team Leader (1);               S               S
                                              FMS (1); Sr. Program
                                              Assistant (1); Consultant




                                              - 38 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                     -                             -
  Appraisal/Negotiation                     17.58                           40.9
  Supervision                               45.30                          104.7
  ICR                                          5.2                          44.3
  Total                                                                    189.9
Note: Appraisal/Negotiation includes time spent on identification/preparation




                                                 - 39 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA


Note on Physical Output rating: The achievement of physical output is rated substantial, because
the project successfully established the Distance Learning Center, prior to the fire which
destroyed the video conference room in July 2004. In the wake of this event, the Center has
secured significant funding from the insurer and the Government, which gives it a reasonable
chance of reestablishing its physical facilities.




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 41 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Project Appraisal Document
Development Credit Agreement
Project Activity reports
Supervision Aide-memoires
Project Summary Reports (PSRs)
Borrower's (Distance Learning Center) Completion Report




                                               - 42 -

Additional Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's Contribution




                                     BENIN




           PROJET D'APPUI AU CENTRE D'EDUCATION A DISTANCE
                                    (PACED)

             RESUME DE LA CONTRIBUTION DE L'EMPRUNTEUR




                                SEPTEMBER 2004




                                      - 43 -

                    RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU PROJET D'APPUI
                   AU CENTRE D'EDUCATION A DISTANCE DU BENIN
                               (PACED) - CREDIT IDA BEN 3319


Introduction

Le Centre d'Education à Distance du Bénin (CED-BENIN) est un projet initié par le
Gouvernement du Bénin avec l'appui de la Banque Mondiale dans le cadre de son programme de
développement et de réduction de la pauvreté. Les objectifs de ce projet sont essentiellement
d'assurer le développement du Bénin et de réduire la pauvreté, à travers la formation et le
renforcement des capacités techniques et professionnelles des décideurs économiques et
politiques, au moyen des Nouvelles Technologies de l'Information et de la Communication
(NTIC). Dans ce cadre, le projet a contribué à l'amélioration des capacités de plus de 4000
cadres et décideurs de tous les secteurs, à travers ses grands volets de formation, à savoir : La
formation par vidéoconférence, la formation par e-learning et la formation localement organisée.

Pendant quatre ans, le Gouvernement a utilisé de façon constante et régulière le Centre comme
outil de renforcement et de recyclage des capacités des Agents Permanents de l'Etat. La première
phase du crédit d'appui de la Banque Mondiale au Centre est arrivée à terme depuis le 30 avril
2004 et l'évaluation qui en est faite a reçu l'approbation de tous les acteurs.

Malheureusement, le 1er juillet dernier la principale salle du Centre a été ravagée par un incendie
qui a détruit la plupart de ses équipements. Une évaluation sommaire des dégâts permet d'estimer
à près de 400 millions FCFA les matériels détruits.

Compte tenu de l'importance de l'impact des formations du Centre sur l'économie nationale et
notamment dans le cadre de la mise en oeuvre du Programme d'Action du Gouvernement, il est
important que sa réhabilitation se fasse dans les meilleurs délais, de manière à lui permettre de
jouer son rôle de Centre de référence dans la sous région, place acquise depuis deux ans par
l'équipe du Centre dans le concert des centres d'éducation à distance mis en place par la Banque
Mondiale. Si rien n'était fait pour sa réhabilitation, en raison du rôle primordial que joue le
Centre, ses activités qui sont réduites à 20% aujourd'hui, risquent d'être totalement bloquées ; ce
qui ne manquerait pas d'avoir un impact néfaste sur la réalisation du Programme d'Action du
Gouvernement.

Le blocage des activités du Centre pourrait avoir pour conséquence d'annihiler tous les efforts et
les investissements qui y sont consacrés depuis des années.

C'est dans ce contexte que le présent rapport d'achèvement est rédigé pour mettre en relief les
acquis du projet par rapport aux objectifs initiaux et les perspectives d'avenir.


                                                 - 44 -

Rappel des objectifs du Projet

Le Projet a pour objectifs principaux de former les cadres pour participer à l'amélioration :

1. de la qualité de la formulation et de l'exécution des stratégies sectorielles et des politiques
    économiques de développement ;
2. de la productivité des cadres supérieurs de l'Etat ;
3. de l'efficacité des organismes communautaires et du secteur privé.

Pour atteindre ces objectifs, la Banque Mondiale a mis à la disposition du Bénin, à travers le crédit
IDA Ben 3319, des ressources financières et techniques et aidé à la création du Centre
d'Education à Distance du Bénin dont les objectifs spécifiques se résument comme suit : i)
Promouvoir la formation à distance afin d'assurer le partage du savoir nécessaire au
développement. ii) Accroître l'impact du développement à travers la maîtrise des technologies
modernes de communication en formant à distance les décideurs impliqués dans le développement
économique et leur mise en oeuvre. iii) Encourager le partenariat entre les communautés de
l'éducation à l'intérieur et à l'extérieur du Bénin, grâce à l'intégration et à l'accès du plus grand
nombre aux connaissances et outils modernes de gestion et de management, etc.

Les différents organes du projet notamment l'Association CED-BENIN lui ont assuré une gestion
autonome en impliquant les bénéficiaires des services et les utilisateurs potentiels du système.

I. Avis sur les objectifs, la conception du Projet, son exécution et l'expérience tirée de sa
mise en oeuvre

I.1. Avis sur les objectifs

Les objectifs du Projet sont pertinents et concordent avec les priorités du gouvernement du Bénin
en matière de lutte contre la pauvreté. L'approche d'intervention adoptée par le PACED met
l'homme au centre du développement. Cette approche a révélé une dimension andragogique du
renforcement de capacités et de la lutte contre la pauvreté en quatre points essentiels à savoir i)
Le renforcement des capacités des populations concernées, ii) La réduction de la pauvreté, iii) La
promotion de l'utilisation des NTIC, iv) La contribution au développement du pays

I.2. Avis sur le fonctionnement institutionnel

La phase pilote du Projet a été conduite par un comité de pilotage dont le rôle a été de réaliser les
activités initiales avant le démarrage du Centre d'Education à Distance (CED-BENIN).

Au terme de cette période, et fort de l'expérience faite, les rôles et responsabilités des différents
organes ont été clairement précisés ainsi que les documents de base et procédures du Projet
élaborés et adaptés aux objectifs. Ainsi, on a pu observer un parfait fonctionnement institutionnel
tout au long de la phase opérationnelle. Pour mieux répondre aux besoins de la clientèle la
direction du Centre a entrepris la diversification des thèmes, l'introduction de cours diplômants



                                                - 45 -

par e-learning et le déploiement dans tous les départements des formations locales.

I.3. Leçons à tirer

I.3.1. Sur le plan institutionnel

Les mécanismes institutionnels mis en place ont produit les effets souhaités. Ceci a permis à
chaque partie du cadre institutionnel de jouer son rôle à fond. La Banque Mondiale, unique
partenaire financier dans cette phase, a régulièrement mobilisé et canalisé les fonds vers le Centre
et a assuré le suivi de l'utilisation desdits fonds à travers les missions de supervision.

1.3.2 Au niveau de la mise en oeuvre

Le Projet comprend deux composantes principales :

-       aménagement et équipement d'un centre d'éducation à distance (CED). Cette composante
comprend : l'aménagement d'une salle de vidéoconférence d'une capacité de 30 personnes, une
salle informatique en réseau de 30 postes, un local technique et des bureaux administratifs ;
l'acquisition et l'installation d'une station terrienne satellitaire à très petite ouverture (VSAT), des
équipements de vidéo, télécommunication et de micro-informatique, du mobilier de bureau et de
divers équipements annexes nécessaires au fonctionnement et à la sécurité du CED ;

-       appui à l'exploitation du centre d'éducation à distance. Cette composante comprend le
financement, sur une base décroissante, des coûts de fonctionnement du CED au cours des trois
premières années, l'acquisition d'un moyen de transport (un véhicule), des services de consultants
(formation du personnel du Centre, évaluation du fonctionnement du Centre et de l'efficacité de
sa gestion, ...).

Par rapport à la composante N° 1 Ces travaux ont été exécutés en maîtrise d'ouvrage délégué
par l'AGETUR pour les travaux de génie civil et à la SERHAU SA pour l'appui institutionnel. Le
détail des travaux est joint dans le rapport général en annexe.

Par rapport à la composante 2 Les Travaux d'appui institutionnel et de gestion du Centre
confiés à la SERHAU-SEM ont permis d'élaborer les statuts de l'Association, organe d'orientation
du CED-BENIN, les différents documents (manuel d'exécution du projet, manuels de procédures
administratives, comptables et finances), approuvés par tous les partenaires et le recrutement de
l'équipe réduite de gestion du CED-BENIN par le cabinet Geca Prospective. Tous les accords
signés et avis juridique obtenu ont permis, après la ratification de l'accord cadre, la publication de
la loi et du décret faite le vendredi le 14 septembre 2000, l'entrée en vigueur de l'Accord de
Crédit le 22 novembre 2000.

Une vision claire a été définie à partir de l'étude de marché et le plan d'affaires à savoir :
« Notre ambition est de faire du Centre d'Education à Distance du Bénin l'institution
d'enseignement à distance la plus adaptée en Afrique de l'Ouest, voire en Afrique, pour la
formation des décideurs politiques et économiques. Le CED-BENIN se veut un centre de



                                                   - 46 -

référence en matière d'utilisation des nouvelles technologies dans l'éducation et la formation
continue pour accroître la capacité managériale des hauts responsables du pays et assurer leur
accès aux informations actualisées de partout dans le monde ».

I.4     Activités du Centre

I.4.1   Les activités de formation

Le Centre d'Education à Distance du Bénin a conformément aux objectifs, offert de janvier 2001
au 30 avril 2004, des formations par vidéo, par E-Learning et des formations locales.

Les formations par vidéoconférence : Niveau de participation aux formations
L'indicateur de performance retenu pour l'analyse du niveau de participation aux formations est
le nombre d'hommes*jour. Le niveau de participation aux formations à distance est mesuré par le
ratio « nombre de homme * jour qui est calculé en multipliant le nombre de participants au
nombre de jours de formation. Le nombre de jours de formation est estimé en rapportant la masse
horaire allouée à une formation donnée à 8 heures de travail pour une journée.
l Elle permet de mesurer l'efficacité du CED-BENIN.


En matière de formation par vidéo conférences, le Centre a organisé en 2001 au total 141
sessions couvrant 1 410 hommes * jour contre 1.000 prévu, en 2002 il y a eu 88 pour 996,5
hommes * jour contre 2.500 prévu et en 2003, 100 sessions regroupant 1 363,5 hommes * jour
contre 3.750 prévu. Si la même tendance est confirmée, il y aura 2 474 hommes * jour.

Lorsqu'on compare les performances réalisées par le Centre aux objectifs qui lui sont assignés,
les formations par vidéoconférence n'ont pas évolué conformément aux objectifs du projet. C'est
pour cette raison que les responsables du Centre ont diversifié les formations à distance en y
introduisant les formations par E-learning dont les résultats ont amélioré sensiblement les
performances du CED-BENIN.

La comparaison des résultats avec les objectifs fixés montre bien que le Centre a pleinement
atteint et dépassé les objectifs de chaque année. En 2001, le Centre a réalisé 3 890 hommes jour
contre 1 000 prévus ; en 2002 les réalisations ont été de 5 523 hommes*jour contre 2 500 prévus
et en 2003 les résultats ont permis d'avoir 4 625 hommes*jour contre 3 750 prévus.

Formations locales : Prenant en compte les besoins des Béninois, la direction du Centre a initié
plusieurs formations locales dans divers domaines. Ces formations couvrent des thèmes variés
allant de la maîtrise des outils informatiques, l'Internet jusqu'à la gestion et au management. Les
résultats enregistrés par année par ces formations sont de 1 655 hommes*jour en 2001, 1 542
hommes*jour en 2002 et de 1 540 hommes jours en 2003. Ces résultats viennent améliorer de
façon notable les indicateurs de performance du Centre et permettent une bonne couverture de
taux d'utilisation des équipements et des salles.

I.4.2   Activités sur le plan technique




                                                - 47 -

Tous les équipements devant servir le Centre ont été installés et mis en exploitation dès le
démarrage des activités en juin 2000 et ont été fonctionnels durant la vie du projet. Le Centre a
une autonomie d'énergie électrique (un groupe électrogène de 65 KVA) qui supplée les coupures
de l'énergie de la ville fournie par la SBEE SBEE : Société Béninoise d'Electricité et d'Eau
actuellement Société Béninoise d'Energie Electrique. Au démarrage des activités avec sa bande
passante de 512 Kbits par seconde, le Centre avait le meilleur accès Internet au Bénin et les
meilleures conditions de cours à distance. Grâce au soutien de la Banque le Centre a pu installer
un ascenseur, pour répondre aux plaintes des clients qui éprouvaient d'énormes difficultés pour y
accéder, obtenir la construction de nouvelles salles de formation, magasins, bureaux et une salle
d'attente pour mieux répondre aux besoins de la clientèle devenue de plus en plus exigeante.

Avec les variations de la tension électrique liées aux coupures répétées du courant de la SBEE, le
Centre a enregistré de nombreux arrêts d'activités provoqués par les pannes fréquentes
d'onduleurs, du groupe électrogène, des ordinateurs (unités centrales et/ou écrans), et de
déconnexion du satellite, etc. L'absence de régie ou studio au niveau de la salle vidéo a rendu
difficile la gestion simultanée des vidéoconférences et des programmes dans la salle multimédia.
De plus pour certains équipements l'entretien et les dépannages sont parfois difficiles ou longs en
raison de l'inexistence sur place de spécialistes. Enfin avec la migration intervenue en mai 2003, la
bande passante du Centre a été consacrée prioritairement à la vidéo conférence, ce qui empêche
de mener les activités de formation en E-learning et de connexion Internet en même temps que se
déroulent les cours vidéo. Les responsables du Centre n'avaient pas une réelle connaissance des
conséquences de cette migration et de ce choix technologique. L'inexistence de source d'énergie
fiable (absence d'un transformateur autonome) ne favorise pas le fonctionnement stable des
équipements. Toutes ces difficultés posent le problème de l'environnement du Centre qui n'est pas
propice au déploiement de nouvelles activités et à son développement.

I.4.3   Activités sur le plan administratif et financier

        Aspects administratifs

Le personnel : Conformément au document du projet, le personnel du Centre a été recruté et a
pris service pour la plupart au moment du démarrage des activités. Ce personnel a été renforcé
par le recrutement d'un caissier et de stagiaires en raison du volume des activités et des risques
liés au cumul de certaines fonctions. Pour améliorer les performances de l'équipe la direction a
initié plusieurs formations au profit du personnel aussi bien avec la Banque Mondiale, le GDLN,
les institutions internationales que les structures nationales.

Les formalités administratives : Pendant la phase d'exécution, plusieurs missions de supervision
ont été organisées (en moyenne deux par an) pour appuyer l'équipe du projet et faire des
recommandations pour la poursuite des activités. Toutes les formalités administratives relatives au
projet en vue de la mise en vigueur de l'accord de crédit ont été régulièrement remplies. De
même, il a été procédé à l'accomplissement des formalités d'enregistrement de l'Association pour
faciliter la régularisation de la situation administrative des agents.

        Aspects financiers



                                                  - 48 -

Décaissement sur le crédit Le taux de décaissement du crédit est de 95%. Aussi, le solde
important dégagé par la catégorie 3a (frais de connexion satellite) est lié au fait que la gestion des
contrats des fournisseurs n'a pas été faite par le projet. Cette difficulté n'a pas été spécifique au
CED-BENIN.

        Les indicateurs de performance

De façon globale, les indicateurs mis en place lors de l'évaluation du projet ont été respectés en
2001. Cette année, les performances ont été largement à la hauteur des attentes, 63.5% réalisé
contre 41% prévu dans le document d'évaluation du projet. Les autres années, les performances
n'ont pas été respectées si on tient compte uniquement des activités de formation. Toutefois la
prise en compte des autres activités comme le centre de ressources informatiques utilisé comme
cyber en appui aux formations permet d'améliorer sensiblement le taux de couverture des charges
par les recettes propres.

        Les coûts du projet par méthode de passation de marchés

Les coûts du projet réalisés sont rangés suivant chaque méthode de passation de marché à savoir :

l l'entente directe (DIR)
l appel d'offres national (NCB)
l consultation de fournisseurs (Other)

Les montants mis entre parenthèses représentent la part IDA.

        Les coûts du projet par composante (annexe 2)

Les deux composantes du projet représentent :

l Aménagement et Equipement du CED
l Appui à l'exploitation du CED

Les prévisions et les réalisations (montant et pourcentage) de ces composantes sont inscrites dans
l'annexe.

        Les coûts du projet par composante et par financement (annexe 3)

Les entités finançant le projet concernent :

l l'IDA
l le gouvernement béninois et le DLC

Les coûts du projet par composante sont distingués par bailleur. Le gouvernement béninois et le
DLC représentent une même entité (un même bailleur). Les prévisions, les réalisations et les



                                               - 49 -

pourcentages respectifs de ces composantes par financement sont inscrits à cette annexe. Il est à
souligner que la composante 1 est prévue pour être financée uniquement par l'IDA. Mais dans
l'exécution, le gouvernement et le DLC ont financé une partie.

I.4.4   Difficultés

Les deux difficultés majeures concernent :

l la mobilisation des fonds de contrepartie du gouvernement béninois. Le recouvrement de ces
    fonds n'est pas chose aisée. La contrepartie prévue ne tient pas compte des dispositions du
    document d'évaluation en ce qui concerne le montant accordé et les procédures de gestion des
    fonds ;
l la gestion des contrats de satellite n'a pas été faite par les projets qui n'ont jamais reçu les
    contrats. Ce qui fait que l'écart constaté sur la catégorie 3a (frais de connexion satellite) est
    très significatif.

I.5     Evaluation de l'impact du Centre

I.5.1   L'atelier d'évaluation

L'atelier d'évaluation des formations organisées en juillet 2004 a permis de noter la satisfaction
des participants aux différentes activités du Centre. Les participants ont, dans leur grande
majorité, manifesté beaucoup d'intérêt pour les programmes de formation et souligné la
pertinence de ces programmes par rapport aux objectifs de développement du Bénin et aux
besoins spécifiques des entreprises et institutions.

Tous les participants interrogés ont reconnu que le CED-BENIN est devenu un outil
indispensable de renforcement de capacité et de réduction de la pauvreté au Bénin. Beaucoup de
bénéficiaires des formations ont contribués à la conception de politique sectorielle dans leur
service, d'autres ont eu des promotions ou des opportunités d'emplois nouveaux. Ils ont
appréciés les possibilités d'échange avec les cadres d'autres pays. Les formations ont permis
l'amélioration des performances et les pratiques des participants. Le rapport de l'atelier
d'évaluation est joint en annexe.

I.5.2   Recherche de partenariats

Le Centre, chaque année, négocie des partenariats avec plusieurs institutions en dehors du réseau
GDLN (Washington et Paris) pour la fourniture de formation avec : GAPSET ; ISTOM ; Institut
de la Banque de France ; Centre National de la Formation Publique Territoriale ; Edufrance ;
CISCO ; UNISA en Afrique du Sud ; UNESCO ; UNICEF ; PNUD ; Agence béninoise pour
l'Environnement ; IFFORME ; Organisation Internationale du Travail (OIT) ; Africsearch ; etc.

I.5.3   Couverture des formations au niveau national

Les formations ont couvert toutes les institutions de la République, tous les ministères, les grands



                                                 - 50 -

organismes internationaux et sous-régionaux installés au Bénin, les grandes entreprises et un
nombre important de PME/PMI. Au plan national, le Centre a reçu des participants venant de
tous les départements du Bénin et a organisé déjà des formations dans les grandes villes telles que
Natitingou, Parakou, Lokossa, Abomey, Bohicon, Ouidah et Porto-Novo.

I.5.4    Impacts des formations du CED-BENIN

La forte participation des bénéficiaires à la plupart de ces formations montre que :

1. les thèmes développés correspondaient à des besoins localement identifiés ;
2. la stratégie de diversification des formations à distance s'est avérée pertinente, car elle permet
    non seulement d'optimiser l'utilisation des équipements du Centre, mais surtout d'atteindre et
    même dépasser les performances assignées au projet ;
3. la formation était utile pour le développement de l'économie nationale ou le secteur visé ;
4. le public acceptait de manière tacite le prix de certaines de ces formations.

Par contre, il faut souligner que pour d'autres formations, le Centre est resté loin de remplir la
salle pour les raisons dont l'étude paraît indispensable pour mieux cibler les besoins et assurer
l'adéquation entre les besoins et les sujets de formation.

La direction du CED-BENIN assure une veille permanente du marché à travers des évaluations
systématiques de chaque formation. Malgré les difficultés rencontrées et le caractère novateur du
concept d'éducation à distance, le CED-BENIN en tant qu'instrument de politique de
développement, a impulsé :

l une meilleure appropriation des nouvelles technologies par la communauté nationale à travers
    les nombreuses actions d'information, de formation et d'éducation ;
l une meilleure compréhension de l'éducation à distance aux moyens des outils modernes de
    communication ;
l un meilleur accès à l'Internet et une bonne maîtrise des informations internationales, et
l une actualisation permanente des données pour les décideurs politiques et économiques.

Les acquis de la plupart des formations ont induit un changement de comportements au niveau
des participants.

2.       Performance de l'emprunteur

2.1      Les facteurs de la performance

2.2      La préparation

Le Gouvernement du Bénin à travers le Ministère des Finances et de l'Economie (Ministère de
tutelle, a apporté un soutien considérable au projet à différentes étapes. Ce projet a été créé sur
l'initiative du Gouvernement Béninois dans le cadre du programme d'actions de renforcement de
capacité et de réduction de la pauvreté. Il correspond à la volonté du Gouvernement Béninois de



                                                 - 51 -

renforcer la qualité des ressources humaines au Bénin par une formation adaptée à l'évolution
rapide des technologies de l'information et de la communication dans notre monde en pleine
mutation.

2.3     La mise en oeuvre

En signant l'accord de crédit le 24 mars de l'an 2000, le gouvernement a pendant la phase pilote
créé un comité de pilotage qui a permis de conduire à bon terme les différentes composantes du
projet et pour appuyer le Centre dans la mise en oeuvre des activités de démarrage et les formalités
de mise en vigueur du projet. Le gouvernement a aussi pour sa part a régulièrement inscrit chaque
année dans son programme des montants de subvention à accorder au CED-BENIN pour le
remboursement des frais de formations des Agents Permanents de l'Etat et au fonctionnement du
Centre. Il a par ailleurs facilité la création de l'Association CED-BENIN au sein de laquelle
plusieurs ministères sont représentés. L'Association à travers son Bureau Exécutif, tenant lieu de
Conseil d'Administration, a également assuré son mandat par la tenue régulière de sessions pour
examiner et adopter les rapports d'activités, les comptes et les projets de budget.

Le Ministère des Finances a accompagné le projet dans son développement en traitant avec
diligence les demandes de retrait de fonds (DRF) et en sollicitant par deux fois la réallocation du
crédit.

2.4     Difficultés

Les difficultés rencontrées dans la phase pilote sont relatives à la ratification de l'accord de crédit.
Pour faire accélérer la procédure, il a été organisé pour les députés une session de vidéo
conférence pour leur faire toucher du doigt les performances du Centre et l'impact réel de cette
haute technologie.

La mobilisation de la contrepartie de l'Etat béninois a constitué une grande difficulté. Les fonds
de Contrepartie sont inscrits au budget national dans les dépenses communes du Ministère des
Finances et de l'Economie sans affectation directe au CED-BENIN. Le mode de déblocage et de
remboursement fait que le Centre n'entre en possession des fonds qu'après avoir engagé les
dépenses qu'il doit justifier. Les délais de remboursement ont pris parfois deux ans voire trois. La
contrepartie de l'Etat apparaît beaucoup plus comme un remboursement de formation des agents
permanents de l'Etat (dont le mode de paiement ne permet pas au Centre de faire face à ses
engagements dans les meilleurs délais) qu'une dotation au fonctionnement du Centre.
Néanmoins, tous les arriérés du gouvernement sont encaissés à ce jour.

2.5     Leçons apprises

La non interférence du pouvoir public dans la gestion du projet et l'autonomie de gestion
accordée à celui-ci dans sa mise en oeuvre, assurent la performance et garantissent les résultats.

Le soutien du gouvernement s'est manifesté par la participation de haut niveau et très appréciée
de membres de toutes les institutions de l'Etat.



                                                - 52 -

L'utilisation des professeurs et professionnels béninois a permis le renforcement des capacités de
cette expertise locale et la création d'emplois nouveaux.

Cadre d'exécution du Projet

Le Projet d'Appui au Centre d'Education à Distance du Bénin (PACED) a été exécuté dans un
environnement socio-politique apaisé et dans un contexte de démocratie et de transition vers la
décentralisation. Dans cette perspective, la direction du Centre a élaboré un programme d'une
série de formations à l'intention des maires, des élus locaux et des personnels techniques et de
soutien des collectivités locales.

2.5 Poursuite du Projet

L'exécution du projet CED-BENIN a été riche d'expériences. Elle a suscité beaucoup
d'engouement au niveau des bénéficiaires et groupes cibles qui se sont mobilisés pour saisir les
opportunités offertes par le CED-BENIN.

Comme l'ont reconnu et préconisé les participants à l'atelier d'évaluation du CED-BENIN, Il est
très clair que le Centre présente un grand avantage pour les besoins de développement du Bénin
et pour l'accompagnement des entreprises. En conséquence, il est important que la pérennisation
des activités du Centre soit assurée dans un cadre plus approprié.

Etude de pérennité

Pour s'assurer que les objectifs ont été réellement atteints, le Centre a lancé une étude de
pérennité dont l'objectif est de faire une évaluation des activités réalisées, au regard des objectifs
qui lui sont assignés, de définir les conditions pour assurer la pérennité du Centre et de formuler
des recommandations à mettre en oeuvre à cet effet. Cette étude a permis de noter la bonne
appréciation faite sur les activités du CED-BENIN et de se rendre compte de son impact réel et
de proposer les mesures à mettre en oeuvre en vue de la pérennisation des activités.

Incendie au Centre

Alors que toute l'équipe était mobilisée pour poursuivre le projet après la clôture du crédit
intervenue le 30 avril 2004, le Centre d'Education à Distance du Bénin (CED-BENIN) a été
victime, dans la soirée du jeudi 1er juillet 2004 aux environs de 18h30, d'un incendie qui a
emporté la grande partie de ses installations, notamment dans la principale salle de formation
(salle vidéo), à savoir le mobilier, les équipements informatiques, électroniques et matériels de
vidéoconférence et de connexion Internet. Toutes les activités sont réduites.

Face à cette situation, il serait indiqué de formuler un nouveau projet qui puisse permettre au
Centre de :

1. renforcer les actions déjà engagées et qui suscitent tant d'engouement de la part des



                                                - 53 -

    bénéficiaires;
2. couvrir les besoins de formations identifiées mais non encore assurer en raison de la faiblesse
    de ses moyens;
3. le doter d'un siège approprié et de promouvoir les antennes régionales dans le nouveau
    contexte de la décentralisation;
4. concevoir, et développer des contenus endogènes en vue de la valorisation de la culture
    nationale dans les formations et au niveau de la culture universelle;
5. promouvoir la bonne gouvernance, la transparence et la lutte contre la corruption, la réduction
    de la pauvreté;
6. renforcer les capacités des cadres supérieurs et hauts fonctionnaires ou des gouvernants, des
    institutions para gouvernementales et académiques, de la société civile, des décideurs du
    secteur privé et du personnel dirigeant des PME et PMI, etc.

3.      Les performances de la Banque

3.1     Les facteurs de la performance

3.2     La préparation

La mise en place du Projet d'Appui au Centre d'Education à Distance du Bénin (PACED) est une
initiative du Gouvernement béninois appuyée par la Banque. Celle-ci a accompagné le processus
de préparation et d'exécution du projet et ceci à travers plusieurs missions.

3.3     L'exécution

Pendant la phase d'exécution, plusieurs missions de supervision ont été organisées (en moyenne 2
par an au début du projet) pour appuyer l'équipe du projet. Ces missions ont facilité les
réallocations de fonds du crédit, appui le montage des DRF et des dossiers de passation des
marchés. Cet appui a permis au projet de mobiliser rapidement les fonds du crédit et d'avoir un
taux de consommation d'environ 95%. Les différents chargés de projet n'ont ménagé aucun effort
pour l'aboutissement de ces réallocations.

3.4. Les difficultés

L'absence de formation en passation des marchés au début du projet a eu une influence sur la
qualité des dossiers. Cette situation a été corrigée avec des formations suivies et le recrutement
temporaire d'un spécialiste. Le manque de coordination entre les différentes structures de la
Banque pour le projet d'éducation à Distance (IDA pour le financement, GDLN pour les contenus
de formation, NOC et ISG pour les aspects techniques) n'a pas non plus favorisé le déroulement
normal de certaines activités.

3.5. Les leçons apprises

La mise en place de procédures simples de passation des marchés et de décaissement a permis
d'atteindre largement des objectifs escomptés et d'acquérir tous les équipements nécessaires au



                                                - 54 -

bon fonctionnement du Centre.

La participation des responsables du Centre aux rencontres du GDLN et leur implication dans les
missions de supervision ont permis de mieux organiser les activités, d'assurer une meilleure
coordination des informations.




                                             - 55 -

- 56 -

