Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20097 BEN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 1.33 MILLION(US$1.83 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FORA
DISTANCE LEARNING PROJECT - LIL
February 7, 2000
AFTQK
AFC13
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Francs (CFAF)
CFAF 1.0=US$ 0.0017
US$ $1.00 = CFAF 600
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGETUR                        Agence d'execution des travaux urbains (Urban Works Agency)
CAS                           Country Assistance Strategy
DAMA                          Demand Assigned Multiple Access
CPL                           Currency Pool Loan
DLC                           Distance Learning Center
FY                            Fiscal Year
GDLN                          Global Distance Learning Network
GOB                           Government of Benin
ICB                           International Competitive Bidding
IBRD                          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                           International Development Association
IS                           International Shopping
ISG                           Information Solutions Group
LACI                          Loan Administration Change Initiative
LCS                           Least Cost Selection
LIL                           Learning and Innovation Loan
MOF                           Ministry of Finance and Economy
NCB                           National Competitive Bidding
NEI                           National Economics Institute
NGO(s)                        Nongovernment Organization(s)
NS                            National Shopping
PAD                           Project Appraisal Document
PAR                           Procurement Assessment Review
PIM                           Project Implementation Manual
PPF                           Project Preparation Facility
PR                            Prior Review
QCBS                          Quality and Cost Based Selection
SA                            Special Account
SDR                           Special Drawing Rights
SERHAU-SEM                    Societe d'dtudes regionales d'habitat et d'amenagement urbain (Regional
Habitat and Urban Development Studies Bureau)
SOE(s)                        Statement(s) of Expenditure
VSAT                          Very Small Aperture Terminal
WBI                           World Bank Institute
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:    Theodore Ahlers
Sector Manager/Director:    John Roome
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Hedi Larbi



Benin
DISTANCE LEARNING PROJECT - LIL
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project                      3
4. Learning and innovation expectations                                                4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  5
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        5
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements                                              8
D. Project Rationale
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            8
2. Financial                                                                            8
3. Technical                                                                            8
4. Institutional                                                                       9
5. Social                                                                              9
6. Environmental assessment                                                            9
7. Participatory approach                                                              9
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     10
2. Critical risks                                                                      10
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      11
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            11
2. Other                                                                               11



H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         12
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        13
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         14
Annex 2: Project Description                                                            17
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        20
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                                            22
Annex 4.1: Financial Feasibility Analysis of the Distance Learning Center               25
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              28
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      31
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    37
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  38
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 40
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           42
Annex 11: Technology Annex                                                              44
Annex 11.1: Terms of Reference                                                          46



BENIN
Distance Learning Project - LIL
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
Operational Quality and Knowledge Services (AFTQK)
Date: February 7, 2000                            Team Leader: Hedi Larbi
Country Manager/Director: Theodore 0. Ahlers       Sector Manager/Director: John A. Roome
Project ID: P067329                               Sector(s): EY - Other Education
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s): EDUCATION; PUBLIC SECTOR
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
E Loan          1 Credit        Ol Grant        El Guarantee    0l Other (Specify)
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): $1.83
Proposed Terms: Currency Pool Loan (CPL)
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%                                   Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:    Soure                                     Loc-l         Fovign - 
Governrent                                                      0.00            0.00          0.00
IBRD
IDA                                                             1.12            0.71          1.83
CENTRE D' EDUCATION A DISTANCE                                  0.75            0.43          1.18
Total:                                                          1.86            1.14          3.00
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF BENIN
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF FINANCE/DISTANCE LEARNING CENTER
Address: c/o Institut National d'Economie, Minist&re des Finances et de I'Economie, B.P. 302, Cotonou, Benin
Contact Person: Le Conseiller Technique a l'Economie
Tel: (229) 30-01-34               Fax: (229) 30-18-51                Email: mfcte@leland.bj
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
FY           2000        2 0i1        2 0: 2     2i_           004
Annual      1.2          0.:3        ~0.3         0.0         0.0
Cumulative     1.2           1.5         1.8         1.8         1.8
Project implementation period: 2000-2004 (4 years)
Expected effectiveness date: 04/30/2000  Expected closing date:  04/30/2004
OCS PAD F- Odb er9 1999



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The main objective of the project is to test the viability and sustainability of distance learning as a means of
increasing access to high-quality, up-to-date and cost-effective training for public and private
decision-makers and implementers in order to improve their capacity to design, plan and manage economic
and social development policies. A secondary objective is to establish a center of excellence in the region
for distance learning and exchange of information and experience. The project will accomplish these
objectives by providing access to high-quality training and information on latest advancements through
distance learning using the state-of-the-art communications technology.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Performance indicators will measure progress towards achievement of project objectives, including the
effectiveness of Distance Learning Center (DLC) management. These indicators, which measure the
sustainability and effectiveness of the DLC, and its comparative advantage over other types of training
delivery, include: (a) demand for and utilization of DLC services (both local and regional), (b) relevance
and quality of courses; and (c) ability to cover operating expenses through fees (100% of operating
expenses to be covered by revenue generation by the fourth year of project implementation). Over the long
term, the project is expected to improve the capacity of decision-makers to formulate, implement and
monitor economic policy and sector strategies, which could be measured by the productivity of senior civil
servants, quality of policy formulation and implementation, timeliness of economic and sector strategy
implementation, effectiveness of community organizations and private firms. These latter indicators will be
measured by an annual survey of trainees and those with whom they work and through Bank sectoral
reviews, including Country Portfolio Performance Reviews to get an indication of improvement over time.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1'
Document number: P-6308-BEN                      Date of latest CAS discussion: 06/07/94
A new CAS is under preparation and is expected to be presented to the Board by early calendar year 2000,
after discussion with the new Government. This section refers therefore to those sections of the current
CAS which are still valid.
The main objectives of the current CAS are to encourage private sector supply response and to ensure
adequate provision of basic social services. Secondary objectives are to: (a) reinforce sectoral
administrative/institutional capacity; (b) support the State in its new role as facilitator and promoter of an
appropriate environment for private activity; (c) draw attention to environmental impacts and natural
resource protection; and (d) promote women's participation in economic activities. The proposed operal:ion
directly contributes to objective (a) and would also support objective (b). It would indirectly contribute to
the main objectives of the CAS by improving knowledge and capacity of both the public and private
sectors, enabling them to perform effectively in developing sound policies that are conducive to private
sector development.
-2 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Since the first Structural Adjustment Program in 1989, the Government of Benin has emphasized the
restructuring and improvement of public sector institutions. A number of subsequent macro and sectoral
projects and programs have highlighted and addressed the need to strengthen private, as well as public
sector, institutions. However, institutional strengthening and capacity building activities have been
hampered by a piece-meal approach and lack of access to targeted training and global knowledge and
information. The current professional training system relies on either bringing trainers to Benin, to teach a
course to a limited audience in one ministry or firm, or on sending a limited number of professionals abroad
for training. Some courses that are taught regularly in Benin are outdated or not applicable to the Beninese
context.
The 1993 Economic Management Project identified human resource and institutional deficiencies in
economic concepts linked to development and management of a market economy as a serious impediment to
implementation of the Government's reform program. It responded by establishing a national training
programs in which the National Economics Institute (NEI) has played an important role. Strategies in
other sectors, such as education, urban development and transport, among others, have also focused on the
need to improve the policy design, planning and management capacity of Government officials as a means
of effectively reforming the respective sectors. The Government is also focusing on partnerships with the
private sector and civil society in an attempt to rationalize its function. Although private firms and
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) are functioning fairly well on a limited scale, they could become
more effective partners to Government with adequate training, exposure to modern methods of planning,
finance and management and access to broad-based knowledge and information from institutions renowned
in relevant fields.
3. Learning and Development issues to be addressed by the project:
The project will help the Government benefit from the experience of distance learning and develop a
broader program to improve the cost effectiveness of professional and continuing education through the use
of modern technologies, as a key element in its capacity-building strategy. The project addresses capacity
building in an integrated way by providing access for Government officials, and private sector and
community leaders to the latest and most relevant training, global knowledge and experience in priority
areas of modern economics, finance and management of development. A larger number and greater variety
of managers and staff will be able to be trained through distance learning, and will be able to apply what
they have learned immediately, increasing the impact of policy reforms on economic growth and social
development. The project will also open new opportunities to local managers, civil society and the
education community by facilitating access to up-to-date information as well as interaction with
international experts in economic development and market-economy management.
The project is designed as a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) to test the sustainability of distance
learning in the Beninese context. It will assess the viability of cost-recovery mechanisms in higher
education and the willingness of donors to invest training budgets in this new mode of training delivery. It
will test the effectiveness of distance learning as a tool to deliver high-quality and cost-effective training
and its impact on policy reform and implementation. Finally, the project will help define appropriate
arrangements for productive cooperation between the public and private sectors in the training and
retraining of professionals. As many parameters cannot be known at the outset (demand, acceptance and
effectiveness of distance learning), the LIL approach will allow these variables to be tested and corrections
to be made during project implementation.
-3 -



The project fits within and benefits from the World Bank's Global Distance Learning Network (GDLN).
The World Bank Institute (WBI) and the Information Solutions Group (ISG) have developed distance
learning courses and the technologies by which these courses can be disseminated. The proposed project is
one of 10 pilots to develop distance learning capacities in Africa and Latin Arnerica. As such, it takes
advantage of product development, knowledge of technological choices and bulk procurement offered by
the GDLN to facilitate project start-up and provide needed support throughout implementation. Due to the
time constraints imposed by the bulk procurement for all pilot centers, project preparation is fast-tracked.
For this reason, certain project components are being implemented during preparation, with financing
through a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance.
The project builds on the following lessons learned from existing professional training systems in Benin,
including the African Virtual University: (a) in-country training is more cost-effective; (b) training
technology should be flexible to respond to country context, and supply and demand for training; (c)
long-term business plan for training center should be developed sooner rather than later; (d) sustainability
of distance learning center must be built from the beginning through targeted marketing; (e) a pipeline of
relevant course content must be developed well in advance to respond quickly to demand and facilitate
marketing.
4. Learning and innovation expectations:
1 Economic    Z Technical   ED Social          E Participation
Z Financial     1 Institutional  DG Environmental O Other
Economic: The economic viability of distance learning is to be established. Cost-effectiveness analysis
undertaken during project preparation showed that distance learning costs per day and per trainee were two
to four times lower than the current system (see Annex 4). The project is expected to demonstrate an
economically viable method of delivering relevant training to replace either training missions or import o:f
trainers. By its fourth year of implementation, if DLC utilization reaches 60% of its capacity, the project
will enable a larger number of trainees will have access to high-quality and cost-effective training in a
wider variety of fields, thereby satisfying higher demand at a lower cost.
Financial: The appropriate mechanisms to ensure financial viability of distance learning are to be defined.
Financial viability hinges on market development and cost recovery. IDA project funds will finance a
decreasing share of DLC operating costs during the first three years of implementation to allow for gradual
market development and changes in training practices and financing. The DLC is expected to be
financially self-sustaining by its fourth year of operation.
Technical: Distance learning equipment needs to be operated and maintained adequately. The same
technology, installed in the Bank's Resident Mission in Benin, generally functions well, but with some
disruptions in service mainly due to power grid failure. Appropriate training for Information Technology
staff will be provided under the supervision of Bank Information Systems Group staff to ensure proper
equipment operation and maintenance. A stand-by generator will be installed to protect against power
failures. The technology was chosen in part for compatibility with the Bank GDLN to fully benefit frorn
the expertise and capacity gained through development of this network (technical capacity of ISG and
training capacity of WBI). Future equipment upgrading and replacement would, to the extent possible,
seek compatibility with domestic and Bank communication systems.
Institutional: The Distance Learning Center will be an autonomous entity run on a commercial basis.
Arrangements will be sought for close partnership with the public and private sector, the donor and global
education communities, as well as civil society. The DLC is expected to strengthen Beninese public,
private and community organizations by providing wider access to a greater range of training for the
- 4 -



leaders and staff of these organizations. If successful, the Distance Learning Center could become a
regional center of excellence for training, providing training to professionals in neighboring countries.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project comprises two main components: (i) retrofitting and equipment of the Distance Learning
Center; and (ii) support for DLC establishment and operation.
Component 1 consists of upgrading facilities made available by the National Economics Institute for
establishment of the DLC to provide a videoconference room with a 30-person capacity, a computer room
outfitted for 30 computer stations (hardware, software and internet hook-up), a technical and administrative
center, and installation and/or upgrading of electrical and telephone wiring. It also comprises equipment of
the DLC including purchase and installation of a Very Small Aperture Terminal (VSAT) (satellite
communication terminal), video, telecommunications and microprocessor equipment, office and classroom
furniture and various other equipment for DLC operation and security
Component 2 aims to assist the DLC begin operation and become financially viable. It includes: (a)
financing of DLC operation costs on a decreasing basis over the first 3 years of operation; (b) purchase of
a vehicle to facilitate transport and marketing of DLC services; and (c) technical assistance for the training
of Center staff, periodic evaluation of Center operation and management effectiveness and establishment of
financial accounts and their annual audit.
; inicatie             B^lnk-     1% of
Component                   Setor         Costs      % of    financing   Sak-
___________________     (U$$M)  TOt   (tS$M) -   .
1. DLC Retrofitting and Equipment  Other Education      0.91       30.3      0.91      49.7
a. Civil Works
b. Network access equipment
c. Videoconferencing equipment
d. Office furniture/equipment
e. Other equipment
2. Support for DLC Establishment and  Institutional     2.09       69.7      0.92       50.3
Operation                          Development
a. Consultant services/training
b. Operating costs
Total Project Costs                     3.00      100.0      1.83      100.0
Total Financing Required                     3.00      100.0       1.83     100.0
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
LIL Implementation Period: 2000-2004 (four years).
Implementing Agency: The project will be implemented by the Benin Distance Learning Center, which has
been established as an autonomous nonprofit agency, housed in the National Economics Institute. It is
considered a "public interest" organization in recognition of its role in promoting advances in policy,
- 5-



culture and technology among a wide range of actors.
The DLC is governed by a Executive Board, comprising representatives of the Ministries of Planning,
Finance, Education and Extemal Relations, Beninese academic institutions, the private sector and civil
society (cultural associations, the media, etc. and chaired by an official elected from among the members.
Daily management of the Center is entrusted to its Director selected on the basis of proven experience in
enterprise management, including management of similar educational entities. The Director will be assisted
by a team consisting of a technician (computer specialist with telecommunications knowledge), a
facilitator/ trainer, an experienced accountant and an office assistant.
Project Oversight and Coordination: The Ministry of Finance and Economy will be responsible for
project coordination and ensuring the participation of the public and private sectors and donor community
in project monitoring and training development activities (through the DLC Executive Board).
The DLC Executive Board will oversee project implementation. The Executive Board is charged with
monitoring DLC management and deciding DLC development policy, approving the annual business plan
and program of activities, assessing the Center's financial statements and providing recommendations to
help the Center become financially self-sustaining.
Project Implementation: The project will be implemented and managed by the DLC. So that distance
learning activities can begin as soon as possible after project effectiveness, project preparation included
establishment of the DLC (legal procedures, formation of the DLC Executive Board, recruitment of
Director and main staff) and preparation and equipment of the site (classrooms, videoconference room,
computer room, administrative offices, etc.). Project preparation activities were handled by the Ministry of
Finance and Economy with the assistance of AGETUR, for works and equipment, and SERHAU-SEM fer
institutional aspects and studies. These activities were financed through a Project Preparation Facility
advance. In addition, the Bank, through its Information Solutions Group (ISG), provided assistance and
expertise to procure, install and test videoconferencing equipment.
Upon taking office, the Director will prepare a business plan based on a survey of training requests from
the public and private sectors. The business plan, to be submitted for DLC Executive Board and IDA
review and approval, will include: market data, budget and sources of financing, training and other services
to be provided (lectures, seminars, other), source and programming of training, pricing policy for different
types of training and financial projections in the form of a budget, operating account and marketing
strategy. The business plan will be updated and submitted for IDA and DLC Executive Board review and
approval on an annual basis. To this effect, the implementing agency will continue to assess demand for
training, identify and program appropriate training courses, market the services of the Center and increase
its visibility in Benin and abroad.
-6 -



Project Financing: To facilitate project implementation, a special account will be established by the
Borrower in the name of the DLC of Benin in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA. The DLC will operate this special account.
As noted above, the IDA credit financed DLC retrofitting and equipment and consultant services and
training related to DLC start-up through a PPF advance. Over the project implementation period, the IDA
Credit will also finance, on a decreasing basis, DLC operating expenditures, including staff training and
required studies and audits. As the market for its services develops, the DLC is to mobilize an increasing
share of financing for its operating expenses, to achieve self-sufficiency within the project implementation
period. It is expected that the DLC will cover 22% of operating expenses in the first year, 41% in the
second year, 66% in the third year, and be completely self-financing in the fourth year of project
implementation. Thereafter, DLC should operate and renew its equipment through self-generated revenues;
this will be determined during the fifth year of project implementation.
Financial Management and Reporting: As the implementing agency for this project, the DLC, is a new
entity, the project will begin with traditional financial management and disbursement arrangements through
a Special Account and Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). As noted below, the DLC will produce
quarterly activity reports. After one year of project implementation, the financial management system and
reporting system will be assessed for compatibility with the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI);
the appropriate changes will be made to the systems to make them LACI compliant, including reworking
the quarterly reports into Project Management Reports (PMRs). It should be noted that the project is
expected to disburse approximately two-thirds of IDA funding in the first few months of implementation,
so that IDA funds remaining over the life of the project will be small.
Procurement: Procurement arrangements are detailed in Annex 6. Goods financed by the IDA credit will
be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits published in January 1995 and revised in January andAugust 1996, September 1997 and
January 1999. Consultant services financed by the IDA credit will be procured in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers published in
January 1987 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999. Procurement under the PPF Advance
includes the following arrangements: consultant services for project preparation comprise contract
management by AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM, legal assistance and documentation to establish the DLC
and supervision of works. Contracts for these services, costing US$25,000 or less each, were awarded on
a sole-source basis as they require specialized consultants and quick intervention to establish the Center. To
expedite DLC retrofitting, civil works contracts were procured through a short-list of selected contractors
using proposed Bank-approved bidding documents. These works were carried out by local contractors. On
behalf of the Borrower, the Bank (ISG) procured network access equipment for the videoconference room,
and computers and computer-related communications equipment on a sole-source basis to ensure
compatibility with the Global Distance Learning Network (an agreement to this effect was signed by the
Government of Benin and IDA). Residual equipment (televisions, scanners, VCRs, generator, UPS,
telephone sets, furniture) was procured by AGETUR using national and international shopping, according
to availability on the local market. Procurement under the IDA credit will be done according to the
following arrangements: the satellite bandwidth rental contract will be procured on a sole-source basis (one
supplier selected under the Bank umbrella). Small quantities of office supplies and goods (e.g. a vehicle)
for Center operation estimated at US$20,000 or less per contract will be procured through National
Shopping (NS), in accordance with Bank procedures. Recruitment of consulting firms for design of a
financial management system and annual financial audit of the DLC will be carried out under the Least
Cost Selection method (LCS) in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Recruitment of individual consultants
for tasks that do not require multidisciplinary team and that are limited in scope will be procured on the
- 7 -



basis of consultant qualifications and experience in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
The Director will submit an initial business plan (specified above) for DLC Executive Board and IDA
review and approval. An annual business plan will be developed and submitted by November 1 of each
subsequent year to the DLC Executive Board for review and approval and to IDA for review. The
financial component of the business plan will detail operating expense financing, to specify, among other
things, loan fund proceeds and the capital mobilized by the DLC itself. This should accord with the project
financing plan specified above.
The DLC will submit a quarterly activity report to the DLC Executive Board and IDA within 30 days of
the end of each quarter. The quarterly report will provide complete information on DLC operations and
progress made in implementing the business plan. The report will also highlight any problems encountered
and include updated performance indicators on DLC operations.
D. Project Rationale
[This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD. Rationale should be implicit in paragraph B: 3.]
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR= %
i Cost effectiveness
o Other (specify)
The cost-effectiveness analysis consists of comparing the cost of delivering training through the proposed
DLC to the current training and course delivery system for the "target market" (high-level govermnent
officials and private sector and community leaders). At a capacity utilization rate of 60%, the average DLC
training delivery cost (the break-even cost) is expected to be around US$114/student-day for courses of at
least 10 days, as compared to the US$296/student-day average currently paid for similar training.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):    NPV=US$ million; FRR= %
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
The DLC is expected to attain financial sustainability by its fourth year of operation, by generating enough
revenue, through user fees, to fully cover operating costs without amortization. Financial simulations
determined that the financial break-even point will be achieved when the average utilization rate of installed
equipment capacity reaches 60%. This corresponds to about 5000 person-days of training per year,
meaning that 28% of high-level officials in Benin take five days of training per year. For the first 3 years,
DLC revenue is expected to cover 22%, 41% and 66% of operating costs for each successive year. An
adequate pricing policy will be designed to allow for gradual cost recovery and attract more clients for
DLC services.
3. Technical:
[For LIL, enter data if applicable or 'Not Applicable']
Although the technology involved is quite advanced, the project will provide DLC technical support staff
with intensive training in operation and daily maintenance. World Bank information technology staff in the
Benin Resident Mission, experienced with this and similar technology, will also be available to provide
- 8 -



support. Equipment maintenance will be contracted out to qualified firms in Benin or representatives of the
equipment suppliers.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The DLC was established during project preparation as an autonomous nonprofit agency, governed by an
Executive Board made up of a broad stakeholder representation. Project preparation activities will ensure
that the DLC is established and operational by project effectiveness. The project will gradually scale up
the activities of the DLC to allow it time to increase its capacity and develop its market. In addition, project
component 2 is dedicated to providing assistance to the DLC to ensure that it can handle its functions
adequately.
b. Project management:
See above.
5. Social:
Not applicable
6. Environmental assessment:               Environment Category: C
The project will have no environmental impact.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The DLC Executive Board comprises representatives of the public and private sectors, education and
vocational training communities, civil society and donors interested in supporting this initiative. The
Executive Board was designated through a consultative process as part of DLC establishment during
project preparation. The Executive Board will give guidance on DLC marketing and development policy,
oversee implementation of its business plan and ensure that training activities and curricula are consistent
with the country priority.
Primary beneficiaries will be senior civil servants, private sector managers, the education community
(especially those providing education to ministries), NGOs and community groups and the media. Training
courses will be designed with the active participation of beneficiaries through annual market research
conducted by the DLC Director. Trainees from the public and private sectors and civil society will benefit
from access to a wider selection and higher quality of cost-effective training than is currently available.
Educators will benefit from being able to present courses to a larger audience and to learn from their
trainees about the Beninese experience and context.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Other stakeholders include institutions and individuals currently providing training to the target group.
This includes institutes in Benin, institutes outside of Benin and individual trainers. Many of the
institutions involved (such as the African Virtual University, the University of Benin, etc. have been
consulted to ensure that there is no duplication of efforts and to coordinate actions. Many of these
institutions (especially those abroad) will be providing training through the Center. They will be consulted
by DLC management team to determine course content and scheduling to accommodate expressed demand.
- 9-



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This section is not to be completed in LIL PAD.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating           Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
DLC does not generate sufficient revenues   M         Government commitment to use and pay :for
to cover costs                                        30% of DLC capacity over the first 3 years
(provision in Development Credit Agreement).
Availability of resources for training      S         Resources built into the Government budget and
donor-financed project
Availability of Global Distance Learning    M         World Bank Institute (WBI) courses, at least,
Network training courses and relevance to             will be provided; market study will fine tune the
local needs, particularly courses offered in          supply of training from other institutions to give
French                                                the broadest range of courses; WBI has a set of
courses in French; DLC director to identify
francophone distance learning courses during
first year of implementation
NEI interference and abuse of DLC           S         DLC will enter into an agreement
facilities                                            (Memorandum of Understanding) with the NEI
to clearly define the circumstances and manner
in which NEI may use DLC facilities.
Reliable management of satellite            M         Bank will assure initial management and will
equipment                                             assist DLC in selecting a reliable and
cost-effective satellite manager.
From Components to Outputs
Reliability of the technology               M         The DLC will be under the Bank's technology
umbrella
Appropriate equipment operation and         M         The project will provide intensive training for
maintenance                                           technical staff; maintenance will be contracted
out to a qualified contractor
Management team capacity                    M         A competitively selected, highly-qualifiecl and
business oriented manager, with a proven track
record, will be hired, and assisted by qualified
team and Executive Board.
Other institutions' cooperation and         S         Other institutions will participate in the DLC
willingness to pay (private sector, donors,           Executive Board; marketing campaigns will be
etc.                                                  carried out by the management team.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 10-



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Other training institutions (both domestic and foreign) may oppose the competition, particularly given the
high degree of technology and cost effectiveness of the training. During project preparation, the University
of Benin has been consulted and supports the project. If competition does occur, it will stimulate the DLC
management team as well as competitors to provide better service to consumers. The Bank role has a large
and proactive role in project preparation and implementation, but this is justified by its experience and
contacts in Global Distance Learning, the economies of scale resulting from bulk procurement of distance
learning equipment and its knowledge of latest technologies. The Bank is providing this assistance at no
cost to the Borrower.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   Memorandum of understanding signed between the Distance Learning Center and the National
Economics Institute specifying the relation between the institutions and the terms for use of DLC
facilities by the NEI community.
*   DLC Director and key personnel (technician, facilitator and financial officer) with skills and experience
satisfactory to IDA, hired.
* Project Implementation Manual adopted by the Center's Executive Board.
* Account management system operational
*   DLC first-year business plan submitted for IDA review before its adoption by the Center's Executive
Board. The plan is to be prepared by the Director upon his recruitment and is to include: management
and development policy for the Center, course programming, video-seminars and other services to be
provided, identified real training demand , the Center's pricing policy, willingness and ability to pay for
training by identified clients, provisional budget and financial statement for the first year.
* Auditor, with appropriate skills and experience, hired in a manner satisfactory to IDA.
* Signed Subsidiary Agreement between the Ministry of Finance and the Distance Learning Center
executed by the two parties.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
*   Annual DLC business plan (program of activities, annual budget and provisional accounts, including
replacement/rehabilitation expenses) submitted for IDA review 2 months before the beginning of each
fiscal year, and adopted by the DLC Executive Board by December 15 of the current year.
* DLC retains a Director with qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA.
* DLC retains staff with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA.
*   Commitment by the DLC to use its net cash flow to renew Center equipment that has become obsolete
or that needs reconfiguration/updating.
- 11 -



*   Annual commitment by the Govermnent to utilize at least 30% of DLC capacity over the first three
years for the training of public sector staff (funding to pay for such services could come from each
ministry's training budget or from projects which include activities to build the management and
planning capacities of government officials).
*   Commitment by the Center to reserve at least 30% of space in its training courses for public sector
staff.
Financial:
*   Commitment by the DLC to cover at least 22%, 41 % and 66% respectively of operating expenses
(excluding depreciation) for the first 3 years of the project from Center revenues, sufficient to ensure
that the Center will break even by its fourth year of operation. Any revenues over these minimum
percentages will be matched by a reduction in IDA funding for DLC operating expenditures.
Auditing:
*   DLC Quarterly Activity Report submitted to the DLC Executive Board and IDA within a month of the
end of each quarter.
*   DLC Management Evaluation Report submitted to the DLC Executive Board and IDA within 3 months
of the end of each fiscal year.
3   Financial Audit Report of the Center's accounts submitted to the DLC Executive Board and IDA
within 6 months of the end of each fiscal year.
H. Readiness for Implementation
Z 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
C 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LIL
1 3. The LIL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
D 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 12 -



I. Compliance with Bank Policies
0 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommnended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Hedi Larbi                       John A,                           Theodore 0. Ahlers
Team Leader                      Sector M nager/Director            Country Manager/Director
-13-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BENIN: Distance Learning Project - LIL
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Improve the performance of  Productivity of senior civil   Specific surveys to be  Access to knowledge and
private and public sector  servants                  conducted every year      information is transformed
professionals                                                                  into better policies and
Quality of policy formulation                        improved performance by
and implementation                                   public, private and community
actors which
Timeliness of economic and                           has a positive impaci on
sector strategy implementation                       poverty alleviation
Effectiveness of community
organizations and private
firms
Follow-on Development
Objective
Mainstream the use of       * Number of public and   DLC Annual Report         Adequate supply, quality and
distance learning as an        private professionals                           relevance of training courses.
ongoing tool to increase      trained (Yr 1: 800                               Absorptive capacity of
access of public and private   person-days of training;                        trainees.
sector professionals to global  Yr 2: 1475 person-days
innovations and information    of training; Yr 3: 2360
person-days of training;
Yr. 4: 3465 person-days
of training)
*  Number and variety of
organizations using
DLC (All ministries and
30% of big and medium
organizations by project
end)
- 14 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicatom           Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Test the viability and      * Training cost less than  DLC Annual Report       Trainee organization
sustainability of distance     $11 0/student/day by    Annual audit report of the    willingness and ability to pay.
learning as a means of         project end.         Center.                    Acceptability of distance
increasing access to        *  Distance learning                               learning to public, private and
high-quality, up-to-date and   facility utilization rate                       community trainees.
cost-effective triigfor        (45% by end of year 3;                          Regular availability of
publiffctietraining            60% by end of year 4)                           relevant courses and
public and private          * DLC operating                                    convenience of scheduling for
decision-makers and            cost/income ratio (1.0 at                       trainees, particularly course
implementers to increase       year 4)                                         offerings in French.
their capacity to design,
plan and manage economic
and social development
policies.
* Number of providers of                           DLC Director and team to
GDLN courses (increase                          identify and refine course
by 5 per year)                                  offerings annually on the basis
of requests and feedback of
trainees.
*  Quality and relevance of Annual survey          Reliable satellite equipment
courses offered by DLC                          management
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Distance learning facilities  * Distance learning  DLC Annual Report        Government willing to
extensively used to train      facility utilization rate                       contract out continuing
decision makers, private sector  (45% by end of year 3;                        education.
managers and community         60% by end of year 4)
leaders                     * Number and variety of                            Technology works reliably and
organizations using                             is accepted by trainees.
DLC
* Number of public and                             Relevance of GDLN training
private professionals                           to country demand.
trained
2. Viable cost recovery plan    * DLC self-financing:    Annual audit report of the    Willingness and ability to pay
in place and operational       20% in year 1, 41% in  Center                   by trainee organizations
year 2, 66% in year 3
and 100% in year 4
- 15-



Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
1. DLC Retrofitting and   US$909,385                 Quarterly Reports          Donors willing to allocate part
Equipment                                                                       of training budgets to project
2. Support to DLC Start-up   US$2,094,047                                       Management team is business
and Operation                                                                   oriented.
Course content relevant to
local needs.
Participating institutions
willing to cover part of
training costs.
Private sector willing to
cooperate.
-16 -



Annex 2: Project Description
BENIN: Distance Learning Project - LIL
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$0.91 million
Distance Learning Center Retrofitting: This component comprises:
(a) upgrading facilities made available by the National Economics Institute for establishment of the DLC,
including:
(i) a videoconference room with a 30-person capacity;
(ii) a computer room outfitted for 30 computer stations (hardware, software and internet hook-up);
(iii) mechanical outfitting such as installation and/or upgrading of electrical and telephone wiring;
and
(iv) related technical and administrative offices for DLC staff.
(b) equipment of the DLC including
(i) a Very Small Aperture Terminal (VSAT) (satellite communication terminal);
(ii) video, telecommunications and microprocessor equipment (including computer stations);
(iii) office and classroom furniture; and
(iv) various other equipment for DLC operation and security
Project Component 2 - US$2.09 million
Support for DLC Operation: This component aims to assist the DLC begin operation and become
financially viable. It includes:
(a) financing of DLC operation costs on a decreasing basis over the first 3 years of operation
(b) purchase of vehicles to facilitate transport and marketing of DLC services
(c) technical assistance for the training of Center staff, periodic evaluation of Center operation and
management effectiveness and establishment of financial accounts and their annual audit.
Project Implementation Framework
Implementing Agency: The project will be implemented by the Distance Learning Center, established as
an autonomous nonprofit agency, housed in the National Economics Institute. It is considered a "public
interest" organization in recognition of its role in promoting advances in higher education, high-level
training, policy, culture and technology among a wide range of actors.
The DLC is governed by an Executive Board, comprising representatives of the Ministries of Planning,
Finance, Education and External Relations, Beninese academic institutions, the private sector and civil
society (cultural associations, the media, etc. and chaired by an official elected from among the members.
Daily management of the Center is entrusted to its Director selected on the basis of proven experience in
enterprise management including management of similar educational entities. The Director will be assisted
by a team consisting of a training coordinator and a technician. The Director will have overall
responsibility for administering, managing and operating the DLC so that it evolves into a self-sustaining
center within four (4) years. This individual will also be responsible for providing leadership within the
Center and in the community for distance learning and act as an agent for change. The training coordinator
will be responsible for the management of all training events and activities that happen in the Center. This
primarily involves learner support and the facilitation of courses and seminars. The technician will be
responsible for the efficient operation, maintenance and trouble-shooting of all DLC equipment. Terms of
- 17 -



reference for these positions are given in Annex 11.1.
Parallel arrangements have been made by WBI with the assistance of Dutch and Swedish Trust Funds for
the training of the DLC Manager and Training Coordinator. Provision has been made for an intensive
management training course in New Delhi, India starting from February 28 - March 10, 2000 at the Indian
Institute of Technology, in collaboration with the Indira Gandhi National Open University. During the
course, participants from Benin will interact with other DLC colleagues from Asia, Africa and Latin
America. They will be exposed to the pedagogical process within the DLCs and to practical aspects of
management and entrepreneurship. The training material used in the course will be converted by WBI into
distance learning format for subsequent use by Benin and other participating countries.
The DLC staff in Benin will also benefit from four courses that have already been prepared by WBI in the
distance learning mode: Orientation to Distance Learning; Distance Learning concepts and the GDLN for
course developers; Use of Lotus Learning Space; and Planning and Facilitating Effective
Videoconferencing. In addition, DLC staff will receive training in World Bank procurement guidelines.
Project Oversight and Coordination: The Ministry of Finance and Economy will be responsible for
project coordination and ensuring the participation of the public and private sectors and donor community
in project monitoring and training development activities (through the DLC Executive Board).
The DLC Executive Board will oversee project implementation. The Executive Board is charged with
monitoring DLC management and deciding DLC development policy, approving the annual business plan
and program of activities, assessing the Center's financial statements and providing recommendations to
help the Center improve its services and become financially self-sustaining.
Project Implementation: The project will be implemented and managed by the DLC. So that distance
learning activities can begin as soon as possible after project effectiveness, project preparation included
establishment of the DLC (legal procedures, formation of the DLC Executive Board, recruitment of
Director and staff) and preparation and equipment of the site (classrooms, videoconference room, computer
room, administrative offices, etc. Project preparation activities were handled by the Ministry of Finance
and Economy with the assistance of AGETUJR, for works and equipment, and SERHAU-SEM for
institutional aspects and DLC's management system. These activities were funded through a Project
Preparation Facility advance. In addition, the Bank, through its Information Solutions Group, provided
assistance and expertise to procure, install and test videoconferencing equipment.
Upon taking office, the Director will prepare a business plan based on a survey of training requests from
the public and private sectors. The business plan, to be submitted for DLC Executive Board and IDA
review and approval, will include: market data, budget and sources of financing, training and other services
to be provided (lectures, seminars, other), source and programming of training, pricing policy for different
types of training and financial projections in the form of a budget, operating account and marketing
strategy. The business plan will be updated and submitted for IDA and DLC Executive Board review and
approval on an annual basis. To this effect, the implementing agency will continue to assess demand for
training, identify and program appropriate training courses, market the services of the Center and increase
its visibility in Benin and abroad.
For the first year of project implementation, most training courses will be selected from those offered by the-
World Bank Institute through its Global Distance Learning Network. However, over the first year, the
DLC management team will identify and establish contacts with a variety of other training institutions
capable of providing training over the GDLN. Over subsequent years, the DLC will match demand for
- 18 -



training to the most appropriate supplier institution, both in terms of course content and schedule
availability.
Project Financing: To facilitate project implementation, a special account will be established by the
Borrower in the name of the DLC of Benin in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA. The DLC will operate this special account.
The IDA credit financed DLC retrofitting and equipment and consultant services and training related to
DLC start-up through a PPF advance. Over the project implementation period, the IDA Credit will also
finance, on a decreasing basis, DLC operating expenditures, including staff training and required studies
and audits. As the market for its services develops, the DLC is to mobilize an increasing share of financing
for its operating expenses, to achieve self-sufficiency within the project implementation period. It is
expected that the DLC will cover 22% of operating expenses in the first year, 41% in the second year, 66%
in the third year, and be completely self-financing in the fourth year of project implementation. Thereafter,
DLC should operate and renew its equipment through self-generated revenues; this will be determined
during the final year of project implementation.
Financial Management and Reporting: As the implementing agency for this project, the DLC, is a new
entity, the project will begin with traditional financial management and disbursement arrangements through
a Special Account and SOEs. As noted below, the DLC will produce quarterly activity reports. After one
year of project implementation, the financial management system and reporting system will be assessed for
compatibility with the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI); the appropriate changes will be
made to the systems to make them LACI compliant, including reworking the quarterly reports into Project
Management Reports (PMRs). It should be noted that the project is expected to disburse approximately
two-thirds of IDA funding in the first few months of implementation, so that IDA funds remaining over the
life of the project will be small.
Monitoring and Reporting Arrangements: The Director will submit an initial business plan (specified
above) for DLC Executive Board and IDA review and approval. An annual business plan will be
developed and submitted by November I of each subsequent year to the DLC Executive Board for review
and approval and to IDA for review. The financial component of the business plan will detail operating
expense financing, to specify, among other things, loan fund proceeds and the capital mobilized by the
DLC itself. This should accord with the project financing plan specified above.
The DLC will submit a quarterly activity report to the DLC Executive Board within 30 days of the end of
each quarter. At the end of its fiscal year, but no longer than six months after its completion, the borrower
and DLC will present to IDA financial audit reports of: (i) the Special Account as well a special opinion
on the SOEs; and (ii) DLC accounts and financial statements.
DLC will maintain separate accounting records for the project components that it manages directly and for
its own operations. The accounting and financial reporting arrangements are detailed in Annex 6.
- 19 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BENIN: Distance Learning Project - LIL
Detailed Costs - US $ (net of taxes)
(Figures in parenthesis represent IDA Credit)
PROJECr COMP(NENMS                                                       US $
Local               Foreign             ITWAL
1. CIVIL WORKS
Civil Reconstruction                   14 700 (14 700)      27 300 (27 300)      42 000 (42 000)
Other Refitting                        26 250 (26250)       48 750 (48 750)      75 000 (75 000)
Subtotal Component Base Cost                  40 950 (40 950)      76 050 (76 050)     117 000 (117 000)
Price Contingencies                                0 -                  0 -                 0
Physical Contingencies                         4 095 (4 095)        7 605 (7 605)       11 700 (11 700)
Subtotal Component Cost                       45 045 (45 045)      83 655 (83 655)     128 700 (128 700)
2. GOODS
a) Network access and Video conference equipment
CommonEquipmentfora]l Sites            25205 (25205)         2801 (2801)         28005 (28005)
Remote Baseband Equipment per Site     32 842 (32 842)       3 649 (3 649)      36 491 (36 491)
RemoteRFEquipmentperSite               41 130 (41 130)       4570 (4570)         45700 (45700)
Shipping and Installation of Network
Access Equipment                            0 -                  0 -                 0 -
VideoEquipment                         68 166 (68 166)       7574 (7574)         75740 (75740)
T.120Application 1Kt                   10 800 ( 10 800)      1 200 (I 200)       12 000 (12 000)
Audio Equipment                        15 639 ( 15 639)      1 738 (1 738)       17 377 (17 377)
Audio Response Equipment               10 710 (10 710)       1 190 ( I 190)      11 900 (11900)
LANEquipment                           58 500 (58 500)       6 500 (6 500)      65 000 (65 000)
IVReceive only                         13 500 (13 500)       1 500 ( 1 500)      15 000 (15 000)
Shipping and Istallation of International
Equipment for DLC Studios              45 000 (45 000)       5 000 (5 000)       50000 (50000)
b) Office furniture and other equipment
PCsandRelatedEquipment                 23775 (23775)        71 325 (71 325)      95100 (95100)
Office Furniture                       13 000 ( 13 000)     39 000 ( 39 000)     52 000 (52 000)
UPS and Generator                      93 925 (93 925)      16 575 ( 16 575)    110 500 (110500)
Other Electrical/Electronic equipment  51 935 (51 935)       9 165 (9 165)       61 100 (61100)
Car                                    22100 (22100)         3900 (3900)         26000 (26000)
VideoandTVEquipment                     6630 (6630)          1 170 ( 1 170)       7800 (7800)
Subtotal Component Base Cost:                532 857 (532 857)    176 856 ( 176 856)    709 713 (709 713)
Price Contingencies                                0 -                  0-                  0-
Physical Contingencies                        53 286 (53 286)      17 686 (17 686)      70971 (70971)
Subtotal Component Cost                      586 142 (586 142)    194 542 (194 542)    780 684 (780 684)
- 20 -



36C3UKLTAN1 SERVISANDTRAlG
Legal studies                          7500 (7 500S)       22 500 (22 500)     30000 (30 000)
Supervision of works                   8000 (8 000)        24000 (24000)       32000 (32 000)
TrainingforDLC Staff                  45 000 (45 000)      5 000 (5 000)       50000 ( 50 000)
Aulits                                11250 ( 11250)      33 750 (33 750)     45000 (45000)
AssessmentofDLC                       12500 (12500)       37500 (37500)       50000 (50000)
Subtotal ComponentBase Cost                  84250 (84 250)      122750 (122 750)   207000 (207 000)
Price Contingencies                              0 -                  0 -                 0-
Pbysical Contingencies                        8425 (8 425)        12275 (12275)       20700 (20 700)
Subtoa1ComponentCoSt                         92675 (92675)       135025 1 135025)   227700 (227700)
4OPERAIG(fr
a) Satellite bandwidtih rent              693 480 (235 950)         0 -           693 480 (235 950)
b) Operating expenditure
Personnel                             45000 ( 16300       405000 (146704)    450000 (163005)
Maintenance                          273 520 (93 063)     182 347 (62 042)    455867 (155 105)
Utilities                             46200 ( 16511)       30800 H1 107)       77000 (27S18)
Variable Operating Cost               75 000 (25 518)      50000 (17 012)    125000 (42 530)
SubtotalComponentBaseCost                  1 133200  387 3-43)    668 147 (236 766)  1801347 (624 1)8)
Price Contingencies                              0-                   0 -                 0-
Physical Contingencies                           0          0         0         0         0-
SUbtD_ ComponentCost                       1133200  387343)    668147 (236766)  1801347 (624 108)
5. NIANAGFEAN FEES
a)AGET7URnmmgemt fees                       3000 (3t000)       27000 (27000)       30000 (30000)
b)SERHAU  mamnent fees                      3500 (3500)        31 500 {SI 5(X))    35000 (35000)
Subtotal ComponentBase Cost                   6 500 (65(X)        58 500 (58 500)     65000 (65000)
Price Contingencies                              0 -                  0-                  0-
Physical Contingencies                           0          0         0         0         0-
SubtDtal Component Cost                       6 500 (6 500)       58 500 (58 50)      65000 (65 000)
T'OTALBAECOST                                1 797757 (1 05i 899)  1 102303 t670 922)  2900060 (1 722821)
1rALPRICE1Oj          NIES                         0 -                  0 -                 0 -
TOTAL nI1YSCALa 1rLTU4Tf1S                     65 806 (658 86)     37 566 (37 566)    103371 (103 371)
TUFALPROJECrOST                              1 863 563 (I 11 7705)   1 139 869 (708 487)  3 003 431 (1 826 193)
- 21 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
BENIN: Distance Learning Project - LIL
1.     The cost effectiveness analysis is based on comparing the cost of delivering training
courses through the Global Distance Learning Network (GDLN) with the current training and
course delivery practice in its "target market". Currently, there are four main methods of in-service
training of professionals: (a) international training, i.e. outside Africa, (b) regional training, i.e. in
another African country, (c) local training by local trainers, and (d) local training by international
trainers.
2.     Main Assumptions. In the absence of reliable and comprehensive data on the training
market in Benin, preliminary data gathered in the field make it possible to estimate the following
distribution of in-service training of professionals (mainly public sector employees who were
trained in 1997-1998): 45% of professionals are trained internationally, 15% are trained regionally,
20% are trained locally by local staff, and 20% are trained locally by international staff.
3.     Capacity: By design, the Benin distance learning facility will have a capacity of 30 seats
each for the conference and computer rooms. The Center may operate over 260 working days per
year. In the long run (by year 5), capacity utilization is estimated to be around 60%,
corresponding to a production level of 4680 student-days. For the first four years, a steady annual
increase of the capacity utilization rate is projected as follows: 10%, 19%, 30% and 44%
respectively for each successive year.
4.     One of the indicators for comparing costs of course delivery in the current system of
in-service training of professionals with the one proposed in the GDLN is the unit cost of course
delivery per student-day. This indicator reflects all measurable components except the "quality
and convenience of the proposed system" as it will provide easier and wider access to
state-of-the-art knowledge and information. In a comprehensive evaluation these benefits need to be
taken into account although they are difficult to quantify.
5.     Cost of the Distance Learning Center: The unit cost of course delivery per student per day
is defined as operating cost plus depreciation (i.e. total Operating Cost divided by the total number
of students trained over an average course length. The estimated cost structure of the DLC is
detailed in annex 5. The annual cost is determined to be around US$515,000. Fixed cost represent
92% of total cost, indicating that a high level of expenses will be incurred by the Center
irrespective of the level of utilization of its facilities. The cost per day and per student depends on
the level of demand, and hence the rate of use of the proposed facilities. The table below shows
that the break-even cost per student and per day is very sensitive to the rate of capacity utilization.
Unit cost decreases sharply when utilization of the center facilities increases whereas the total
operating cost remains largely unchanged due to the importance of fixed costs.
- 22 -



Table 4 a: DLC Utilization/Cost
Unit cost in US$_
Year                                   1     2       3      4      5
Capacity utilization (%)              10    19      30     44     59
Total operating cost (US$OOOs) (with  514   510    515    520    520
depreciation)
Break-even cost-student-day (US$)    642   348    218    150    114
6.     This simulation emphasizes the importance of a qualified business-oriented manager to
develop effective marketing tools and attract enough clients to ensure DLC competitiveness and
financial sustainability. Preliminary market data suggest that an utilization rate of 60% may be
attained by the end of the fourth year of operation corresponding to a reasonable break-even unit
cost of US$114 per day per student. This will require an intensive marketing endeavor by the DLC
management team aiming at: diversifying Center products and services and winning the customer
loyalty through steady high-quality service, competitive pricing, and training content relevant to
expressed demand and client expectations.
7.     Unit Cost of the Existing Training System: cost of in-service training was determined for
each delivery method currently used and based on unit costs gathered in the field and including,
when applicable, the following expenses: travel plus subsistence for students or teacher (when
training is provided locally by international trainers), local expenses (for locally delivered training,
other costs when identified (see details in project documents). It is worth noting that no course
charge (fees) was taken into account as no such fees were included in the GDLN system (operating
costs assume that GDLN content is free of charge for the first years). Based on the above data and
assumptions, the table below presents the unit cost (per day and per student) of the current
in-service training system:
Table 4 b: Current Per Student Per Day Costs for Courses of Differing Duration
Unit Cost of Training Category       % of total training    5 days  10 days
International Training (US$)               45%           910        530
Regional Training (US$)                    15%           410        280
Local Training by Local Staff (US$)        20%            35          35
Local Training by Inter. Staff (US$)       20%            75         43
Total Unit Cost of Current System (US$)    100%          493        296
8.    Combining the four components of the current training system in Benin gives an estimate
of the average unit cost for the current training system. Depending on the lengths of the course (and
- for simplicity - assuming that local courses are delivered by only one international trainer) this
yields a range of unit cost of the current training system used in Benin of US$296 for a 10-day
course and US$493 for a 5-day course.
9.     This range of cost shows that the proposed GDLN training system will be much more
cost-effective than the existing system which lowest possible cost (US$296 for 10 days course) is
higher than the GDLN third-year unit cost in a relatively pessimistic scenario (US$218 in the
- 23 -



second year). In the long run the estimated unit cost of the proposed GDLN (US$114) will be
about 39% of the cost of the current system in its most favorable condition.
- 24 -



Annex 4.1: Financial Feasibility Analysis of the Distance Learning Center
1.    A financial analysis was conducted to determine the terms of financial viability of the proposed
project. In the absence of adequate and reliable data regarding the training market in Benin, we propose to
determine the financial goals (pricing policy and cost sharing principle) and market goals (level of demand
and capacity utilization to be targeted) to be accomplished by the DLC management team if the Center is to
be financially self sustaining by the medium term (end of the fourth year of operation). More market
research is needed to have better information on characteristics of Benin's training market and a precise
understanding of its dynamics to help design an appropriate marketing policy for the Center. Therefore,
during the project preparation phase, a consultant will conduct a detailed market study which will be
available to the DLC management team once it is in place later this year. The main use of the market study
is to serve as a key input to business plan design by the DLC management team. The business plan will be
drafted over the first two months of start-up of Center operations.
2.     Main assumptions.
Revenue.
Income generation: the most crucial set of assumptions pertains to the revenue generation patterns. Given
the rapid pace of project preparation, only a very preliminary understanding of the market dynamics has
been obtained. An alternative approach (admittedly sub-optimal) for deriving a set of precise revenue
projections would have been to use training supply to determine the requirements for the center to be
financially viable and then analyze whether these requirements are reasonable from the demand side in the
context of Benin. Training supply is relatively precise as most of the DLC courses will be provided by the
WBI at least for the first two years. The main assumption regards the utilization rates for Center facilities,
which, under a relatively conservative scenario, are projected to be 10%, 19%, 30%, 44% and 59% for
each successive year over the first five years of operation. The maximum capacity amounts to 4680
student-days of training at a 60% utilization rate. The training fee is set at around US$100 per student per
day as this price seems to be competitive and affordable for most public and private institutions (see Annex
4 above), and is therefore expected to attract more students.
Other financial revenue: the amount of financial support to the DLC to balance its operating cost over the
first years of operation is determined by the extent to which the Center can generate its own revenue.
Hence, it is defined as the residual between the revenue generated and total funding required to cover
operating costs before depreciation.
Operating Cost.
Satellite Bandwidth Rent: the satellite bandwidth cost includes the yearly rental cost for the bandwidth and
a corresponding service charge. Bandwidth costs are fixed costs, i.e. they do not depend on capacity
utilization rates. Annual cost is estimated at US$138,700 on the basis of existing rates provided by the
supplier.
Personnel: we have assumed that the center has eight local staff including a manager, a facilitator and a
technician. Annual salary per staff is based on current market data for similar positions and
responsibilities.
Maintenance: the estimated maintenance costs are based on the following assumptions: locally procured
equipment (personal computers, furniture, etc.) and civil works have a yearly maintenance of 10% of initial
- 25 -



investment cost; internationally procured equipment (equipment for videoconferencing room) has a yearly
maintenance cost of 20% of initial investment cost. This high rate accounts for possible contracting out
maintenance activities of sensitive equipment to a qualified foreign or regional company.
Utilities: utility costs include expenditures on electricity, telephone and water, which were estimated to cost
US$15,000 annually by comparison to similar computer services in Benin.
Variable Operating Cost: These mainly comprise costs related to training and office supply, and depend on
capacity utilization. A flat cost of US$25,000 per year has been assumed at full capacity utilization.
Depreciation. equipment is assumed to depreciate at different rates in accordance with national accounting
standards in Benin.
Fee/Interest and debt service: the Government of Benin suggests carrying the interest and principal
repayment in lieu of the Center to allow for sensible and attractive training rates. However it is envisaged
that the Center will assume reinvestment and renewal cost of its equipment.
3.     Financial Statements and Results. Based on the above assumptions, basic financial statements of
the Center have been determined for the first five years of operation. Annex 5 (financial summary for
revenue-generating entities) presents the income and cash flow statement as well as its projected balance
sheet. It shows that under the above assumptions (excluding depreciation), the Distance Learning Center
will be economically viable and self-sustaining (reach its break-even point) once its capacity utilization rate
attains or exceeds 44% (representing sale of 3465 student-days per year). This is the equivalent of 700
professionals each attending one 5-day training per year. From the market perspective, this requirement
seems to be achievable: (i) a rate of US$ 100 per day per participant compares very favorably with the
average cost of the current training (US$296, see Annex 4 above); this attractive rate will allow for more
participants within the same overall budget; (ii) 700 professionals trained annually represents around 20%
of the high-level civil servant population in Benin; however private sector managers and community leaders
will also take training, either reducing the number of civil servants who would need to be trained to
maintain the assumption of 700 students per year, or increasing the number of students who could be
trained in a given year above 700.
4.     The income statement suggests that the break-even point (operating cost minus depreciation) will
be attained in the fourth year, when the capacity utilization rate reaches 44% (at a unit cost of US$103 per
day per student). The overall equilibrium (including depreciation to allow for reinvestment) is attained in
the fifth year at an utilization rate of 60% and a unit price of US$114 per day per student. To achieve this
goal, an intensive marketing campaign will be needed from the Center management team to: diversify DLC
products and services and win customer loyalty through steadily improving quality of service, competitive
pricing, and providing training courses that meet expressed demand and client expectations. This
emphasizes the importance of a qualified business-oriented manager to develop effective marketing tools
and attract enough clients to ensure Center competitiveness and financial sustainability.
5.    Initial pricing of the Center's services aims at promoting DLC products and attracting more
professionals and decision makers to strengthen their management and policy formulation capacity, which
is difficult to quantify in economic and financial terms. Consequently, the operating deficit (excluding
depreciation) of the first three years will be covered through special Government support through IDA
credit proceeds from this proposed LIL. This financial support will match the exact deficit (without
depreciation), projected to be around US$624,000 for the first three years, making up 77% of generated
income over that period. This support will be provided on a decreasing basis over this 3-year period as
- 26 -



follows: 78% of operating cost in the first year, 59% in the second, and 34% in the third. As the initial
training rate, US$100 per person, is in the low range, it may be raised in relation to the market demand for
certain high-demand courses. A flexible market-driven pricing policy should improve the financial viability
of the project.
- 27 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BENIN: Distance Learning Project - LIL
Years Ending 2005
A. Project Costs by Category
Anxits includirig cairgafies               TOITAL
1iR3JWECFCUNEM~S                            ~~US $ mihion                           -               IncL Con
YearO    Year 1   Year2    Year3    Year4   Year5
1. QVlL A  S
Cost (mc. cont)                       128,700        -        --    128,7
Z GOODS
a) Nehork a aless oconf Equip.        392,934        -        -         --    392,93
b) Office ofuinuib/oter equipment     387,750        -        -             -             -    387,750
3. OONJLTNIAr SERVANDRAlNNG
(lst (mc. cont)                       123,200   38,500   33,000   33,000         -        -    227,700
a) Satellite bandidth rent                  -  138,696  138,696  138,696  138,696  138,696    693,48
b)Operatingexpenditure                 17,000  218,173  218,173  218,173  218,173  218,173   1,107,867
5. MANACEMENr EES
a) AGEURmgmnt fees                     30,000        -             -        -        -          30,00
b) SERHAUW n    nmt ifes               35,000        -                  -        -              35,QQd
TumLHEcroogr                                 1,114,584  395,369  389,869  389,869  356,869  356,869   3,003,431
B. Project Financing
Irp1mtatimnPuiod                        lIJAL
-   US $ mllio-                         lnd. Cont
RequiredFimanci ig                             YearO     Year 1    Year2    Year3    Year4    Year5
Project Cost
Physical InvWment Costs                       909 384         -             -         -             -   909 384
EginomingandSavices                           188200   38 500   33 000   33 000            -        -   292700
PmjectOpaatingCosts                              17000  356869  356869  356869  356869  356869   1801347
Toal                                          1 114584  395 369  389869  389 869  356 869  356 869  3003431
I
Revenue Geation                                       -  80 000   147500  236000  346 500  458 000   1268000
(IDA)                                       (1 114584)(315369) (242369) (153869)                     - (1826193)
surplus                                               -         -                  - ( 10369) 101131        90761
- 28 -



C. Project Operation Financing
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue Earning Project Entities
(in USS)
7 . .... 77,-             1         2          3           4           5           6to 10    11 to 15
operating assumption:
% capacityutilisation                                 10%       19%        30%         44%          59%            59%         59%
number of student days                                800      1,475      2,360       3,465       4,580          23,080     23,125
rnce perstudent per day                               100       100        100          100         100            100         100
Revenue                                    -       80,000    147,500    236,000     346,500     458,000       2,308,000   2,312,500
Fixed Operating Cost                    17,000    331,869    331,869    331,869     331,86S     331,869       1,659,347   1,659,347
Satellite Bandwidth Rent                   -      138,696    138,696    138,696    138,696      138,696        693,480    693,480
Personnel                               15,000     87,000    87,000     87,000      87,000       87,000        435,000     435,000
Maintenance                                -       91,173    91,173     91,173      91,173       91,173        455,867    455,867
Utilities                                2,000     15,000    15,000     15,000      15,000       15,000         75,000      75,000
Variable Operatina Cost                    -       25.000     25.000     25.000      25.000      25.000         125.000    125.000
Total Cost                              17.000    356,869    366,869    356,869     356,869     356,869       1,784,347   1,784,347
Operating Profit l Deficit             (17,000)  (276,869)  (209,369)  (120,869)    (10,369)    101,131         523,653    528,153
Grant for O0eratina Cost                17.000    276.869   209.369    120.869          -                           -          -
Total Operating Profit I Deficit           -          -          -          -       (10,369)    101,131         523,653    528,153
Depreciation                                      157,189    153,023    158,023     163,023     163,023         635,947    565,114
Co.mmitment Fe / Interest                                                                 
Ne Income                                  -     (157.189)  (153.023)  (158.023)   (173,392)    (61.892)       (112,294)   (36.961j
Resources
Net Income                                 -     (157,189)  (153,023)  (158,023)    (173,392)    (61,892)     (112,294)    (36,961)
Depreciation added back                    -      157,189    153,023    158,023    163,023      163,023        635,947     565,114
Loan / Credit Proceeds                 924.813     35.000    30,000     30,000         -           -               -          -
Total Resources                        924.813     35,000    30.000     30.000     (10,3691    101.131         523.653    528.153
Expenses
Initial Investment                     924,813     35,000    30,000     30,000         -           -           549,313     531,113
Replacement/ Reinvestment                  -          -         -          -
Loan Repayment (Principal)                           -          -           -          -                   -
Total Expenses                         924,813     35,000     30,000     30.000         -             0         549,313    531.113
Net Cash Flow                              -                                        (10.369)    101.131         (25,660)     (2,960)
Net Cumulative Cash                        -                     -         -        (10,369)     90,761          65,101     62,141
Net Fixed Assets                       924,813    802,624    679,601    551,578     388,555     225,533       2,042,358   1,524,212
Plus Cumulative Depreciation                      157,189    310,212    468,235     631,258     794,280       2,766,707   3,099,853
Fixed Assets                           924.813    959.813    989.813  1.019.813    1.019.813    1.019.813     4809,065   4,624,065
Total Assets                           924.813    969.813    989.813  1,019.813    1.009.444    1.110.574     4,397,961   4,733,970
Long Term Loan                         924,813    924,813    924,813    924,813     924,813     924,813       4,624,065   4,624,065
Eauity (Capital & Retained Earnings)       -       35.000     65.000     95,000      84,631     185,761        (226,104)    109,905
Total Liabilities                      924.813    959.813    989.813  1.019.813    1.009.444   1.110.574      4.397.961   4,733,970
Operating Profit as % of Revenue                    -346%     -142%       -51%          -3%        22%             23%        23%
Net Cash as % of Revenue                              -          -          -           -3%         22%            -1%          0%
Investment as % of Operating Profit                  -13%      -14%       -25%          -           -             105%        101%
- 29 -



0          1          2          3          4         5          6         7          8         9         10        11
operating assumption:
% capacity utilisation                                  10%        19%        30%       44%        59%/0     59%        59%       59%        59%       59%        59%
numberofstudentdays                                     800       1,475     2,360      3,465     4,580      4,595     4,610      4,625     4,625      4,625      4,625
price per student per day                               100         100       100        100       100        100       100        100       100        100       100
Revenue                                      -       ao,ooo     147,600    236,000    346,600    468,000    469,600    461,000    462,600    462,600    462,500    462,500
Fixed Operating Cost                      17,000    331,869    331,869    331,869    331,869    331,869    331,869    331,869    331,869    331,869    331,869    331,869
Satellite Bandwidth Rent                     -      138,696     138,696    138,696    138,696    138,696    138,696    138,696    138,696    138,696    138,696    138,696
Personnel                                 15,000     87,000     87,000     87,000     87,000    87,000     87,000    87,000     87,000    87,000    87,000     87,000
Maintenanoe                                 -        91,173     91,173     91,173     91,173    91,173     91,173    91,173     91,173    91,173     91,173    91,173
Utilities                                  2,000     15,000     15,000     15,000     15,000    15,000     15,000    15,000     15,000    15,000     15,000    15,000
Variable Operating Cost                      -       25.000      2S.000    26.000     26,000     26.000    26.000     26.000    25.000     25.000    26.000     25.000
Total Cost                                17,000    366,869    366,869    366.869    366,869   366,869    356,869    356,869    366,869    356,869    356,869    366,869
Operating Profit I Deficit                (17,000)   (276,869)   (209,369)  (120,869)   (10,369)   101,131    102,631    104,131    105,631    105,631    106,631    105,631
Grant for Operatlng Cost                  17,000    276.869    209.369    120.869
Total Operating Proflt/Deficlt               -          -           -         -      (10,369)   101,131    102,631    104,131    106,631    105.631    105,631    105,631
Depreciation                          |             167,189     153,023    168,023    163,023    163,023    163,023    128,866    123,023    118,023    113,023    113,023
Fee
Net Income                            |             (167,189)   (153.023)  (158.023)  (173,392)   (61,892)   (50.392)   (24,725)   (17.392)   (12.392)    (7.392)    (7.392)
Resources
O                Net Income                            I            (157,189)   (153,023)  (158,023)  (173,392)   (61,892)   (50,392)   (24,725)   (17,392)   (12,392)    (7,392)    (7,392)
Depredation added back                |             157,189    153,023    158,023    163,023    163,023    153,023    128,856    123,023    118,023    113,023    113,023
Loan / Credit Proceeds                   924.813     35.000     30.W0      30.000       -          -         -          -         -          -          -         -
Total Resources                          924,813     35,000     30,000     30,000    (10,369)   101,131    102,631    104,131    105,631    105,631    105,631    105,631
Expenses
Initial Investment                       924,813     35,000     30,000     30,000
Replacement] Reinvestment                                                               -          -      387,117    110,196       -         -       52,000       -
Loan Repavment (Principal)  __                       _                                                                                   ___
Total Expenses                           924,813      35,000     30,000     30,000        0          0    387,117    110,196         0         0    52,000          0
NetCash Flow                                            -           -         -      (10,369)   101,131   (284,486)    (6,065)   105,631    105,631  53,631    105,631
NetCumulativeCash                            -                      -         -      (10,369)    90,761   (193,725)  (199,791)   (94,160)    11,471  65,101    170,732
Net FixedAssets                          924,813    802,624    679,601    551,578    388,555    225,533    459,627    550,967    432,944    314,921    283,899    170,876
Plus Cumulative Depreciation                   0     157,189    310,212    468,235    631,258    794,280    560,186    433,846    521,869    609,892    640,914    753,937
FixedAssets                              924,813    959.813    989813  1019813  1019813 -,QP813  1019813    984813    954813    924813    924813    924813
Total Assets                          I 924,813      959,813    989,813  1,019,813  1,009,444  1,110,574    826,088    785,022    860,653    936,284    989,914  1,095,545
Long Term Loan                           924,813    924,813    924,813    924,813    924,813    924,813    924,813    924,813    924,813    924,813    924,813    924,813
Equity (Capital & Retained Eamings)          -        35000      65,000    95.000     84,631    185.761    (98,725)  t139,791)   (64,160   11 471    65,101    170 732
Total Liabilities                        924,813    959,813    989,813  1,019,813  1,009,444  1.110,574    826,088    785,022    860,653    936,284    989,914  1,095,545



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BENIN: Distance Learning Project - LIL
Procurement
I .    Procurement Assessment Review: The project appraisal did not include a formal Procurement
Assessment Review (PAR) as the entity to be managing the project had not yet been created. However,
most of the required procurement for this project was achieved during the preparation phase and handled by
the Bank, through ISG, AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM. Both agencies were the object of a PAR under the
preparation of the urban project (an Adjustable Program Loan), for which a credit agreement was signed in
July 1999. The remaining procurement (operating costs and financial audit, three to five contracts) will be
carried out by the new entity for which specific assistance will be provided under the project.
Procurement Arrangements
2.     So that distance learning activities can begin as soon as possible after project effectiveness, project
preparation included consultant services related to establishment of the DLC (legal procedures, formation
of the DLC Board, recruitment of Director and staff) and goods and work related to the preparation and
equipment of the site (classrooms, videoconference room, computer room, administrative offices, etc.).
Project preparation activities were handled by the Ministry of Finance and Economy with the assistance of
AGETUR, for works and equipment, and SERHAU-SEM for institutional aspects and studies. These
activities were financed through a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance.
3.    The procurement arrangements under the PPF are as follows:
Goods: To ensure compatibility with the Global Distance Learning Network (GDLN) and to benefit from
a bulk discount from Bank suppliers, the Bank (ISG) procured, on behalf of the Borrower, network access
equipment for the videoconference room, and computers and computer-related communications equipment
on a sole-source basis This was procured under the same contract as Bank network access equipment
which was awarded competitively. To this end, an agreement was signed between the Govermnent of Benin
and the International Development Association (IDA). Small equipment (televisions, scanners, VCRs,
generator, UPS, telephone sets, furniture) was procured by AGETUR using national and international
shopping, according to availability on the local market.
Civil Works: Given the time constraints imposed by the need to complete works before the delivery of
equipment procured in bulk, civil works contracts to retrofit the existing site to house the DLC, including
wiring for data and communication equipment, was procured through a short-list of selected contractors
using proposed Bank-approved bidding documents. These works were carried out by local contractors.
Consultant Services: Consultant services for project preparation include contract management by
AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM, legal assistance and documentation to establish the DLC and supervision
of works. Contracts for these services, costing US$25,000 or less each, were awarded on a sole-source
basis as they require specialized consultants and quick intervention to establish the Center.
4.    The following procurement arrangements, presented in Table A, will apply to all contracts financed
by the IDA credit. These arrangements were agreed upon during appraisal and confirmed at negotiations.
- 31 -



A.    General
5.    Goods financed by the IDA credit will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published in January 1995 and revised in January and
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Consultant services financed by the IDA credit will be
procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers published in January 1987 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999.
B.    Procurement of Goods
6.     Small quantities of office supplies and goods (e.g. a vehicle) for Center operation estimated at
US$20,000 or less per contract will be procured through National Shopping (NS), in accordance with Bank
procedures. The satellite bandwidth rental contract will be procured on a sole-source basis (one supplier
selected under the Bank umbrella).
7.    Prior and post review by the Bank for Goods contracts. All IDA-financed goods contracts
above the threshold of US$50,000 per contract and all corresponding bidding documents will be subject to
prior review procedures in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. Contracts under these thresholds will be
subject to post review. Review thresholds are specified in Table B below.
C.    Procurement of Consulting services
8.    Recruitment of consulting firms for design of a financial management system and annual financial
audit of the DLC will be carried out under the Least Cost Selection method (LCS) in accordance with Bank
Guidelines. Recruitment of individual consultants for tasks that do not require multidisciplinary team and
that are limited in scope will be procured on the basis of consultant qualifications and experience in
accordance with Bank Guidelines. Use of individual consultants will require IDA prior agreement.
9.    Prior and post review by the Bank for consultant contracts: Consulting assignments, with firms
and individuals, that cost more than US$50,000 and US$25,000 respectively per contract will be subject to
prior review by IDA. Review thresholds are given in Table B below.
D.    Procurement Implementation Schedule and Advance Procurement Actions.
10.   The detailed investment implementation schedule is presented in the Project Implementation
Manual (PIM). This timetable will be used as a basis to monitor procurement processing. In particular, the
following advance procurement actions have been identified and agreed with the Borrower: (a) draft
technical specifications of the various equipment of the DLC; (b) draft terms of references and letter of
invitation for works supervision; (c) blueprints are underway for various retrofitting scenarios for the site,
(d) draft bidding documents for goods to be procured by AGETUJR.
E.    Monitoring and Reporting
11.   Accounting, Auditing and Reporting. DLC will maintain separate accounting records for the
project components that it manages directly and for its own operations. An accounting and financial
management system will be set up in DLC prior to the project effectiveness. In addition to its financial
statements, DLC agreed during negotiations to submit a quarterly report, one month after the end of each
quarter, presenting a summary of sources and uses of funds, procurement/contracts schedule and statement
and summary of expenditures by component and by category. Assurance has been obtained from the
- 32 -



Borrower that implementing agency accounts and financial statements, and the Special Account maintained
by the Distance Learning Center will be audited annually in accordance with international audit standards
by experienced and recognized audit firms satisfactory to IDA.
12.    At the end of its fiscal year, but no longer than six months after its completion, the borrower and
DLC will present to IDA financial audit reports of: (i) the Special Account as well a special opinion on
the SOEs; and (ii) DLC accounts and financial statements.
13.   Financial Management and Reporting: As the implementing agency for this project, the DLC, is
a new entity, the project will begin with traditional financial management and disbursement arrangements
through a Special Account and SOEs. As noted below, the DLC will produce quarterly activity reports.
After one year of project implementation, the financial management system and reporting system will be
assessed for compatibility with the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI); the appropriate changes
will be made to the systems to make them LACI compliant, including reworking the quarterly reports into
Project Management Reports (PMRs).
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement Aagements (mcluding contingencies)
(inUS$)
Exliture ateer                                    Procamiat Wiod                          Total Cost
_____________ _IC_ ICB        NCB                Other            (incL cont.)
LflY.U.33.~                                                         128 700 (12X8700)   128 700 (128 700!
2.GOODS
a) Network accessf(deocont equip,                               392 934 (392 934)   392 934 (392 934)
b) Office fiiurelother equip.                                   387750 (387750)   387750 (387750)
1 CJLTANr SRVI  AUDT AND TRA1G                                      227 700 (227 700)   227 700 (227700
4. OPERATIN M(2%6
a) Sategite ba'iwdth rent                                       693 480 (235 950)   693 480 (235 950)
b)Operatingexpenditue                                          1 107867 (388 158)  1 107867 (388 158)
5. MAN4GUVENT FEES
a) AGETUR mnugemntifees                                          30 000 ( 30 00(1)  30 000 ( 30 U(Y0)
b)SERHAU maugeientfes                                            35 000 (35 000)    35 000 ( 35 000)
T1lAL                                0 -              0 -          3 003 431 (1 826 193) 3 003 431 (1 826193)
- 33 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Expenditure                Contract Value            Procurement         Estimated Total
Category                (Threshold) (US$)             Method           Value Subject to
Prior Review
Above 50 000 (financed under
1. Works                                PPF)                   Short List          PR = 77 000
2. Goods
a) Network access                                         Sole Source          PR =425 918
b) office furniture and          Above 20 000           National Shopping      PR  219 505
Above 50 000 (financed under
other equipment                   PPF)                Sole Source (ISG)      PR = 178 750
3. Consultant services, Audit and  More than 50 000              LCS               PR  150 000
Training                             Up to 25 000             Sole Source          PR =45 000
4. Operating costs
a) Bandwidth rent                                         Sole Source          PR= 166 773
- 34 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Expenditure Category                             Amount        Financing Percentage
in US$ million
1. GOODS                                               26 000          85%
2. CONSULT. SERVICES, AUDIT AND TRAINI                 95 000         100%
3. OPERATING COST
a) Satellite bandwidth rent                       235 950     100% of foreign
expenditures and 90%
of local expenditures
b) Operating expenditure                          371 158         90%
4. PROJECT ADVANCE REFUNDING                        1000 000
a) Civil Works                                    117 000         85%
b) Network access/Videoconf. Equip.               357 213     100% of foreign
c) Office furniture/other equip.                           expenditures and 85%
326 500   of local expenditures
d) Consultant and management fees                  97 000         100%
5. UNALLOCATED                                         98 084
TOTAL                                               1 826 193
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
14.   Statements of Expenditure (SOEs): Disbursement on the basis of Statements of Expenditures
may be made for expenditures : (a) under contracts for civil works and goods costing less than US$50,000
equivalent each; (b) under contracts for the employment of consulting firms and individual consultants
worth less than US$50,000 and US$25,000 respectively per contract. Supporting documents for SOEs
will be retained by the DLC, AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM (the latter during the preparation period) and
will be made available for review by Bank staff during supervision missions. The SOEs will be audited
annually.
Special account:
15.   Special Account (SA): To facilitate project implementation, a special account will be established
by the Borrower in the name of the DLC of Benin in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA. The DLC will operate this SA. The authorized balance of the special account will be
US$100,000. This amount is estimated to cover about three months of expenditures. The SA will be
replenished through the submission, by the Borrower, of fully documented withdrawal applications to IDA
which will have been prepared by the DLC. Reimbursement applications submitted against the SA will
- 35 -



include a bank statement showing account activity since the last application, with the balance certified by
the bank holding the Special Account, and a reconciliation statement. The Borrower will submit
replenishment requests to the Special Account on a monthly basis, or whenever the account is diminished
by one third, whichever comes first. Upon credit effectiveness, 100% of the authorized allocation (or
US$100,000) will be disbursed to the SA.
16.   The SA will be used for all expenditures valued at less than 20% of the amount advanced to the
Account. Direct payments and applications for issuance of Special Commitments must therefore equal at
least 20% of the amount advanced to the SA.
- 36 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BENIN: Distance Learning Project - LIL
Project Sb .dule                 :thno                        -       .     =      uj
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      6                             7
First Bank mission (identification)                                          04/27/99
Appraisal mission departure                     06/26/99                     06/26/99
Negotiations                                    12/02/99                     01/13/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   03/31/2000
Prepared by:
Ministry of Finance and Economy
Preparation assistance:
PPF Advance
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     speciality
Hedi Larbi (AFTT2)                Procurement, Project Finance, Engineering
John Roome (AFTQK)                Financial and Institutional Management
Joseph Ingram (WBIDR)             Capacity Building, Training
Michael Foley (WBIDL)             Distance Education
Mehdi Roustayi (ISGNC)            Distance Learning Technology
Axel Baumler (SRMSG)              Financial Analysis
Alison Cave (AFTT2)               Project Processing, Country Context
Christian Loupeda (AFMBJ)         Country Office Follow up
Sidi Boubacar (AFMBJ)             Negotiations
Aberra Zerabruk (LEGAF)           Legal Aspects
Isabella Micali Drossos (LEGAF)   Legal Aspects
Agnes Albert-Loth (LOAAF)         Disbursement and Financial Management
Nadjib Sefta (AFTQK)              Procurement
Bertrand De Chazal (AFTQK)        Financial Management
Sandrine Azemard (AFTT2)          Project Finance
Kamla Pariadhaven (AFTT2)         Project Assistant
Valeria Tingbo (AFTT2)            Project Assistant
- 37 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BENIN: Distance Learning Project - LIL
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft Project Implementation Manual (December 1999)
IDA comments (via electronic mail, January 2000)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Aide-Memoires:
Identification Mission BTO: Interim Report, Reconnaissance Mission to Africa (May 7, 1999)
Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire (June 1999)
Preparation Supervision Mission Aide Memoire (November 1999)
General:
Distance Learning Prospectus in Benin (June 7, 1999)
Procurement:
Bulk Procurement Equipment List (May 18, 1999)
Agreement/Next Steps of Procurement Board on Draft Procurement Plan: authorization for ISG bulk
procurement (June 15, 1999)
Technical:
Summary of Bandwidth on Distance Learning Program for AFRJLAC (April 30, 1999)
Network Description (April 30, 1999)
WAN/LAN Configuration - Remote End (May 19, 1999)
PC Specifications (May 24, 1999)
Basic Classroom Sizes (June 3, 1999)
Approach to Civil Works in Africa (June 4, 1999)
Distance Learning Equipment List for Africa and LAC (June 10, 1999)
Distance Learning Facility Guide - Construction Considerations (August 6, 1999)
Distance Learning Facility Guide - Cabling and Network Considerations (August 23, 1999)
Facilities Planning Guide (January 19, 2000)
Economic/Financial:
Distance Learning Financing Plan - Africa (June 10, 1999)
Training Cost Effectiveness Analysis (August 2, 1999)
C. Other
PPF Package (July 21, 1999)
Signed PPF Letter (August 1999)
Procurement Agreement between the Republic of Benin and IDA (August 1999)
Distance Learning Center Statutes (September 1999)
Draft Subsidiary Agreement between Distance Learning Center and the National Economics Institute
(October 1999)
Negotiations Decision Meeting Package (October 20, 1999)
Negotiations Decision Meeting Minutes (November 8, 1999)
- 38 -



Supplemental PPF Package (November 20, 1999)
Signed Supplemental PPF Letter (December 1999)
Signed Minutes of Negotiations (January 14, 2000)
Outcome of Negotiations (January 18, 2000)
*including electronic files
- 39 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BENIN: Distance Learning Project - LIL
Difference between expect
ancl actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions           disbursements'
Project ID    FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                 IBRD       IDA         Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'i
BJ-PE-35648    1999 GOVERNMENT                   1ST DECEN.CITY MGMT.                       0.00       25.50        0.00       25.29       0.00      0.00
BJ-PE-35645    1998 GOVERNMENT                   SOCIALFUND                                 0.00       16.70        0.00       15.69       0.1'7     0.00
BJ-PE-57345    1998 GOVERNMENT                   BORGOU PILOT RSP                           0.00        4.00        0.00        3.82       1.30      0.00
BJ-PE-1 17     1997 GOVERNMENT                   TRANSPORT SECTOR                           0.00       40.00        0.00       24.37      10.28      0.00
BJ-PE-112      1995 GOVT. OFBENIN                ENV. MANAGEMENT PROJ                       0.00        8.00        0.00        4.93       2.08      2.08
BJ-PE-118      1995 GOVERNMENTOFBENINN           POPULATIONANDHEALT                         0.00       27.80        0.00       20.43      18.80     12.69
BJ-PE-103      1994 GOVERNMENT                   EDUCATION DEVELOPMEN                       0.00       18.10        0.00       10.80      10.33      4.74
BJ-PE-116      1994 REPUBLIC OF BENIN            ECON. MGMT.                                0.00        5.20        0.00        3.06       3.24      3.27
BJ-PE-121      1994 GOVTOFBENIN                  RURALWATERSUPPLY&                          0.00        9.80        0.00        4.57       4.71      4.04
BJ-PE-99       1994 GOVERNMENT                   FOOD SECURITY                              0.00        9.70        0.00        2.48       1.793     1.19
BJ-PE-120      1993                              RURAL CREDIT II                            0.00        3.80        0.00        1.74       1.70      1.70
BJ-PE-105      1991                              AGRIC. SERVICES                            0.00       12.30        0.00        1.28       0.37      0.36
Total:        0.00     180.90         0.00      118.46     54.77     30.07
-40 -



BENIN
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval         Company                         Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
1991                AEF SOBEP                       0.00     0.02     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.02     0.00    0.00
1991/93/95          AEF BOAB                        0.00     0.31     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.31     0.00    0.00
1994                Equipbail-Benin                 0.07     0.00     0.10    0.00     0.07     0.00     0.10    0.00
Total Portfolio:          0.07     0.33    0.10     0.00     0.07    0.33     0.10     0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                            Loan    Equity       Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:          0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
-41 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BENIN: Distance Learning Project - LIL
Sub-                                                   9117/99
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Saharan       Low-
Benin     Africa   Income       Development diamond
1998
Pooulation. mid-vear (millions)                          6.0        628      3.515                  Life expectancy
GNP oer caDita (Atlas method. US$)                       380        480       520                   L
G NP (Atlas method. USS billions)                         2.3       304      1.844
Averaoe annual arowth. 1992-98
Ponulation f%)                                            2.9       2 6        1.7
l abor force (%6                                          2.9       2.6        1.9      GNP                               Gross
Most recenf estimate (latest vear available. 1992-,el                                  per i                             prmary
Povertv (% of ooDulation below national Dovettv line)     33
Ulrban notulation (% of total oooulation)                 41         33        31
Life exDectancv at birth (vears)                          53         51        63
Infant mortalitv (oer 1.000 live births?                  88         91        69
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                29                    ..                Access to safe water
Access to sale water (% of oooulation)                    72         47        74
lliteracv (% Of Doulatilon aoe 15+1                       63         42        32
Grossorimarvenrollment (% ofschool-aoeDooulation)         78         77       108             Benin        Low-income group
Male                                                    98         84       113
Female                                                  57         69       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      1998
Economic ratios*
GDP IUSS billions)                              0.8       1.6       2.1        2.3
Gross domestic investment/GDP                  17.8     12.9       185        17.1
Exoorts of ooods and services/GOP              23.5     29.3       24.9       23.3                      Trade
Gross dornestic savinos/GDP                     0.9      3.6        9.8        8.3
Gross national savinos/GDP                        ..      7.0      13.0       11.1
Current account balance/GDP                   -17.0     -5.9       -5.2       -4.9
Interest oavments/GOP                           0.1       1.0       0.8          .     Domestic                       Investment
Total debttGDP                                 22.3     76.4       75.9       71.4      Savings                       I
Total debt servicelexoorts                      1.9       7.5       9.0        9.6
Present value of debttGDP                                   .      45.1
Present value of debt/exoorts                    ..        ..    159.2
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98      1997      1998   1999-03
(averaae annual orowthl
GfP                                   41        41        57        4rj        54
GNP oer caoita                        0.8       1.2       2.8       1.6        2.2             8enin        Low-income group
Exoorts of 0oods and services         2.9       1.0       2.2      -10         6.0I
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998       Growth rates of output and investment (%)
/% of GDPI                                                                             75
Aoriculture                                    31.9     33.3       38.4       38.6      5
lndustrv                                       12.6     12.4       13.9       13.5     25
Manufacturino                                 9.0       7.2        8.4       8.2      05 
Services                                       55.6     54.4       47.7       47.9    -25'    93NV         9S    ,    97   98
Private consumotion                            90.7     80.8       79.8       82.1    -5s
General covernment consumotion                  8.3     15.5       10.4        97                      GDI    -'GP
Imoorts of aoods and services                  40.3     38.6       33.6       32.1
faverawe annual/orowthl                    1977-87  1988-98        1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Acriculture                                     3.8       5.1       5.6        6.7    so
Industrv                                        6.1      4.6        4.4        0.9     25
Manufacturins                                 3.2       5.9        5.6       3.0
Services                                        3.9       3.2       6.2        38        of-
9 3 5      9C   ~~~~~97   98
Private consumotion                             1.6      4.2        4.3        9.3    25
General novernment consismotion                8i 4       2.6       42        -4 6
Gross domestic investment                       0.8       6.3      16.3       -2.5    50
ImDoros of ooods and services                  -1.8      2.7        3.7        6.8                   Exports    -Imports
Gross national oroduct                          3.9      4.1        5.8        4.6
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
*The- diamondc show fousr krv indiatoris in the. romtrv (in hnd\ romnared with its income-nrouin averane If data rem missinn the diamond wilt
he inmomnlete
-42 -



Benin
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987       1997      1998      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices 
(% change)                                                                             lo
Consumer prices                                   ..       ..        3.8       5.8    40
Implicit GDP deflator                           5.2       3.0        4.7       4.2    30
20
Government finance                                                                     10
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                     o
Current revenue                                15.0      12.9       15.7      16.1             93    94    95    96    97   9s
Current budget balance                          2.8      11.3        3.6       5.2                    GDP deflator    o  CPi
Overall surplus/deficit                         -4.2     11.3       -3.1      -0.7
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                 1977     1987        997      1998       Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                               ..     366        400       406      750 
Cotton                                                   50        199       193
Crude oil                                       ..       11          7         1
Manufactures                                     ..
Total imports (cif)                               ..     545        641       662
Food                                                    182        112       116     250
Fuel and energy                                 ..       33         72        74
Capital goods                                           130        206       212       o
92   93   94   95   96   97   98
Exoort orice index (1995=1001                    ..       32         93         95
imDort orice index (1995=100l                     ..      44        103       101                U Exports      U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                         ..      74         90         95
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                                 1977     1987       1997      1998       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                   162      457        532       557                      _
Imports of goods and services                   327      602        713       735
Resource balance                               -165     -145       -180       -178     -2
Net income                                        0   -29   -30  -29                                 '         H
Net current transfers                            38       81        100        94       4
Current account balance                        -127       -93       -110      -113
Financing items (net)                           128       58        126       146
Changes in net reserves                           0       35        -16        -34     -8
Memo:
Reserves incdudino aold (USS millions)            ..       ..       212       266
Conversion rate (DEC. local/USS)              245.7    300.5       583.7     589.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997      1998
(USS millions)                                                                          Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            167    1,194       1,624     1,647
IBRD                                            0        0          0         0                  F4 G.85
IDA                                            32      196        510       543                      .
Total debt service                                4       41         55         60                                   . B: 543
IBRD                                            0        0          0         0
IDA                                             0        2          7         8         E:533
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                14       58        125
Official creditors                             31       57         23        32
Private creditors                              -1       -2          0         0                                     c9
Foreign direct investment                       3        0          3                                               c:94
Portfolio equity                                0        0          0         ..                      D:388
World Bank program
Commitments                                    17       48          0         0      A- IBRD                        E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                   7       22         20        20      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                            0        0          4         4      C - IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                       7       21         16        16
Interest payments                               0        1          4         4
Net transfers                                   7       20         12        12
Development Economics                                                                                                      9/17199
-43 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Technology Description
Introduction
The Distance Learning telecommunications network will provide a remote transfer of knowledge and tighter
integration of educational outreach through multimedia communications. In utilizing efficiently and
effectively modem telecommunication technology, Demand Assigned Multiple Access (DAMA), it provides
"global service" by linking the clients and appropriate knowledge resources together in a worldwide
distance learning network comprised of interactive electronic classrooms, internet facilities and
international telecommunications circuits. Specifically, the Distance Learning site can take advantage of the
following:
*  voice and high speed, high capacity data and video connections simultaneously on the same network;
*   full capacity of the link to be automatically allocated among the various kinds of connections as
needed to optimize the quality by allocating satellite transmission capacity among Distance Learning
Centers based on differential demand.
*   any Center can communicate with any other Center without on intermediate stop at the World Bank
hub (mesh connectivity);
*   very low reliance on local public communication lines which are subject to significant reliability
problems in the "last mile" of the connection, thereby overcoming the significant local technical and
logistical challenges in installing such a system;
*   cost effective management of performance and capacity by using a shared satellite system.
System description
The Distance Learning System has two components - the satellite network and the office technology/
multi-conferencing network. The satellite network portion of the System features a VSAT (Very Small
Aperture Terminal)-sized, INTELSAT Standard "G" earth stations situated at the Distance Learning
Center, equipped with dynamically-shared TDM and all other necessary earth station ancillary hardware
and software needed to enable robust voice/FAX, data and video connectivity with the other distance
learning centers, and with the World Bank Headquarters. The office technology/multi-conferencing network
portion consists of a NT/Lotus Notes based local area network, Picturetel based video conferencing,
telephone system, fax and copier. A detailed list of equipment is attached in Annex 11.1.
Technology and Maintenance Support
The satellite network will be installed and maintained by MCI/Worldcom. The multi-conferencing and other
distance learning center equipment will be installed and maintained by World Bank ISG staff. For
equipment procured locally, our recommendation is to contact out the support and maintenance of the
hardware. In addition, the full-time, on-site presence of a competent Information Technology staff is
mandatory for the successful operation and maintenance of the sophisticated system installed at the
Distance Learning Center. Terms of reference for such a position are attached in Annex 11.1. Specialized
training to operate the system will be provided by the World Bank.
Scheduling DL sessions
Using all HUGHES scheduling system, all video conferencing sessions will be scheduled over the WEB, so
- 44 -



it is fully automated. Training on scheduling will be provided by the World Bank during hand-over of the
system.
Risk
There is a risk that the technology at the Distance Learning Center will not operate satisfactorily. This
Center, although operating independently, will be under the World Bank's technology umbrella. As such,
they will receive special attention from the World Bank Network Group.
-45 -



Annex 11. 1
Terms of Reference
Distance Learning Center Staff
MANAGER
The Manager has overall responsibility for administering, managing and operating the Distance Learning
Center so that it is evolves into a self-sustaining Center within a period of three (3) to five (5) years. This
individual will be responsible for providing leadership within the Center and the community in the area of
distance learning and be an agent for change. The Manager will report to a Board of Directors who will
provide overall guidance and support to the Distance Learning Center.
The role of the Manager will be:
*   to provide leadership and direction to a small staff,
*   to manage the operation of the Center,
*   to facilitate the team dynamics in a flat organizational structure,
*   to establish a transparent and accountable financial management system,
*   to provide a business development function with a long term sustainability focus,
*   to provide strategic direction and guidance to the Center, and
*   to engage the community as a strategic partner in the DLC.
The specific responsibilities of the Manager will include but are not limited to:
*   developing an awareness of the clients training needs,
   maintaining a training schedule that provides distance learning courses and seminars that fulfill these
needs chosen from among GDLC courses, other providers and custom produced courses
* managing the learner support system,
- liaising with senior government and World Bank officials,
* marketing and promoting the DLC and its specific learning events to potential clients,
*   generating sufficient activity in courses, seminars, and workshops that will justify an income sufficient
to pay for network access, staff cost and, maintenance and amortization of equipment,
*   fundraising and working with donors,
*   providing a quality assurance function in the operation of the Center,
*   preparing an annual business plan for the Center, and
*   preparing an annual report.
The Manager will have the following skills and qualifications:
*   a higher degree,
*   experience in education or business (preferably in both),
*   a working knowledge of communications technology,
*   excellent communication and interpersonal skills,
*   an entrepreneurial spirit,
*   an ability to work in a highly fluid environment,
*   an understanding of the role and an ability to act as an agent for change,
*   a team builder, and
*   a knowledge of English and the primary language of the site's country.
- 46 -



TRAINING COORDINATOR
The Training Coordinator is responsible for the management of all training events and activities that
happen in the Center. This primarily consists of learner support and the facilitation of courses and
seminars. As a member of the DLC team, this person will also assist the Manager in briefing potential
clients on benefits from an educational perspective.
The role of the Training Coordinator will be:
*   to act as a resource in the area of design and development of educational programs,
* to train new users and instructors,
* to facilitate videoconference and computer conferences, and
*   to assess new software that will be used to facilitate learning opportunities in the Center particularly in
the multimedia computer labs.
The specific responsibilities of the Training Coordinator will include:
* acting as the primary contact person with participants in courses and seminars,
* coordinating course offerings with the course providers and the WBI,
supervising the registration of participants,
ensuring the proper distribution of all course materials,
facilitating the delivery of courses to the Center by introducing participants to the technology (in
association with the IT staff),
moderating discussion groups during local activities,
- encouraging the interaction by e-mail, fax, and voice,
facilitating the production of courses from the Center by assisting local experts in the design of their
courses,
training local instructors in the use of technology and on facilitation and mentoring skills to be used in
distance delivery,
* assisting in the production of learning materials and slides,
_ assessing new courseware from the perspective of application to distance learning, and
_ participating in and managing local evaluation activities.
The Training Coordinator will have the following qualifications and skills:
* a higher degree and optimally a qualification in education, teacher training or educational technology,
* a skilled and experienced adult educator,
* a self motivator,
* excellent communication and interpersonal skills,
* an ability to work as a team member in a highly fluid environment,
* a familiarity with basic computer software e.g. word processing, spreadsheets
*   proficiency in establishing web sites and managing page content in collaboration with the technician,
and
*   a knowledge of spoken English and the local language (written and spoken) is essential.
- 47 -



TECHNCIAN
The information technology staff is responsible for supporting the Distance Learning Center's technology
infrastructure. As a member of the DLC team, this person will also take part in briefing potential clients
on benefits from a technology perspective.
The role of the technician will be:
* to maintain and support NT and Lotus Notes client-server environment (40+ PCs), and administrate
NT/Notes activities (e.g. user names and login activity, services, regular maintenance and backup
procedures, network printer connectivity, file services and IP connectivity),
* to conduct regular maintenance and troubleshooting on existing office and communication technology
equipment (videoconference units, monitors) and maintain a trouble log,
* to participate in the design, installation, configuration and activation of new technology and
communication services at the Distance Learning Center,
*  to maintain an up-to-date inventory of office equipment and software,
* to provide expert advice and guidance to distance learning clients on hardware and software, and
* to establish a credible relationship with local telecom providers and equipment vendors.
The specific responsibilities of the technician will include:
* assisting with hardware and software procurement and maintenance, evaluating local technology
vendors, ensuring adherence to existing standards,
* providing proper security of equipment and data by ensuring that equipment is either locked or securedi
in place, and any data coming from outside agencies is thoroughly screened for viruses before being
introduced in Distance Learning Center,
* establishing regular contact with the other Distance Learning Center IT staff for the purpose of sharing
experiences and best practices,
* remaining abreast of the latest IT developments by maintaining regular contacts with outside vendors,
and
* assessing new hardware and software from the perspective of application to distance learning.
The technician will have the following primary skills and qualifications:
* a higher degree, preferably in Computer Science, and two years relevant experience in the computer
industry (preferably in a networked environment), or two years training in a polytechnical institute in
electronics with extensive experience in the telecommunications or networking environment,
* superior analytical and problem solving skills,
* five years minimum experience with PC hardware and software support, including extensive knowledge
of configuration and repair issues. Experience should include support of notebook computers and PC
Card accessories for notebooks,
* high proficiency in the use Windows NT, Lotus Notes, Word, Excel, PowerPoint and anti-virus
software,
* proficiency in establishing and maintaining web sites and managing page content in collaboration with
the training coordinator,
* working knowledge of client server technology and general network connectivity and maintenance
issues (e.g. servers, hubs, routers, Ethernet cabling),
* experience with network administration highly desirable,
-48 -



*   working knowledge of telecommunications equipment and software (e.g. PABX telephone
configuration, and modems),
* working knowledge of videoconferencing equipment (experience with PictureTel systems highly
desirable),
* a basic understanding of satellite technology (e.g. current uses and practices), and
* a knowledge of spoken English and the local language (written and spoken) is essential.
The technician should have the following additional skills:
* a self-starter with the ability to apply knowledge and expertise to deliver high quality work and to
self-manage work program,
* an ability to work as a team member in a highly fluid environment and to develop technology solutions
that encourage the use of collaborative computing,
*   a demonstrated ability to assist end-users in learning standard software applications through
demonstrations, written guides, etc.
-49 -



