Report No. PID8782
Project Name                     Benin-Distance Learning Project - LIL
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Other Education
Project ID                       BJPE67329
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF BENIN
Implementing Agency
MINISTRY OF FINANCE/DISTANCE LEARNING CENTER
Address: c/o Institut National d'Economie,
MinistOre des Finances et de
l'Economie, B.P. 302, Cotonou, Benin
Contact Person: Le Conseiller Technique
1'Economie
Tel: (229) 30-01-34
Fax: (229) 30-18-51
Email: mfcte@leland.bj
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                November 5, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         N/A
Projected Board Date             N/A
1. Country and Sector Background
Since the first Structural Adjustment Program in 1989, the Government of
Benin has emphasized the restructuring and improvement of public sector
institutions. A number of subsequent macro and sectoral projects and programs
have highlighted and addressed the need to strengthen private, as well as
public sector, institutions. However, institutional strengthening and
capacity building activities have been hampered by a piece-meal approach and
lack of access to targeted training and global knowledge and information.
The current professional training system relies on either bringing trainers
to Benin, to teach a course to a limited audience in one ministry or firm, or
on sending a limited number of professionals abroad for training. Some
courses that are taught regularly in Benin are outdated or not applicable to
the Beninese context.The 1993 Economic Management Project identified human
resource and institutional deficiencies in economic concepts linked to
development and management of a market economy as a serious impediment to
implementation of the Government's reform program. It responded by
establishing the National Economics Institute (NEI) to provide high level
training in relevant areas. Strategies in other sectors, such as education,
urban development and transport, among others, have also focused on the need
to improve the policy design, planning and management capacity of Government
officials as a means of effectively reforming the respective sectors. The
Government is also focusing on partnerships with the private sector and civil
society in an attempt to rationalize its function. Although private firms
and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) are functioning fairly well on a
limited scale, they could become more effective partners to Government with
adequate training, exposure to modern methods of planning, finance and



management and access to broad-based knowledge and information from
institutions renowned in relevant fields.
2. Objectives
The main objective of the project is to increase access to high-quality, up-
to-date and cost-effective training for public and private decision-makers
and implementers to increase their capacity to design, plan and manage
economic and social development policies. A secondary objective is to
establish a center of excellence in the region for distance learning and
exchange of information and experience. The project will accomplish these
objectives by establishing a Distance Learning Center (DLC) with access to
the latest global distance learning programs and using state-of-the-art
communications technology.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The World Bank, through its World Bank Institute (WBI) and Information
Solutions Group (ISG), provides needed expertise in distance learning
delivery and knowledge of state-of-the-art distance learning technology. WBI
is also involved in putting together a network of such distance learning
centers and will provide course content, particularly in the initial stages
until relationships can be built with other training providers. ISG is
helping to establish the centers as part of a network, building on the World
Bank's system, to overcome scale problems that would occur in attempting to
establish an independent network at the outset.
4. Description
The project comprises two main components: (i) retrofitting and equipment of
the Distance Learning Center; and (ii) support for DLC establishment and
operation.
Component 1 consists of upgrading facilities made available by the National
Economics Institute for establishment of the DLC to provide a videoconference
room with a 30-person capacity, a computer room outfitted for 30 computer
stations (hardware, software and internet hook-up), a technical and
administrative center, and installation and/or upgrading of electrical and
telephone wiring. It also comprises equipment of the DLC including purchase
and installation of a Very Small Aperture Terminal (VSAT) (satellite
communication terminal), video, telecommunications and microprocessor
equipment, office and classroom furniture and various other equipment for DLC
operation and security.
Component 2 aims to assist the DLC begin operation and become financially
viable. It includes: (a) financing of DLC operation costs on a decreasing
basis over the first 3 years of operation; (b) purchase of a vehicle to
facilitate transport and marketing of DLC services; and (c) technical
assistance for the training of Center staff, periodic evaluation of Center
operation and management effectiveness and establishment of financial
accounts and their annual audit.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government                       0
IBRD
IDA                              1.73
Distance Learning Center         1.39
Total Project Cost               3.13
-2-



6. Implementation
Implementing Agency: The project will be implemented by the Distance Learning
Center, to be established as an autonomous nonprofit agency, housed in the
National Economics Institute. It will be considered a "public interest"
organization in recognition of its role in promoting advances in policy,
culture and technology among a wide range of actors.The DLC will be governed
by a Board, comprising representatives of the Ministries of Planning,
Finance, Education and External Relations, Beninese academic institutions,
the private sector and civil society (cultural associations, the media, etc.
and chaired by an official elected from among the members. Daily management
of the Center will be entrusted to a Director selected on the basis of proven
experience in enterprise management, including management of similar
educational entities. The Director will be assisted by a team consisting of
a technician (computer specialist with telecommunications knowledge), a
facilitator/ trainer, an experienced accountant and an office
assistant.Project Oversight and Coordination: The Ministry of Finance and
Economy will be responsible for project coordination and ensuring the
participation of the public and private sectors and donor community in
project monitoring and training development activities (through the DLC
Board). Project Implementation:     The project will be implemented and
managed by the DLC. So that distance learning activities can begin as soon
as possible after project effectiveness, project preparation includes
establishment of the DLC (legal procedures, formation of the DLC Board,
recruitment of Director and staff) and preparation and equipment of the site
(classrooms, videoconference room, computer room, administrative offices,
etc.). Project preparation activities are being handled by the Ministry of
Finance and Economy with the assistance of AGETUR, for works and equipment,
and SERHAU-SEM for institutional aspects and studies. These activities are
being financed through a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance. In
addition, the Bank, through its Information Solutions Group (ISG), will
provide assistance and expertise to procure, install and test
videoconferencing equipment, and provide related training to DLC
staff.Financial Management and Reporting: As the implementing agency for
this project, the DLC, is a new entity, the project will begin with
traditional financial management and disbursement arrangements through a
Special Account and SOEs. As noted below, the DLC will produce quarterly
activity reports. After one year of project implementation, the financial
management system and reporting system will be assessed for compatibility
with the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI); the appropriate
changes will be made to the systems to make them LACI compliant, including
reworking the quarterly reports into Project Management Reports
(PMRs).Procurement: Goods and Works financed by the IDA credit will be
procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits published in January 1995 and revised in January and
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Consultant services financed by
the IDA credit will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers published in
January 1987 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999. To expedite DLC
retrofitting and noting the small value of the required works, civil works
contracts will be procured through a short-list of selected contractors using
proposed Bank-approved bidding documents. These works are expected to be
carried out by local contractors. To ensure compatibility with the Global
Distance Learning Network, the Bank (ISG) will procure network access
equipment for the videoconference room, and computers and computer-related
communications equipment on behalf of the Borrower on a sole-source basis (an
-3 -



agreement to this effect has been signed by the Government of Benin and IDA).
Residual equipment (televisions, scanners, VCRs, generator, UPS, telephone
sets, furniture) will be procured by AGETUR using national and international
shopping, according to availability on the local market. To facilitate
network establishment, reduce transaction costs and obtain beneficial prices,
the satellite bandwidth rental contract will be procured on a sole-source
basis (one supplier selected under the Bank umbrella). Small quantities of
office supplies and goods (e.g. a vehicle) for Center operation estimated at
US$20,000 or less per contract will be procured through National Shopping
(NS), in accordance with Bank procedures.
7. Sustainability
The Distance Learning Project is conceived as a Learning and Innovation Loan
(LIL) to test the sustainability of distance learning as a means of providing
wider access to higher-quality training. The project is designed to assist
the DLC in becoming financially self-supporting by its fourth year of
operation. Progress in this regard will be carefully monitored.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
This project builds on the following lessons learned from the experience of
existing professional training systems in Benin, including the African
Virtual University: (a) in-country training is more cost-effective; (b)
training technology should be flexible to respond to country context, and
supply and demand for training; (c) long-term business plan for training
center should be developed sooner rather than later; (d) sustainability of
distance learning center must be built from the beginning through targetted
marketing; (e) a pipeline of relevant course content must be developed well
in advance to respond quickly to demand and facilitate marketing.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The project will have no environmental impact.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Hedi Larbi
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
- 4 -



