Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3319 BEN
Development Credit Agreement
(Distance Learning Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 24, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3319 BEN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 24, 2000, between the REPUBLIC OF BENIN (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of 
the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Distance Learning Center 
(DLC-BENIN) with the Borrower’s assistance, and as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to DLC-BENIN the proceeds of 
the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of 
even date herewith between the Association and DLC-BENIN;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
Page  2
through December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth below (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (c) is added to Section 3.04 to read:
"If the Association shall at any time receive less than the 
full amount then due and payable to it under the Development 
Credit Agreement, the Association shall have the right to 
allocate and apply the amount so received in any manner and for 
such 
purposes under the Development Credit Agreement as the 
Association 
shall in its sole discretion determine."; and
(b)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second 
sentence, the word "radiogram" with the word "facsimile" and adding a new 
sentence at the end of the said Section to read:
"Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be 
confirmed by mail."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Charter" means the charter establishing DLC-BENIN, dated 
September 24, 1999, as amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(b)
"Distance Learning Center" or "DLC-BENIN" means the Distance 
Learning Center, established pursuant to the Charter;
(c)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the 
Association and DLC-BENIN of even date herewith, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(d)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation 
advance and the supplemental project preparation advance granted by the 
Association to the Borrower pursuant to exchanges of letters dated June 
21 and July 28, 1999 between the Borrower and the Association on one hand 
and dated November 24, 1999 and December 3, 1999 on the other hand;
(e)
"NEI" means the Borrower’s National Economics Institute 
established pursuant to the ministerial decree No. 576/MEMF/DGM/R/UNB 
dated May 19, 1988;
(f)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(g)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and DLC-BENIN pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Agreement;
(h)
"CFA Franc" or "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
(i)
"Project Implementation Manual" means the manual referred to 
in paragraph 3 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement; and
(j)
"Business Plan" means the plan referred to in paragraph 2 
(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one 
million three hundred and thirty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
1,330,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
Page  3
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in CFA Francs a special deposit account in a commercial bank 
acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to 
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project 
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay 
all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized 
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 2004 or such 
later date as the Association shall establish.  The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
(60) days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual 
installments payable on each January 1 and July 1 commencing July 1, 2010 
and ending January 1, 2040.  Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on January 1, 2020 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent 
(2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three (3) consecutive years the level established annually by the 
Association for determining eligibility to access the Association’s 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval 
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment 
Page  4
not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after 
the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events 
set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that 
there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five (5) years on such 
repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its 
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, shall cause 
DLC-BENIN to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of DLC-BENIN therein set forth, shall take 
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to 
enable DLC-BENIN to perform such obligations, and shall not take or 
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
(b) 
The Borrower shall, under a subsidiary agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and DLC-BENIN (the Subsidiary 
Agreement) and on terms and conditions which shall have been approved by 
the Association, transfer the proceeds of the Credit to DLC-BENIN as a 
grant.
(c) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and 
the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except 
as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
Page  5
views with the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that 
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 
9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project shall be carried out 
by DLC-BENIN pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which 
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements 
of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with 
sound accounting practices, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures are retained until at least one year 
after the Association has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section including those for 
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later than six (6) months after the 
end of each such year the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that 
DLC-BENIN shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that the 
event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall 
continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have 
been given by the Association to the Borrower. 
Page  6
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement 
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
a memorandum of understanding, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, has been signed between DLC-BENIN and 
NEI;
(b)
DLC-BENIN has appointed a Director, and the staff referred 
to in paragraph 2 (a) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement;
(c)
DLC-BENIN’s Executive Board has adopted a Project 
Implementation Manual, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association;
(d)
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed by the Borrower 
and DLC-BENIN;
(e)
the financial management system referred to in paragraph 4 
of the Schedule to the Project Agreement has been established and is 
operational;
(f)
DLC-BENIN has furnished to the Association a draft of its 
Business Plan for the first year of DLC-BENIN’s operations; and
(g)
an auditor satisfactory to the Association has been 
appointed, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, to 
audit the Project accounts.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, 
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be 
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by DLC-BENIN and is legally binding on DLC-BENIN in accordance 
with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and DLC-BENIN and is legally binding on the 
Borrower and DLC-BENIN in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the 
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date fifteen years 
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible 
for finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministère des Finances
B.P. 302
Cotonou
Republic of Benin
Page  7
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
MINFINANCES
5009 or
(229) 301 851
Cotonou
5289 MINFIN
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or   (202) 477 6391 
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
By /s/ Abdoulaye Bio Tchane
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Sidi Boubacar
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
  % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
20,000 100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(2)
Consultants’ services,   
70,000 100%
training, and audit
services
(3)
Incremental operating 
costs:
Page  8
(a) Satellite Rent
     170,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(b) Other Project items      270,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(4)
Refunding of
     730,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c)
Advances
of this Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
70,000
TOTAL
   1,330,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the 
Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of which 
goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such 
goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the incremental 
expenses incurred on account of Project implementation, management and 
monitoring, including office supplies, vehicle operation, travel and 
supervision costs, salaries of employees of CED-BENIN but excluding 
salaries of officials of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(a) goods under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and 
(b) consultants’ services for (i) firms under contracts costing less than 
$50,000 each; and (ii) individuals under contracts costing less than 
$25,000 each, all under such terms and conditions as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) test the effectiveness 
and sustainability of a distance learning center as part of a global 
knowledge-sharing network to strengthen the capacity of public and 
private decision-makers and implementers to design, plan and manage 
economic and social development policies; and (b) establish a center of 
excellence in the region for distance learning and exchange of 
information and experience.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Distance Learning Retrofitting
Upgrading of facilities made available to DLC-BENIN by NEI, 
including: (i) the provision of a video conference room with a 30-person 
capacity, a computer room outfitted for 30 computer stations (hardware, 
software and internet hook-up), a technical and administrative center; 
Page  9
(ii) installation and/or upgrading of electrical and telephone wiring; 
and (iii) purchase and installation for DLC-BENIN of a Very Small 
Aperture Terminal (VSAT): satellite communication center, video, 
telecommunications and microprocessor equipment, office and classroom 
furniture and various other equipment for DLC-BENIN’s operations and 
security.
Part B:
Strengthening DLC-BENIN’s Operational and Financial Capacity
Strengthening the financial and operational capabilities of 
DLC-BENIN, including: (i) acquisition for DLC-BENIN of vehicles to 
facilitate the transport and marketing of DLC-BENIN’s services; (ii) 
provision of technical advisory services for (A) the training of staff of 
DLC-BENIN, and (B) periodic evaluation of DLC-BENIN’s operations and 
management effectiveness; (iii) establishment of sound financial accounts 
for DLC-BENIN; and (iv) employment of an audit firm, acceptable to the 
Association, to carry out annual audits of DLC-BENIN’s accounts.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
Direct Contracting
Goods for network access, video-conferencing and satellite 
bandwidth rent which should be procured as an extension of an existing 
contract or must be procured from a particular supplier as a condition of 
performance guarantee and costing $650,000 equivalent or less in the 
aggregate, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding 
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  10
2.
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $10,000 or more, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a report on the comparison and evaluation 
of quotations received;
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
direct contracting or shopping procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy of 
the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii) the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f) and 2 
(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph. The short list of consultants for services estimated 
to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 
of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services for the design of a financial management system and annual 
audit of DLC-BENIN estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Page  11
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but 
less than the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for 
its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after 
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through 
(3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent 
to CFAF 60,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
Page  12
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into 
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests 
for deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the 
documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association 
from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, 
as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that 
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) 
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
Page  13
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure 
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or 
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit 
into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to 
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account 
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
