Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3319 BEN
Project Agreement
(Distance Learning Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
DISTANCE LEARNING CENTER
Dated March 24, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3319 BEN 
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 24, 2000 between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and DISTANCE LEARNING CENTER ("DLC-BENIN").
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Republic of Benin (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to 
lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one million three 
hundred and thirty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,330,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that  
DLC-BENIN agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth 
in this Agreement; 
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
DLC-BENIN the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to DLC-BENIN on terms and conditions set forth in 
said Subsidiary Agreement; and
WHEREAS DLC-BENIN, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Page  2
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) DLC-BENIN declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, educational, literacy and technical 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and DLC-BENIN shall otherwise agree, DLC-BENIN shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in the 
Schedule to this Agreement. Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions 
of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) DLC-BENIN shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, DLC-BENIN shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and DLC-BENIN, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and 
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with DLC-BENIN on said plan.
Section 2.04. DLC-BENIN shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, DLC-BENIN shall 
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, 
abrogating or waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) DLC-BENIN shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
DLC-BENIN shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by DLC-BENIN of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of DLC-BENIN 
Section 3.01. DLC-BENIN shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and technical practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers. 
Section 3.02. DLC-BENIN shall at all times operate and maintain its buildings, 
office space, plant, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as 
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
administrative, financial and technical practices. 
Section 3.03. DLC-BENIN shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, 
or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV 
Page  3
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) DLC-BENIN shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect, in accordance with sound accounting, its operations and financial condition.
(b)
DLC-BENIN shall: 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: 
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as 
so audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, DLC-BENIN shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable DLC-BENIN, not later than twelve (12) months after the Effective 
Date or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(a)
(i) 
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period; and
(ii) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during 
the six-month period following the period covered by said report; 
(b)
(i) 
describes physical progress in the implementation of the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and  
(ii) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets;  
(c)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
DLC-BENIN thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify DLC-BENIN 
of this event.
Page  4
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477 6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For DLC-BENIN:
INE - 03 BP 1079
Cotonou
Republic of Benin
Facsimile:
(229) 30 41 69
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of DLC-BENIN or 
by DLC-BENIN on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be 
taken or executed by its Director, or by such other person or persons as DLC-BENIN 
shall designate in writing, and DL shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Sidi Boubacar
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
DISTANCE LEARNING CENTER – DLC-BENIN
By /s/ Honorat Aguessy
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
SCHEDULE 
Implementation Program
1.
DLC-BENIN shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, at the latest on January 31 of each year, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period and the achievement of the objectives thereof;  and 
(c)
review with the Association, by February 28 of each year, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
2.
(a)
DLC-BENIN shall be administered by an Executive Board comprising the 
Ministries in charge of Planning, Finance, Education and External Relations, Beninese 
academic institutions, the private sector and civil society. DLC-BENIN’s Executive 
Board shall be responsible for: (i) overseeing Project implementation; (ii) monitoring 
of  DLC-BENIN’s management; (iii) deciding on DLC-BENIN’s development policy; and (iv) 
approving the Annual Business Plan and DLC-BENIN’s program of activities. 
(b)
The day to day management of DLC-BENIN’s operations shall be assigned to 
a Director with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association 
appointed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. The Director shall 
be assisted by a team of suitably qualified and experienced staff consisting, inter 
alia, of a technician (computer specialist with telecommunications skills), a 
facilitator/trainer, an accountant/financial officer and an office assistant.
(c)
DLC-BENIN shall prepare a business plan (the Business Plan), in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which shall set out in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request market data, budget and sources of financing, 
training and other services to be provided under the Project, source and programming 
of training, pricing policy for different types of training and financial projections 
in the form of a budget, operating account and marketing strategy. 
(d)
The Director of DLC-BENIN shall no later than November 1 each year 
furnish the Business Plan for the following year to the Executive Board of DLC-BENIN 
for approval and to the Association for review and comments. DLC-BENIN shall update 
the Business Plan annually and promptly furnish each updated plan to its Executive 
Board for approval and to the Association for review and comments. 
(e)
The Director of DLC-BENIN shall prepare and furnish to the Executive 
Board of DLC-BENIN no later than 30 days after the end of each quarter an activity 
report on its operations and progress made in carrying out the Business Plan during 
the quarter. The said quarterly report shall specify any problems encountered in the 
carrying out of the Project and include updated performance indicators on DLC-BENIN’s 
operations.
3.
DLC-BENIN shall prepare and furnish to the Association, no later than March 15, 
2000, a Project Implementation Manual (the Project Implementation Manual) in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association. DLC-BENIN shall obtain the consent of the 
Association before making any material changes in the Project Implementation Manual; 
and shall not make any such changes in the Project Implementation Manual that are, in 
the opinion of the Association, likely to affect materially or adversely the carrying 
out of the Project. 
4.
DLC-BENIN shall establish a financial management system for the Project in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Association.
Page  6
