Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9032-NIR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
JANUARY 11, 1991
Infrastructure Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit       =      CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.0              =      CFAF 250
CFAF 1 million             US$2,500
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGETIP      Agence d'Execution des Travaux d'Interet Public Contre
le Sous-emploi (Senegal)
CNREF       Commission Nationale des Reformes Economiques et Financieres
DSD         Direction de la Statistique et de la Demographie
GON         Government of Niger
GTZ         Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zussemmenarbeit
(Germany/Allemagne)
KfW         Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Germany/Allemagne)
PACSA       Programme d'Attenuation des Coats Sociaux de l'Ajustement
PESAP       Public Enterprise Sectoral Adjustment Program
SAL         Structural Adjustment Loan
SDA         Social Dimensions of Adjustment
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
This report is based on the findings of a World Bank mission consisting of
Messrs. Leslie Pean (Economist, Mission Leader), Jean-Marie Lantran (Civil
Engineer), and Magatte Wade (Consultant), who visited Niger in July 1990 to
appraise the Project. Francis Mody and Pierre Nignon provided support for
the subprojects' economic analysis. Mr. Patrick Canel was the Lead Advisor
for the operation.  Mrs. Katherine Marshall and Mr. Peter Watson are the
Department Director and managing Division Chief, respectively for the
operation. The report was typed by Mrs. Malissa Ngo,Van Duc.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page no.
Credit and Project Summary  .                     . . . . . . . . .-v
I.    THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL CONTEXT ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  1
A.   Recession, Unemployment, and Urbanization  . ....                    1
B.    Government's Policy and Rationale for IDA Involvement               3
C.   The Construction Industry: Performance and
Constraints  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  4
D.   The Bank's Previous Role   ... .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  7
II. THE PROJECT.8
A. Project Objectives.                                                    8
B.  Project Description .                . . . . . .                      9
C.   Rationale for Bank Group Involvement                                16
D.  Status of Project Preparation .17
E.  Project Cost and Financing Plan .18
F. Project Implementation .19
G. Procurement .21
H. Disbursement .23
I.   Accounting, Auditing, and Reporting .24
J. Supervision Plan .24
K.  Economic Analysis  . . . .......... . . .                            26
L.  Benefits and Risks ....... .                          - ...... .     26
III.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...  .         .  .  .  .  .    .   27
TABLES IN THE MAIN TEXT
Table 2.1 - Estimated Costs
Table 2.2 - Financing Plan
Table 2.3 - Procurement
SUPPORTING ANNEXES, TABLES, CHARTS, AND MAPS
1.   The Executing Agency's Statutes and Bylaws
2.    The Executing Agency's Procedures Manual
3.    Cost Tables
4.    Project Execution Schedule
5.   Allocation of IDA Credits
6.    Economic Analysis
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          Government of Niger
Beneficiary:      Ministry of Plan
Credit Amount:    US$20.0 million
Terms:             Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
CofinancinZ:       Other donors (US$10.0 million)  and Government of Niger
(GON) (US$3.3 million)
Project
Objectives and
Description:       The main objectives of the project are: (a) to create, at
least temporarily, substantial new employment in urban
areas as rapidly as possible using the private sector,
thereby stimulating small local private contractors and
consulting firms; (b) to improve, through execution of the
works financed by the project, the individual skills of the
workers who will be employed, and the corporate
competitiveness of the firms that will carry out works so
as to develop their capacity to respond to increased
opportunities for sustained employment after completion of
the project; (c) to demonstrate the feasibility of
labor-intensive projects and test the procedures that will
enable the public sector to commission such projects that
are economically and socially useful; (d) to review
existing public works programs and recast them with the
intent of speeding up their implementation and overall
performance; and (e) a package of consultant services
related to a training program for the beneficiaries and
engineering firms on the preparation of feasibility studies
and technical project proposals; a program aimed at
increasing grassroots participation in urban infrastructure
maintenance; and the preparatory work for the establishment
of  a mutual  guarantee  company.    In  pursuing  these
objectives, the following conditions should be fulfilled:
(i) avoiding any increase in civil service employment; (ii)
combining low cost and high visibility; (iii) supporting,



- iii -
but not replacing, other development programs; and (iv)
using transparent but expeditious and flexible procedures
for subproject bidding, appraisal, contracting, and
disbursements.
Justification
and Risks:        Although the economic rate of return of a labor-intensive
public works program is difficult to estimate, economic
rates of return have been calculated to be 26 percent and
51 percent, respectively for subprojects of sand removal
from public facilities and pavement rehabilitation. The
proposed project is further justified by its impact on
poverty alleviation and by indirectly securing other
development and adjustment undertakings. The design of the
project is mainly justified by the fact that the targeted
industry (construction, maintenance, and urban services)--
more than any other industry--hires and dismisses labor
according to contract opportunities. This maximizes the
probability that an increase in the industry's activity
will actually result in an increase in employment.
Conversely, the project is not expected to directly create
permanent  jobs.   Main  risks  arise  from the possible
inability of Niger's economy to develop enough stable job
opportunities during the period of program execution,
leading to pressure from the Government to extend the
program beyond its initial period.   Another risk is to
jeopardize previous efforts of public sector management
improvement, including restrictions on personnel hiring,
implemented during recent years by the central and local
governments; continued employment for those who would
benefit from the program should not take the form of their
being hired by local governments when the program ends.
Lastly, the control of proper use of funds is more
difficult with such a program than with regular investment
projects. The implementing arrangements established during
project preparation and appraisal and contained in a
Procedures Manual (Annex 2), which is attached to the
Convention entered into by the Government and the Agency,
have been carefully designed to address this risk.



- iv -
Estimated
Project Costs:
LOCAL       FOREIGN       TOTAL | K
I|I FOREIGN
(USS million)
Component (a): Labor-intensive Civil          22.65          3.38      28.03          13%
WorksI
Component (b): Services to                      1.01         0.49       1.50          32%
Contractors
Component (c): Monitoring                       0.48         0.32       0.80          40%
Contract Management Study                       0.00         0.30       0.30         100%
Mutual Guarantee Co.                            0.00         0.10       0.10         100%
Training Program for Beneficiaries              0.06         0.20       0.25          80%
Grassroot Participation Program                 0.10           -        0.10           -
Executing Agency Operating Costs                1.74         0.10       1.84           6%
PPF and Executing Agency Capital                1.28         0.48       1.76          27X
Budget
Base Costs                                    27.30          5.38      32.68          16%
Price Contingencies                             0.34         0.28       0.82          44%
Total Project Costs (1)                        27.84         6.88      33.30          17%
(1) Numbers may not add due to rounding.
Financing Plan
% OF
LOCAL      FOREIGN        TOTAL       TOTAL
PROJECT
COST
(USS million)                   l
Government                                  3.3                       3.3          10%
IDA                                        16.8          4.4         20.0          80X
Other donors (OPEC fund, KfW) (to           8.7          1.3         10.0          30X
be determined)
Total Project Costs                        27.8          6.7         33.3         100%Kl



Estimated Disbursements
FY91                FY92                FY93
|| Total                     2.0                  8.9                 9.1
Cumulative                 2.0                 10.9                20.0
Estimated Project Completion Date: March 15, 1994
Memorandum of the President: No. P-5387-NIR
MLap: IBRD 16779-R



PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL CONTEXT
A. Recession, Unemployment, and Urbanization
1.01        In the past decade, the economy of Niger has been hit by several
external shocks creating balance of payment deficits and external
disequilibrium. The economy entered a recessionary state, whose magnitude is
increasing. Since 1980, per capita GDP fell by at least 25 percent. During
the euphoria of the uranium boom, the Government, anticipating continuous
revenue inflows, increased the size of the public sector and borrowed
externally for its investment program. The economic slowdown, brought about
by the drop of world market uranium prices, affected revenues and created a
large budget deficit, as public spending continued unabated.  In the early
1980s, Niger was left with a budget deficit of 10 percent of GDP, a balance
of payments (current account) deficit of 22 percent of GDP and a portfolio of
uneconomic investments. The financial situation worsened with rapidly rising
debt service as interest on foreign loans came due. In light of the gravity
of these economic distortions, the Government adopted a set of austerity
measures to deal with the internal and external imbalances and to stabilize
the economy.
1.02        In order to face the crisis created by the fall in uranium
exports and the repeated droughts that have affected the livestock and
agricultural sectors, Niger's Government, for the past seven years, has
undertaken reforms to stabilize and adjust the economy. Since 1983, Niger
has been engaged in macroeconomic stabilization and adjustment, with the
support of the IMF and IDA. So far, progress has been made in rationalizing
the public enterprise sector: reducing direct subsidies to the sector from
nearly 25 percent to 7 percent of current budget outlays between 1983 and
1989; liberalizing the economy by eliminating most price controls and
abolishing some state trading monopolies; strengthening the rural sector by
freeing up internal trade in cereals, eliminating export duties for agro-
pastoral products, and reducing subsidies.
1.03        Despite these efforts, the economy stagnated with GDP growth
averaging  0.5 percent  per  annum  in  1985-89.    Rural  sector  production
fluctuated widely because of rainfall patterns, but averaged 1.1 percent
growth during the period from 1985 to 1989.   Fixed capital investment
declined from a record high of 28 percent of GDP in 1980 to about 10 percent
in 1988, with public investment down from 18 to 8 percent of GDP between 1980
and 1989 and private investment falling from 10 percent to virtually zero in
the same period.   Export receipts declined by 25 percent in real terms
between 1981 and 1988 due to the fall in uranium exports. Imports declined
by 35 percent in real terms in the 1980s, reflecting the stagnation of
economic activity and the loss of export earnings.
1.04        The social effects of Niger's economic problems are most visible
at the urban level, where population growth and a shrinking modern sector
have caused rising unemployment. The rapid growth of the informal sector has
been both a result of and a mitigating factor in the process. Unemployment



- 2 -
that started as a result of external conditions further increased with the
stabilization policies undertaken by the Government of Niger since 1983. The
structural and the sectoral adjustment credits from the World Bank
(Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) and Public Enterprise Sectoral Adjustment
Program (PESAP)) dealt almost exclusively with public sector enterprise
reform.    Thirty  of these  enterprises  have  been  either privatized  or
liquidated. This program has necessitated layoffs and plant closings. The
slow supply response of the private sector meant that these job losses have
not been compensated for by new employment opportunities in other industries
or  sectors.    The  growth  rate  of  job  creation  in the  public  sector
(1.6 percent)  is  far  below  the  annual  growth  rates  for  population
(3.2 percent) and urban population (5.5 percent). Unemployment has become a
very serious problem in Niger, particularly in Niamey, Maradi, Zinder, and
other urban centers. In 1986, it was estimated that formal unemployment was
running at a level of 9 percent in Niamey. Since then, a number of factors
have severely aggravated the situation, some of them directly related to the
adjustment process.
1.05        Unemployment has been increasing even though this trend is not
well reflected in official statistics that focus more on the formal than on
the informal sector.  By capturing the dynamics between these two sectors
in 1988, it was estimated that in urban centers the number of persons
employed in the formal sector (including mining) was 62,000 of which 26,000
were in the private modern sector (parastatals included) and 36,000 were in
the civil service. At the same time, 100,000 people were estimated to be
full-time workers in the informal sector, with an additional 100,000 working
part-time in that sector.
1.06        The  informal  sector  has  traditionally  been  an  outlet  for
absorption of surplus manpower.  For the country as a whole, the informal
sector supplies 57 percent of non-agricultural employment.   It has been
estimated that 65 percent of those employed in industry, 84 percent and
39 percent of those employed in commerce and services, respectively, work in
the informal sector. For Niamey, the informal sector represents 43 percent
of total employment, which has been estimated to represent, in terms of
employment by industrial category, 51 percent for industry, 78 percent for
commerce, and 22 percent for services.
1.07        The informal sector has been particularly important in the
transborder trade with Nigeria, Niger's main trading partner.  But in the
past decade, this trade has also been negatively affected by monetary
fluctuation. Over the 1986-1989 period, the real effective exchange rate of
the CFAF is estimated to have appreciated by 30 percent vis-a-vis the naira,
making exports to Nigeria less competitive and imports cheaper.  This has
created a downward pressure on wages in that sector, thereby increasing
poverty for large strata of the population.
1.08        The net effects of this situation in the formal and informal
sectors have been the rise of unemployment as investments have declined in
all sectors. Incomes in the informal sector have also been affected by the
economic downturn. A national survey on the informal sector indicates that
micro-entrepreneurs are facing a situation in which their incomes are
diminishing as demand is shrinking, although their numbers have increased.



1.09        This trend, which reduces employment opportunities on the demand
side, is compounded on the supply side by large urban population growth due
partly to the demographic structure of Niger's population.   Niger has a
population of 7.2 million of which more than half is less than 20 years old.
Seventy-five percent of the citizenry is under 30. Niger has a high crude
birth rate (51 per 1,000) and high fertility rates (more than six children
per family).  Niger has one of the highest annual population growth rates
(3.2 percent) in the Sahel. Eighty-five percent of the population, including
6 percent who is nomadic, lives in the rural areas, but Niger urban centers
have been growing at the average annual rate of 5.5 percent. Niamey's growth
rate is even higher and is estimated at 10 percent, corresponding to an
addition of 30,000 persons per year. Niamey represents 45 percent of total
urban population with a population of about 400,000.   This high urban
population growth rate and the age structure of the population account for
the fact that of the 27,000 job-seekers recorded in 1987, more than 15,000 of
them or 54 percent were between 18 and 30 years old.
1.10        Until the  investment  environment  is improved,  allowing new
investments to generate additional jobs, the unemployment problem, which
public opinion considers as an adverse effect of adjustment, will pose a
growing threat to the Government's ability to sustain the needed reforms.
The increasing discontent among the population has created social unrest
which finds its leadership among unemployed high school and university
graduates, and is fueled by the large number of unemployed urban residents
and by the growing number of immigrants from rural areas seeking a better
living in the capital city.
1.11        In  order  to  alleviate  the  social  stress  in  urban  areas,
especially in Niamey, the Government is eager to complement its adjustment
effort with labor-intensive public works projects which would have an
immediate impact on employment and would also contribute to Niamey's and
other cities' efficiency and attractiveness for investors.   The rationale
behind such a program is that its results, albeit temporary, will offset
increasing short-term unemployment and ease the transition to more
sustainable employment creation resulting from the positive effects expected
from adjustment in the medium term.
B. Government's Policy and Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.12        The  Government,  seeking ways  of  dealing with  the  growing
unemployment problem, appointed a coordinating group under the inter-
ministerial Commission Nationale des Reformes Economiques et Financieres
(CNREF).  Noting that the already difficult employment situation had been
aggravated by the diminution of aggregate demand brought about by the
economic crisis, the Government called on its international partners to take
more account of the social dimensions of adjustment and to integrate measures
to protect the poor into the macroeconomic and sectorial policies put forward
for stabilization and structural adjustment. In October 1989, the Government
elaborated a strategy called Programme d'Attenuation des Coats Sociaux de
l'Aiustement, known as PACSA. The strategy consists of a shopping list of
activities and projects in health, population, education, water supply and
sanitation, rural development, environmental protection, public works, and so
forth.



- 4 -
1.13        The Bank's response was to argue for a more basic reorientation
of existing social programs as a way of creating a more lasting solution to
the problem than would be achieved with ad hoc targeted interventions. It
was specifically noted that existi,ng education and health programs had
undisbursed balances that could be used to bring about fundamental shifts in
resources towards disadvantaged groups. In the agriculture sector, the Small
Rural Operations Project had available funds; in the infrastructure sector,
the quantity of rural roads being built under the Transport Sector Project
using labor-intensive techniques could be expanded through the use of small
local contractors using intermediate technology.
1.14        One area where a real gap was identified was in the urban sector.
Not only is there no ongoing operation but also the effects of unemployment
take their most visible  form in the cities.   In addition,  experience
elsewhere--from Bolivia to Senegal--has shown that small urban infrastructure
works have a high potential for combining useful public works aimed at
rehabilitating dilapidated infrastructure with highly visible employment
creation.   The Senegal model also has high potential for promoting the
development of small local enterprises through demand increases and technical
assistance.   Following extensive discussions and a visit to the Senegal
operation, the Government of Niger asked IDA to mount a similar operation in
Niger.
1.15        A final element in the equation concerns Government's policy of
redirecting investment towards the social sectors and to emphasize
maintenance of existing infrastructure in preference to new investment. The
Government is trying to improve its poor implementation capacity by dealing
with the reasons such as administrative complexity and inefficiency, lack of
institutional capacity, and a shortage of counterpart funds for foreign-
financed projects that have impeded project implementation.   The proposed
project, by creating a not-for-profit, independent, and autonomous agency
with stream-lined procedures and increased accountability, will provide a
clear demonstration of the potential for speeding up project implementation
and improving the execution of public works programs. This demonstration,
in combination with the administrative and financial audit of public works
contracting and contact management procedures that is proposed under the
project, will provide a sound base for undertaking corrective actions.  The
Municipal Infrastructure Project that is under preparation will provide the
vehicle both for putting these changes into effect and for continuing the
employment creation process on a sustainable basis after the Public Works and
Employment Project has come to an end.
C. The Construction Industry: Performance and Constraints
1.16        In order to understand the characteristics of the construction
industry, a survey of the target enterprises was undertaken to uncover the
actual constraints currently faced by them in connection with the labor
regulatory framework, credit availability, public sector contracting, and
contract administration.   In particular, the survey aimed at obtaining a
description of the enterprises themselves, including:



(a)   overall  financial position  (fixed  capital, working capital,
short- and long-term debt, taxes owed, amounts owed by
Government);
(b)   managerial aspects (qualifications of management and workers,
proportion of cost overruns and implementation delays in recent
contracts, overall orientations of the enterprise in connection
with public works); and
(c)   employment by category (indefinite contract, fixed-term contract,
daily laborers) and any hiring/firing practices worth noting.
The results indicate that the target enterprises face a number of
constraints in the areas of access to financing and training, as well as with
respect to bidding procedures and payment delays.   The project has been
designed to address these issues.
1.17        During  the  growth years  of  the  uranium  boom  in the  late
seventies, when the economy grew annually at 8 percent, the construction
industry had an average annual growth rate of approximately 25 percent. Its
contribution to GDP went from 4 percent in 1977 to 7 percent in 1980 and the
number of its employees grew by 27 percent per year, from 4,166 in 1973 to
10,718 in 1977, reaching 40 percent of the employees of the modern sector,
not including Government civil service. At the peak of its activity in 1982,
the industry's annual turnover was an estimated CFAF 66.5 billion
(US$266 million) for the formal sector and CFAF 47.6 billion (US$190 million)
for the informal sector.   But since 1982, annual turnover of the formal
sector has declined year after year reaching CFAF 28.8 billion in 1985.
After a moderate growth in 1986 and 1987, annual turnover reached a low of
CFAF 22.4 billion in 1988. During that period, salaries in the modern sector
have dropped from CFAF 15.4 billion in 1982 to CFAF 4.0 billion in 1988 while
employment diminished from 11.818 to 4.107 for the same period.  The informal
sector fared better during the 1980s. Since 1982, its annual turnover has
increased annually reaching CFAF 74.7 billion in 1988.
1.18        On the demand side, the construction industry market is dominated
by the public sector, particularly by the Ministry of Public Works. Most
contracts come from that Ministry and are for works ranging from paved roads,
unpaved  roads,  road  maintenance,  feeder  roads,  and  transportation  of
construction materials.    There  are  also  other  ministries,  government
entities, and local governments such as the Ministry of Rural Development,
the Ministry of Hydraulics, and the technical services of municipalities that
contribute to  demand for public works to be executed by small construction-
related firms.   This is especially the case for the municipalities whose
budgets are too small to undertake large works of sanitation, water supply,
and rehabilitation.
1.19        The wage bill in total construction cost varies depending on
whether the works  are done in the  formal or  in the informal  sector.
According to national  accounts  data published by the Direction  de  la
Statistique et de la Demographie (DSD), the wage bill in the modern sector
represents 20 percent of the value of production.   Public works done with
labor-intensive techniques reveal that two thirds of costs are distributed as



- 6 -
salaries against one-third otherwise. In a similar project done in Senegal
and executed by Agence d'Execution des Travaux d'Interet Public Contre le
Sous-emploi (AGETIP), experience indicates that the wage bill constitutes
30 percent of total construction costs. Based on the above, it is possible
to work with the hypothesis that the wage bill in total construction cost is
in a range starting from a low 20 percent and reaching a high 40 percent
depending on the formality or the informality of the firms used to carry the
works. Considering that the wage bill constitutes an average of 30 percent
of the total cost of works and that the average typical monthly salary is
CFAF 24,200,   it  is  estimated  that  each  additional  US$5.0 million
(CFAF 1.25 billion) of public investment in the form of public works
commissioned to small local contractors represents the creation of 2,200 jobs
for a seven-month period, which is the normal time available for construction
activities in the dry season. It is expected that small firms and firms in
the informal sector are most likely to be the ones to execute the works.
1.20        On the supply side, in 1988, the domestic construction industry
in the formal sector encompassed about 150 firms in Niamey, more than
60 percent of which are small- or very small-scale enterprises (less than
50 permanent workers).   In addition, the "National Survey of the Informal
Sector" reveals the existence of 5,000 jobbers (tacherons). The industry's
total permanent manpower is estimated at 6,000 workers. Also, the industry
employs an estimated 20,000 temporary workers in the informal sector, of
which 12,000 are unskilled laborers.  There are also construction firms in
other cities like Dosso, Tahoua, Maradi, Zinder, Agadez, etc., especially in
the area of transport of construction materials.
1.21        The domestic construction industry is beset by a number of
constraints that hamper its capacity to expand and its ability to participate
in the construction and maintenance of infrastructure. Even for works which
do not require high qualifications and could be efficiently carried out under
labor-intensive techniques by local small firms, most of these firms cannot
be awarded or even bid for contracts under Government projects, for two main
reasons:
(a)   their low level of sophistication with respect to administrative
and financial management does not enable them to submit
acceptable proposals and to give evidence of their fulfilling the
demanding  administrative  requirements  for  the  cumbersome
procurement procedures in force for public contracts; and
(b)   current delays experienced by contractors for being paid through
the Government's administrative procedures are measured in months
in the best cases, and sometimes in years; only large firms with
substantial working capital can afford to await payment for such
a long time.
The result is that a high percentage of works are carried out by
foreign contractors.



- 7 -
D. The Bank's Previous Role
1.22        Since 1985, the principal objectives of IDA strategy for Niger
have been to support the Government's efforts to adjust to the economic
difficulties engendered by the slump in uranium prices, improve the
management of public resources, liberalize economic activity, and strengthen
the basis for long-term growth. IDA has supported the Government's reform
program through adjustment and investment operations which focussed on
sectoral expenditure programs and policy reform.   IDA investment projects
also supported long-term growth in priority areas (such as primary education,
preventive health care, and agricultural research), maintenance and
rehabilitation of existing assets.
1.23        Adiustment Operations.   The SAL and PESAP have represented
53 percent of IDA commitments and 55 percent of IDA disbursements in Niger
during 1986-1989. They have supported Niger's adjustment efforts to improve
the efficiency of public resource use, redirect public expenditure towards
the productive  and  social  sectors,  and  liberalize  the  economy.    The
adjustment program supported by PESAP has highlighted the difficulties in
deepening the reform process. Reform has been more difficult to achieve in
areas which diminish privileges to vested interests in the public and private
sectors. Hence, the Government has found it difficult to curb expenditures
(especially salaries) in the military establishment and the civil service,
and it has been unable to improve revenue collection.
1.24        Project Operations.   IDA has also financed a full range of
projects in infrastructure, education, health, agriculture (rainfed,
irrigated, and livestock), industry, and energy. Since 1980, the commitment
of IDA resources for investment projects has steadily increased, averaging
one to two projects per year, and, as of mid-FY90, there are 15 ongoing
projects with undisbursed commitments of about US$120 million. In supporting
the adjustment process, two of the ten sectors where the Bank has ongoing
projects have shown encouraging results in improving the efficiency of
overall  resource use.    In education,  good progress  has been made  in
supporting a redirection of public resources towards primary education, and
establishing the basis for more rapid growth in primary school enrollment
ratios. In transport, implementation of physical investment programs have
been successful. In other sectors (agriculture, health, industrial finance)
project implementation has been poor in terms of physical progress and
development of sustainable, replicable systems.   Such performance is not
limited to IDA projects, and is a general reflection of weak administrative
capacity coupled with the difficulty to identify economically sound projects
in a country with limited growth potential.
1.25        Other Employment Creation Experience.  In addition, since 1988,
the Bank and other donors (UNDP, KfW) have financed certain operations geared
towards helping the poor through employment creation in other sectors.  A
small rural operations project (Credit 1890-NIG) has been financed to help
increase income, better nutrition, and protect the environment of the
beneficiary farmer groups. The project helps the Government to improve its
institutional capability to prepare, appraise, execute, and evaluate small
rural operations as well as to provide effective extension services once SROs
become operational. In addition, the project offers extension services like



- 8 -
training and technical assistance as well as investments such as bottomland
improvements, small irrigated parameters, soil conservation and watershed
management, and social forestry, including village tree nurseries and
studies.   In the transport sector, the Bank has financed the on-going
Transport Sector Project (Credit 1706-NIR) which provides construction for
about 900 km of feeder roads, of which 800 km were financed by capital
intensive methods, and the balance by labor-based methods.  The latter is
part of the Government's decision to undertake a pilot program of technical
and financial support to communities for labor-intensive rural road
construction to construct short access roads connecting to roads being
improved by mechanized crews. Main support to this pilot program is provided
by UNDP. The labor-intensive unit financed by IDA completed its first 5-km
road between Famale and Guegorou in January 1989. The construction standards
are the same as with mechanized techniques; namely, a 10-m wide base, and a
6-m wide roadway. The unit employs 103 laborers and has a productivity of
2 km per month.   Construction cost  is approximately CFAF 7 million on
average, or 10 percent more expensive than with capital intensive techniques.
But, two thirds of that cost is distributed as salaries, against one third
otherwise. Also, nonqualified labor or 70 percent of the unit staffing is
hired locally, injecting much needed revenue in poor rural areas.   With
mechanized techniques, the proportion of local labor is much lower: less than
30 percent. Finally, Deutsche Gessellschaft fur Technische Zussemmenarbeit
(GTZ) is assisting the Government of Niger in implementing small projects in
rural areas.
1.26        Relevant Experience  from Senegal.    In order to help solve
contract management bottlenecks and to create employment, IDA has financed a
similar Public Works and Employment Project in Senegal where an agency with
private status named AGETIP has been created and is implementing a labor-
intensive civil works program.   The project was declared effective on
March 7,  1990.   AGETIP has constituted a file of 41 maitres  d'oeuvre
(consulting engineers) and 267 contracting firms, some of which are
currently implementing 57 projects, not including the first six pilot
projects financed under the PPF.   The performance of AGETIP is highly
satisfactory especially as it has been able to pay contractors in ten days
instead of the 30 days required in the Manual of Procedures guiding the works
of the agency, resulting in contract bid prices 15 to 20 percent below
estimates.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
2.01        The main objectives of the project are:
(a)   to create, at least temporarily, substantial new employment in
urban areas as rapidly as possible using the private sector,
thereby stimulating small local private contractors and
consulting firms;
(b)   to improve,  through execution of the works financed by the
project, the individual skills of the workers who will be



-9-
employed and the corporate competitiveness of the firms that will
carry out works so as to develop their capacity to respond to
increased opportunities for sustained employment after completion
of the project;
(c)   to demonstrate the feasibility of labor-intensive projects and to
test the procedures that will enable the public sector to
commission projects that are economically and socially useful;
and
(d)   to review existing public works programs and recast them with the
intent of speeding up their implementation and overall
performance.
In pursuing these objectives, the following conditions should be
fulfilled:
(i)      avoiding any increase in civil service employment;
(ii)      combining low cost and high visibility;
(iii)      supporting but not replacing other development programs;
and
(iv)      using transparent but expeditious and flexible procedures
for subproject bidding, appraisal, contracting, and
disbursements.
B. Project Description
2.02        The components of the proposed project are:
(a)   a program of public facility and infrastructure rehabilitation
and maintenance in urban areas to be carried out under
labor-intensive schemes by local contractors;
(b)   a package of services related to work organization, management,
and labor force training to be offered on a voluntary basis to
the local contractors who will be awarded contracts under
component (a);
(c)   a supervision and monitoring component in order to closely
monitor the progress of the project and to prepare the transition
toward locally supported employment of the target group;
(d)   a  selective  audit  of  public  works  programs  to  identify
bottlenecks and design system improvements; and
(e)   a package of consultant services related to a training program
for the beneficiaries and engineering firms on the preparation of
feasibility studies and technical project proposals; a program
aimed  at  increasing  grassroots   participation  in  urban



- 10 -
infrastructure maintenance; and the preparatory work for the
establishment of a mutual guarantee company;
An Executing Agency has been created to execute component (a) of
the project. It will serve as a model for other public agencies in terms of
achieving low costs and efficient work methods.  The Agency will have a small
staff including an Executive Director assisted by one Financial Director and
one Technical Director.   The activities of the Executing Agency will be
guided by a Procedures Manual outlining the policies and procedures to be
followed in the conduct of its activities  (see Annex II).   The other
components will be executed by the Unite de Coordination of the Ministere du
Plan et de la Cooperation.
Implementation of a Program of Labor-intensive Civil Works Subprojects
2.03        The subprojects to be executed under component  (a) will be
submitted by central and local branches of the central Government as well as
by local governments.  The Executing Agency (see para 2.21 et. seq.) will
appraise the proposed subprojects, checking their eligibility in regard to
precise criteria which are listed in para II-4-3 of the attached Procedures
Manual. In the subproject selection process (Procedures Manual, paras II-3
and II-4), the following will be critical:
(a)   the subproject should have a proven economic and social utility
and be ready for execution without requiring substantial detailed
engineering;
(b)   the subproject implementation should not require the use of
sophisticated equipment and should be achievable through labor-
intensive methods (i.e., with labor, as a percentage of the total
cost, amounting to more than 20 percent);
(c)   if competing with other subprojects for funds available during a
given period, an eligible subproject should have a higher rate of
return (and/or a demonstrated higher intangible benefit
generation) than its competitors;
(d)   preference will be given to those subprojects which are likely to
improve the skills of the workers involved and/or expose the
contractor to an experience that would give him an advantage for
future activities;
(e)   the subproject must fall within the list of eligible "work" or
"services" activities mentioned below;
(f)   the subproject activities on site will start in less than three
months from the time of adjudication;
(g)   employment created by the subproject will be for a time period
greater than two weeks;



- 11 -
(h)   presence of at least two qualified enterprises for the type of
works and in the geographical area in which the project will be
executed;
(i)   project has not been eliminated from the public investment
program;
(j)   the beneficiary has proven its financial and technical capacity
to maintain the works; and
(k)   the project is not financed by another donor.
Eligible subprojects are expected to include but not be limited
to construction and repair of urban infrastructure and public facilities,
street and drainage network cleaning (especially sand and garbage removal),
as well as services to the population, such as garbage collection (especially
in remote or difficult-to-access areas where the existing waste management
system is not effective). Provided that the eligibility criteria are met,
eligible  subprojects will  fall  into two groups.    The  first  group  of
subprojects--urban works--, to which at least 60 percent of funds will be
allocated, include:
(a)   works for drainage of low-lying areas, underground water mains,
observation platforms, cesspocls, channel headers, retaining
walls, etc.;
(b)   minor  infrastructure  maintenance  and  rehabilitation  works
(filling in ravines, laying out sidewalks, repair of gutters and
small sanitation works);
(c)   works like those under category (b) carried out on a recurring
basis and requiring work program organization (e.g., filling in
potholes);
(d)   construction of simple buildings such as schools or clinics;
(e)   repair of public buildings:  this  category  is subdivided in
accordance with the specialized labor involved (plastering and
painting,   carpentry,  plumbing,   electrical  work,   roofing,
finishing, minor masonry work);
(f)   demolition of condemned buildings and recovery of materials;
(g)   clearing  of  brush  and  terracing  works  (road  shoulders,
embankments, gabions) requiring construction based on pre-
established plans; and
(h)   works of water and soil conservation.
The second category of subprojects--urban services--to which at
most 40 percent of all funds will be allocated includes:



- 12 -
(a)   specific works for cleaning public property: removal of sand from
roadways, cleaning of drainage ditches and gutters, garbage
collection, etc.;
(b)   works like those under category (a) carried out on a recurring
basis and requiring work program organization; and
(c)   planting and park works.
2.04        The  Agency  will  submit  for  IDA's  approval,   prior  to
effectiveness, a list of subprojects for the first year of project execution
amounting to a total of US$4.25 million (para 3.03(b)).  Also, the Agency
will submit for IDA's approval a second and a third batch of subprojects
totalling US$4.25 million respectively no later than June 1992 and June 15,
1993.   Subprojects whose  estimated cost will  exceed CFAF  125 million
(US$500,000) will be subject to IDA's review and approval prior to final
selection by the Executing Agency (para II-4-2 of the Procedures Manual).
The Agency will, however, carry out the regular appraisal procedure prior to
submitting the project and the appraisal report to IDA for approval.
2.05        Once a subproject has been selected, the public agency which has
submitted it ("the beneficiary") will enter into an agreement ("Convention
de maltrise d'ouvrage deleguee") with the Executing Agency, according to a
pre-established model which is attached to section II of the Agency's
Procedures Manual.   This agreement will include inter alia the following
provisions:
(a)   the Executing Agency is substituted for the beneficiary for the
whole execution of the subproject and has full authority, on
behalf of the beneficiary, to select the contractors, sign the
contracts, supervise the works, acknowledge delivery, and pay
contractors;
(b)   the subproject is financed by the Executing Agency, on the basis
of the funds made available to it under the project, and
therefore is additional to the beneficiary's own capital budget
or investment program. The beneficiary will not be requested to
reimburse the cost of the subproject;
(c)   the beneficiary  accepts  the responsibility  for the ongoing
maintenance of the subproject;
(d)   provisions have also been devised to take care of possible
litigation upon delivery of the completed works to the
beneficiary; and
(e)   the Agency will reimburse the beneficiary at a flat rate of
FCFA 300,000 for the beneficiary's project technical proposal
preparation.
It has to be pointed out that the additionality requirement
(provision (b)), albeit in contradiction with IDA's usual requirement of cost
recovery, is in this case critical to ensure a net increase in the total



- 13 -
demand of works, as compared to regular public investment programs, and thus
to ensure incremental employment generation.
2.06        In order to start up actual project implementation without delay
after effectiveness, a first sample of eligible subprojects has been
identified. These subprojects have been reviewed and approved by IDA. Six
subprojects ranging from CFAF 9 million (US$36,000) to CFAF 48 million
(US$192,000) are being carried out as subprojects with financing provided by
a second PPF advance granted after project appraisal. These six subprojects
comprise:
(a)   cleaning of the urban drainage network;
(b)   pavement, rehabilitation, and maintenance of minor streets;
(c)   rehabilitation of a public building;
(d)   building of a small dam;
(e)   garbage collection; and
(f)   removal of sand from streets and drains.
These subprojects represent six of the main categories of work to
be carried out under the project (Annex 2, Section III).
2.07        A major critical feature of the project is the Executing Agency's
disbursement procedure. As pointed out above (para 1.21), a condition sine-
qua-non for small-scale enterprises to be able to undertake works
commissioned by public agencies without ending up in bankruptcy is that
disbursement procedures be devised to avoid the delays that are commonplace
with regular public procedures. Initial advances to contractors executing
the works will be given in exchange for a bank guarantee or a bond covering
100 percent of the amount of the advance that, in any case, will not be more
than 20 percent of the total amount of the contract.   Payments will be
scheduled according to the terms and conditions set in Annex 2, Section V.
Furthermore, initial advances to the consultant engineer and the contractor
will  be paid  in a timely manner  and  in a cashable  form.    For bid
preparations, the consultant engineer will be paid a maximum of five percent
of the estimated cost of a subproject. For supervision and monitoring, the
engineer will be paid up to a maximum of five percent of the total amount of
the works. It is expected that the majority of the engineering services will
be provided by Nigerien firms, thus helping to strengthen the local
consulting industry. The private legal status of the Executing Agency will
allow the director to directly order payments, by signing checks and transfer
orders, without being submitted to numerous clearances and without being
obliged to surrender actual execution of payments to a Treasury officer
('"principe de la separation de l'ordonnateur et du comptable"). In order to
give incentives to the Executing Agency to disburse quickly and not be
tempted to invest its cash instead of paying its contractors, timely payment
of contractors, not exceeding 30 days between work completion and payment, is
considered as a key evaluation criteria of the performance of the Agency.



- 14 -
A Package of Services Offered to Contractors
2.08        This component aims at increasing the technical and managerial
capacity of small- and medium-scale Nigerien contracting firms in the
building and construction trades. The rationale behind this component is
twofold:
(a)   most firms in the target group are expected to show weaknesses,
in terms of management, work organization, and technical skills,
which might jeopardize the successful implementation of the
subprojects that they will be commissioned to carry out: the
provision of some technical assistance to contractors is deemed
an effective way to address this risk; and
(b)   conversely, those firms which are going to be awarded contracts
under the proposed projects may be expected to be comparatively
more efficient than others, if the selection process is
effective. Therefore, with a view to strengthening comparative
advantages instead of randomly spreading assistance over the
whole industry, these firms deserve more than others to be
supported to improve the overall efficiency and competitiveness
of the industry.
2.09        Three subprograms are proposed under this component:
(a)   a business  administration  and  financial management  program
intended for entrepreneurs and their administrative staff;
(b)   a work organization program primarily designed for foremen; and
(c)   various technical training courses to improve the skills of basic
workers.
All three subprograms will be very practical at the "grass-root
level" and will take the form of on-the-job assistance and training.
Potential beneficiaries will be free to accept or refuse this form of
assistance, except in cases where technical assistance will be deemed
indispensable for successful implementation of the subproject and will
therefore be a condition of contract award. The "Unite de Coordination" at
the Ministry of Plan and Cooperation will be responsible for administering
the three subprograms but will contract out their implementation.
Proiect Monitoring
2.10        The monitoring component will broaden the scope of the regular
supervision of any Bank project. Given the wide margin of independence and
initiative which is deemed instrumental to ensure the Executing Agency's
efficiency and effectiveness, close and continuous ex post supervision and
monitoring are essential to prevent the Agency from misusing its autonomous
decision power. Moreover, the many innovative and even experimental features
of the proposed project call for provisions enabling the Government and the
donors to jointly monitor progress of the project toward the proposed
objectives and to take expeditious measures if they assess that some



- 15 -
misconception has prevailed in the project design and that there is a danger
of the objectives being missed.  The borrower and IDA will meet at least
twice a year during the three-year period of project execution to exchange
views with regard to the progress of the project and subprojects, the
management of the Agency's operations, the performance of its personnel,
including key personnel, the performance by the Agency of its obligations
under the Convention between the Government and the Agency, and particularly
the procurement practices and procedures being followed by the Agency
pursuant to the Procedures Manual.  In order to make relevant information
available for the above-mentioned meetings, consultant services (e.g.,
management and financial audits of the Executing Agency, studies of the
impact and performance of already implemented subprojects and performance of
procurement procedures) will be identified and agreed upon with the
Government by regular supervision missions and will be commissioned by the
Agency upon request by the Government in order to deliver findings and
recommendations in a timely manner for the above meetings.
Public Works Contract Management Audit Study
2.11        This component will consist of a study and audit of the Public
Investment Program to uncover the bottlenecks in procurement, contracting,
works supervision, payments, and audits that impede project implementation
(para  2.01(d).    In FY89,  the  Niger  Public  Investment  Program  had  a
disbursement ratio of about 20 percent for project lending. The study will
help the Government to document problem areas and will at the same time
demonstrate   the  benefits   of  alternative   procedures   and  contract
administration methods that emphasize efficiency and transparency used by the
Public Works Employment Project. The terms of reference for the audit were
agreed  with  IDA  at  negotiations  (para  3.02(d)).    It was  agreed  at
negotiations that:
(a)   within six months of the completion of the study and not later
than July 1992, the Government will present to the Bank for its
comments an Action Plan to adopt the changes recommended by the
study to determine how they will be implemented; and
(b)   the Government will subsequently implement the agreed Action
Plan, not later than January 31, 1993.
Training Program for the beneficiaries and engineering firms
2.12        This component would provide support to the beneficiaries and to
local engineering firms to prepare the feasibility studies and the technical
project proposals that will be submitted to the Executing Agency for funding.
An expert will be hired for a two-year period and placed in the Unite de
Coordination at the Ministry of Plan to assist the concerned entities in the
formulation of technical proposals according to the specifications of the
Manual of Procedures.



- 16 -
Grassroot participation program
2.13        This  component  would  help  organize  a program  to  increase
grassroots participation in urban infrastructure project maintenance. This
program would disseminate information (using the local languages, logos,
appropriate colors and music) to the chefs de quartier, neighborhood
committees and to the tacherons and micro-entrepreneurs to increase their
awareness of the project as a whole and to increase the level of
responsibility that the community feels with respect to project works. In
this framework, before project effectiveness, a number of activities will be
organized to increase public awareness and support for the project. These
activities include an information seminar to distribute documentation and to
sensitize the population on the project, a meeting of the general assembly of
the Agency, and a week-long campaign in the media.  The objective of this
effort is to improve communication between the grassroots and local
authorities so that the former are consulted on projects that affect their
neighborhood, before they are presented to the Agency for funding and
implementation.   This is particularly important in the case of garbage
collection and sewer cleaning, where grassroots participation can make a
difference in terms of public hygiene.
Preparatory work for the establishment of a mutual guarantee company
2.14        This component would provide assistance to respond to the need
expressed by local entrepreneurs for the establishment of a mutual guarantee
company.  It will  give  support  in terms  of  logistics,  training    and
preparation of the techniques and procedures for the organization of a mutual
guarantee company that would serve the firms that will execute works under
the project.
C. Rationale for Bank Group Involvement
2.15        IDA's  leadership  in donor support to structural  adjustment
results  in the Association is considered  as Niger's main partner  for
addressing issues rightly or wrongly attributed to adjustment.   In GON's
view, the proposed project is a high priority component of the SDA-PACSA
program. Meanwhile, IDA's strategy is to support the Government in the urban
sector to promote its decentralization policy.  An urban project is under
preparation to help the Government define and test the effectiveness of its
decentralization policy, especially in terms of improving the quality of
infrastructure maintenance and urban services. The urban project will also
contribute to strengthening municipal institutions and increasing local
resource mobilization, allowing the participation of private initiatives in
the execution and delivery of urban services.   Therefore, a program of
labor-intensive public works aimed at improving the urban environment using
private enterprises sets the stage to address some of the policy concerns--
such as contracting efficiency and private sector participation--that will be
dealt with in the urban project.   Broader financial issues--such as cost
recovery and municipal financing--will form the policy core of the urban
project.



- 17 -
D. Status of Project Preparation
2.16        A first US$460,000 PPF advance was granted to finance project
preparation which included:
(a)   a survey of the target firms, intended to provide information
needed for designing eligibility criteria and implementation
arrangements and to classify engineering firms and contractors in
terms of capacity and specialty;
(b)   the hiring of a law firm to look into the appropriate legal
status for the Executing Agency and to make proposals in relation
to the Agency's organization, procedures, and bylaws;
(c)   the short-term consultant  services  in various  fields  (law,
engineering, accounting, organization, etc.) needed for project
preparation;
(d)   the preparation of a listing of eligible works to be executed, as
well as a listing of engineering and construction firms to serve
as supervisors and contractors in line with the recommendations
of the Manual of Procedures of the Agency;
(e)   the preparation of bidding documents and engineering designs for
the first six pilot subprojects;
(f)   a mission of Nigerien officials to Dakar to acquaint themselves
with a similar organization called AGETIP; and
(g)   a study of the participation and involvement of the population in
the identification and routine maintenance of the public works to
be executed under the project.
2.17        All studies have been completed.  The project was appraised in
June 1990.  The future director of the Agency has been selected and approved
by IDA in November 1990. He accompanied the delegation at negotiations which
were held from November 26 to 30, 1990. He has started working part-time for
the project and will work full-time starting January 1, 1991. A draft of the
Agency's Procedures Manual has been completed and submitted to IDA at
negotiations (para 3.01(b)). The Procedures Manual was reviewed both by the
Government and IDA, agreed upon at negotiations (paras 3.02(a) and 3.02(b))
and will be attached to the Convention to be entered into by the Government
and the Agency.
2.18        After appraisal, a second PPF advance of US$1.04 million was
granted in order to execute six pilot subprojects, hire the staff of the
Executing Agency, and fine-tune implementation arrangements (including
accounting procedures) before full-scale launching of the project.



- 18 -
E. Proiect Cost and Financing Plan
2.19         Project Cost.  The project cost is estimated at US$33.3 million
equivalent  (CFAF 8,325 billion)  net of taxes and duties.   The estimated
foreign exchange component is US$5.66 million, or 17 percent of the total
cost. Base cost estimates are in mid-1990 prices. Annual inflation rates
have been estimated as follows:
1990             1991             1992            1993
I Local                 2.0              2.0              2.0              2.0
Foreign              4.4              4.4              4.4              4.4
Since the volume of local works under the first component will be
adjusted according to available funds, price contingencies have not been
applied to the estimated local cost of Component (a) which comprises
81 percent of total base costs. Price contingencies on the remaining small
components amount to 1 percent of base costs. A summary of cost estimates is
presented in Table 2.1. Detailed project costs are provided in Annex 3.
Table 2.1: Estimated Costs
LOCAL     FOREIGN     TOTAL      X
FOREIGN
(US$ m7llion)
Component (a): Labor-intensive Civil   22.65        3.38    26.03        13%
Works
Component (b): Services to              1.01        0.49     1.50        32%
Contractors       .
Component (c): Monitoring               0.48        0.32     0.80        40%
Contract Management Study               0.00        0.30     0.30       100%
Mutual Guarantee Co.                    0.00        0.10     0.10       100%
Training Program for Beneficiaries      0.05        0.20     0.25        80%
Grassroot Participation Program         0.10          -      0.10
Executing Agency Operating Costs        1.74        0.10     1.84         SX
PPF and Executing Agency Capital        1.28        0.48     1.76        27%
Budget
Base Costs                             27.30        5.38    32.68        18X
Price Contingencies                     0.34        0.28     0.62        44%
Total Project Costs (1)                27.84        5.86     33.3        17%
(1) Numbers may not add due to rounding.



- 19 -
2.20        Financing Plan.  The proposed IDA credit of US$20.0 million will
finance 60 percent of project costs net of duties and taxes. This will cover
approximately US$4.4 million of foreign costs and US$15.6 million of local
costs.  All subprojects to be carried out by the Executing Agency will be
exempt  from duties  and taxes.    A US$3.3 million  local  contribution--
10 percent of project costs--will be provided to the Executing Agency from
Government budgetary resources to finance new subprojects (in addition to
those financed by IDA and other codonors) (para 3.02(e)). It was agreed at
negotiations that the Government will:
(a)   cause the Executing Agency to execute new subprojects to the
aggregate value of US$3.3 million equivalent before December 30,
1993, of which subprojects totalling the equivalent of at least
US$1.65 million would be completed by December 31, 1992; and
(b)   make available to the Executing Agency, out of its own resources,
all the funds necessary for the execution of those subprojects
(see para  3.02(e)).    Cofinancing  totalling  US$10.0 million
equivalent (30 percent of total project costs) has been
identified during appraisal and will be finalized with OPEC Fund
and KfW.   Based on the discussions held in Niamey with the
representative of the European Community, the project is likely
to receive additional financing from the FED of FCFA 3.4 billion
f or the next two years.   The FED will also supply technical
assistance to the Executing Agency to monitor project activities
that will be executed with its funding primarily in peri-urban
areas.The proposed financing plan is set out in Table 2.2:
Table 2.2: Financing Plan
%OF
LOCAL    FOREIGN     TOTAL   TOTAL
PROJECT
____ ____ __  _ ____ ___ COST
(USS mi lion)
Government                             3.3        __      3.3       10%
IDA                                   15.6       4.4     20.0       80%
Other donors (OPEC Fund, KfW)          8.7       1.3     10.0       30%
(to be determined)                        I
Total Project Costs                   27.6       5.7     33.3      100%
F.   Project Implementation
2.21        The implementing arrangements are deemed critical for effective
fulfillment of the project's objective: the Executing Agency has been created
as a temporary "self-destructing" body, with private legal status, fulfilling
a condition for negotiations (para 3.01(a)). Such an agency will be able to
avoid the cumbersome, slow, and inefficient procedures that public
institutions are obliged to follow for calling for bids, awarding contracts



- 20 -
and disbursing, and which result in de facto discrimination against small
contractors.   The Agency's operating procedures and internal organization
have been carefully and precisely designed during project preparation and
appraisal and are contained in a Procedures Manual that will be attached to
the Convention to be entered into by the Government and the Agency for the
execution of the project. A condition of project effectiveness would be that
the Convention be signed by the Borrower and the Executing Agency
(para 3.03(c)).   As described above (paras 2.03 to 2.06), the Procedures
Manual will include:
(a)   eligibility criteria for selecting subprojects submitted by local
and central administrations for implementation under the proposed
project;
(b)   procedures for selecting contractors,  calling for bids,  and
awarding contracts;
(c)   disbursement procedures; and
(d)   internal organization for work supervision, control, and delivery
of completed works.
2.22        In order to ensure expeditious implementation of the program, the
Executing Agency has full authority--and will not be submitted to any exante
clearance--for carrying out the whole process of project execution.   In
particular, the public institutions which will propose subprojects will have
to surrender their authority for execution of the subproject up to delivery
of completed works.   In return, they will get the works financed by the
project in addition to their own investments budgets.
2.23        The  Executing  Agency  will  be  submitted  to  close  ex post
supervision by the Government and will have to furnish detailed activity
reports every other month. The Government and IDA will meet at least twice
every year during the period of project execution to exchange views
comprehensively on the project execution performance.   Resources of the
Executing Agency will be replenished only upon presentation of properly
documented records of the use of funds. The above-mentioned meetings between
the Government and IDA may result in proposing and implementing any measure
that will be deemed useful to ensure actual fulfillment of the project's
objectives, including hiring and dismissal of the Agency's staff.
2.24        The professional experience of the Agency's  staff shall be
acquired mainly from private sector. Any staff member from the public sector
would have to resign or be placed on "leave without pay" status before
accepting a position in the Agency.  During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from the Government concerning its responsibilities to ensure that
any change in the director of the Executing Agency will be acceptable to the
Association (para 3.02(f)). The compensation offered to the staff will be
high enough to make it attractive to top-level professionals.  The Agency
Director has been selected and participated in the negotiations.  He is a
Nigerien with a strong private sector background.



- 21 -
2.25        The  creation  of  the  Executing Agency was  a  condition  of
negotiations.   The recruitment of the Executing Agency staff, in particular
its Technical Director and Financial Director with the qualifications and
experience acceptable to the Association, will be a condition of
effectiveness (para 3.03(a)).
2.26        The project will be executed over a period of three years.
G. Procurement
2.27        The procurement procedures according to which the Executing
Agency will select contractors and award contracts are another important
feature of the project. They have been discussed during appraisal, agreed
upon with the Government at negotiations (para 3.02(g)), and are included in
the Agency's draft Procedures Manual (Sections III and IV).
2.28        The Agency will maintain a roster of contractors eligible for
Local Competitive Bidding (LCB). The Executing Agency at the beginning of
its activities will select an initial list of eligible contractors and
engineering firms according to procedures acceptable to IDA and spelled out
in Section III of the Procedures Manual. When applying for registration, the
contractors will provide once and for all the administrative data regarding
the firm and a list of references. Applications will specify the category or
categories of works for which the firm applies (according to a pre-
established list of categories provided in para III-1 of the Procedures
Manual), the geographical area in which the firm is prepared to carry out
works, and references relative to the types of works sought.   Prior to
effectiveness, the Agency will be required to broadly advertise a call for
applications to initiate the roster.   IDA will review and approve this
initial selection and satisfy itself that the procedures agreed upon at
negotiations within the Procedures Manual have been satisfactorily followed.
This prequalification of eligible contractors and engineering firms is a
condition of effectiveness (para 3.03(d)). The roster will stay open during
project execution so as to allow additional applications at any time. Large
firms using modern equipment are not likely to be interested by the type and
size of most subprojects proposed, but they are not precluded from
participation in the process.   The purpose of preregistration will be to
determine the contractors who can demonstrate their ability to carry out the
proposed labor-intensive works effectively and will, therefore, be eligible
to bid. Besides the fulfillment of administrative and legal requirements,
the firms' references will be critical for them to be preselected. Later on,
actual performance of the contractors who are awarded contracts by the Agency
will provide the basis for the Agency to reassess their registration and
upgrade or downgrade it.



- 22 -
Table 2.3: Procurement 1/
PROCUREMENT METHOD                  l
PROJECT ELEMENT
ICB        LCB    CONS.    N.A.   TOTAL
Civil Works                        0.00   26. 03                      26.03
(12.73)(2)                 (12.73)
Services to Contractors                               1.50             1.50
(1.60)          (1.S0)
Monitoring                                            0.80             0.80
(0.80)          (0.80)
Contract Management Study                             0.30             0.30
____________  (0.30)          (0.30)
Mutual Guarantee Co.                                  0.10             0.10
. .  _______ . (0.10)         (0.10)
Training Program for Beneficiaries                    0.25             0.25
l_________ _ _(0.25)          (0.25)
Graseroot Participation Program                               0.10    0.10
I___________ .  .   .___  (0.10)  (0.10)
Executing Agency Operating                                     1.84    1.84
Costs                                                         (1.84)   (1.84)
PPF and Executing Agency                   0.26                1.50    1.76
Equ ipment                       __ _   (0.26)                (1.50)   (1.72)
TOTAL                              0.00   26.25       2.95    3.44   32.68
________ ___  (12.99)  (2.95)  (3.44)  (19.38)
(1) Figures exclude price contingencies.
(2) Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
2.29      The target group of firms for technical  assistance comprises
primarily small-scale enterprises, which are more likely than large ones to
bid  for  labor-intensive  projects.    However,  given  the  low  level  of
sophistication of these firms in regard to administrative and financial
management, they are currently discriminated against by the procurement
procedures in force for public contracts. This is one of the basic reasons
why it has been deemed necessary to establish a special agency, with private
legal status, to implement the project.   Basically, the objective of the
standard procurement procedure is to ensure fair competition among eligible
contractors without requiring from them the preparation of a complex
proposal,  including  detailed  calculations  of price.    The  core  of the
procurement procedure will be local advertisement among registered
contractors of a proposed contract for a given subproject. All contractors
registered in the roster for the category of works and the area concerned by
the subproject will be invited to bid. The contract, which will be written
in simple language and will describe the scope and nature of the works,
proposes a reference price with some straightforward explanations about its
calculation (unit prices and quantities).  Contractors will  be invited to
bid by way of discounts either on the total price or on the unit prices.
Among eligible bidders, the winner will be selected on the basis of the
proposed discount and other criteria (such as timeliness of performance)--if



- 23 -
any is specified in the bidding documents--and invited to sign the proposed
contract. The contract awarding committee (para IV 1-2 of the Procedures
Manual) will have full authority to select the winner. However, it will have
to justify in writing, in the minutes of the meeting, and in reference to the
explicit criteria listed in the bidding documents,   any decision not to
select the lowest bid. The contracting awarding committee will open the bids
in public and the bidding firms or their representatives can be present at
that meeting. For all contracts for which there are less than five bidders
or for contracts with an estimated cost equal to or greater than
CFAF 62.5 million (US$250,000), the awarding committee will submit its
decision to IDA for approval prior to notifying the winning bidder.
2.30      It is anticipated that all the civil works contracts will be below
CFAF 125 million (US$500,000).   In case any contract is higher than this
value, International Competitive Bidding procedure (ICB) will be followed for
such procurement.
2.31      Consultant services for training, technical assistance, and project
monitoring will be procured according to IDA guidelines, spelled out in
Guidelines Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank
as Executing Agency.
2.32      These procurement procedures have been used for one year under a
similar project in Senegal and have worked well. As in the Senegal project,
only parallel financing is envisaged. Should joint financing occur, it will
be done in accordance with IDA Guidelines.
H. Disbursement
2.33      The proposed IDA Credit is expected to be totally disbursed by
June 30, 1994 (Table 2.4).   Disbursements will be made on the basis of
100 percent of total expenditures for the Association's share of civil works
and 100 percent for all other categories. This procedure has been selected
to ensure the independence of the Executing Agency.
Table 2.4: Disbursement by Categories
CATEGORIES                 AMOUNT      PERCENTAGE FINANCED
____ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ (MILLION) _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
1) Civil Works                            13.734  100% of expenditures
2) Services to Contractors                 1.500  100% of expenditures
3) Operating Costs of the                  1.844  100% of expenditures
Agency
4) Equipment for Executing                 1.080  100% of expenditures
Agency__                                         _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
S) Consultant Services                     1.150  100% of expenditures
6) Unallocated                               712
TOTAL                       20.0



- 24 -
2.34      To expedite project implementation, a Special Account denominated
in CFAF will be opened at a commercial bank and maintained and operated on
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The authorized allocation will be
US$1.3 million equivalent in CFAF, representing anticipated eligible
expenditures financed by IDA for a four-month period. The Special Account
will be replenished monthly provided requests exceed US$100,000 equivalent in
CFAF. The Special Account will be used for all expenditures of less than
US$20,000 equivalent in CFAF.
2.35      All  withdrawal  applications  will  be  accompanied  by  full
documentation, except for contracts for civil works valued at less than
US$250,000 equivalent in CFAF and for goods and services valued at less than
US$20,000 equivalent for which disbursements will be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). In such cases the relevant documentation
will be retained by the Executing Agency for review by IDA supervision
missions and the project's external auditors.
I. Accounting, Auditing, and Reporting
2.36      The project accounting system is being set up under the PPF.
Consolidated project accounts will be maintained by the Executing Agency.
These accounts will be audited at the end of each of the first two quarters,
and every six months thereafter by independent auditors acceptable to IDA
according to terms of reference agreed by IDA.   Auditors will express
separate opinions on statements of expenditures. The terms of reference for
auditors were agreed at negotiations (para 3.02(c)). The selection of the
auditors will be a condition of effectiveness (para 3.036, 3(e)).  Project
accounts and auditors' reports will be submitted to IDA within one month of
the close of each of the first two quarters and thereafter within two months
of the close of each semester.   The Executing Agency will submit monthly
progress reports and prepare a Project Completion Report (PCR) within three
months of the closing date. It was agreed at negotiations that there will be
a mid-term preview of the management of the operations of the Executing
Agency, the performance by the Executing Agency of its obligations under the
Convention (including procurement procedures), and the performance by the
Executing Agency and Implementing Enterprises of their respective obligations
under Subproject Agreements, to be carried out by the Association and the
Borrower no later than January 31, 1993 (para 3.02(h)).
J. Supervision Plan
2.37      Project  supervision  will  be  done  every  four  months.    The
supervision plan will consist of field trips to visit work sites to review
financial and management practices, bidding, and payments procedures, micro-
and small-enterprise participation as well as maximization of employment
creation. A detailed supervision plan is presented in Table 2.5.



- 25 -
Table 2.5: Supervision Plan
APPROXIMATE DATE                              ACTIVITY                               EXPECTED SKILLS (SWl
March 1991          Supervision Mission
rrojeCt Lalunch  or shop
Objectives:
a)     Explain to beneficiaries, enterprises and                   Operations
government, project objectives.                             Officer (1)
b)     Detailed workshops on procurement and                       Engineer (1)
disbursements.                                              Disbursements (1)
c)     Review effectiveness:                                       Procurement (1)
i)   Achievement of credit effectiveness.                         Lawyer (1)
ii)  Review accounting and management information
system.
July 1991           Supervision Mission                                                 Operations
a      Review project progress.                                    Officer
b)     Review outstandina issues.                                  Enaineer
November 1991       Supervision Mission                                                 Operations
a      Review project progress.                                    Officer
b      Review outstanding issues.                                  Engineer
February 1992       Supervision Mission                                                 Operations
a      Review project progress.                                    Officer
b)     Review outstanding issues.                                  Engineer
June 1992           Su pervision Mission
a       eview project progress.
b      Review outstanding issues.                                  Operations
c      Review action plan of public works contract                 Officer
_________ ___ _  management studY                                         Encineer
November 1992       Joint-Bank/Government Mid-Term Review
a)      eview  indings of FubIic Works Management
Contract and Action Plan.                                   Operations
bc     Review progress in implementing reforms.                    Officer
Review overall project progress and adequacy of             Engineer
institutional arrangements.
d)     Review project accounting. SOE and disbursements.
March 1993          Supervision Mission
a)     Keview project progress and implementation of
recommendations from the Mid-Term Review.                   Operations
b~   Review outstanding issues.                                    Officer
c      Review progress implementation of reforms in area           Engineer
of contract management.
July 1993           Supervision Mission
a)     Review project progress and implementation of
recommendations from the Mid-Term Review.                   Operations
bc   ~ Review outstanding issues.                                  Officer
Review progress implementation of reforms in area           Engineer
of contract management.
November 1993       Supervision Mission
a)    Review project progress and implementation of
recommendations from the Mid-Term Review.                   Operations
b)     Review outstanding issues.                                  Officer
c)     Review progress implementation of reforms in area           Engineer
of contract manacement.
February 1994       Final Supervision Mission
a      Dscussion with GUN
Preparation for writing PCR.                                Operations
c      Discussion and initiation of preparatory work for           Officer
future project.                                             Engineer



- 26 -
K. Economic Analysis
2.38        Although the justification of the project cannot be expressed
solely in terms of economic feasibility, an economic analysis has been
carried out for a sample of typical subprojects on the basis of a comparison
of discounted economic costs and benefits over time.   Specific benefits
depend on the type of subproject, but include among other things:
(a)     reduction in vehicle operating costs (in the case of urban road
maintenance or rehabilitation subprojects);
(b)     reductions  in the cost of services,  in the case of labor-
intensive garbage collection which would otherwise be undertaken
by more mechanized technologies; and
(c)     avoided cost of reconstruction  (in the case of subprojects
involving maintenance or rehabilitation of infrastructure and/or
buildings that would otherwise deteriorate).
In the cases of removal of sand from public facilities and pavement
rehabilitation, economic rates of return have been calculated to be
26 percent and 51 percent, respectively.  Annex 6 presents the details of
these analyses.
2.39        An estimated 33 percent of the US$26.03 million direct cost of the
civil works will be distributed as salaries.   On the basis of an average
daily wage of US$4.40 (CFAF 1,100) and since this type of work can only be
implemented during the dry season of seven months, this will provide
employment for approximately 4,224 persons per year under the project. The
average direct cost per job per year is less than US$2,034 per man-year.
This calculation is based on the minimum wage rate (Salaire Minimum
Interprofessionnel Garanti (SMIG)) of CFAF 19,000; however, since the SMIG is
actually not generally honored by the small firms in construction industry,
especially with temporary workers, the quantity of temporary employment
created by the project is likely to be significantly higher than the above
figure. Our survey indicates that while the average monthly salary paid by
large enterprises is CFAF 19,000, medium and small enterprises pay an average
monthly salary of CFAF 12,000 for a 22-day month. To the extent that these
last two categories of enterprises are the ones executing the works, the
project may well create up to 8,524 new temporary jobs per year, at an
average direct cost of US$1,008.
L. Benefits and Risks
2.40        Those who suffer most from unemployment or underemployment are the
urban poor. Thus, the project has been designed to have a substantial impact
on poverty alleviation, in addition to its economic benefits. The ultimate
direct beneficiaries will be the low-paid temporary workers in the building
and construction trades. Since these workers tend to spend their wages close
to home, substantial multiplier effects on the local economy can be expected,
although they cannot be quantified.   Indeed, the focus of the project is
further justified by the fact that the targeted industry (building,



- 27 -
construction, maintenance, and urban services)--more than any other
industry--hires and dismisses labor according to contract opportunities.
This maximizes the probability that an increase in the industry's activity
will actually result in an increase in employment. The proposed project is
justified by indirectly securing other development and structural adjustment
objectives through its contribution to the creation and maintenance of a
favorable climate for the Government to continue pursuing adjustment
policies. The project will also help the Government in the area of program
management. It will demonstrate the possibility of efficient private sector
management in public works execution.
2.41        Works to be financed under the project will be small and scattered
and their cumulative impact on the physical environment is expected to be
minor. Many of the eligible subprojects, both works and services, will have
a net positive impact on the urban environment. This is particularly true of
subprojects such as soil and water conservation works, drainage improvements
and terracing, sanitation improvements, planting and park works, and solid
waste collection. The project is classified as Category C.
2.42        The main risks arise from the possible inability of Niger's
economy to develop enough stable job opportunities during the period of
program execution, leading to pressure from the Government to extend the
program beyond its initial period. This risk cannot be addressed within the
proposed project but should be alleviated if the ongoing adjustment process
is implemented successfully. Another risk is that continued employment for
those who would benefit from the program should not take the form of their
being hired by local governments when the program ends.  Such continuation of
employment would jeopardize previous efforts of public sector management
improvement, including restrictions on personnel hiring, implemented during
the recent years by the central and local governments. Last, the control of
proper use of funds is more difficult with such a program than with regular
investment projects.   The implementing arrangements have been carefully
designed to minimize this risk.
III. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
3.01    The following were fulfilled prior to negotiations:
(a)     creation of the Executing Agency (para 2.21); and
(b)     submission to the Bank of drafts of the Procedures Manual and the
Convention (para 2.17);
3.02    During negotiations, agreements were reached with the Government:
(a)     on the proposed Procedures Manual (para 2.17);
(b)     on the proposed Convention (para 2.17);
(c)     on the terms of reference for the public works audit (para 2.36);



- 28 -
(d)     on the terms of reference for the auditors (para 2.11);
(e)     on issues that the borrower would (para 2.20):
(i)    cause the Executing Agency to execute new subprojects aggregating
the equivalent of US$3.3 million (10 percent of project costs)
before December 30, 1993, out of which subprojects totalling the
equivalent of at least US$1.65 million shall be completed before
December 31, 1992; and
(ii)    make available to the Executing Agency out of its own resources
all the necessary funds needed for the execution of these
subprojects;
(f)     that the nomination or change of the directors of the Executing
Agency will be agreeable to the Association (para 2.24); and
(g)     on the conditions of procurement (paras 2.27 to 2.32).
(h)     that a mid-term review of the management of the operations of the
Executing Agency, the performance by the Executing Agency of its
obligations  under   the  Convention   (including  procurement
procedures), and the performance by the Executing Agency and
Implementing Enterprises of their respective obligations under
Subproject Agreement, will be carried out by the Association and
the Borrower not later than January 31, 1993 (para 2.36).
3.03    The following will be conditions of effectiveness:
(a)     the Executing Agency has been staffed and a Technical Director
and a Financial Director have been employed with qualifications
and experience acceptable to the Association (para 2.25);
(b)     the  Executing Agency  shall have  selected  subprojects whose
aggregate estimated cost is equivalent to US$4.25 million or more
and the Association shall have approved the selection of such
subprojects (para 2.04);
(c)     a Convention acceptable to the Association has been signed
between the Borrower and the Executing Agency describing the
Government's  and  the  Executing  Agency's  obligations  and
prerogatives (para 2.21);
(d)     the  Executing  Agency  has  prequalified  an  initial  list  of
enterprises and engineering firms that is acceptable to the
Association (para 2.28); and
(e)     the Executing Agency has selected auditors acceptable to the
Association (para 2.36).



- 29 -
3.04        Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable
for a Credit of US$20.0 million equivalent to the Republic of Niger on
standard IDA terms.



- 30 -                          ANNEX L
CONSULTATION JURIDIQUE SUR LE PROJET
T.I.P.E.
___E_E __AUS_E_____ A__
PROJET DE STATUTS DE L'ASSOCIATION



- 31 -                             ANNEX 1
I. Generalites
Article 1 : Denomination
I1 est cree, conformement aux lois et reglements en vigueur au
Niger, entre les personnes morales et physiques ayant adhere aux statuts, une
association denommee "Agence de travaux d'interet public pour ltemploi".
Article 2 : Siege
Le siege de l'association est fixe a Niamey, a la chambre de
commerce, dlindustrie, d'artisanat et d'agriculture.
Article 3 : Durie
La duree de l'association est de 99 annees.
Article 4 : Objectifs
Dans le cadre de la gestion du projet, et en dehors de tout but
lucratif, l'association a pour but au Niger, d'engager toute action en vue de
realiser des travaux et operations d'interet public susceptibles de creer des
emplois pour la main-d'oeuvre non qualifiie ou peu qualifiee. A cet effet,
l'association se fixe les objectifs principaux suivants :
(a) la creation, au moins temporaire, d'un grand nombre d'emplois en
particulier dans les zones urbaines, aussi rapidement que possible;
(b) le renforcement des capacites des entreprises, par une amelioration
de leur productivite et de leur competitivite;
(c) la realisation de travaux d'interet collectif, economiquement et
socialement utiles, a des conditions de coat et de qualite au moins
equivalentes aux travaux realises sous d'autres formes;
(d) la demonstration de la faisabilite dans certains domaines de
projets a haute intensite de main-d'oeuvre et la mise a l'essai de
procedures applicables par le secteur public dans la realisation
de ce genre de projets.
Article 5 : Fondateurs de l'association
L'association se compose des membres fondateurs suivants
1.   Personne physique :
M. ..............
2.   Personnes morales :
(a) l'Union syndicale des travailleurs du Niger (U.S.T.N)
representee  par  son  secretaire   general  ou  son
representant dument mandate et choisi parmi les
dirigeants de l'union;
Siege Social : Bourse du travail Niamey.
(b) Le Syndicat national des petites et moyennes entreprises
du Niger (SYNAPEMEN) represente par son secretaire



- 32 -                             ANNEX 1
general ou son representant dument mandate et choisi
parmi les dirigeants du syndicat;
Siege Social : ............  Niamey
(c)  L'Association des villes et communes du Niger (A.V.C.N)
representee par son president ou son representant dument
mandate et choisi parmi les dirigeants de l'association;
Siege Social : ............  Niamey.
Article 6 : Acquisition de la qualite de membre
L'adhesion de nouveaux membres se fait par cooptation sur
proposition d'un ancien membre.
L'adhesion d'une personne morale doit etre demandee au president
de l'assemblee generale. La personne morale doit communiquer par ecrit au
president le nom et l'adresse de son representant dans les instances de
l' association.
L'assemblee generale, prevue a l'article 10, doit ratifier
l'adhesion.
L'adhesion prend effet a partir de sa notification ecrite a
19interesse par le president de l'association et apres versement de la
cotisation de nouveau membre.
Article 7 : Perte de la qualite de membre
La qualite de membre se perd par
(a) deces d'un membre personne physique;
(b) dissolution d'un membre personne morale;
(c) demission ou radiation pour motif grave prononcee par
l'assemblee generale; l'appreciation du motif grave est
de la competence de cette derniere.
Article 8 : Demission d'un membre
Un membre peut demissionner a tout moment en avisant le president
par ecrit.
La demission prend effet des que l'information est parvenue au
president, s'il n'y a pas d'indication contraire dans la lettre de demission;
il n'est pas necessaire que cette demission soit acceptee pour la rendre
effective sauf si l'assemblee generale juge qu'il est necessaire de surseoir
a statuer.
La dimission n'affecte pas, le cas echeant, l'obligation du membre
de verser ses cotisations pour l'annee au cours de laquelle sa demission
prend effet.
L'assemblee generale procede a la radiation de tout membre dont la
conduite porte prejudice a l'association.



- 33 -                             ANNEX 1
La radiation fait l'objet d'une notification ecrite au membre par
le president de l'assemblee.
Article 9 : Ressources
Les ressources de l'association se composent
(a)  des cotisations annuelles de ses membres, fixees a 5000 FCFA, i
verser avant le 31 mars de chaque annee, par virement au compte
bancaire de l'Agence;
(b)  des subventions et/ou liberalites qui pourraient lui etre versees
par 1'Etat du Niger ou par tout organisme ou pays etranger;
(c)  des produits  des prestations  effectuees pour  l'execution des
travaux entrant dans le cadre de ses objectifs.
II. Assemblee generale
Article 10 : Composition de l'assemblee generale
L'association est administree par une assemblee generale compos~e
des membres a jour de leur cotisation.
Article 11 : Fonctionnement de l'assemblee generale
L'assemblee generale elit, parmi ses membres personnes physiques,
un president. Elle peut le revoquer pour motif grave.
Le president qui veut presenter sa demission doit le faire devant
l'assemblee generale.
L'assemblee generale qui prononce la revocation du president ou qui
recoit sa demission doit immediatement elire un nouveau president a titre
interimaire ou permanent.
Le president convoque les membres de l'assemblee et dirige les
debats.
L'assemblee generale ne peut valablement deliberer que si les 2/3
des membres de l'association sont presents ou representes.
Les decisions sont prises a la majorite de 2/3 des voix des membres
presents ou representes.
Le president peut proposer a l'assemblee la presence de toute
personne autre que ses membres slil l'estime necessaire.
Le president doit faire rediger apres chaque seance un proces-
verbal de la reunion de l'assemblee.
Article 12 : Pouvoirs de l'assemblee generale
Lassemblee est l'organe souverain de l'association.   Elle est
chargee de la realisation de ltobjet social.



- 34 -                             ANNEX 1
L'assemblee generale ordinaire se reunit au mois de janvier de
chaque annee pour statuer sur le rapport moral et financier relatif a
l'exercice qui slest ecoule entre le ler janvier et le 31 decembre de l'annee
precedente.
Une assemblee generale extraordinaire se reunit, 45 jours au plus
tard apras chaque audit, pour statuer sur ses resultats.
Pour toute reunion, les convocations sont envoyees au moins 15
jours a l'avance par lettre recommandee avec accuse de reception ou par
cahier de transmission et indiquent la date, le lieu et l'ordre du jour de la
reunion.
Au cas ou, pour des raisons independantes de l'association, un
membre n'aurait pas recu sa convocation, il ne pourra pas declencher de
procedure d'annulation des dtcisions prises lors de ladite reunion.
Un membre de l'association peut donner procuration ecrite a un
autre membre a l'effet de le representer aux reunions de l'assemblee. Aucun
membre ne peut detenir plus d'une procuration.
III. Gestion des activites de l'association
Article 13 : Direction generale de l'association
Le president assure les fonctions de directeur general de
l'association.   A ce titre,  il est habilite a prendre toute decision
necessaire a l'exercice des pouvoirs definis a l'article 14 ci-dessous :
Le directeur general est lie a l'Agence par un contrat de travail
approuve par l'assemblee generale.
Article 14 : Pouvoirs du directeur general
Le directeur general a les pouvoirs les plus etendus pour assurer
le bon fonctionnement de l'association et pour l'execution de la mission qui
lui est confiee par l'assemblee.
Le directeur general peut confier a des consultants externes
specialises les missions qui lui semblent necessaires pour l'execution des
differentes taches qui lui sont assignees.
Le directeur general a l'entiere responsabilite des fonds mis a sa
disposition.
I1 doit, conformement aux normes comptables genaralement admises
et aux usages uniformement appliques, tenir des livres de comptes et des
dossiers relatifs a sa gestion.
La gestion de l'association par le directeur general doit atre
conforme aux dispositions du manuel de procedures ci-joint.
Le directeur general a l'entiere responsabilite du recrutement du
personnel de l'Agence. I1 est charge de veiller a la bonne application du
reglement interieur de l'Agence.



- 35 -                            ANNEX 1
Article 15 : Revocation du directeur general
En cas de raanquement grave a ses obligations, le directeur gZneral
est revoque par dtcision de l'assemblee generale.
Lors du vote de la decision de revocation, la voix du directeur
general n'est pas prise en compte.
La revocation est signifiee au directeur general par lettre
recommandee avec accuse de reception par le president interimaire.
Elle entralne d'office la perte de sa qualite de membre de
l'association.
IV.  Modifications des statuts et dissolution
Article 16 :
Les presents statuts ne peuvent etre modifies que par l'assembl~e
generale dans les conditions de quorum et de majorite des deux tiers des
membres presents ou representes.
L'association est dissoute a l'expiration de la duree prevue a
l'Article 3 - alinea ler.
En cas de dissolution, l'assemblee generale dtsigne une personne,
exterieure i 1'association, qui sera chargee de la liquidation de ses biens.
L'eventuel boni de liquidation sera devolu a l'Etat du Niger.
Fait a Niamey, le ..................



- 36 -                             ANNEX 1
CONSULTATION JURIDIQUE SUR LE PROJET
T.I.P.E.
PROJET DE REGLEMENT INTERIEUR DE L'ASSOCIATION



- 37 -                             ANNEX 1
I. Generalites
Article 1 : Dispositions generales
Le  present   reglement   interieur,   etabli  conformement   aux
dispositions de la loi 62-12 du 13 juillet 1962 instituant au NIGER un code
du travail, et a la convention collective interprofessionnelle du 15 decembre
1972, reglemente au sein de l'Agence T.I.P.E.
(a) 1'organisation technique du travail,
(b)  la discipline,
(c) l'hygiene, la securite et le service medical.
I1 est applicable a toute personne engagee par l'Agence T.I.P.E.,
quel que soit son statut. Au moment de son engagement, le salarie atteste
avoir pris connaissance du reglement, qui doit faire l'objet d'affiche selon
la reglementation en vigueur.
Article 2 : Liberte d'opinion
Aucun agent ne devra etre inquiete ou subir un prejudice de
carriare en raison de sa position syndicale et de ses options politiques et
religieuses.
II. Organisation technique
Article 3 : Objectifs
L'organisation technique de l'Agence doit etre conSue de facon a
atteindre les objectifs fixis a la section I paragraphe I.1. du manuel des
procedures.
Article 4 : Organigramme
anx  L'organigramme de l'Agence est etabli conformement au tableau
annexe.
Article 5 : Repartition des fonctions du personnel d9encadrement.
*    Le Directeur financier est responsable de la bonne marche des
services comptables, financiers, de l'administration generale et
du materiel.
I1 coordonne l'ensemble des actions du service comptable, de
l'administration generale et du materiel.
Il est responsable de la tenue de la comptabilite du projet selon
les normes en vigueur au NIGER.
I1 est responsable de la comptabilite et de la tresorerie.
*    Le Directeur technique est charge du suivi de l'administration et
de la reception des chantiers. I1 coordonne les actions du
departement des projets.



- 38 -                            ANNEX 1
*    Le controleur de gestion est responsable du controle budgetaire.
Il assure le controle permanent de la regularite de toutes les
operations ypassees par l'Agence; il est tenu d'informer le
Directeur general de toute irregularite qu'il constate. Il est
charge des relations avec les cabinets comptables et d'audits
externes.
Les fonctions du conseiller en communication et du juriste seront
precisees ulterieurement.
III. Organisation du travail
Section I. Representation du personnel
Article 6 : Le(s) delegue(s) du personnel
Si l'Agence occupe plus de dix travailleurs, il est obligatoirement
prevu, dans les conditions fixees par la loi et les reglements en vigueur,
l'election des delegues du personnel titulaires et des delegues suppleants.
Les conditions d'exercice de la fonction des delegues du personnel
sont celles prevues par la reglementation en vigueur.
Section II. Les horaires de travail
Article 7 : La dur"e journali;re et hebdomadaire de travail. La dur~e
hebdomadaire de travail est fixe a 40 heures.
La duree journaliare est fixee ainsi
7h30 a 12h30 et
15h30 a 18h30 du ler mars au 30 septembre
15h00 a 18hOO du ler octobre au 28 ou 29 fevrier.
La semaine de travail va du lundi au vendredi.
Les horaires de travail font l'objet d'affiche. I1 en est de meme
en cas des modifications de ces horaires.
Une permanence peut atre assuree le samedi matin par le personnel
d'encadrement et par rotation; dans le cas oa elle est assuree, un calendrier
de permanence sera etabli.
Article 8 : Heures supplementaires
Les heures supplementaires ne peuvent etre effectuees qu'avec
l'accord  du superieur hierarchique  et de  l'inspecteur  du travail.  Le
Directeur general de l'Agence doit en atre informi.
Ainsi reglementee, toute heure travaillee en sus de la duree fixie
a l'article precident constitue une heure supplimentaire et ouvre droit a une
remuneration calculee selon la ligislation du travail.



- 39 -                             ANNEX 1
Section III. Les absences
Article 9 : Les absences - maladies ou conventionnelles
Pour toute absence, le Directeur general de l'Agence ou le chef de
departement concerne doit etre informe. Les absences pour maladies sont
reglementees par les articles 24 et 25 de la convention collective
interprofessionnelle.
Les absences conventionnelles admises sont celles prevues par les
articles 23 et 60 de la convention collective interprofessionnelle.
Article 10 : Les conges legaux
Le droit de jouissance au conge est acquis par le travailleur apres
une periode effective de douze mois appelee "periode de reference".
I1 entraine d'office le depart en conge de l'interesse. Cependant
la jouissance peut etre reportee d'accord partie, sous reserve de six jours
ouvrables a prendre obligatoirement. Le Directeur general de l'Agence ou ceux
des autres services dressent un calendrier des departs en conges du personnel
place sous leurs ordres.
Article 11 : Autres cas d'absence
Les autres cas d'absences admis par la legislation du travail
suivent le regime prevu par la reglementation en vigueur.
IV. Discipline
Section I. Retards - Absences de courte durie
Article 12 : Retards
Les retards i la prise du service doivent etre justifies aupres du
superieur hierarchique.
Article 13 : Absences de courte duree
Le travailleur ne peut quitter ou s'eloigner de son poste de
travail sans autorisation. S'il doit le faire pour des raisons de service, il
en avise au prealable son superieur hierarchique.
Section II. Comportement
Article 14 : Acces aux locaux - secret professionnel
Dans l'enceinte du lieu de travail comme pendant les heures
ouvrables, l'agent doit eviter les comportements susceptibles de perturber le
travail.
Aucune personne ne peut avoir acces aux locaux si cela nlest exige
par les besoins du service.



- 40 -                             ANNEX 1
L'agent est soumis au secret professionnel et ne peut divulguer i
des tiers des informations dont il a eu connaissance dans l'exercice de ses
fonctions.
De maniere generale, le personnel est soumis i une obligation de
reserve, d'impartialite et de discipline.
Les ouvriers et les chauffeurs sont tenus de ranger les outils,
engins et voitures apres les heures de travail.
I1 est formellement interdit aux chauffeurs de transporter des
personnes etrangeres au besoin du service.
Section III. Sanctions
Article 15 : Principales sanctions
Les sanctions prevues pour infraction au present reglement
interieur sont :
(a) l'observation verbale devant temoins
(b) l'avertissement ecrit
(c) le blame
(d) la mise a pied temporaire sans salaire d'une duree maximum de 4
jours.
(e) le licenciement.
Article 16 : Prise de la mesure de sanction
Les sanctions prevues a l'article 20 sont prises apres que
l'interesse, assiste sur sa demande de son delegue, aura fourni des
explications ecrites ou verbales.
Les sanctions prevues aux a, b, c peuvent atre prises par le
superieur hietarchique du travailleur fautif, apres information prealable du
Directeur general.
Le licenciement ne peut etre prononce que par le Directeur general.
V. HyRiene, securite et service medical
Section I. Hyziane et securite
Article 17 : Consigne de securite et d'hygiene
Tout travailleur est tenu d'observer la reglementation relative a
la preventation des accidents du travail et des maladies professionnelles en
se conformant notamment aux consignes de securite et d'hygiene. Les consignes
de securite sont affichees sur les lieux de travail afin que le personnel en
prenne connaissance.
Article 18 : Violation des consignes
Toute violation des consignes entraine une sanction disciplinaire
comme il est prevu a l'article 20.



- 41 -                            ANNEX 1
Article 19 : Accident de travail
En cas d'accident de travail, la victime ou tout autre travailleur
est oblige d'en informer immediatement le responsable au sein de l'Agence.
Ce dernier se charge des formalites sanitaires et des demarches
aupres de la Caisse de Securite Sociale.
Section II. Service medical
Article 20 : L'hospitalisation du travailleur malade
En cas d'hospitalisation du travailleur pour une raison autre qu'un
accident du travail ou une maladie professionnelle, les dispositions de
l'article 65 de la convention collective interprofessionnelle sont
applicables.
Article 21 : Dispositions diverses
Conformement aux dispositions en vigueur, le present reglement
interieur sera communique aux travailleurs par voie d'affiche et soumis a
l'inspection du travail et de la securite sociale ainsi qu'a toute autre
autorite prevue par la reglementation en vigueur.
Fait a Niamey, le ...................
Le P.D.G. de 1'AGENCE.



- 42 -                            ANNEX 1
ORGANIGRAMME DE L'AGENCE T.I.P.E.
Assemblee Generale                       Secretaire de
President-Directeur General                     Direction
Conseiller en                                                       Conseiller
Communication                                                        Juridique
1 Juriste
//
Direction                  D4artement                   Direction
Financiere                  du Controle                 Technique
* 1 Directeur                 de Gestion                * 1 Directeur
* 2 Secretaires             (audit interne)             * 3 Ingenieurs
Service                  Adm. Gener.                Adminis-             Controle
de Comptabilite              et Materiel                 tration                des
* 1 Comptable           * 1 Chef de Service              des               Chantiers
informaticien              Chantiers
* 1 Standardiste
* 2 Chauffeurs
* 1 Planton



- 43 -                             ANNEX 2
REPUBLIQUE DU NIGER
PROJET DE TRAVAUX D'INTERET PUBLIC POUR L'EMPLOI
Projet de Manuel des Procedures
de l'Agence D'Execution
Section I
Principes deontologiques generaux
applicables aux activites de l'ARence
I-1       Rappel des oblectifs de l'Agence
Les principaux objectifs du Projet de Travaux d'Interet Public pour
Emploi sont les suivants :
(a) creer au moins a titre tempuraire un nombre significatif dl'emplois
nouveaux principalement dans les zones urbaines le plus rapidement
possible;
(b) ameliorer, a travers l'execution des travaux finances dans le cadre
diu projet, le savoir-faire de la main-d'oeuvre employee, la
competitivite des entreprises qui seront chargees des chantiers,
et l'efficacite des institutions publiques impliquees, de facon a
divelopper une meilleure capacite de reponse de l'economie i des
opportunites de creation d'emplois durables au-dela de la periode
d'execution du projet;
(c) demontrer la possibilite d'elargir le champs d'application des
travaux a haute intensite de main-d'oeuvre et mettre au point des
procedures qui pourraient etre reprises par le secteur public pour
poursuivre des activites de mame nature; et
(d) executer des travaux dont le resultat sera economiquement et
socialement utile.
Dans la poursuite de ces objectifs generaux, les objectifs
specifiques de l'Agence en tant que telle sont les suivants :
(a) eviter un accroissement des effectifs de la fonction publique;
(b) concilier une limitation des coats, une "visibilite" de la
structure d'execution du projet, et une efficacite mesurable des
modalites d'execution; et



- 44 -                             ANNEX 2
(c)  mettre en oeuvre des procedures transparentes et controlables mais
neanmoins simplifi"es, expeditives, et flexibles pour identifier
et evaluer les operations a executer, passer les marches et payer
les entreprises.
I-2       Principes de reference
Collegialement et individuellement le personnel de l'Agence est
appele i exercer son jugement en reference aux principes suivants :
(a)  Independance : Seul le Directeur General est habilite a donner,
directement ou par la voie hierarchique, des instructions au
personnel  de  l'Agence.       Les  relations  de  l'Agence  avec
l'Administration sont regies par la convention qu'elle a signie
avec 1'Etat.  Aucune autorite exterieure a l'Agence ne peut se
prevaloir, vis-a-vis des activites de l'Agence, de prerogatives
autres que celles qui se referent explicitement a des engagements
contractuels de l'Agence dans le cadre de la convention
susmentionnee ou a des lois et reglements de droit commun
applicables aux personnes morales de droit prive.
(b)  Impartialite : Dans ses relations avec des tiers, qu'il s'agisse
des beneficiaires de l'activite de l'Agence, de ses fournisseurs
et prestataires de services, ou de toute personne ou institution
interessee a quelque titre que ce soit a l'activite de l'Agence ou
aux resultats de celle-ci, l'Agence ne pratique aucune forme de
discrimination ou de traitement preferentiel et applique
exclusivement les procedures de decision et de choix decrites dans
le present manuel.
(c)  Efficacite : La recherche de l'efficacite maximale, par rapport aux
objectifs generaux decrits aux paragraphe I-1, doit guider en toute
chose les decisions a tous les echelons de la hierarchie et
l'application pratique des procedures de l'Agence.
(d)  Economie : Sous reserve du principe d'efficacite ci-dessus, la
minimisation des couts doit etre une preoccupation constante de
l'Agence et de chaque membre de son personnel.   En particulier
aucune consideration de prestige ne peut justifier l'emploi ou
l'acquisition de moyens ou d'equipements et le recours a des
services autres que ceux qui sont strictement necessaires a
l'efficacite de l'activite de l'Agence.
I-3       Conflits d'interets
Le personnel de l'Agence ne peut detenir, directement ou par
personne interposee,  aucun interet dans des entreprises ou exercer des
responsabilites dans des institutions publiques ou privees appelees a
entretenir des relations commerciales avec l'Agence ou a beneficier de
ll'activit de celle-ci. I1 ne peut percevoir aucune remuneration, commission
ou honoraire de la part de ces memes entreprises ou institutions. Tout agent



- 45 -                             ANNEX 2
est tenu lors de son recrutement par l'Agence de remplir une declaration
etablissant la liste de ses engagements, interets ou participations
susceptibles d'entrer en conflit avec la ragle ci-dessus. I1 dispose alors
d'un delai d'un mois pour se liberer de tels engagements, interets ou
participations.   L'accomplissement de cette obligation est une condition
expresse de son recrutement definitif.
I-4       Obligations des membres du personnel de l'Agence vis-i-vis de
l'exterieur
En application de la convention qu'elle a signee avec l'Etat du
Niger, l'Agence est investie d'une mission de service public. A ce titre, le
personnel est soumis a une obligation de reserve d'impartialiti et de
discipline similaire a celle qui s'impose aux agents de la fonction publique
(voir Section X).
Le personnel de l'Agence ne peut publiquement se livrer a une
critique ouverte de ses superieurs hierarchiques ou des autorites publiques.
I1 ne peut pas se livrer a une propagande politique ou religieuse dans
l'exercice de ses fonctions.
Le personnel de l'Agence est tenu a une impartialite absolue.  I1
se doit de traiter de maniere egale les usagers du service public qu'elle
assume, en l'occurrence les beneficiaires des travaux ou operations et les
entreprises.
Le personnel de l'Agence doit enfin faire preuve envers l'Etat de
la loyauta exigee des concessionnaires de service public.



- 46 -                             ANNEX 2
Section II
Procedures de soumission des prolets
a l'Agence par les beneficiaires
II-1      Qualite des beneficiaires
Est designee sous le terme de beneficiaire toute institution ou
collectivite publique proprietaire, i titre public, d'ouvrages faisant
l'objet d'interventions de l'Agence.  La qualite de beneficiaire resulte de
l'acceptation par l'Agence, en application de la procedure decrite ci-apres,
d'un projet propose par et a l'initiative de l'institution ou de la
collectivitt concernee. Les droits et obligations attaches a cette qualite
font l'objet pour chaque projet d'une convention de maltrise d'ouvrage
deleguee (cf II-8). Le statut de l'institution ou de la collectivite n'a pas
d'influence sur l'eligibilite a la qualite de beneficiaire; en revanche la
capacite de l'institution ou de la collectivite a assurer un entretien
satisfaisant des ouvrages et a les utiliser efficacement apres leur remise
entre dans les criteres d'evaluation des projets (cf II-3).
II-2      Informations a fournir lors de la soumission d'un projet
Le candidat benificiaire soumet a l'Agence un dossier comportant
les pieces suivantes :
II-2-1    Sur le beneficiaire
(a) identification du beneficiaire, statut, champs de competences,
siege ou adresse, numero de teliphone, nom de la personne
responsable du projet, nom et qualite de la personne habilitee a
signer la convention de maltrise d'ouvrage deleguee;
(b) budgets annuels de l'institution au cours des trois derniers
exercices : investissement, fonctionnement; part de chacune des
deux sections de ce budget consacree aux services concernes par le
projet presente; et
(c) nature et repartition des ressources financieres de l'institution
(par exemple fiscalite directe, facturation de services, credits
budgetaires de l'Etat).
II-2-2    Sur le prolet present:
(a)  designation du projet; description sommaire; localisation (plan de
situation);
(b) objectifs et justifications du projet;
(c)  evaluation sommaire quantitative et qualitative  des benefices
attendus du projet;



-47 -                              ANNEX 2
(d)  contenu du projet  : composantes;  description des ouvrages  a
realiser; phasage propose;
(e)  etat d'avancement des etudes et/ou dossiers techniques prealables;
date a laquelle toutes les conditions techniques pourraient etre
remplies pour demarrer les travaux;
(f)  copie des dossiers techniques disponibles; et
(g)  coCit estime du projet et decomposition sommaire de ce cout par
nature -- materiaux (doat materiaux importes), main-d'oeuvre,
materiel, autres frais -- et le cas echeant par phase.
II-3      Criteres d'evaluation des proiets
Les projets sont evalues par l'Agence au regard des criteres
correspondant aux indicateurs suivants
(a)  coat total estime du projet;
(b)  etat de preparation du projet : dtlai et cout des activites et
demarches prealables au lancement du chantier;
(c)  part de la main-d'oeuvre dans le cout estim  dtu projet;
(d)  duree moyenne des emplois crees par l'execution du projet;
(e)  nature et disponibilite du materiel a mettre en oeuvre pour
executer les travaux;
(f)  part eventuelle des materiaux importes dans le cout estime du
projet;
(g)  niveau de qualification requis des entreprises appelees a executer
les travaux;
(h)  benefices  quantifiables,  economiques  et  sociaux,  attendus  du
resultat des travaux;
(i)  complementarite des objectifs du projet par rapport a ceux d'autres
projets en cours dtexecution ou de preparation et notamment des
projets inscrits au Programme d'Investissements de l'Etat (P.I.E.);
et
(j)  capacite financiere et technique du beneficiaire a entretenir le
resultat des travaux et a assurer la maintennace des equipements
mis en place.



- 48 -                             ANNEX 2
II-4      Modalites d'evaluation des proiets; criteres d'eligibilite
II-4-1    A partir du dossier fourni par le beneficiaire,  la direction
technique  de  l'Agence  evalue  chacun  des  indicateurs  enumeres  au
paragraphe II-3. Une commission composee du Directeur General de l'Agence,
du Directeur Technique, du Directeur Financier, et le cas echeant d'un ou
plusieurs experts invites a l'initiative du Directeur General, se reunit le
premier et le troisieme mardi de chaque mois - ou, s'ils sont feries, le
premier jour ouvrable suivant - pour examiner les dossiers de projets
inscrits a son ordre du jour par la direction technique. Sauf cas de force
majeure, le delai entre la soumission d'un projet et son examen par la
commission ne doit pas exceder un mois. Le Directeur General priside les
dibats.   La decision d'acceptation ou de rejet est prise a la majoriti
absolue; en cas de partage igal des voix, celle du prisident est
priponderante.
II-4-2    Les projets dont le coat estimi depasse 125 millions de FCFA seront
soumis a l'IDA pour approbation avant d'etre difinitivement acceptes.  A
cette fin, l'Agence communique au Reprisentant risident de la Banque mondiale
le dossier du projet accompagni du proces-verbal de la commission (cf II-4-4
infra). En l'absence de reponse de l'IDA dans un delai d'un mois, le projet
est riputi approuvi.  L'IDA approuvera les premiers sous-projets jusqu'a un
cout total de US$4.25 millions.
II-4-3    Pour  etre  iligible,  un projet  doit  respecter  les  conditions
suivantes :
(a) atre inclus dans le classement des travaux de la Section III;
(b) avoir une utiliti economique et sociale demontrie;
(c) coat total inferieur au reliquat des credits disponibles de
l'Agence;
(d) delai de lancement du chantier inferieur a trois mois;
(e) coat des activites prialables au lancement du chantier inferieur
a 10% du coat total estimi du projet;
(f) part de la main-d'oeuvre (charges comprises) superieure a 20Z du
coat total estime du projet;
(g) duree moyenne des emplois criis par l'execution du projet
superieure a deux semaines;
(h) presence d'au moins deux entreprises classies (cf section III) pour
la qualification requise et la zone giographique d'exicution du
projet;



- 49 -                             ANNEX 2
(i)  possibilite de mobiliser sans coat supplementaire le materiel
requis sur le lieu du chantier dans les delais prevus pour le
lancement de celui-ci;
(j) absence de double emploi avec un autre projet dont le financement
est deji assure;
(k) projet n'ayant pas ete elimine du P.I.E.;
(1) capacite financiere et technique du beneficiaire a entretenir le
resultat des travaux et a assurer la maintenance des equipements
mis en place; et
(m)  repartition equitable des projets entre les differentes regions du
pays.
II-4-4    Les travaux de la commission font l'objet d'un proces-verbal. Les
motifs d'acceptation ou de rejet des projets examines sont consignes
explicitement dans le proces-verbal.   Ils se referent obligatoirement aux
criteres enumeres au paragraphe II-3 et dans toute la mesure du possible a
des indicateurs quantifies de ces critares.
II-5      Relations avec le beneficiaire au cours de l'evaluation
La direction technique est habilitee i demander au beneficiaire des
renseignements complementaires ou des precisions au cours de l'evaluation et
i prescrire un delai de reponse en fonction de son planning de soumission des
projets a la commission. Lorsqu'elle constate que le dossier presente est
manifestement incomplet, elle peut renvoyer ce dossier au beneficiaire et
demander que le dossier complete soit soumis a nouveau a l'Agence dans les
memes  formes  que  le  dossier  initial.    L'absence  de  reponse  par  le
beneficiaire a des demandes d'informations compl&mentaires dans les dilais
prescrits peut etre un motif de rejet du projet.
II-6      Notification de l'acceptation ou du relet du projet
A l'issue de chaque seance de la commission, le Directeur General
notifie par ecrit a chacun des beneficiaires des projets examines, la
decision relative au projet qui le concerne et precise les motifs essentiels
de cette decision en cas de rejet.
II-7      Recours du beneficiaire
Le beneficiaire d'un projet ayant fait l'objet d'un rejet peut
demander communication du proces-verbal de la commission et du dossier
d'evaluation du projet rejet;.  En cas de contestation du bien-fonde de la
decision, il expose par ecrit les arguments precis mettant en cause les
motifs de la decision. A reception de cette lettre, le Directeur General de
l'Agence peut decider d'inscrire a l'ordre du jour de la plus prochaine
commission un reexamen du dossier.   I1 reste neanmoins seul juge en la



- 50 -                            ANNEX 2
matiere et tout rejet a l'issue d'un second examen par la commission est
definitif.
II-8      Signature de la Convention de Maltrise d'Ouvrage Delegu~e
L'acceptation  definitive  d'un  projet  est  subordonnee  a  la
conclusion entre le Benificiaire et l'Agence d'une convention de maitrise
d'ouvrage deleguee conforme au modele-type annexe a la presente section. La
convention est signee dans les meilleurs delais apres la seance de la
commission ayant decide l'acceptation du projet.   Le cas echeant des
conventions annexes reglent des dispositions particulieres relatives a
l'intervention du beneficiaire dans l'execution du projet. Ces conventions
peuvent notamment concerner la mise a disposition de materiel (cf annexe 2 a
la presente section), l'execution par le beneficiaire de certains travaux
complementaires a ceux du projet, ou la participation du beneficiaire au
controle des travaux. Les conventions annexes sont signees en meme temps que
la convention de maltrise d'ouvrage delguee.   Elles doivent avoir ete
preparees au cours de l'evaluation du projet et versees au dossier examine
par la commission.



- 51 -                            ANNEX 2
Section II - Annexe 1
CONVENTION-TYPE
DE MAITRISE D'OUVRAGE DELEGUEE
ENTRE
, represente par         , denomme
ci-apres "le Beneficiaire";
ET
L'Agence T.I.P.E., representee par son Directeur General M.
denommee ci-apres "l'Agence";
il a ete convenu ce qui suit :
Article 1 : La presente convention fixe les conditions d'execution du projet
suivant (designi ci-apres "le Projet")
situe a                      , (ou qui concerne la zone delimitee au plan
annexe).    Ce  projet  est  classe  dans  la  categorie   _   , selon  la
classification figurant a la section III-1 du Manuel des Procedures de
1 'Agence.
Article 2 : Le Beneficiaire delegue a l'Agence, qui accepte l'ensemble des
prerogatives, droits et obligations afferent a la maltrise d'ouvrage des
travaux, etudes et autres prestations necessaires a l'execution du Projet.
L'Agence assume en particulier a ce titre les responsabilites suivantes :
choix des maltres d'oeuvre et supervision des etudes prealables, preparation
des dossiers de consultation des entreprises ou d'appels d'offres, choix des
entreprises (sous reserve des dispositions de l'Article 3 ci-apres),
signature des marches, controle et reception des travaux, paiement des
entreprises.
Article  3  : Le  Beneficiaire  peut  se  faire  representer  en  qualite
d'observateur aux commissions d'attribution des marches relatifs au Projet.
La date et le lieu de reunion de ces commissions lui sont notifies par
l'Agence au moins  cinq jours ouvrables avant la reunion.   Toutefois,
l'absence du representant du Beneficiaire n'empeche pas la commission de
sieger et de faire valablement son choix.
Article 4 : Le Beneficiaire doit assister a la reception definitive des
travaux dont la date lui est notifiee par l'Agence au moins cinq jours
ouvrables avant cette reception.   L'avis du representant de l'Agence est
toutefois preponderant pour accepter ou refuser la reception. Toutefois, les



- 52 -                            ANNEX 2
reserves eventuelles du beneficiaire doivent atre portees sur le proces-
verbal de reception.
Article 5 : L'Agence ou les maltres d'oeuvre engages par elle pour
l'execution du Projet peuvent a tout moment consulter le Beneficiaire ou
requerir l'exercice des prerogatives administratives de celui-ci pour des
questions interessant l'execution du Projet. Le Beneficiaire fait diligence
pour repondre a ces consultations ou requetes.
Article 6 : Le Beneficiaire s'interdit toute intervention autre que celles
mentionnees aux articles 3, 4 et 5 ci-dessus, dans l'execution du Projet et
notamment dans le deroulement des travaux et les relations avec les
entreprises.
Article 7 : Le beneficiaire slengage a se doter des moyens financiers et
techniques necessaires a l'entretien du resultat des travaux et a la
maintenance des equipements mis en place;
Article 8 : L'Agence est seule responsable vis-a-vis des tiers impliques dans
l'execution du Projet.   Elle prend ou fait prendre toutes les assurances
nicessaires pour couvrir les risques correspondants.
Article 9 : La prisente convention prend fin lors de la remise des ouvrages
au Binificiaire prevue a titre indicatif a la date du       . Au cas ou cette
date serait reportie de plus de trois mois, l'Agence en avise le Binificiaire
dans les meilleurs dilais. Le Binificiaire est tenu d'accepter la remise des
ouvrages en l'eat. Les garanties iventuelles en vigueur a la date de remise
des ouvrages sont transferies au Benificiaire.
Article 10 : L'ensemble des coats affirent a l'execution du Projet est a la
charge de l'Agence.
Fait a
le
Pour le Beinificiaire :                        Pour l'Agence :



- 53 -                             ANNEX 2
Section II - Annexe 2
CONVENTION
DE MISE A DISPOSITION DE MATERIEL
ENTRE
, represente par         , denomme
ci-apres "le Beneficiaire";
ET
L'Agence T.I.P.E., representee par son Directeur General
M.        , denommee ci-apres "l'Agence";
il a ete convenu ce qui suit :
Article 1 : La presente convention complete la Convention de Maltrise
d'Ouvrage Deleguee en date du _   entre le Beneficiaire et l'Agence pour
l'execution du projet suivant (designe ci-apres "le Projet")
Article 2 : Le Beneficiaire met i la disposition de l'Agence pour une periode
de     et a titre gratuit le materiel suivant
L'etat de ce materiel fait l'objet d'un proces-verbal annexe a la presente
convention.
Article 3 : A l'issue de la periode de mise i disposition il est dresse un
nouveau  proces-verbal  de  l'etat  du  materiel.    L'Agence  garantit  la
restitution du matiriel dans l'etat auquel il se trouvait lors de la mise i
disposition. Cette obligation de restitution est regie par les articles 1880
a 1886 du code civil applicables i celle dont est tenu l'emprunteur a usage.
Article 4 : L'Agence peut confier l'utilisation du materiel i l'entreprise
chargee de l'execution des travaux du Projet. Elle prend les dispositions
necessaires pour faire assurer l'entretien de ce materiel et couvrir
l'ensemble des risques relatifs i l'utilisation de celui-ci.



- 54 -                            ANNEX 2
Article 5 t Tous les frais afferent i la mise en oeuvre du materiel
(notamment personnel, carburants et autres matieres consommables, entretien,
materiaux) sont a la charge de L'Agence.
Article 6 : La prolongation eventuelle de la periode de mise a disposition
fixee a l'Article 2 fait l'objet d'avenants a la presente convention.
Fait a
le _
Pour le Beneficiaire :                         Pour l'Agence :



- 55 -                             ANNEX 2
Section III
Procedure de preselection
et de classement des entreprises
III-1     Classement des travaux :
Les travaux susceptibles d'etre executes dans le cadre du projet
sont classes en deux categories de sous-projets :
(1)  Les sous-projets "Travaux" pour lesquels 60% des fonds seront
alloues comprendront :
(a) travaux de drainage des points bas comportant la realisation
d'avaloirs, aqueducs enterres, regards, puisards, tetes de
buse, perres, etc...;
(b)  petits    travaux   d'entretien   et   de   rehabilitation
d'infrastructures (comblement de ravines, amenagement de
trottoirs, reparation de caniveaux et de petits ouvrages
d'assainissement);
(c)  travaux similaires i ceux de la categorie (b) executes sur une
base periodique et necessitant de ce fait une organisation de
tournees (comblement de nids de poules);
(d) construction d'edifices simples;
(e) reparation de batiments : cette categorie est elle-meme
subdivisee par corps de metiers (enduits et peinture,
menuiseries, electricite, couverture, petits travaux de
ma9onnerie);
(f) demolition de batiments mena9ant ruine avec recuperation de
materiaux;
(g) travaux de debroussaillage et de terrassement (accotements,
talus, gabions) impliquant la realisation de profils
pre-etablis; et
(h)  travaux de conservation des eaux et des sols (C.E.S.) et de
defense et de restauration des sols (D.R.S.).
(2)       Les sous-projets "Services" pour lesquels 40Z des fonds seront
alloues, comprendront :
(a) travaux ponctuels de nettoyage (curage) d'elements du
patrimoine public : desensablement de voies, curage de fosses
et de caniveaux de drainage, ramassage ponctuel d'ordures
accumulees, etc;



- 56 -                            ANNEX 2
(b) travaux similaires a ceux de la categorie (a) executes sur une
base periodique et necessitant de ce fait une organisation de
tournees; et
(c) travaux de plantations et d'espaces verts.
III-2     Classement des entreprises
III-2-1   Au debut de ses activites, l'Agence assure au Niger, par voie de
presse, de radio et de television, une large publicite a ses objectifs et ses
modalites d'action et notamment aux conditions dans lesquelles une entreprise
peut se mettre en situation d'executer des travaux pour le compte de l'Agence
(cf II-2-2 ci-dessous).
III-2-2   A tout moment une entreprise peut demander a etre inscrite au
registre des entreprises qualifiees pour executer des travaux entrant dans
une ou plusieurs des categories definies en III-1. A cet effet, l'entreprise
doit fournir un dossier comportant :
-    la raison sociale de l'entreprise, son statut, son siege social,
son numero d'inscription au registre du commerce, le montant de son
capital social et le nom et l'adresse de la personne habilitee a
representer l'entreprise;
-    tune  attestation  bancaire  precisant  sous  quelles  conditions
l'entreprise peut beneficier d'une caution;
-    tune declaration certifiant que les dirigeants de la societe ne
tombent sous le coup d'aucune interdiction d'exercer;
-    la delimitation, sous forme d'une liste de departements, de la zone
geographique sur laquelle I'entreprise est prete a intervenir;
-    tune liste de references relatives aux categories de travaux pour
lesquelles Ilentreprise demande son classement comme entreprise
qualifiee; chaque reference sera accompagnee des indications
suivantes :
* Description sommaire des travaux et corps d'etat traites par
l'entreprise;
* Partie contractante et proprietaire des ouvrages;
* Montant du marche et type de marche;
* Duree du chantier depuis l'ordre de service initial;
* Statut du chantier (en cours, termine, receptionni provisoire,
receptionni difinitif);
* Date privue ou constatee de fin de chantier;
* Statut du marchi (soldi ou non);
* Une liste indicative du matiriel dont dispose l'entreprise en
propre et en location ou pret.



- 57 -                             ANNEX 2
III-3     Examen des demandes de classement
Une commission composee du Directeur General de l'Agence, de son
Directeur Technique et de son Directeur Financier, statue sur les demandes
d'inscription des entreprises. Elle decide librement de les accepter ou de
les rejeter. Un proces-verbal de chaque reunion eat redige. Le Directeur
General notifie la decision de la commission et, le cas echeant, les motifs
du rejet dans un delai d'un mois a compter de la reception de la demande.
Une entreprise ayant fait l'objet d'un rejet ne peut presenter de nouvelle
demande pour la meme categorie avant un dilai de six mois.
III-4     Reclassements et declassements
A l'issue ou au cours de l'execution par l'entreprise de travaux
confies par l'Agence, celle-ci peut proceder a un reexamen du classement de
l'entreprise pour etendre ou reduire la liste des categories de travaux pour
lesquels l'entreprise est classee. La decision est prise et sa notification
faite dans les memes formes que celles qui s'appliquent lors du classement
initial et implique les memes consequences.
11I-5     Droits des entreprises classees
Toute entreprise regulierement inscrite, a la date de lancement
d'une consultation, au registre des entreprises qualifiees pour la categorie
de travaux faisant l'objet de la consultation et pour une zone geographique
comprenant le lieu d'execution des travaux est invitee par lettre i venir
retirer un dossier de consultation soit au siege de l'Agence, 8oit aupres
d'un representant local de l'Agence nommement designe.  L'entreprise peut
renoncer a presenter une offre sans que ceci remette en question son
classement ni les droits y afferent.



- 58 -                             ANNEX 2
Section IV
Procedures d'attribution des marches
et contrats de prestations de services
Sous-Section IV-1
Procedure standard
Marches dont le montant estime
est inferieur a 125 millions de FCFA
IV-1-l    Consultation des entreprises
Dossiers de consultation
Le dossier de consultation est prepare sous la responsabilite de
l'Agence avec l'assistance technique du maitre d'oeuvre (cf section V) et
comporte les pieces suivantes :
(1) Un projet de contrat cor.forme a un modele-type (cf Section IV,
Annexe 1) qui precise notamment la description, l'organisation et
la localisation des travaux a realiser, la duree prevue du
chantier, le montant estime du marche et l'echeancier des
paiements.
(2) Le bordereau des prix qui est un document contractuel prioritaire
sur les autres ou figure une description precise des prestations
et suj&tions comprises dans chacune des taches faisant l'objet d'un
prix particulier lii a une unite de reference (m2, m3, etc.).
(3) Le detail estimatif des travaux, assorti d'un metre des quantites,
d'un planning des travaux, de plans de situation ou de plans types
eventuels; le montant estime figurant au projet de contrat resulte
de l'application des prix unitaires au quantitatif.
(4) Le cahier des dispositions de la consultation qui mentionne
notarment :
(a)    la liste des criteres que la commission d'attribution des
marches prendra en consideration pour faire son choix lors
du depouillement de la consultation;
(b)    la date limite des depots des soumissions contre recepisse
au siege de l'Agence ou aupres de son representant local;
et
(c)    la date de la commission d'attribution.



- 59 -                             ANNEX 2
Les pieces (1), (2) et (3) sont destinies a devenir, apres
amendement eventuel, les pieces contractuelles du marche; la piece no 2
(bordereau des prix) est prioritaire sur les autres et ceci est precise dans
le contrat.
Soumission des offres
Les soumissions prennent la forme d'une lettre de soumission signee
par le representant autorise de l'entreprise et accompagnee des trois pieces
contractuelles (projet de contrat, bordereau des prix, detail estimatif)
paraphees apres amendement eventuel; les soumissions sont deposees sous pli
cacheti au siege de l'Agence ou aupres du representant local de celle-ci,
dans les delais prevus.  Les soumissions doivent obligatoirement preciser
-    le montant du rabais propose par l'entreprise sur le prix de
reference estime pour l'ensemble des travaux;
-    toute proposition eventuelle de modification des prix unitaires
mentionnes dans le bordereau des prix;
-    toute proposition evenL_elle de modification de la duree ou du
planning du chantier et/ou de l'echiancier des paiements;
-    la description des modifications eventuelles proposees par rapport
a llorganisation et au planning des travaux, en fonction des
quantites de travaux du detail estimatif;
-    les soumissions seront ouvertes en public et les soumissionnaires
ou leurs representants peuvent atre presents.
Toute disposition du contrat ou des autres documents figurant au
dossier de consultation qui ne ferait pas l'objet d'une proposition de
modification dans la soumission est reputee acceptee par l'entreprise.
IV-1-2    Attribution des marches
La commission
La commission d'attribution se reunit, sous la presidence du
Directeur General de l'Agence ou de son representant au siege de 1'Agence ou
a tout autre endroit prealablement designe par decision ecrite du Directeur
General. La commission est composee de son president, du Directeur Technique
de l'Agence ou de son representant, du Directeur Financier de l'Agence ou de
son representant. Les decisions sont prises a la majorite absolue, la voix
du president etant preponderante en cas de partage egal des voix.   La
commission peut se faire assister d'un representant du maltre d'oeuvre
designe pour assurer le controle des travaux. Ces derniers ne participent
pas au vote.



- 60 -                             ANNEX 2
Prerogatives de la commission
La commission choisit librement l'offre qu'elle juge la plus
interessante.   Toutefois si cette offre n'est pas la moins disante,  la
commission motive sa decision en reference aux criteres enumeres dans le
dossier de consultation.   Les motifs de la decision sont consignes au
proces-verbal de la reunion.   Des que la commission a fait son choix,
l'Agence avise tous les autres soumissionnaires du rejet de leurs offres et
amende le contrat et les pieces annexes proposes dans le dossier de
consultation en fonction des dispositions de l'offre retenue sans ouvrir
aucune autre forme de negociation avec ltentreprise attributaire. Le contrat
est signe immediatement par les deux parties.
Au cas ou aucune offre n'est jugee satisfaisante, la commission
peut declarer la consultation infructueuse et proceder a une negociation
directe avec une entreprise de son choix parmi les entreprises consultees,
que celle-ci ait ou non presente une soumission.
Dans les cas precis ou il y aurait moins de cinq soumissionnaires
ou pour tout marche dont le coat estimatif est inferieur a 125 millions de
FCFA, la commission soumettra sa decision a l'IDA pour approbation avant
notification de sa decision a l'entreprise retenue.



- 61 -                             ANNEX 2
Sous-Section IV-2
Procedure de l'Appel d'offres international
Marches dont le montant estime
est superieur ou etal a 125 millions de FCFA
Les marches dont le montant estime depasse 125 millions de FCFA
sont passes en application de la procedure d'appel d'offres international,
conformement aux dispositions des "Directives pour la passation des marches
finances par des prets de la Banque mondiale ou des credits IDA" publie par
la Banque mondiale et l'Association internationale de daveloppement en
mai 1985.
Sous-Section IV-3
Procedures applicables pour les prestations de consultants,
et les contrats d'ingenierie et de maitrise d'oeuvre
IV-3-1    La procedure applicable aux prestations de consultants est celle
qui est d&erite dans les "Directives pour l'emploi des consultants" publiee
par la Banque mondiale et l'Association internationale de developpement en
aout 1981.
IV-3-2    La procedure applicable aux contrats d'ingenierie et de maltrise
d'oeuvre est decrite a la section V-4 ci-apres.



- 62 -                                   ANNEX 2
Section IV - Annexe 1
Marche-type de travaux
Marche   No   ..        .............. ................... passe   apres   appel
d'offres restreint du .... ...... /19 ... concernant le Sous-Projet designe sous
l'appellation :
......................  ........................................js....... @
SOUSCRIT LE : .......................................
APPROUWVE LE : ...........................0............
NOTIFIE LE :  ......................................
ENREGISTRE LE : ..................................
ENTRE :
l'Agence T.I.P.E., denommie ci-apres "1'AGENCE", representee par son
Directeur General M. M
d'une part,
ET
.... ........          ..   **.* ................ .*v... . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . .
Represente par ................................................
agissant en qualite de .           .................        ...      .au nom et pour le
compte de ladite entreprise et disigne ci-apres "L'ENTREPRENEUR";
d'autre part,
IL A ETE CONVENU CE QUI SUIT :
ARTICLE 1 : OBJET DU MARCHE
Le present marche a pour objet 1'execution de travaux de
* *......................................................
decomposes en ........... ..... taches distinctes faisant chacune 1'objet d'un
prix unitaire calculi sur la base d'une unite de quantite correspondante,
conformement au Bordereau de pix joint en annexe.



- 63 -                           ANNEX 2
ARTICLE 2 : LOCALISATION DES TRAVAUX
Les travaux decrits i l'article 1 se derouleront dans la (les)
commune(s) de :
............................................................
........................au(x) lieu(x) ditos :
....................................
ARTICLE 3 : MONTANT DU MARCHE
Le montant hors taxes du marche, tel que mentionne au Detail
estimatif, s'eleve a la somme de :
............ FCFA sur la base de prix au
.  .  .    .19...
Les prix indiques au Bordereau des prix ont ete evalues en tenant
compte des couts de revient de la main-d'oeuvre, y compris les charges
sociales, du coat total hors taxes des fournitures rendues sur le chantier,
du coat de revient du materiel de chantier, y compris les provisions pour
amortissement, ainsi que des frais d'installation du chantier, des frais
generaux et divers de chantier, sujt&ions d'execution, aleas et benefices.
Le montant TTC du marche est de
ARTICLE 4 : ORGANISATION ET DUREE DES TRAVAUX
Les travaux se deroulent selon la decomposition en ..... taches
decrites a l'Article 1.
Pour chacune de ces taches, l'execution est confiee a un nombre
determine d'equipes composees de manoeuvres et d'ouvriers de qualification
differente.
La composition et le nombre d'equipes necessaires, en fonction du
volume de travaux et des rendements estimes, sont donnes en annexes du
present document (schema d'organisation).
(Le soumissionnaire est invite a controler ce schema. a le modifier
eventuellement et a le compliter afin de fournir un plan d'organisation
concret et detaille du chantier).
En se fondant sur un nombre moyen de .......... jours travailles par
mois, le present marche est conclu pour un delai d'exicution de
........... mois, i compter de la date de l'ordre de service fixant le
commencement des travaux commandes.
La date prevue d'achevement des travaux est le .... ......... ou
toute autre date agreee entre l'Agence et l'Entrepreneur.



- 64-                              ANNEX 2
ARTICLE 5 : PENALITES DE RETARD
En cas de retard dans l'execution des travaux par rapport aux
delais fixes dans l'ordre de service, l'entrepreneur est passible d'une
penalite de 1/1 OOOe par jour de retard sur le montant des travaux ordonnes,
sauf cas de force majeure.   Dans ce cas, l'Agence apprecie et notifie a
l'entreprise le delai supplementaire accorde.
ARTICLE 6 : REGLEMENTS ET ECHEANCIER DES PAIEMENTS
I1 est prevu d'etablir des decomptes mensuels sur la base de
situations de travaux ou apparaitront clairement le montant des travaux
realisis dans le mois considere, ainsi que le montant cumule des travaux
realises au dernier jour de ce mois.
Ces montants de travaux sont calcules par reference aux prix du
Bordereau des prix, par application i ces prix des quantites reellement
exicutees, apres controle du maitre d'oeuvre designe par l'Agence.
Les paiements ont lieu i Niamey par les soins de la direction
financiere de l'Agence sur presentation de decomptes vises par la direction
technique et accompagnes de situations de travaux certifiees par le maltre
d'oeuvre.
Le delai de paiement ne peut exceder trente (30) jours a compter
de l'acceptation du decompte mensuel de 1'Entrepreneur, par les responsables
de la direction technique de l'Agence.
ARTICLE 7 : ACTUALISATION ET REVISION
Le marche ne prevoit pas d'actualisation et de revision de prix,
compte tenu des delais de realisation prevus.



- 65 -                             ANNEX 2
ARTICLE 8 : AVANCE AU DEMARRAGE DES TRAVAUX
Une avance au demarrage des travaux cautionnee a 100% ne depassant
pas 20% du montant du marche est accordee i l'Entrepreneur, au moment de la
notification de l'ordre de service. Cette avance est repartie a part egale
sur les deux (2) premiers mois de travaux, soit un versement i hauteur de 50Z
du montant accorde, au moment du demarrage effectif du chantier constate par
la direction technique de l'Agence.
Le solde, soit 50% du montant accorde, vient alors s'ajouter au
reglement de la premiere situation de travaux, apres controle du maitre
d'oeuvre designe par l'Agence et visa de la direction technique.
Ce versement du solde de l'avance au demarrage est ainsi lii a
l'acceptation des montants presentes dans la premiare situation, dont le
total ne peut en aucun cas atre inferieur a :
................. FCFA, soit ..... Z du montant total du marche.
- Le remboursement de l'avance au demarrage est echelonne sur une
pnriode de travaux comprise entre le mois ou le montant cumuli de travaux
realisis atteint 50% du montant du marche, et la date d'achevement du
chantier.
Le montant mensuel de remboursement de l'avance au demarrage est
constant et igal au rapport du montant total de l'avance par le nombre de
situations  restant  a  itablir  pendant  la  piriode  de  rifirence.    Ce
remboursement vient en diduction des situations restant a itablir.
ARTICLE 9 : RESPONSABILITE DE L'ENTREPRENEUR
L'Entrepreneur est directement et personnellement responsable vis-a
-vis de l'Agence, de la bonne marche et de la qualiti des travaux.
L'Entrepreneur s'engage a fournir au maltre d'oeuvre disigni par l'Agence,
tous les renseignements, metres, calculs et tous justificatifs qui pourraient
lui etre demandis.
ARTICLE 10 : CONTROLE DES TRAVAUX
Les travaux sont places sous le controle du maitre d'oeuvre disigni
par l'Agence.   L'Entrepreneur doit difirer a tous les ordres icrits ou
verbaux du maltre d'oeuvre, a charge pour lui de formuler iventuellement ses
reserves dans un dilai de dix (10) jours ouvrables.  L'ordre verbal sera
confirmi par la suite par icrit dans un delai raisonnable.
ARTICLE 11 : Main-d'oeuvre - HYGIENE
L'Entrepreneur est soumis pour 1'emploi de la main-d'oeuvre, aux
regles qui resultent des textes en vigueur au moment de l'exicution des
travaux et en particulier a la convention collective interprofessionnelle du
15 dicembre 1972 et ses annexes.



- 66 -                            ANNEX 2
ARTICLE 12 : CONTESTATIONS ET LITIGES
Si au cours des travaux, des difficultes s'elevent entre les
representants du maitre d'oeuvre designe par l'Agence et l'Entrepreneur, il
est prevu d'en referer au responsable du maltre d'oeuvre qui fait alors
connaitre sa decision.
Si l'Entreprise n'accepte pas cette dicision, chacune des parties,
a savoir l'Agence d'une part et 1'Entrepreneur d'autre part, sloblige a
solliciter l'avis d'un arbitre; en cas de desaccord des deux arbitres,
ceux-ci disignent un troisieme arbitre qui doit trancher en   derniere
instance selon les regles en vigueur au Niger.
ARTICLE 13 : DOCUMENTS CONTRACTUELS
L'ensemble des documents inumeres ci-dessous, dont l'Entrepreneur
assure avoir pris connaissance, constitue un tout difinissant les conditions
du marchi.
- Le prisent Projet de contrat
- Le Bordereau des prix
- Le Detail estimatif
- Le Cahier des dispositions
ARTICLE 14 s Le prisent contrat entre en vigueur des sa signature par les
deux parties.
LU ET ACCEPTE                       Niamey, le .............19..
L'ENTREPRENEUR                                 LE DIRECTEUR
GENERAL DE L'AGENCE



- 67 -                            ANNEX 2
Secction IV - Annexe 2
Lettre de soumission
Appel d'offres du .........19..   concernant le Projet
Je soussigne......................................................
agissant en qualite de  ..................................... .au nom et
pour .................................................. denomme   ci-apres
"L'Entrepreneur", inscrit au registre du commerce de ................... sous
le numero ................ domicilie a l'adresse suivante :
*.*v**@@....................................   v .........   *+.........   **...... +
telephone ............
et dont le numero de compte contribuable est le suivant
~~... ......................... ......... .*    .. v
Apres avoir pris connaissance du dossier d'appel d'offres relatif
aux travaux mentionnes ci-dessus, et notamment des quatre documents
- Projet de contrat
- Bordereau des prix
- Detail estimatif
- Cahier des dispositions de l'appel d'offres
Apres avoir apprecie a mon point de vue et sous ma responsabilite,
la nature et les difficultes de l'entreprise.
Accepte sans restriction toutes les dispositions du Cahier des
dispositions de l'appel d'offres.
Remets, revetu de ma signature, un Bordereau des prix rempli par
moi conformement au modele qui m'a ete remis.
M'engage, en tant qu'entrepreneur, a executer les travaux designes
ci-dessus, conformement aux prescriptions du Bordereau des prix.
Remets, revetu de ma signature un Projet de contrat, incluant mes
propositions de modifications des dispositions de ce contrat.
L'Agence d'Execution se liberera des sommes dues par elle et
constatees dans les dacomptes de situations de travaux, en faisant crediter
le compte bancaire ouvert au nom de :
............ sous le N.....
a l'Agence............................
de la banque.................................
Fait en un seul original,
aNiamey, le .......... 19
L'ENTREPRENEUR



- 68 -                             ANNEX 2
Section V
Procedures de suivi et de controle des travaux
V-1       Versement des avances
Les marches dont la duree depasse quatre mois comportent
normalement le versement a l'entreprise d'une avance de demarrage des travaux
cautionnee a 100% regie par la disposition suivante :
L'avance de demarrage des travaux doit permettre a
l'entreprise   l'acquisition   des  materiaux   et   la
mobilisation du materiel necessaire a l'ouverture du
chantier; son montant est fixe dans chaque marche sous
forme d'un pourcentage du montant total du marche qui
est determine cas par cas en fonction de la nature des
travaux et de l'importance des materiaux et materiels
mis en oeuvre.   Sauf exception,  il n'est pas verse
d'avance de demarrage pour les marches dont la durie
prevue east infirieure a quatre mois ou qui correspondent
a des categories de travaux ne donnant pas lieu a des
acquisitions de materiaux ou des locations de materiel.
V-2       Fiches d'avancement de chantier et relations avec la comptabilite
du marchi
A partir des situations de travaux etablies mensuellement par les
entreprises et controlies par les maltres d'oeuvre, la direction technique
tient a jour pour chaque marche une fiche d'avancement de chantier conforme
au modele annexi a la prisente section. Les fiches d'avancement de chantiers
alimentent les etats ricapitulatifs fournis tous les deux mois par l'Agence
dans le cadre de ses rapports d'activiti (cf section VIII).  Apres chaque
mise a jour, une copie de la fiche d'avancement de chantier est transmise a
la direction financiere qui opere le rapprochement avec la fiche marche (cf
section VI) oa sont enregistres les decaissements effectues sur le marche
considire.
V-3       Controle des travaux
Compte tenu de l'effectif limiti de la direction technique de
l'Agence, le controle direct des travaux par le personnel de l'Agence est une
procedure exceptionnelle.   La procidure normale consiste a confier par
contrat a un maltre d'oeuvre ou un prestataire de services exterieurs a
l'Agence l'ensemble des missions relatives a la supervision des entreprises
et au controle des travaux. Un contrat-type de maltrise d'oeuvre est annexe
a la prisente section.   Le maltre d'oeuvre designe par l'Agence assure
notamment les fonctions suivantes :
(a)  avant l'attribution du marche



- 69-                              ANNEX 2
(i)    preparation des pieces a caractere technique du dossier de
consultation en liaison avec la direction technique de
l'Agence;
(ii)   participation en qualite d'observateur  a la commission
d'attribution des marches;
(b) en cours de chantier :
(i)    surveillance continue des travaux par l'intermediaire d'un
surveillant de travaux qui est son representant permanent
sur le chantier;
(ii)   visite hebdomadaire du chantier avec le representant de
l'entreprise   en   vue   d'identifier   les   difficultes
rencontrees, de controler la qualite des ouvrages en cours
d'execution et de donner toutes instructions necessaires
pour assurer l'efficacite de la poursuite des travaux; cette
visite fait l'objet d'un bref compte rendu, consigne dans
un cahier de suivi de chantier;
(iii)  controle et certification des situations de travaux;
(iv)   role d'interlocuteur permanent de l'entreprise et du maitre
d'ouvrage pour toute question interessant l'execution des
travaux;
(c) en fin de chantier
Assistance technique au maitre d'ouvrage pour la reception
provisoire et la reception definitive des travaux.
V-4       Selection des maltres d'oeuvre
L'Agence entretien un fichier des maltres d'oeuvre qui comprend
pour chacun d'entre eux les informations suivantes :
-    identification  (raison sociale,  adresse,  no de telephone)  de
l'organisme concerne;
-    nom de la personne responsable;
-    liste des categories de travaux (cf section III-1) pour lesquelles
l'organisme concerne peut assurer la maltrise d'oeuvre;
-    delimitation de la zone geographique dans laquelle l'organisme
accepte d'intervenir;
-    inventaire et evaluation sommaire des prestations d;ji realisies
pour le compte de l'Agence;
Les modalites de candidature pour l'inscription i ce fichier et les
modalites d'examen de ces candidatures par l'Agence sont similaires i celles
qui sont applicables au classement des entreprises (cf sections III-2, III-3
et III-4).
En fonction de la nature et de la localisation du chantier,
l'Agence selectionne dans son fichier, par un systeme de rotation, le maitre
d'oeuvre qui lui paralt le plus qualifie et negocie de gre i gre avec



- 70 -                             ANNEX 2
celui-ci le contrat de prestation de services en reference au modele-type
annexe a la presente section.  La remuneration du maitre d'oeuvre ne saurait
exceder 10% du montant des travaux.
V-5       Supervision des maitres d'oeuvre
L'une des fonctions essentielles de la direction technique de
l'Agence est de superviser les maitres d'oeuvre qui assurent pour son compte
le contr&le des travaux. A cet effet elle procede a des visites sans preavis
de chantiers auxquelles elle convoque le maitre d'oeuvre concerne. L'objet
de ces visites est de controler la bonne execution des obligations
contractuelles du maltre d'oeuvre. L'evaluation de la prestation doit donc
se referer exclusivement au contrat de maitrise d'oeuvre qui comprend
notamment  l'obligation de portee generale  faite au maitre d'oeuvre de
respecter les regles de l'art.
V-6       Controle direct des travaux par l'Agence
Exceptionnellement, l'Agence peut decider d'etre son propre maitre
d'oeuvre.  La decision est prise par le Directeur General de l'Agence sur
proposition du Directeur Technique notamment lorsque les conditions suivantes
sont remplies :
(a)  il n'existe pas dans le fichier, de maltre d'oeuvre disponible pour
le projet considere et le projet ne peut pas atre differe;
(b)  le projet est suffisamment simple pour pouvoir etre effectivement
controle par le personnel limite de la direction technique; et
(c) la localisation du projet n'impose pas au personnel charge du
controle, des deplacements incompatibles avec l'ex&cution correcte
de ses taches habituelles.
V-7       Reception provisoire et reception definitive
V-7-1        L'entreprise avise le maitre d'oeuvre et la direction technique
de l'Agence de la date a laquelle les travaux ont ete ou seront acheves. Le
maltre d'oeuvre convoque alors l'entreprise aux operations de reception qui
doivent avoir lieu dans les meilleurs delais.
Les verifications portent sur :
-    la constatation de l'achevement ou de l'inexecution partielle des
travaux;
-    la constatation eventuelle d'imperfections ou de malfacons.
V-7-2        Le maitre d'oeuvre etablit un proces-verbal qu'il signe ainsi
que I'entrepreneur (si celui-ci refuse de signer, ce refus est mentionne au
proces-verbal).   Au vu de ce proces-verbal,  le representant de l'Agence
decide soit de prononcer la reception des travaux, soit la reception avec
reserves et notifie sa decision a l'entreprise en lui enjoignant d'executer



- 71 -                             ANNEX 2
ou d'achever les travaux omis ou incomplets et de remedier aux imperfections
et malfa.ons constatees dans un delai fixe. Passe ce delai, l'Agence est en
droit de faire executer les travaux mentionnes au proces-verbal de reception
provisoire par une entreprise de son choix aux frais et risques de
l'entreprise titulaire du marchi.
V-7-3        Le solde des sommes dues i l'entreprise est normalement paye
lors de la riception provisoire sous diduction d'une iventuelle retenue au
titre des travaux omis ou incomplets ou des imperfections et malfacons
constatees.  Dans le cas de malfa9ons ou defaillances graves l'Agence peut
refuser de prononcer la raception provisoire et enjoindre par ordre de
service l'entreprise de demolir les ouvrages defectueux ou non conformes aux
stipulations du contrat et de refaire les travaux.
V-7-4        Le delai de garantie stipule au contrat court a compter de la
reception provisoire. Pendant ce delai, l'entreprise est mise en demeure par
l'Agence d'executer les travaux qui lui incombent au titre de la garantie.
En cas de refus ou d'inexecution, l'Agence est en droit de recourir a
l'execution d'office et de prilever sur le cautionnement de l'entreprise (le
cas icheant) les sommes necessaires au remboursement des dipenses engagies.
V-7-5        La riception definitive est prononcee a la fin du delai de
garantie par un proces-verbal notifii i l'entreprise. L'Agence itablit alors
la main levie du cautionnement sous reserve de l'exicution des travaux qui
incombent a l'entreprise au titre de la garantie.
Le bineficiaire des travaux pourrait assister a leur riception
definitive dont la date lui est notifiee par l'Agence au moins cinq jours
ouvrables avant cette riception.   L'avis du representant de l'Agence est
cependant priponderant pour accepter ou refuser la reception. Toutefois, les
reserves eventuelles du beneficiaire doivent atre portees sur le proces-
verbal de riception.



- 72 -                              ANNEX 2
Section V - Annexe 1
Contrat-type de maltrise d'oeuvre
Marche No ...... ................................... passe apres accord de
gre a gre et concernant la Maitrise d'oeuvre du  Projet suivant
............................................................
SOUSCRIT LE : ......................................
APPROUVE LE : ......................................
NOTIFIE LE : ...................................
ENREGISTRE LE : ...................................
ENTRE
L'Agence T.I.P.E., denommee ci-apres "1'AGENCE", representee par
son Directeur General M. M
d'une part,
ET :...................................................
dasigne ci-apres "LE MAITRE D'OEUVRE", represente par   ..............
d'autre part,
IL A ETE CONVENU ET ARRETE CE QUI SUIT :
ARTICLE 1: OBJET DU CONTRAT
Le present Contrat a pour objet l'execution de prestations de maltrise
d'oeuvre comprenant les etudes techniques et le controle des travaux
d'execution relatifs au projet



73 -                            ANNEX 2
ARTICLE 2 : LOCALISATION DU SOUS-PROJET
Le projet decrit i l'Article 1 se deroule dans la (les) localite(s) de t
.......................................................
*  ..  ..  ..  ... .... ...au(x) lieu(x) ditos 
~~~~......................... .................... a()lex)dts:
ARTICLE 3 : DOCUMENTS ET RENSEIGNEMENTS FOURNIS PAR L'AGENCE
L'Agence agissant en tant que Maitre d'ouvrage delegue fournit au
maitre d'oeuvre les documents et renseignements suivants :
-    Plan de masse du (des) site(s) avec courbes de niveau, indication
des batiments existants a rehabiliter et des batiments voisins.
-    Indications sur la viabilite existante, les voies d'acces, la
localisation et les caracteristiques des reseaux generaux existants
(eau, gaz, electricite, egouts et les points de raccordements
possibles).
-    Caracteristiques geologiques et geotechniques du sous-sol, ainsi
que les resultats des eventuels sondages effectues sur certains
sites, lorsque necessaires.
-    Toutes indications sur la situation juridique du (des) terrain(s)
au regard des servitudes de sites ou d'urbanisme et des charges ou
servitudes civiles, l'Agence en tant que maitre d'ouvrage delegue,
etant seul l'interprete de ses droits fonciers.
ARTICLE 4 : PRINCIPE DE L'INTERVENTION DU MAITRE D'OEUVRE
Le maltre d'oeuvre est directement charge de l'elaboration du
dossier technique, en liaison avec la direction technique de l'Agence, pour
le sous-projet designe a l'Article 1. Il est notamment charge de preparer
les pieces suivantes pour 1'appel d'offres du marche de travaux
-    Bordereau des prix
-    Detail estimatif et documents annexes tels que metres, planning,
plans type, etc...
Le maltre d'oeuvre assiste l'Agence dans la selection des offres
presentees par les entreprises.
Le maltre d'oeuvre est responsable de la preparation du chantier,
une fois le marche de travaux attribue, et met en place l'ensemble des
procedures et documents relatifs au suivi des travaux, en liaison avec la
direction technique de l'Agence.



- 74 -                            ANNEX 2
Le maltre d'oeuvre est charge du contr6le de la bonne execution des
travaux et veille au respect :
-    des quantites prevues,
-    de la qualite exigee a travers les specifications techniques,
-    des delais d'execution impartis.
Le maltre d'oeuvre est le conseil de l'Agence pour la defense de
ses interets, notamment en matiere de litiges eventuels.
Le maltre d'oeuvre s'acquitte de sa mission selon les regles de son
art en fournissant les prestations necessitees par la nature et l'limportance
du projet, dans le cadre du tableau de prestations figurant en annexe au
present contrat.   En outre il se conforme aux instructions qui lui sont
donnees par l'Agence concernant le programme de travaux, les delais, l'ordre
d'urgence des travaux et les modalitis d'execution.
ARTICLE 5 : CONDITIONS D'EXECUTION DU CONTRAT DE MAITRISE D'OEUVRE
Tous les documents et dossiers a fournir comme indiqui ci-dessous,
devront etre conformes aux regles en vigneur concernant le Batiment et les
Travaux Publics au Niger.
A/ - DOSSIER TECHNIQUE
Le maitre d'oeuvre etablit, en liaison avec la direction technique
de l'Agence, le dossier technique qui comportera toutes les pieces
necessaires pour lancer l'appel d'offres restreint aux entreprises
priqualifiees par l'Agence :
-    Projet de contrat de marche de travaux
-    Cahier des dispositions de l'appel d'offres
-    Bordereau des prix
-    Detail estimatif et documents annexes tels que metries, planning,
plans type etc...
-    Plans de masse revus et complites a partir de ceux remis par
l'Agence au maltre d'oeuvre.
B/ - DOCUMENTS DE COORDINATION ET CONTROLE
Le maltre d'oeuvre etablit, a sa charge en liaison avec la
direction technique de l'Agence, tous les documents de priparation, suivi et
controle de l'exicution des travaux de l'entreprise.
-    Programme de travaux
-    Planning de chantier
-    Etablissement de situations de travaux mensuelles
-    Rapports d'essais et tests de laboratoire sur les materiaux mis en
oeuvre
-    Rapports de controle de qualiti des fournitures et equipements
necessaires



- 75 -                            ANNEX 2
-    Documents de gestion des besoins et stocks de materiaux
-    Rapports de controle sur la mise en oeuvre des materiaux
-    Comptes rendus des visites de chantier
-    Comptes rendus des reunions de travaux avec 1'entrepreneur et
1'Agence
-    Documents techniques sur les eventuels avenants ou variantes
proposes par l'Agence
-    Proces-verbaux de receptions provisoires et definitives de travaux.
ARTICLE 6 : REMUNERATION DU MAITRE D'OEUVRE
La remuneration du maltre d'oeuvre est fixee comme suit :
(i)  pour les taches de preparation, un maximum de 5% du cout estime
pour le sous-projet;
(ii) pour les taches de coordination et de controle, un maximum de 5%
du montant du marche de travaux signes.
ARTICLE 7 : ACTUALISATION ET REVISION DES PRIX
Les prix du present mar^2w de maltrise d'oeuvre sont fermes et non
revisables.
ARTICLE 8 : ECHEANCIER DES REGLEMENTS
Le reglement des sommes dues au titre d'honoraires de maltrise
d'oeuvre sera echelonne de la facon suivante :
Pour la partie (i) :
- A - Signature du Contrat de maltrise d'oeuvre, une avance
cautionnee a 100% ...................................... 20%
- B - Achevement du dossier technique d'appel d'offres ....... 80%
Pour la partie (ii) :
- A - Au fur et a mesure de l'avancement des travaux, par mois....80%
- B - A I'acception du rapport de la reception definitive, ou caution
bancaire du meme montant .                                 20%
ARTICLE 9 : RESPONSABILITE DU MAITRE D'OEUVRE
Le maltre d'oeuvre est directement et personnellement responsable
vis-a-vis de 1'Agence, de la conception des ouvrages du projet.



- 76 -                             ANNEX 2
ARTICLE 10 : CONTROLE DES PRESTATIONS
Les prestations sont placees sous le controle du Directeur
Technique de l'Agence, lui meme rapportant au Directeur General de l'Agence.
Le maltre d'oeuvre doit deferer i tous les ordres ecrits ou verbaux de la
direction technique de l'Agence, a charge pour lui de formuler eventuellement
sea reserves dans un delai de dix (10) jours, par ecrit, sous peine de
forclusion.
ARTICLE 11 : MODIFICATION DU PROGRAMME
Dans le cas ou l'Agence est amenee a modifier fondamentalement son
programme a un stade de son deroulement, il est prevu que le maitre d'oeuvre
recoive des honoraires qui seront reajustis en fonction des prestations
actuelles. Un avenant au present contrat est alors redige pour fixer dans ce
cas, les conditions de la remuneration complementaire revenant au maitre
d'oeuvre.
ARTICLE 12 : CONTESTATIONS ET LITIGES
Si dans le cours des prestations, des difficultes s'elevent entre
les representants de l'Agence et le maltre d'oeuvre, il est prevu d'en
referer au Directeur General de l'Agence qui fait alors connaltre sa decision
par ecrit.
Si le maltre d'oeuvre n'accepte pas cette decision, chacune des
parties, a savoir l'Agence d'une part et le maltre d'oeuvre d'autre part,
s'oblige a solliciter l'avis d'un arbitre; en cas de desaccord des deux
arbitres, ceux-ci dasignent un troisieme arbitre qui doit trancher en
derniere instance selon les regles en vigueur au Niger.
ARTICLE 13 : LEGISLATION CONCERNANT LA Main-d'oeuvre
Le reglementation du travail et la legislation sociale en vigueur
au Niger sont applicables au maitre d'oeuvre qui s'astreint a respecter toute
legislation ou reglementation nouvelle rendue obligatoire au fur et a mesure
de leur parution au journal officiel du Niger.
Aucune indemnite fondee sur les sujetions et difficultes entralnees
par dtcisions des autorites administratives concernant l'emploi de la main-
d'oeuvre nigerienne ne peut etre acceptee.



- 77 -                            ANNEX 2
ARTICLE 14 : ASSURANCES
Le maltre d'oeuvre doit justifier de la souscription d'une police
d'assurance aupres d'une compagnie agreee par l'Agence, couvrant les risques
et  responsabilites  professionnelles  relatifs  a  l'execution  de  ses
prestations.
LU ET APPROUVE                 Niamey le ...........19...
LE MAITRE D'OEUVRE                  LE DIRECTEUR
GENERAL DE L'AGENCE



- 78 -                            ANNEX 2
Section VI
Comptabilite des marches, decaissements
VI-1      Engagements
Le marche constitue la reference elementaire de comptabilisation
des engagements et des decaissements.   Des la signature d'un marche, la
direction financiere ouvre une fiche-marche et enregistre un engagement egal
au montant de ce marche.  La date et le montant de chaque reglement sont
enregistres au fur et a mesure dans la fiche-marche; a tout moment la part
engagie non decaissee est la difference entre l'engagement initial et la
somme des reglements deja effectues.
VI-2      Presentation des decomptes
Sauf stipulation contraire figurant dans le marche, les decomptes
sont  presentes  par  l'entreprise  mensuellement.       Tout  decompte  est
obligatoirement justifie par une situation de travaux certifiee par le maitre
d'oeuvre. Le decompte precise le montant hors taxes des travaux effectues,
le montant de la deduction eventuelle au titre de l'avance de demarrage, le
montant des taxes applicables, et le total a payer ainsi que la reference de
la (ou des) situation(s) de travaux justificatives. I1 est date et signe par
la personne habilitee a representer l'entreprise.
VI-3      Controle des decomptes
La direction technique verifie le decompte et les situations de
travaux annexes. Elle certifie le service fait, puis transmet le dossier a
la direction financiere pour paiement. La direction financiere controle la
compatibilite du decompte avec le reliquat engage non decaisse qui figure sur
la fiche-marche et ordonne le reglement. Sauf cas de force majeure duiment
justifie, le delai total entre la reception du decompte par la direction
technique et la remise du cheque a l'entreprise (ou l'envoi de l'ordre de
virement a la banque) ne doit pas exceder dix jours ouvrables. Le respect de
cette regle constitue l'un des criteres d'evaluation des performances du
personnel de l'Agence concerne, ainsi que des performances de l'Agence
elle-mame.
VI-4      Ordonnancement des decaissements
L'ordonnancement dun reglement comporte les operations suivantes
-    preparation des cheques ou ordres de virement pour la partie hors
taxes nette a payer a l'entreprise;
-    inscription du raglement dans la fiche-marche;
-    comptabilisation des taxes a regler au Tresor pour le compte de
l'entreprise.



- 79 -                             ANNEX 2
VI-5      Signature des chaques et ordres de virements
Les cheques et ordres de virement sont signes par le Directeur
Financier et contre-signes par le Directeur General de l'Agence.  L'un et
l'autre peuvent deleguer par ecrit leur signature en cas d'absence ou
d'empechement. Une photocopie du cheque ou de l'ordre de virement signe et
le cas echeant de la ou des dilegation(s) de signature est annexee au
dtcompte avant classement de celui-ci parmi les pieces comptables
justificatives   conservees   par   l'Agence   a   la   disposition   des
reviseurs-comptables.
VI-6      Cas particulier des taxes
L'Agence est designee representant fiscal des entreprises. Sur les
decomptes qui lui sont presentes conformement a la procedure decrite au
paragraphe VI-2, l'Agence est chargee de recuperer les cheques emis au
benef ice du tresor et couvrant la taxe sur la valeur ajoutee et de les lui
adresser.
Pour cela l'Agence doit proceder avant le 15 de chaque mois a la
declaration fiscale des operations effectuees au cours du mois precedent.
La declaration s'effectue sur les formulaires de la taxe sur la
valeur ajoutie delivres par le service des taxes indirectes de
l'administration fiscale.
La declaration est deposee, accompagnee du cheque au benefice du
tresor acquittant la taxe du mois precedent.
VI-7      Cloture du marche
La cloture d'un marche n'est complete qu'apres la reception
definitive des ouvrages et la main levee du cautionnement eventuel. Lors de
la cloture, le reliquat eventuel engage non decaisse est annuli.



- 80 -                             ANNEX 2
Section VII
Gestion des ressources de l'Agence
VII-1        Principe du compte roulant
La rapidite du reglement des fournisseurs est l'une des raisons
d'etre de l'Agence.   Afin de lui permettre d'effectuer sans delai les
operations de liquidation des reglements, l'Agence est titulaire d'un compte
ouvert dans une banque commerciale du Niger qui fonctionne sous la double
signature du Directeur General de l'Agence et du Directeur Financier.  Ce
compte est alimente au depart par une avance versee a la demande du
Gouvernement par le (ou les) bailleur(s) de fonds qui finance(nt) le Projet
de Travaux d'Interat Public pour l'Emploi.   Cette avance est calculee de
facon a couvrir approximativement trois mois de decaissements de l'Agence,
dont un mois  a titre de reserve de securite.   Des que le cumul des
decaissements effectues atteint ou depasse le tiers du montant de l'avance
initiale (en moyenne tous les mois), l'Agence presente par l'intermediaire du
Ministere du Plan au(x) bailleur(s) de fonds une demande de realimentation a
hauteur des sommes decaissees, justifiee par un itat detaille des
dicaissements effectuis, certifii par le Directeur General de l'Agence (itat
certifii de dipenses).   Les pieces  justificatives  sont conservies par
l'Agence   et   sont   tenues   en   permanence   a   la   disposition   des
reviseurs-comptables des representants des bailleurs de fonds et du Ministere
du Plan.
VII-2        Etats certifies de dipenses
Les etats certifies de dipenses fournissent une liste ditaillie des
dicaissements ilementaires effectues et pour chacun la riference pricise des
pi;ces justificatives (y compris cote de classement) conservees par l'Agence.
Les itats certifies de depenses sont prepares sous la responsabilite du
Directeur Financier.   Ils sont obligatoirement certifiis par le Directeur
Giniral de l'Agence.
VII-3        Classement des pieces lustificatives
Les pieces justificatives de chaque decaissement (decompte et
situations de travaux annexies, copie du cheque ou de l'ordre de virement
signi, copie des deligations de signature le cas icheant) sont classies selon
un systeme de numerotation chronologique. Un fichier informatique des pieces
Justificatives  est tenu a jour  en permanence.    Il doit permettre  de
silectionner les piaces selon les criteres suivants (croises ou non)
- categorie de travaux (cf section III-1);
- disignation du projet;
- disignation de l'entreprise;
- date ou periode de temps;
- numero de la demande de rialimentation.



- 81 -                             ANNEX 2
VII-4     Procedures de realimentation
VII-4-1   Le directeur de l'Agence addressera a l'IDA les demandes de
realimentation par l'entremise du Ministere du Plan. Les demandes adressees
a 1'IDA sont deposees aupres du Representant resident de la Banque mondiale
a Niamey. La date de transmission est enregistree par l'Agence avec le
numero d'identification de la demande et la date de celle-ci. Les copies des
demandes de decaissement sont deposees i la DFI le jour meme de la
transmission de l'original au(x) bailleur(s) de fonds.
VII-4-2 Le Representant resident de la Banque mondiale communique a
IAgence  la  date  de  transmission  au  siege  de  chaque  demande  de
realimentation.    Passe  un  delai  de  quinze  jours  ouvrables,  si  la
realimentation n'a pas ete effectuee, l'Agence adresse un telex de relance au
bailleur de fonds afin notamment d'obtenir communication des refirences du
virement.  En possession de cette derniere information, l'Agence alerte la
banque destinataire des fonds afin que celle-ci procede, le cas echeant, aux
recherches necessaires.
VII-4-3   (Dispositions eventuelles pour les autres bailleurs de fonds).
VII-4-4   I1 appartient a l'Agence d'etablir avec precision, en concertation
avec la banque aupres de laquelle son compte sera ouvert, le cahier des
charges des modalites pratiques de tenue de ce compte et de controler le
respect de ce cahier des charges.



- 82 -                             ANNEX 2
Section VIII
Rapports d'activite
VIII-1    Periodicite des rapports
Avant la fin de la seconde semaine complete de chaque mois impair,
l'Agence presente au Gouvernement un rapport d'activite relatif a la periode
des deux derniers mois ;coulis.  Ce rapport est conforme a un modele-type
annexe a la presente section.   I1 fournit sous une forme synthetique et
standardisee des informations sur :
(a) l'exicution des procadures de selection des projets;
(b) l'attribution des marches de travaux;
(c) la signature de marches et les decaissements par categories de
travaux;
(d) le personnel employe par les entreprises;
(e) 1'execution des contrats de prestation de services;
(f) les prestations d'assistance technique fournies aux entreprises;
et
(g) le niveau de performance de l'execution des travaux.
Chaque rapport d'activite est signe par le Directeur General de
l'Agence qui engage sa responsabilite sur l'exactitude des informations
contenues dans le rapport.
VIII-2    Informations a fournir par la direction technique
Les tableaux constitutifs de la section 5 du rapport d'activite
relatifs  aux  rubriques  (a),  (d),  (f)  et  (g)  sont  prepares  sous  la
responsabilite du Directeur Technique qui les vise avant leur incorporation
au  rapport.    Ces  tableaux  sont  alimentes  notamment  par  les  fiches
journalieres de chantier, les comptes rendus hebdomadaires de chantier, et
les fiches mensuelles d'avancement des travaux.   Chacun de ces differents
documents engage la responsabilite du maltre d'oeuvre ainsi que celle de
l'agent de la direction technique charge du projet concerne.
Le Directeur Technique transmet au Directeur General de l'Agence
des commentaires succincts sur chaque tableau a partir desquels ce dernier
alimente la section "observations et commentaires du directeur" du rapport
d'activite.
VIII-3    Informations a fournir par la direction financiere
Les tableaux constitutifs de la section 5 du rapport d'activite qui
ne sont pas prepares sous la responsabilite du Directeur Technique le sont
sous la responsabilite du Directeur Financier (rubriques (b), (c), et (e)).
Celui-ci les vise avant leur incorporation au rapport d'activite.



-83 -                              ANNEX 2
La section 3 du rapport d'activite, qui caracterise la situation
du compte roulant de l'Agence, est preparee sous la responsabilite du
Directeur Financier.
Le Directeur Financier contribue aux "observations et commentaires
du Directeur General" en ce qui concerne les performances de l'Agence en
matiere de gestion.
VIII-4    Informations a caractere exceptionnel
I1 appartient au Directeur General de l'Agence de controler
personnellement la qualite des rapports d'evaluation et de prendre les
initiatives necessaires pour porter a la connaissance du Gouvernement toute
information permettant d'eclairer celui-ci sur l'efficacite du dispositif mis
en place par rapport aux objectifs enonces a la Section I.
Le caractere standardise du rapport d'activite ne doit pas faire
obstacle i des adaptations si celles-ci sont de nature a rendre mieux compte
des performances reelles de l'Agence. La presentation-type du rapport annexe
a la presente section doit etre consideree comme une description de
I'information minimale a fournir et non pas comme un cadre intangible.
VIII-5    Calendrier de preparation et de soumission de chague rapport
La preparation des  rapports  d'activite est permanente  : les
differentes donnees elementaires produites soit par la comptabilite soit par
le suivi technique des chantiers alimentent une base de donnees dont le
traitement informatique permet a tout moment d'editer les tableaux de la
Section 5 du rapport d'activite pour toute periode de temps passee.   Le
controle et la saisie des donnees elementaires sont organises sur une base
quotidienne et doivent pouvoir atre executes sans dilai au fur et a mesure
que l'information est transmise par les maltres d'oeuvre et les entreprises.
Dans les trois jours ouvrables qui suivent la cloture d'une periode
bimestrielle  pour  laquelle  un  rapport  d'activite  est  du,  le  service
informatique s'assure qu'aucun retard ne subsiste dans la saisie des donnees
relatives a la periode consideree et procede a l'impression des tableaux de
la Section 5 du rapport qu'il transmet selon le cas au Directeur Technique ou
au Directeur Financier pour controle et visa.
Avant la fin de la premiere semaine complete du mois qui suit la
periode couverte par le rapport, le secretariat du Directeur General de
l'Agence recoit les documents vises qui ont ate prepares par la direction
technique et la direction financiere. Le rapport complet, pret a etre signe
doit atre sur le bureau du Directeur General deux jours ouvrables avant
l'echeance de remise du rapport au Gouvernement.



- 84 -                          ANNEX 2
Annexe a la Section VIII
Presentation type des rapports d'activite
RAPPORT D'ACTIVITE
DE L'AGENCE D'EXECUTION
1.  Periode couverte par le rapport :
2.  Date du precedent rapport :
3.   Situation du compte de l'Agence a la date du rapport :
-   Balance du compte :           ; date de valeur :              ;
-   Montant des mandatements non decaisses :
-   Montant des demandes de realimentation non recues
-   Liste des demandes de realimentation non recues :
No Demande      Montant   Date transmission       Bailleur de fonds
*a-.- .....................  *   ... . .. * X ...................  ................ 
** ...........  .-   **......  ..-*............   .. .. . .. .. .
4.  Observations et Commentaires du Directeur General :
Evaluation des resultats obtenus par rapport aux objectifs generaux du
projet;
Performances de l'Agence;
Performances des entreprises;
Relations avec les beneficiaires;
Programme d'assistance et de formation aux entreprises;
Problemes particuliers.
5.  Tableaux :



HIGER
PROJET DE IRAVAU0X D'INTERET pau LC PWR L'EMPLOI
Rapport d'Activit& du             199
P&Plods dua_____  199
au _           199
PROJETS AGREES AU COURS DE LA PERIODE
No.                                                            Description     Cat6gorie        Drat.        Date         Montant
Identification      Endficiairo    Localiaition    D68ignation       Sommaire        Travaux       AgrSen;t   Convention       Estiml
Proj   @t     __ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _MOD
TOTAL:



NIGER
PROJET DE TRAVAUX D'INTERET PJUC PWR L'EUPLOI
Rapport d'Activit6 du                199
P&riode du              199
mu              199
MAROES ATTRIBUES AU COURS DE LA PERIWDE
NO                No.                                                                                          Dur4.      Montant      Montant    oc
Identification    Id.ntificatlon    Cat5sori*   D4signation    Entreprise         Data        Date        Doat.     Travaux     Estim&       March6
March&            Proiot         Travaux        Projet      Attributairo    Consult.   Comntss.    March6       Pr6vu      (Consult)   Attribu6
TOTAL:



PROJET DE IRAVAUX D'INTERE1 PUUC POU  L'EWLOI
-Rapport d'Actlvlt6 de                19
Nro  _de                199
au _            199
RECAPITULATIF DES MAROES ET DECAISSEIENTS PAR CACTERIES DE TRAVAUX
_March"  sign&             D6eaiemns t
Cat6gomle,
Tuavaux       NOd.            Cuwl         P rlod      Cumul
1
l                     _________    _ ______
00
3 
4
6
9
12
10                            .. ..   ...  __
13
TOTAUX                                                                                                     M
5  ________________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>



-88-                                 ANNEX 2
=          r  e                        =_ _-=
;Wi'll   L Tf
'4g,l H i                          r X C 
qi:
ii             0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c



-89-                               ANNEX 2
*       =       =* = - * = - - - -. =
-iii
u .; r
4.4
a.
I-.            IA
-
I.
a
0
U
-J
.3
0                                           I-
I-
I.-
U                                            a

p4 - - - --
$0$
.u.
$0.
C
0
4I4
A



NIGER
PRWET DE TRAVAUX D 'INTERET PUBLIC POUR L'BiPLOI
Rapport d'Activit6 du_            199
Pr1ode du              199
au ___ _ 199_
ETAT DES PRESTATIONS D 'ASSISTANCE TECINIQtUE ET DE FOMATION AtX ENiREPRISES
Entrpriso         Cat6gori.     * Nature des    Prestata ir 
do Classoment    Prestetions    do Services      P6riode         Cumul
________________                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1-jan-04
TOTAL: __-                      _I



NIGER
PROJET DE iRAVAUX 0'DINTERET PUBLIC POUR L'EBLOI
Rapport d'Activit. do              199
P60iode du             199
au _I 
PERFORMANCES TRAVAUX AU COWtS DE LA PERIODE
No.                No.                                                                    CoOt
Identification      Identification    cat6gouie    Dielgnati on   Entrepris-       Un;te      Unitair.   Respect       ta I It6        X
March6             Projet         Travaux        Projet      Attributair.    UtiIi*6e    Constat&      deP  des                Execution    I
_____________    _____                   ~~~~dfIlaie  Prestations     march6



- 92 -                             ANNEX 2
Section IX
Supervision de l'Agence
IX-l      Revision des comptes et audit de gestion
Les comptes de l'Agence sont examines semestriellement par des
reviseurs-comptables conformement aux principes figurant dans les "Directives
pour l'etablissement des rapports financiers et la revision des comptes des
projets finances par la Banque mondiale" datees de mars 1982.
Les   reviseurs-comptables   apportent   une   attention   toute
particuliere, precisee dans leurs termes de reference, a la verification de
l'existence, de la regularite et du classement approprie des pieces
justificatives des depenses figurant sur les etats certifies de depenses
fournis a l'appui des demandes de realimentation du compte de l'Agence.
L'Agence est egalement soumise semestriellement a un audit de
gestion.  Selon des principes similaires a ceux qui sont applicables a la
revision des comptes,  les experts verifient et certifient l'application
correcte a tous les niveaux, dans l'esprit et la forme des directives
figurant dans le present Manuel des Procedures et le respect de l'ensemble
des obligations contractuelles auxquelles l'Agence est soumise.
Une attention particuliere est apportee a la verification de la
qualite du suivi des chantiers et de l'information qui en resulte.
IX-2      Obligations particulieres des differentes divisions lors de la
revision des comptes et de l'execution des audits de gestion
Les reviseurs-comptables et les experts charges des audits de
gestion sont accredites par le Directeur General aupres des diffirents
services concernes de l'Agence lors de leur premiere visite a ces services.
Sans que ceci constitue une exclusive, la direction financiere est le
principal interlocuteur des riviseurs-comptables tandis que la direction
technique est celui des experts charges des audits de gestion.
Un bureau est mis a la disposition des reviseurs-comptables ou des
experts chargis des audits de gestion et un agent de la direction la plus
concernee, selon le cas, est designe pour ripondre aux demandes de documents
et faciliter materiellement la tache des experts.
IX-3      Comportement des agents vis-a-vis des reviseurs-comptables et des
experts chargis des audits de gestion
Dans toute la mesure du possible le calendrier des interventions
d'experts extirieurs charges du contrale et de la supervision de l'Agence est
organisi de facon a limiter la perturbation que ces interventions apportent
a l'ex;cution des taches courantes du personnel.  Toutefois, le personnel



- 93 -                             ANNEX 2
doit se considerer comme mobilise en permanence pendant ces interventions et
donner la priorite aux sollicitations qui peuvent en resulter sur 1'execution
des autres taches.
Les reviseurs-comptables et les experts charges des audits de
gestion dument accredites par le Directeur General ont acces a tous les
documents detenus par l'Agence sans exception et le personnel est tenu de
dtferer dans les meilleurs delais a toute demande de communication de ces
documents et de repondre avec exactitude a toute question posee.



- 94 -                             ANNEX 2
Section X
Statut du Personnel
Le present statut du personnel de l'Agence T.I.P.E., susceptible
de modifications en consideration de l'evolution, est applicable tant au
personnel en fonction qu'a celui a venir; et ceci sans prejudice des
dispositions legislatives en vigueur.
I1 comportera : le contrat de travail et la gestion du personnel.
X-1       Le contrat de travail
X-1-1     Formation et rupture
X-1-1-1   Recrutement
Conditions d'aptitude
Les candidats a un emploi doivent jouir de leurs droits civiques,
avoir l'age minimal requis pour conclure un contrat de travail, remplir les
conditions d'aptitude physique requises pour exercer l'emploi prevu apres un
examen medical obligatoire.
Modalites de recrutement
L'engagement du personnel s'effectue par un contrat de travail.
I1 doit toujours donner lieu a l'etablissement d'une lettre
d'engagement ou tout autre document en tenant lieu, indiquant l'identite du
travailleur, la date de l'engagement et stipulant la classification
professionnelle et le salaire convenu, eventuellement les conditions et dur~e
d'une periode d'essai conformement au X-1-1-2 ci-apres.
Le contrat de travail doit atre signe par le Directeur General de
l'Agence et le travailleur.   I1 doit en outre comporter les elements
suivants :
(a) nature juridique du contrat; et
(b) adresse du travailleur.
Le travailleur doit produire :
(a) un extrait d'acte de naissance ou un jugement suppletif en tenant
lieu;
(b) un extrait du casier judiciaire;
(c) les pieces justificatives sur la situation de famille (certificat
de mariage ou jugement suppletif en tenant lieu);
(d) la justification des diplomes et titres;



_95 -                              ANNEX 2
(e) deux photos d'identite; et
(f) un certificat medical.
En outre, le travailleur doit signer la declaration visee
au X-1-1-3 ci-apres.
L'Agence doit tenir un dossier pour chaque travailleur.
X-1-1-2   Periode d'essai
L'embauchage du travailleur peut etre precede d'une periode d'essai
stipulee obligatoirement par ecrit, et dont la duree maximale varie selon la
categorie professionnelle a laquelle appartient le travailleur. Cette durie
est precisee dans les annexes a la convention collective propre a chaque
branche professionnelle conformement a la reglementation en vigueur. Pendant
la periode d'essai, le travailleur doit recevoir au moins le salaire minimal
de la categorie professionnelle dont releve l'emploi a pourvoir.  Pendant
cette periode, les parties ont la faculte reciproque de rompre le contrat,
sans indemnite ni preavis.
En cas de resiliation du contrat a l'essai par l'une ou l'autre
partie, l'ensemble des frais de voyage aller et retour du lieu de residence
du travailleur au lieu d'essai sont i la charge de l'Agence.
X.-1-1-3   Incompatibilites
Aucun salarie de l'Agence ne peut etre agent de la fonction
publique en activite, en disponibilite ou en position de detachement, ni
titulaire d'un portefeuille ministeriel.
I1 ne peut en outre, detenir directement ou par personne
interposee, aucun interet dans des entreprises ou exercer des responsabilites
dans des institutions publiques ou privies appelees a entretenir des
relations commerciales avec l'Agence ou a beneficier de l'activite de celle-
ci.
I1 ne peut percevoir aucune remuneration, commission ou honoraire
de la part de ces memes entreprises ou institutions.  Tout agent est tenu
lors de son recrutement par l'Agence de remplir une declaration etablissant
la liste de ses engagements, interets ou participations susceptibles d'entrer
en conflit avec la regle ci-dessus.
I1 dispose d'un delai d'un mois pour se liberer de tels
engagements, interets ou participations.
L'accomplissement de cette obligation est une condition necessaire
a son recrutement definitif.



- 96 -                             ANNEX 2
X-1-1-4   Demission - Rupture du contrat de travail
Les demissions et les licenciements sont soumis aux dispositions
legales et reglementaires.
X-1-2     Salaires
X-1-2-1   Classification et remuneration
La classification et la remuneration du salarie sont fixees en
fonction du poste a pourvoir, et selon les aptitudes reconnues conformement
aux prescriptions legales et reglementaires et aux dispositions de la
convention collective interprofessionnelle.
X-1-2-2   Augmentation de salaires
La regle ganerale en matiere d'augmentation de salaires est que
celle-ci se fait au merite en fonction directe de la performance de fin de
cycle annuel obtenue. Seuls les "performances" 1 et 2, prevues a la section
X-2-3-2 ci-dessous, permettent de pretendre a une augmentation de salaire
dans la limite des budgets approuves.   En revanche, toute augmentation
g~nirale est exclue sauf celle qui resulterait d'une decision du
gouvernement.
X-1-2-3   Primes exceptionnelles
Par ailleurs, une prime exceptionnelle de rendement est versee
c-omme suit apras chaque fin de cycle annuel, soit au 30 juin :
-    pour la performance 1 : 125% du salaire mensuel (hors indemnites)
-    pour la performance 2 : 105% du salaire mensuel (hors indemnites)
-    pour les autres performances : neant.
X-1-2-4   Echeances
Les salaires sont payes conformement aux prescriptions legales et
reglementaires.
Le paiement des salaires s'effectue soit par virement du compte
bancaire ou postal de l'Agence, soit par billetage dans les locaux de
l'entreprise, soit par cheque remis au travailleur.
Lors de chaque paie, un bulletin de salaire est remis a l'agent et
emarge par celui-ci, conformement aux textes legislatifs et reglementaires en
vigueur.
En cas de contestation sur le contenu du bulletin de paie, le
travailleur  peut  demander  au  responsable  du  service  de  la solde,  la
justification des elements ayant servi a l'etablissement de son bulletin de
paie. I1 peut se faire assister du delegue du personnel.



- 97 -                             ANNEX 2
X-2       Gestion du personnel
L'Agence T.I.P.E. sera geree suivant les principes de la direction
par objectifs, notamment en matiere de gestion de personnel.
X-2-1     Definition de la direction par oblectifs
La   direction   PAR   OBJECTIFS   est   un   effort   systematise
d'enrichissement des taches a la verticale qui permet au cadre et a
l'employe, selon leur niveau de competence, de contribuer a l'atteinte des
objectifs de leur organisation.
C'est un processus pour lequel le superieur et le subordonne, a
tout palier administratif, se rencontrent et etablissent les resultats i
atteindre par le subordonne pour une periode determinee.   Ces resultats
s'inscrivent directement a l'interieur des buts de l'organisation.   Une
revision des progres s'effectue a une date prevue afin d'evaluer les
realisations concretes en regard des previsions etablies.
X-2-2     Procedures d'etablissement de la lettre d'obiectifs annuels
Chaque cadre ou agent de maitrise recoit une fois par an, au debut
du cycle annuel, sa LETTRE D'OBJECTIFS ANNUELS; l'annee de riference se
deroule du ler juillet au 30 juin de l'annee suivante.
En effet, une entreprise bien geree doit :
-    faire savoir a ses collaborateurs ce qu'elle attend d'eux;
-    les aider a faire efficacement leur travail;
-    identifier ceux d'entre eux qui sont aptes a assumer de plus
grandes responsabilites;
-    retribuer leur contribution;
-    sanctionner leurs defaillances.
De leur cote, les collaborateurs doivent savoir
-    comment est evalue leur travail;
-    ce qu'ils peuvent attendre de la performance.
C'est ainsi qu'il est necessaire de mettre en place un programme
de leurs efforts qui :
-    permette a chacun de connaitre, au moins une fois par an, l'opinion
circonstanciee de son superieur sur les resultats de son travail;
-    incite les superieurs a conseiller utilement leurs collaborateurs
sur leur evolution individuelle (amelioration des resultats,
promotion eventuelle);
-    serve de base a l'application de la politique d'augmentation de
salaire au merite.



-98 -                              ANNEX 2
Processus
1.        En  debut  de cycle  annuel,  le Directeur  General  de  l'Agence
d'Execution reunit l'ensemble du personnel et expose la mission et les
objectifs globaux de l'Agence pour l'annee a venir et pour toute la duree du
Projet.
Les objectifs globaux portent donc sur un horizon pluri-annuel et
ont un caractere multidimensuel.
2.        Par ailleurs, il etablit une lettre d'objectifs individualisee pour
le personnel qui lui reporte directement.
3.        Chaque  superieur  organise  une  reunion  de  l'ensemble  de  ses
collaborateurs et analyse avec eux les objectifs de son unite; il s'agit
d'une presentation et d'une explication des objectifs du service ou du
departement d'ou decouleront les objectifs individuels.
I1 s'entretient par la suite personnellement avec chaque
collaborateur afin de discuter de l'organisation de son travail, de ses
difficultes potentielles, des contraintes inevitables, pour parvenir a un
accord sur ses propres objectifs individuels, et definir les criteres de
jugement destines a l'analyse de ses resultats.   Tout cela est note, en
synthese dans un document qui sert de LETTRE D'OBJECTIFS ANNUELS.
X-3       Procedure d'evaluation
X-3-1     Auto-evaluation
L'auto-controle preconise par la direction par objectifs est une
importante source de motivation.   L'auto-controle repose en effet sur le
postulat suivant : les collaborateurs sont responsables et veulent contribuer
A l'atteinte des objectifs; c'est a eux de s'auto-controler quant aux moyens
et mesures a prendre pour atteindre leurs objectifs.
En se rapportant a sa lettre d'objectifs, chaque collaborateur peut
constater son avance ou son retard et prendre de ce fait, les decisions
necessaires.  I1 peut ainsi sans attendre la fin du cycle annuel, s'auto-
evaluer, et solliciter au besoin l'avis de son superieur hierarchique. I1
utilisera pour cela, la fiche d'analyse de l'avancement des objectifs.
X-2-3-2   Evaluation de fin de cycle annuel
A la fin du cycle annuel, chaque collaborateur est recu en
entretien par son superieur hierarchique; celui-ci presente son evaluation
des resultats par rapport aux objectifs, mais au niveau de l'evaluation
d'ensemble, il tiendra compte des autres elements pouvant avoir un impact
positif ou negatif sur la bonne marche du service.
Le collaborateur prend connaissance de ce qui a ete consigne et
peut y apporter ses propres commentaires.



- 99 -                            ANNEX 2
Sa signature montre qu'il a pris connaissance de la performance
obtenue mais ne signifie pas qu'il la ratifie. Les performances (cf fiche
d'evaluation des resultats) sont les suivantes
1.     EXCEPTIONNEL
2.     TRES BON
3.     BON
4.     A AMELIORER
5.     INSUFFISANT
Toutes les evaluations sont approuvees par le Directeur General de
l'Agence.
X-3-1     Sanctions
D'une fagon generale, les sanctions pour infractions diverses sont
les suivantes :
-    l'observation verbale
l'avertissement
-    le blame
-    la mise a pied
-    le licenciement
La mesure de sanction est prise par le superieur hierarchique;
selon la gravite de la faute commise, elle peut atre prise directement par le
Directeur General de 1'AGENCE.
Lorsque la sanction est prise par le superieur hierarchique,
exceptee l'observation verbale, le Directeur General de l'Agence doit en etre
informe au prealable.



- 100 -                        ANNEX 2
AGENCE T.I.P.E.
AUTO-EVALUATION : Analyse de l'avancement des obiectifs
--------------------------------------------------------------__---------
Le collaborateur indiquera sur cette feuille l'etat d'avancement des
objectifs individuels, eventuellement les commentaires sur les facteurs
positifs ou negatifs ayant eu un effet sur l'obtention des resultats prevus,
qulelles qu'en soient les causes.
COMMENTAIRES
Niveau actuel de realisation    Explications    Correctifs
des objectifs            des ecarts     ou nouveaux
C___objectifs



-101 -                                  ANNEX 2
AGENCE T.T.P.E.
Resume sur la performance generale
1.      EXCEPTIONNEL
2.      TRES BON
3.      BON
4.      A AMELIORER
5.      INSUFFISANT
*............................        .   ................  ................. .  ............ .............................
Signature du superviseur                 Nom du superviseur            Date
Commentaire du collaborateur sur le compte rendu de sa performance.
Signature                                        Date
Approbation Directeur General
....................                           ................ 
Signature                                        Date



AGENCE T.I.P.E.
PERSONNEL: FICHE D'EVALUATION DE PERFORMANCE
No. et Pr6nom(s):
No. Personnel:
Position:                                                  Division:
OBJECTIFS do I'ann6, 19..
Performances                            Commintaires
(par domain.s d'activiths)
I~~~~~~~~-
Signature:
...............................................            ..................................................
Collaborateur                                     Superviseur
Date: .
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N)



- 103 -                                       ANNEX 3
Tb-1
NIGER
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
CFA                                 SUS
LOCAL I FOREIGN      TOTAL      LOCAL    FOREIGN       TOTAL
-----------million---------         00          000       *000
Subproject Works and Service%                          68e3        848      6609      22650        3384      26034
Services to Contractors and                             261        124       376       1005         496        1500
Consulting Services
Monitoring                                              120         80       200        480         320        So0
Contract Management Study                                 0         75         76         0         300        300
Mutual Guarantee Co.                                      0         26        26          0         100         100
Training Program for Beneficiaries                       12         S0        62         50         200        260
Grassroot Participation Program                          25          0         26       100           0         100
TOTAL                                                  6071       1201      7271      24286        4799      29084
Wage Bill                                               304          a       304       1218           0        1216
Rent and Utilities                                       53          0        53        212           0         212
Services                                                 42          0        42        168           0         188
Supplies                                                  7          0          7        28           0         28
Fuel                                                      0         14        14          0          se         se
Auto Insurance and Maintenance                            7          0          7        28           0         28
Staff Training                                            4          4          8        le          16         32
Travel                                                    2          8        10          8          32         40
Miscellaneous                                            16          0         16        64           0         64
TOTAL IMPLEMENTING AGENCY OPERATIONS                    436         28       461       1740         104       1844
Furniture and Office Reshaping                           11          6        17         44          24         6s
Office Equipment                                          0          8         8          0          32         32
Care                                                      0         1s        15          0          60         80
Computers and Software                                    0         15        15          0          60         60
MIS Implementation                                       10          0        10         40           a         40
PPF                                                     300         76       376       1200         300       1500
TOTAL PPF and IMPLEMENTING AGENCY EQUIPEMENT            321        119       440       1284         476       1760
-Total Base Costs                                        6827       1346       8172     24309        5379       32688
Price Contingencies                                      82         71       1S3        331         281        612
Total Project Costs                                    6909       1416      8325      27640        se80      33300



-104-                                         ANNEX 3
NIGER
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
EXECUTION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS BY YEAR
1991     1992 |   1993 1   1994  TOTAL         9     1992 11993   1994   TOTAL
-----------CFA million----------   --------------- 8US W 0
Subproject Works and             1302     1953      1953      1301    6509    5207    7810   7810   5207   26034
Services                     I______2
Servicos to Contractors            75       112      113        76     376     800     448    452    300    1500
and Consulting Serilces                        _                  _
Monitoring                         40       60        B0        40     200     180     240    240    180      800
Contract Management Study           0       75         0         0      75       0     3a"       0      0     300
Mutual Guarantee Co.                6        13        6         0      26      26      S0     26      0      100
Training Program for               15        31       16         a      82      82     126      63      0     250
Beneficiaries
Grasnroot Participation             5         8        8         4      26      20      30      30     20     100
Program                                                                             I              I
TOTAL                            1443     2262      2156      1420    7271    6774    9003   8820  5887   29084
Wage Bill                          60       92        92        6o     304     240     368    388    240    1216
Rent and Utilities               10.6        le       16      10.6      53      42      64     64     42      212
Services                            8        13       13         8      42      32      52     62      32     le1
Supplies                            1      2.5       2.6         1       7       4      10     10       4      28
Fuel                                2         5        6         2      14       8      20     20       8      56
Auto Insurance and                  1      2.5       2.6         1       7       4      10      10      4      28
Maintenance
Staff Training                    1.6      2.4       2.4       1.8       B       6      10     10       6      32
Travol                              2         3        3         2      10       8      12     12       8      40
Miscellaneous                     3.2      4.8       4.8       3.2      16      13      19     19      13      84
TOTAL IMPLEMENTING               89.3    141.2    141.2       89.3     481     357    565    S6S    357    1844
AGENCY OPERATIONS
Furniture and Offic-               17        0         0         0      17    s6         0      0      0       e8
Roshaping
Offic- Equipment                   08        0                   0       8      32       0      0      0       32
Care                               is        a  15  0  o 0       0                       0      0      0       60
Computers and Software            1i         0         0         0      16      60       0      0      0       60
MIS Implementation                 10        0         0         0      10      40       0      0      0       40
PPF                               376         0        0         0     376    1500       0      0       0    1500
TOTAL PPF and                     440        a         0         0     440    1760       0      a       a    1780
IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
EQUIPEMENT
Total Base Costs               1972.3   2393.2   2287.2   1509.3    8172    7891    9588   9185   6044   32688



-105-                                       ANNEX 3
Ta-bla
NIGER
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
PROJECT FINANCING
IDA     I       CON         OTHER DONORS        TOTAL
__________. ___________- sUSoo 0---_---------------------
Subproject Works and Services                  12734            3300             10000           26034
S-rvices to Contractors and                     1500               0                 0            1500
Consulting Services
Monitoring                                       800               0                 0             Bo
Contract Management Study                        300               0                 0             300
Mutual Guarantee Co.                             100               0                 0             100
Training Program for Beneficiaries               260               0                 0             250
Grassroot Participation Program                  100               0                 0             100
TOTAL                                          16784            3300             100             29084
Wage Bill                                       1216               0                 0            1216
Rent and Utilities                               212               0                 0             212
Services                                         le               0                 0             le
Supplies                                          28               0                 0              28
Fuel                                              6e               0                 0              so
Auto Insurance and Maintenance                    28               0                 0              28
Staff Training                                    32               0                 0              32
Travel                                            40               0                 0              40
Miscellaneous                                     64               0                 0              64
TOTAL IMPLEMENTING AGENCY                       1844               0                 0            1844
OPERATIONS
Furniture and Office Reshaping                    e8               0                 0              68
Office Equipment                                  32               0                 0              32
Cars                                              e0               0                 0              6o
Computers and Software                            0o               0                 0              60
MIS Impl-mentation                                40               0                 0              40
PPF                                            100                0                 0            1500
TOTAL PPF and IMPLEMENTING AGENCY               1760               0                 0            1760
EQUIPEMENT
Total Base Costs                               19388            3300             10000           32688
Price Contingencies                              612               a                 0             612
Total Project Costs                            20000            3300             10000           33300



- le6 -                                      ANNEX 4
SENEGAL
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
Project Execution Schedule
FY91        FY92         FY98     |   FY94
Subproject Works and Services                     *****eee*seee*eeseese****** e***eeee*e
Local Training                                   *****e*****      * **********       e**e****
Monitoring (Local Consultants)
Monitoring (International Cons.)                 *******e**e***eese*******eee***eeee*e
Mutual Guarantee Co.
Training Program for Beneficiaries                         ****e**ese**ee**ee**e
Grassroot Participation Program                  *****eeee****e*********eee*eeeee**eee
Wage Bill                                         *e      *** ** *ee***eeeeeeeeeeeeee
Rent and Utiliti-s                               *******e***** e******s*ee*eee*ee.eeeeee*
Services                                         *eeeeee******e              ****
Supplie lea                                      eeeeee***               *******eeeeeeee
Fuel                                             **es*e*eeee**eeee         ****    **ee*
Auto Insurance and Maintenance                   e*******s**********e***s******e******e*
Staff Training                                   ******s****e*e****ee******e*eeeeeee
Travel                                           e*s*******eeee*******ee*e****ee**
Miscellaneous
Furn. and Office Reshaping                       eeee***
Office Equipment                                 eee***s
Cars
Computers and Software                           **eeee
MIS Implementation                                ***
PPF                                              ceeseec
Project Execution Responsibilities
All components will be executed by contractors
under the authority of the Project Implementing Agency



- 107 -                                      ANNEX 6
NIGER
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
ALLOCATION OF IDA CREDIT
TOTAL    |        IDA              TOTAL             IDA
_------ million CFA------            3000              sO0    |
Subproject Works and Services            '       809              3184             28034           12734
Servic-s to Contractors and                       376              375              150             160
Consulting Services                                                                                      ll
Monitoring                                        200              200               sao             800 
Contract Management Study                          75               75               300             3go
Mutual Guarantee Co.                               25               25              lO              10e
Training Program for Beneficiaries                 62               62               250             250
Gressroot Participation Program                    25               25               100             100
TOTAL                                            7271             3948             29084           15784
Wag. Bill                                         304              304              1218            1216
Rent and Utilities                                 53               53               212             212
Services                                           42               42               le              1s6
Supplies                                            7                7                28               28
Fuel                                               14               14               s5               5s
Auto Insurance and Maintenance                      7                7                28               28
Staff Training                                      8                8                32               32
Travel                                             10               10                40               40
Miscellaneous                                      16               16                64              64
TOTAL IMPLEMENTING AGENCY                         481              461              1844            1844
OPERATIONS
Furniture and Office Reshaping                     17               17                6s              es
Office Equipment                                    8                8                32              32
Cars                                               1S               1S                60              60
_Computers and Software                              1S               1S                60              60
MIS Implementation                                 10               10                40              40
PPF                                               375              375              1500            1500
TOTAL PPF and IMPLEMENTING AGENCY                 440              440              1780            1760
EQUIPEMENT
Total Base Costs                                 8172             4847             32688           19388
Price Contingencies                               153              153               612              812
Total Project Costs                              8325             5000             33300            20000



- 108 -                            ANNEX 6
Sous-projet no : 1                                 Nom : Desensablement de la
Beneficiaire :  Mairie de Niamey                                rue de l'Islam
D22_ription technique
La rue de l'Islam, une des arteres les plus circulees de Niamey
(11 000 vehicules/jour), est actuellement dans un etat d'encombrement et de
degradation qui reduit sa capacite d'ecouler le trafic. La chaussee est
partiellement envahie par les aip;ts de sable eolien et d'autres matieres.
Des nids de poules ont apparu. Les vehicules contournent depots et nids de
poules et circulent sur les accotements, a l'effroi des pietons. L'evacuation
des eaux de ruissellement se fait mal, ce qui abime la chaussee.
Le projet comportera les taches suivantes :
a)  enlevement du sable eolien et des autres matieres en depot,
b) reparation des nids de poules par point-a-temps,
c) pose de bordures et amenagement de descentes d'eaux,
d) amenagement des accotements.
La rue de l'Islam comporte deux voies de 6,50 m chacune, et un terre-
plein central de 3 m. La longueur totale i amenager eat de 1 579 ml.
Elements du coat
Le cout du projet est estime a 42 millions de FCFA, sur la base des
prix couramment pratiques par les PME. Le poste principal est la fourniture
et pose de bordures et de descentes d'eaux (30 millions), suivi par la
fourniture et mise en oeuvre de laterite sur accotements (5 millions), la
reparation des nids de poules (4 millions), le desensablement et nettoyage (3
millions).
Situation sans projet
L'insuffisance du systame d'assainissement et le profil en travets
inadiquat des accotements favorisent les depots eoliens et les stagnations
d'eaux. La circulation est ralentie, le coat d'exploitation des vehicules est
eleve. Enfin, les eaux stagnantes accelerent la degradation de la chaussee.
Situation avec prolet
L'amenagement propose aura un triple impact:
a) amelioration de la securite routiere. Le desensablement et la pose de
bordure canalisera la circulation automobile sur la chaussee et
protegera les pietons circulant sur les accotements,
b)  diminution des coats d'entretien, parce que le nouveau profil en
travers reduira les depots de sable et eliminera les eaux stagnantes,



- 109 -                            ANNEX 6
c)  reduction du coat d'exploitation des vehicules, par la reduction des
encombrements.
Calcul d'indicateurs
1.      Quantite de main-d'oeuvre
Las travaux necessiteront l'emploi de 270 ouvriers et manoeuvres
pendant un mois et demi, soit un total de 405 homme/mois. Le montant du poste
main-d'oeuvre est evalue a 9,2 millions de FCFA, soit 22Z du coat des
travaux.
2.      Duree d'etude et de concertation
L'etude d'execution etant effectuee, les travaux peuvent commencer
dans un delai d'un mois, si l'on utilise des procedures d'appel d'offres
simplifiies.
Opportunite economique
Grace a une etude de trafic realisee en 1988, on a pu calculer les
benefices decoulant de la reduction du cout d'exploitation des vehicules. Les
autre benefices esperes, amelioration de la securite, reduction des frais
d'entretien, n'ont pas ete calcules. Le taux de rentabilite interne (TRI)
ressort a 26% et la valeur actualisee nette a 102 millions de FCFA.



- 110 -                            ANNEX 6
Sous-projet no : 2                                        Refection de la rue
Beneficiaire   : Mairie de Niamey                        Camico-Ecole Mission
Description technique
La rue allant de Camico a l'ecole Mission, dans le centre de Niamey,
est en tres mauvais etat. I1 s'agit d'une route en terre battue, sans aucun
dispositif de drainage. La circulation automobile peut difficilement
emprunter cette voie, qui serait pourtant susceptible de faciliter le trafic,
tres congestionne dans ce quartier. En saison des pluies, l'erosion naturelle
attaque la route et cree des accumulations de boue sur la rue bitumee qui a
ete construite a son extremite aval, rendant l'acces tres difficile a la rue
contournant l'immeuble de la BDRN.
Les travaux projetes consistent a
a)  revatir la route de pave de beton autobloquants, apres avoir rectifie
son profil et mis en place une couche de base de 15 cm de laterite et
une couche de reglage de 5 cm de sable.
b) etablir un dispositif d'assainissement composi d'un caniveau central,
de bordures de trottoir laterales et d'un caniveau a grille qui
recueillera les eaux a l'extremite aval et les acheminera jusqu'au
reseau primaire existant.
Le pavage a ete prifire a un revatement bitumineux classique, i prix
de construction equivalent, parce qu'il utilisera davantage la main-d'oeuvre,
et parce qu'il sera plus facile a entretenir et a reparer par des artisans.
Eliments de cout
Le coat des travaux a ete estime a 36 millions de FCFA, dont 11
millions pour le decapage, la mise en place de la couche de base en laterite
et ]la couche de riglage en sable, 22 millions pour la fourniture et la pose
des paves et des bordures, et 3 millions pour la realisation du caniveau a
grille d'extremiti. Tous ces travaux et fournitures peuvent etre confies a
des artisars.
Situation sans prolet
La rue est pratiquement interdite a la circulation. L'absence
d'assainissement   cree  des   conditions   hygieniques   diplorables.   Les
ruissellements en saison des pluies endommagent les murs des maisons
riveraines. Les depots de boue en bas de la rue interdisent le passage et
creent des desordres dans le revetement de cette rue.
Benifices du projet
La rue pavee est ouverte a la circulation et contribue a
dicongestionner le trafic dans le quartier (le trafic est estime au quart de
celui de l'Avenue de la Mairie, soit 700 vihicules/jour), et a reduire les
coats d'utilisation des vihicules. L'assainissement ritablit des conditions
hygieniques normales. Les maisons riveraines, protigees des eaux, prennent de



- 111 -                            ANNEX 6
la valeur. La rue n'est plus en danger de destruction precoce par les boues
stagnantes, et demeure ouverte au trafic en saison humide.
Calculs d'indicateurs
1.     Main-d'oeuvre
Ce poste represente environ 5.300 journ;es de travail, pour un co'ut
total de 8,4 millions FCFA (23% du cout des travaux). Le poste pourrait etre
augment; si une partie des transports de pavees et de bordures etait faite
par charrette et non par camion.
2.      Duree d'etude et de demarrage
L'etude d'execution est deja faite et les travaux peuvent etre lances
en un mois, avec des procedures simplifiees.
Oportunite economique
En ne prenant en compte que la reduction des coats des usagers ees
vehicules, on arrive a un taux de rentabilite interne de 51%. Il faudrait
ajouter l'amelioration des conditions sanitaires, la reduction du cout
d'entretien de la rue, et la hausse de valeur des proprietes riveraines.



- 112 -                             ANNEX 6
Sous-projet  : 3                                         Curage de collecteurs
Beneficiaire : Mairie de Niamey
Description technique
Les collecteurs d'eaux pluviales et les caniveaux des rues de Niamey
sont encombres de boues et gravats, ce qui provoque des inondations et des
ravinements lors des orages. Les services municipaux ont pris beaucoup de
retard dans l'accomplissement de leurs taches d'entretien et de nettoyage du
reseau collecteur d'eaux pluviales.
Le projet consistera a enlever les gravats et boues le long de
quelques grandes arteres (Avenue de l'Independance, de l'OUA, de l'Entente)
ce qui reduira sensiblement le retard en entretien-nettoyage.
I1 comprendra les operations suivantes:
a)  reprise manuelle, chargement et transports de boues et gravats, a
l'aide de charrettes, jusqu'aux depotoirs ou containers,
b) remplacement ou remise en place de dalles de caniveaux,
c) curage eventuel de canalisations,
d) curage manuel des fosses a ciel ouvert.
Ces operations seront faites i la main, sauf peut-atre quelques
curages de canalisations a l'aide du camion Hydro-cureur de la Mairie. Le
projet permettra aussi de mesurer les economies que pourrait realiser la
Mairie de Niamey, en confiant ces taches d'entretien aux artisans locaux, qui
les executeraient manuellement, au lieu de les realiser avec ses propres
equipes, en utilisant un materiel coateux.
Elements du coat
Le coat total de l'operation est estime a 8,5 millions de FCFA, dont
3,5 pour le reseau de l'Avenue de l'Independance et 5 pour celui des Avenues
OUA/Entente. Il comprend l'achat d'outils et de charrettes a bras qui
pourront etre reutilises les annees suivantes, par les memes artisans. Si les
artisans sont deja equipes, lea coats de premiere annee se trouveront
alleges.
Situation sans prolet
L'engorgement du reseau collecteur d'eaux pluviales entrainent deux
types de consequences dommageables:
a) nuisances et risques sanitaires pour la population (moustiques,
odeurs),
b) degradations du reseau collecteur, du reseau routier adjacent, voire
des proprietes voisines, causees par l'erosion sauvage en saison des
pluies, et par la stagnation d'eaux et de boues.



- 113 -                            ANNEX 6
Benefices du prolet
Les ameliorations sont de trois ordres
a) suppression des nuisances et des risques sanitaires,
b) protection des infrastructures menacees,
c) demonstration de l'interet economique d'une reforme des services
d'entretien de la ville, en recourant aux artisans locaux et en
employant des methodes manuelles pour executer les travaux.
Calculs d'indicateurs
1.     Main-d'oeuvre
Le poste main-d'oeuvre "directe" se monte a 2,2 millions de FCFA, soit
26% du cout total du projet. Huit personnes seront employees pendant un mois
environ. Ces estimations ne tiennent pas compte de la main-d'oeuvre
"indirecte" qui fabriquera les outils et les charrettes a bras.
2.      Duree d'etude et de preparation
Les travaux peuvent commencer des que les outils et charrettes sont
disponibles, soit i la suite d'achats, soit immediatement, si les artisans
les possedent deta. La duree de preparation peut donc etre estimee a trois
mois.
Opportunite economique
Ce projet est un test. On espere qu'il demontrera que la plus grande
partie des taches d'entretien et de nettoyage pourrait etre confiee par
contrat, aux artisans locaux. Le coat actuel de fonctionnement du service de
la voirie est de 131 millions de FCFA pour un reseau de 100 km (1.3 mio/km).
Le projet vise i nettoyer 7 km de collecteurs et caniveaux pour un coat de
8.5 millions (1.2 mio/km), ce qui entrainera une economie de 100 000 FCFA par
km et de 700 000 FCFA pour la section interessee par le projet.



- 114 -                            ANNEX 6
Sous-projet  : 4                                   Collecte d'ordures
Beneficiaire : Mairie de Niamey                   Quartiers Lamorde et Nogare
Description technique
La section hygiene/collecte des ordures menageres de la commune de
Niamey n'arrive pas a satisfaire tous les besoins de l'agglomeration. La
section dispose de son personnel et de son materiel (containers, camions,
chargeuse). L'insuffisance des moyens de collecte, de stockage, et de
transports conduit a un ramassage aleatoire, et a la presence de depots
sauvages qui creent des risques sanitaires pour la population.
Plutot que d'augmenter les effectifs et le parc de materiel de la
section, le projet vise a tester, dans deux quartiers pilotes, Lamorde et
Nogare, la viabilite technique et economique du ramassage manuel et du
transport par charrettes a bras des ordures, jusqu'aux depotoirs collectifs
de ces deux quartiers, puis la reprise et transport, par charrette a anes,
jusqu'a la decharge publique.
Elements du coat
Le coat total de cette operation test, pendant 8 mois, est estime a
16,8 millions de FCFA, pour une production journaliere de 5,3 tonnes 14,3
metres cubes d'ordures par jour. L'achat d'outils, de charrettes, et d'anes
represente 6,3 millions. Cet equipement aura evidemment une valeur residuelle
a la fin de l'operation (estimee a 4,2 millions), ce qui fait esperer une
baisse des prix si l'operation a une suite. Si les artisans/PME etaient deji
iquipes, le colat de cette operation initiale pourrait atre ramene i 12,6
millions.
Situation sans projet
Le ramassage des ordures a des intervalles trop espacies fait courir
des risques de maladies, favorise la multiplication des rongeurs et des
insectes, et degrade le cadre de vie de la population.
Benefices du prolet
Le projet va supprimer les nuisances et risques sanitaires mentionnes
plus haut. En outre, il va ameliorer le cadre de vie de la population et
entrainer une valorisation fonciere. Enfin, le recyclage acceleri des ordures
va augmenter la production de compost pour les maralchers.
Calculs d'indicateurs
1.     Main-d'oeuvre
Le poste main-d'oeuvre "directe" est estime a 7.7 millions de FCFA,
soit 46% du coat total. Ce poste ne comprend pas la main-d'oeuvre "indirecte"
occupee a la fabrication des outils et charrettes, et a la culture de
fourrage pour les anes. Cette main-d'oeuvre "directe" represente 40 personnes
pendant 8 mois.



- 115 -                            ANNEX 6
2.      Productivite
La quantite journaliere d'ordures a evacuer est de 0,695 kg ou 1,88
litres par habitant, soit 2,5 tonnes ou 6,7 m3 pour Lamorde, et 2,8 tonne ou
7,5 m3 por Nogare. En huit mois, la quantite totale sera de 1 290 tonnes ou
3 210 m3.
2.      Delai d'etude et de demarrage.
Compte tenu des achats d'outils et de charrettes, le delai est estime
a trois mois. I1 pourrait atre reduit si les artisans sont deja equipes. I1
faut deux mois pour sensibiliser les populations.
Opportunite economigue
Le projet va permettre de tester le ramassage et transport des ordures
par des artisans, en utilisant des moyens locaux.
Une  comparaison  anterieure  des  coats  de  transports   etait
encourageante, puisque le cout au metre cube du transport par charrette a ane
otait de 475 FCFA a Tahoua, en 1981, alors que l'enlevement par benne a
ordures de 6 m3 coutait 1 210 FCFA et par camion polybenne 1 232 FCFA.
Dans l'operation test proposee, le cout total du ramassage, du
stockage provisoire, de la reprise et de l'evacuation, ressort a
5 230 FCFA/m3, avec amortissement complet des outils, charrett3s et anes, et
a 3 925 FCFA avec un amortissement etale sur 3 ans.
Les dapenses de la commune de Niamey III pour la collecte des ordures
s'ei1vent a 218,8 millions de FCFA pour une quantite annuelle de 32 500
metres cubes d'ordures, avec un coat moyen de 6 732 FCFA/m3 collecte.
Le projet va donc entrainer une economie de 1 500 FCFA/m3 et une
economie globale de 4 815 000 FCFA si on amorti totalement l'equipement sur
l'operation, et de 2 800 FCFA/m3 et de 8 988 000 FCFA pour l'operation, si
l'equipement est amorti sur une periode de 3 ans.



- 116 -                            ANNEX 6
Sous-projet  : 5                                      Refection du Pavillon D
Beneficiaire : Hopital de Niamey                      Services des contagieux
Description technique
Le pavillon D de l'hopital de Niamey est affecte au traitement des
maladies contagieuses. I1 comporte 115 lits qui sont utilises tres
irreguliirement au cours de l'ann&e. Le taux d'occupation est en moyenne de
59% mais il atteint 140% pendant la periode d'epidemie (de novembre a mai),
avec une densite d'une personne pour 2 m2 (accompagnateurs inclus).
Le pavillon est en mauvais etat : la toiture n'est pas etanche, les
appareils electriques et sanitaires, les peintures, la plomberie, les
carrelages sont defectueux. La conception meme laisse a desirer, de
nombreuses marches ganent le deplacement des chariots.
Le projet consiste a rehabiliter le pavillon et a construire quelques
locaux de services annexes : 1 bureau, 1 magasin oxygene, 1 bloc sanitaire et
des toilettes.
Elements du coat
Le coat total est estime a 48 millions de francs CFA, dont
gros oeuvre         3,4
couverture          8,1
carrelages         12,6
menuiseries         3,1
plomberie           3,0
electricite        11,0
peintures           4,5
Situation sans prolet
Les mauvaises conditions actuelles ne permettent pas d'assurer le
service convenablement. Certains examens sont effectues dans des locaux
inadaptes (cas de la ponction lombaire pratiquee dans le couloir). Les
malades se contaminent mutuellement. Enfin, le mauvais etat du batiment va
conduire a sa fermeture dans un proche avenir.
Benefices du proiet
Les conditions de travail du personnel, et de sejour des malades sont
normales. La construction des locaux des services annexes permet d'installer
des lits supplementaires, ce qui permet de traiter davantage de malades, et
aussi d'augmenter les recettes de l'hopital.
Calcul d'indicateurs
1.     Main-d'oeuvre
Le poste main-d'oeuvre ressort a 10,8 millions de FCFA, soit 23% du
cout total du projet. Cinq chefs de chantiers et 76 ouvriers travailleront
sur le chantier, avec un total de 304 hommes/mois, etales sur 4 mois.



- 117 -                            ANNEX 6
2.      Delai d'etude et de demarrage
I1 faut prevoir trois mois pour la concertation et le lancement des
travaux.
Opportunite economigue
Le cout de construction d'un pavillon neuf serait de 140 millions
alors que la rehabilitation coute 48 millions. L'installation de 9 nouveaux
lits et passage de 4 chambres supplementaires en "categorie" va augmenter les
recettes de 1 725 000 FCFA par an. Elle permet, en outre, d'eviter la
reconstruction du pavillon en 1996 (au plus tard). La valeur nette actualis~e
ressort a 39,8 millions de FCFA et le taux de rentabilite interne est de 28%.



- 118 -                            ANNEX 6
Sous-projet no : 6                                          Traitement du kori
Beneficiaire   : Commune de Niamey II                                de Goudel
Description technique
La nature sablo-argileuse de certains sols i grains tres fins,
repandus au Niger, les rend particulierement sensibles a l'erosion, lors des
gros orages de saison humide. Un torrent se cree, qui transporte les terres
sur de grandes distances, souvent jusqu'au fleuve Niger. Les terres arables
sont degradees, les constructions et infrastructures sont attaquees, voire
detruites. Un kori est ainsi apparu dans le quartier de Goudel. I1 a deja
ravage des terres cultivees et il a commence a ronger la route d'acces a
Tondibia.
Le projet vise a stabiliser le kori par la construction de quatre
micro-barrages en gabions, la construction de diguettes en pierres seches, et
la plantation d'arbres.
Elements du coat
Le coat du projet s'eleve a 20 millions de FCFA, se decomposant comme
suit :
terrassement                 1 600 000
fourniture de gabions       3 600 000
extraction de pierres        3 300 000
transport de pierres         6 400 000
mise en place de pierres   4 800 000
plantation d'arbres            400 000
Situation sans projet
Les superficies cultivables du perimetre sont progressivement rendues
inutilisables. La route d'acces a Tondibia est emportee.
Benefices du proiet
Le perimetre (64 hectares) reste cultivable, avec un revenu annuel de
340 000 FCFA par hectare cultive pour le riz, 28 000 FCFA/ha pour le sorgho,
et 19 000 FCFA/ha pour le mil. La route de Tondibia n'est pas coupee.
Calcul d'indicateurs
1.      Main-d'oeuvre
Le poste main-d'oeuvre "directe" ressort a 7,8 millions de FCFA soit
39% du coat du projet, et represente 195 hommes/mois.
2.      Duree d'etude et de preparation
3 mois



- 119 -                            ANNEX 6
Opportunite economigue
Le sous-projet permet de maintenir en production le perimetre
agricole. Un autre avantage de sous-projet est de proteger la route de
Tondibia.
Autres indicateurs
Le phenomene des koris est un fleau national au Niger, et il constitue
une menace tres grave pour lenvironnement. Ce projet permettra de tester la
conception d'ouvrages simples et des methodes manuelles de construction pour
lutter contre cette erosion devastatrice.



- 120 -                            ANNEX 6
Calcul detaille du cout
Pour un barrage :
a)  terrassement i la main       100 m3 x  4 000              400 000
b) fourniture de gabions
metalliques
40 x 16 000 = 640 000
20 x 11 000 = 220 000
860 000 arrondi a                            900 000
c)  extractions de pierres       200 m3 x  4 000              800 000
d)  transport de pierres         200 m3 x  8 000            1 600 000
e)  mise en place de pierres   200 m3 x  6 000        =    1 200 000
f)  plantation d'arbres                                       100 000
Total pour un barrage                                   4 000 000
Total pour 4 barrages
Note : La  fourniture  d'outils,  de brouettes  et  de  charrettes  est
comprise dans les prix unitaires. Le transport de pierres est
fait, soit par camion, soit par charrette, mais en tout les cas
par des PME.
Coat de main-d'oeuvre
a)  terrassement a la main            400 m3 x 3 000 =    1 200 000
b)  fourniture de gabions                                           0
c) extraction de pierres              800 m3 x 3 000 =    2 400 000
d) transport de pierres               800 m3 x 1 000 =        800 000
e) mise en place de pierres           800 m3 x 4 000 =    3 200 000
f) plantation d'arbres                50% de 400 000 =        200 000
7 800 000
Coat moyen de main-d'oeuvre: 40 000 FCFA par mois



IBRD 16779R
0O                              2                              I4  Ge-zS                                                        810-                                                           12
N  I G  E R                                                                                                                                                          -  .
Paved Roads (1 or 2 Lanes)
Paved Roads under Construction
-       Enineered  Grovel Roads
Simple Eorth Roads
---   Maintained Tracks                                .
--------- Simple Tracks                                                                             A ,,-,
-      Rivers
t     Airports                                                                                                                                       /                                                                            /
     Department Capitals                         /
-16' v           -   -  Deportment Boundaries                                                                                                                                                                                                                               16 Nou   - /  |v6
Internotionol Boundories                 k         h          m-Tb..d.y
M            A           L           I                                       n/                                 Adsrbssnr                                                                                             /
F(    m      | TAHOuA                  (                                      
T~~~~~~~~~ ~                    I hE                  FT - -- ---      r2ou    )             \Mrh                              <k                              /to                                      e\      S1-1
T-'od-K4.d,                                                             fv
FOA    ;Ibed   OvI,                ,iv                     Non                                               h 
-1- B  UF RAK  IN  A              *'          ~            s~  (                                                                                                                        soJc        to No ii     oSDW   SO1-s'                   NGRA         i
/  E  N  I  <   >                                                                                                                                                          | <X0,1                  <( X~~~M,ah,I k
t  ZINDER \   ^4\  61-  T  ro-MLS                                                         Z      NIGE19d
NIAM                       ARA                                                                                                                          ALGERIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f  FIA
B   E                                                                                                                                      GvI(   of   G     ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CAM~~~~I EROO
MALI~~~~~~~MR/lIB



