Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report NoP-5387NIR
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF US$20.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR A
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
JANUARY 11, 1991
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only i-n the perfenmance o,
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatiom



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit              CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.0                     CFAF 250
CFAF 1 million             US$2,500
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CNREF       Commission Nationale des Reformes Economiques et Financieres
DSD         Direction de la Statistique et de la Demographie
GTZ         Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zussemmenarbeit
(Germany/Allemagne)
KfW         Kreditanstalt far Wiederaufbau (Germany/Allemagne)
PACSA       Programme d'Attenuation des Couls Sociaux de l'Ajustement
PESAP       Public Enterprise Sectoral Adjustment Program
SAL         Structural Adjustment Loan
SDA         Social Dimensions of Adjustment
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
This report is based on the findings of a World Bank mission consisting of
Messrs. Leslie Pean (Economist, Mission Leader), Jean-Marie Lantran (Civil
Engineer), and Magatte Wade (Consultant), who visited Niger in July 1990 to
appraise the Project. Francis Mody and Pierre Nignon provided support for
the subprojects' economic analysis. Mr. Patrick Canel was the Lead Advisor
for the operation.   Mrs. Katherine Marshall and Mr. Peter Watson are the
Department Director and managing Division Chief, respectively for the
operation. The report was typed by Mrs. Malissa Ngo Van Duc.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                      Government of Niger
Beneficiary:                   Ministry of Plan
Aimount:                       US$20.0 million
T'erms:                        Standard, with 40 years maturity
Onlending Terms:               Not applicable
Financing Plan:                Government: US$ 3.3 million
IDA:        US$20.0 million
Other:      US$10.0 million
TOTAL:      US$33.3 million
2conomic Rate
of Return:                     Not calculated
Staff Appraisal Report:        Report No. 9032-NIR
Map:                           IBRD No. 16779-R
E This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT OF US$20.0 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR A PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
1.          The  following  memorandum  and  recommendation  on  a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Niger for US$20.0 million equivalent is
submitted for approval. The proposed Credit would be on standard IDA terms
with 40 years maturity and would help finance a public works and employment
project. Government will contribute US$3.3 million or 10 percent of project
costs, and other donors would contribute US$10.0 million or 30 percent of
project costs.
I.    Country Policies and Bank Group's Assistance Strategy
Background
2.          Economic Structure.  Niger is a country of 7.5 million inhabitants
with a per capita GDP estimated at $280 in 1988, making it one of the poorest
countries in the world. Its social indicators are among the lowest in Sahelian
countries. Since 1965, per capita incomes have declined by an average of 2
percent per annum, with an average one percent growth of GDP and a rapidly rising
population (3.2 percent p.a.). The critical constraints to long term development
in Niger are: (i) its weak natural resource base due to fragile and degrading
arable land, low rainfall and periodic drought, and sustained neglect; (ii) a
very weak human resource base; (iii) overdependence on a single export - uranium;
(iv) an interventionist approach to governing which has impeded broad based
development, and slowed the formal economy in developing its natural markets in
Nigeria.
3.          The economy is natural resource based, consisting of agriculture (20
percent of GDP), livestock (14 percent), and uranium mining (6 percent). Like
other Sahelian countries, GDP growth is highly volatile since cereal production
depends on unreliable rainfall patterns.   The formal sector consists of a
relatively inefficient public sector (Government and public enterprises) and a
small and declining modern private sector.  The informal sector, consisting of
the rural economy, small-scale artisanal and service activities, and influential
traditional traders is closely integrated with the economy of northern Nigeria.
Uranium exports have accounted for 80 percent of Niger's export revenues during
1975-89.  A uranium price boom in the late 1970s caused rapid GDP growth and
permitted heavy external borrowing to finance a major expansion of public
enterprises and public sector investment in large and often uneconomic projects.
In the early 1980s, a dramatic fall in uranium export earnings and the failure
of Government to curb public spending in a timely fashion left Niger with a
budget deficit of 10 percent of GDP, a balance of payments deficit of 22 percent
of GDP, a portfolio of uneconomic investments, and rapidly rising debt service.
4.          Economic Performance and Adjustment in the 1980s.  Faced with an
economic crisis, in 1982 the Government launched a macroeconomic stabilization
and adjustment program. This was supported by the IMF with a series of Standby
Agreements beginning in 1983, followed by a Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF)



- 2 -
in 1987 and an Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) in 1988. IDA has
supported these efforts with a Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL) in 1986 and a
Public Enterprise Sectoral Adjustment Credit (PESAP) in 1987. Niger also res-
cheduled its external debt with the Paris Club every year between 1982 and 1986,
1988 and 1990, and also with the London Club in 1L983-85 and 1989.
5.          The  stabilization  and adjustment  program  focussed  on reducing
internal and external deficits, improving public resource management,
restructuring the public enterprise sector, and reducing the excessive government
control in the economy. The public investment program was refocussed towards
rehabilitation of existing assets and the social sectors.   Performance under
these programs has been mixed. In the public enterprise sector, reforms were
introduced to reduce the size and improve the performance of the public
enterprise sector. Several public enterprises were liquidated or privatized, and
the largest ones have been the subject of restructuring programs. Progress has
been made in reducing the sector's demand for public resources such that the
budgetary subsidies declined by 60 percent between 1981 and 1988.   Progress
towards economic liberalization has been achieved by scrapping various state
monopolies,  easing or eliminating price controls  and import restrictions,
liberalizing cereals marketing and abolishing export taxes on agro-pastoral
products.
6.          Since 1984, the economic situation has continued to deteriorate due
to a 25 percent decline in uranium earnings, worsening terms of trade (at an
average of 3 percent per annum), and the effects of the rapid macroeconomic
adjustment in Nigeria. GDP growth averaged only 0.5 percent per annum in 1985-
89, and has fluctuated widely during the period reflecting the variability of
rainfall and the resulting volatility of rural sector production which averaged
1.1 percent growth in 1985-89.   The industrial sector (including mining and
manufacturing) has stagnated with an annual growth rate of 0.5 percent, while
services (principally government) increased by 5 percent per annum in 1985-89.
Gross domestic savings have stagnated at the low level of 5.5 percent of GDP
during 1985-1989. Fixed capital investment has declined from a record high of
28 percent of GDP in 1980 to about 10 percent in 1988. Private investment fell
from about 10 percent of GDP in 1980 to virtually zero in 1989. Foreign direct
private investment, at 2 percent of GDP in 1980 has been negative since 1984 as
foreign companies have disinvested. Public invest.ment has also declined sharply
during the 1980s from 18.5 percent of GDP in 1980 to 7.5 percent in 1988. Key
macroeconomic indicators are presented in ScheduLe E.
7.          Export receipts declined by 35 percent between 1980 and 1988 with
uranium exports (75 percent of total exports in L988) down by 25 percent. The
other main exports of livestock and cowpeas declirLed dramatically in 1984/85 due
to extended drought, but by 1989 had recovered to early-80s levels. Imports,
largely of capital goods, declined by 35 percent in real terms in the 1980s,
reflecting the stagnation of economic activity and the loss of export earnings.
As a result of falling imports, the balance of payments improved from 1982-1988,
with the current account deficit (excluding official transfers) declining from
22 to 9 percent of GDP.
8.          Social Development: All social indicators give a grim picture in
Niger but are unreliable for determining trends.   Overall food security and
nutritional status are closely linked to weather patterns, which, since the last



- 3 -
major drought in 1984/85, have been relatively favorable with crop production
above  average.    However,  with declining per capita  incomes,  poverty  and
malnutrition levels have at best remained constant and more likely have worsened
in the 1980s. Early evidence on the effects of the economic reform programs on
the rural poor suggests that there has been little discernible improvement at the
household level.  Climatic factors (e.g., rainfall patterns) are the critical
variable for subsistence farming, while the services provided by the Government
have not been able to keep up with the increasing demand. The social effects of
Niger's economic problems are most visible at the urban level, where population
growth and a shrinking modern sector have caused rising unemployment. The rapid
growth of the informal sector is both a result and a mitigating factor in the
process.
9.          Recent Economic Developments.   The Nigerien economy remains in
recession.   In 1988, GDP grew by 7.5 percent because of abundant harvests
following the best rainy season on record. However, GDP in 1989 is estimated to
have declined by 3 percent due to a 20 percent decline in agricultural production
caused by poor weather conditions and a 14 percent decline in uranium export
earnings. Capital goods imports declined because of the delays in implementation
of the public investment program, and the external current account deficit
increased slightly to 10 percent of GDP in 1989.   Because of delays  in
implementing the adjustment program, non-project assistance declined to 60
percent of its 1988 level, resulting in an overall balance of payments deficit
of about one percent of GDP in 1989, down from the surplus of about two percent
recorded in 1988. On the fiscal side, revenue performance remained weak in 1989,
with budgetary tax revenues falling below 8 percent of GDP. The civil service
wage bill rose 7 percent, while priority operations and maintenance items were
cut. The current budget deficit grew and domestic financing (through central
bank borrowing and the build up of domestic arrears) increased by 50 percent.
10.         Major progress has been made during 1989 and 1990 to reduce Niger's
debt burden.  As a result of debt forgiveness by official creditors, Niger's
total outstanding debt decreased by 21.6 percent in 1989.  In December 1990,
Niger became the first country to be approved for use of the IDA debt reduction
facility, in an amount of up to US$ 10 million. These funds combined with co-
financing from France and Switzerland are expected to lead to the elimination of
at least 70 percent of Niger's total outstanding commercial debt amounting to US$
111 million by the end March 1991.  The operation is part of a broader debt
strategy which is expected to lead to a decline in the ratio of debt service
(before rescheduling) to exports from 48 percent in 1989 to 38 percent in 1993
and 20 percent by 1998.
11.         Recent Political Developments.   After  13 years  of firm rule,
President Kountche was succeeded, on his death in November 1987, by President Ali
Saibou. Although closely associated with the former regime, President Saibou's
accession represented a fundamental political change. President Saibou released
political prisoners, dismantled the secret police and introduced a more open
system of government with a new constitution for which a referendum was held in
September 1989.  A National Assembly based on a single party was elected by
universal suffrage in December 1989 and President Saibou returned to power.
12.         Social and political developments in 1990 are, however, a major
source of uncertainty. In early February 1990, an anti-government demonstration



- 4 -
by students resulted in several deaths and injuries. In March 1990, a cabinet
reshuffle improved the balance of representation throughout the government and
political systems. However, anti-government demonstrations, organized by the
country's labor unions and University student organizations, continued and
culminated in a week long general strike in November 1990.   Subsequently,
Government accepted the demands of opposition. by committing itself to the
introduction of multi-party democracy and the holding of a National Conference
to broaden the political and economic debate among all sections of the society.
A timetable has now been established which will lead to the revision of the
constitution, the establishment of political parties and the elections later
in 1991.  While Government has repeatedly affirmed its continued willingness to
implement economic reforms as agreed in the PFP, the political situation has
visibly slowed progress in the last year, and there is considerable uncertainty
whether the agreed program can be implemented in future in the current
politically volatile environment.
Growth Prospects and Medium Term Economic Outlook
13.         With limited natural resources and chronic balance of payments
deficits, Niger will remain vulnerable to external factors such as rainfall
patterns and the price of uranium.   In the face of such constraints and
uncertainties, and in the absence of a major increase in the price of uranium or
a sizable new mineral discovery, Niger's macroeconomic prospects will depend
critically on the vigor with which the Government implements adjustment programs
to improve the incentives framework and maintain aid flows. The possible sources
of growth in Niger include: agriculture - subsistence cereals, export crops (such
as cowpeas), higher value vegetables; livestock products; small scale artisanal
products such as artifacts and agricultural implements; tourism and ancillary
services; and small scale mining.  Much of Niger's growth potential lies in
exploiting better its geo-economic position vis i vis Nigeria, through trade and
factor market integration. Workers' remittances from the coastal countries could
also represent an increasingly important source of income.   Improving the
incentives framework is necessary to slow the fall in per capita incomes, but is
alone not sufficient to ensure a sustained increase in GDP. Program assistance
is needed to maintain a minimum level of current development-oriented expenditure
and finance accelerated human resources development, the key to raising labor
productivity and long term economic growth.
14.         The PFP projects growth in the medium term of about three percent per
annum. This level of growth would barely stabilize per capita income, but itself
would be a major accomplishment to achieve, requiring sustained commitment to
policy reform as outlined in the PFP. These policies include continued price and
trade liberalization combined with tight monetary and fiscal policies, and wage
restraint. Effective implementation of the reform program will require consensus
for the future of Niger among the different regional, economic and political
groups. The growth projections are also based on relatively optimistic
assumptions about external factors (rainfall, uranium prices, and economic
conditions in Nigeria) and remain highly sensitive to them. A continued decline
in uranium earnings would have an important ripple effect in the economy due to
the impact on government revenues, other industries (e.g., transport, cement,
electricity), and the demand for government services.



- 5 -
Central Development Issues
15.         Niger's  overarching  development  objective  must  be  to  reverse
disturbing trends of declining per capita incomes and levels of social welfare
in the face of one of the poorest natural and human resource bases in Africa.
Achieving positive per capita income growth in Niger will take a long time and
require sustained assistance from the international community.  The challenge is
even more difficult due to the continuing decline of the uranium sector which
will contribute less to the economy and to public revenues, and will have adverse
effects throughout the economy.   The key issues are:  (i) to improve the
efficiency of resource use in the public and private sectors through policy
reform; and (ii) to promote long term development through investment in critical
sectors, notably human resources and agriculture/natural resource management.
Stated government policy for the medium term calls for continued macroeconomic
adjustment, as outlined in the Fourth-Year PFP (1990-1992) which was presented
to the Board in September 1990. The IMF Board subsequently approved the second
year ESAF, and the Nigerien authorities successfully negotiated with the Paris
Club for debt rescheduling. Key issues addressed in the PFP are: civil service
reforma, the wage bill, trade reform and the financial sector.
16.         Public Resource Management.   Given the importance of the public
sector in the economy, improved public resource management is necessary to
enhance the efficiency of resource use and direct resources towards priority
sectors. The key issues in public resource management are: improving domestic
resource mobilization in which Niger's tax ratio at eight percent, is among the
lowest: in Africa due to a shrinking formal sector tax base; restructuring current
expenditure which is out of balance with Niger's resource position and the
targets of the adjustment program.   Operations and maintenance outlays are
underEunded, as are primary education and basic health care. Priority has been
given to paying the civil service wage bill, which has increased by about 6
percent per annum from 1984-1989, at the expense of all other expenditure
categories.   Civil service reform including   wage cuts and civil service
downsizing will be necessary to ensure that resources are available to recruit
in priLority areas (health and education); improving public investment, which has
stagnated since 1984, is needed to increase the investment rate and to ensure
that :Lnvestment is redirected towards the social sectors and to the maintenance
of existing infrastructure in preference to new investment.
17.         Debt and Aid Flows.  In addition to the debt reduction initiatives,
Niger will need to continue to benefit from rescheduling on terms comparable to
Toronto terms by all official creditors and all those commercial banks who decide
not to participate in the ongoing debt reduction initiative.   Maintaining
overseas development assistance on which Niger is heavily dependent (averaging
about 17 percent of GDP during 1985-89), is necessary to sustain investment and
economic activity. As a resource poor country, Niger will continue to receive
substantial aid flows to support its development and adjustment efforts. The
principal factors determining access to aid flows are absorptive capacity for
investments and the implementation of a sound adjustment program as a basis for
non-project assistance.
18.         Private Sector Development.  The private sector, which constitutes
over 75 percent of GDP with more than 70 percent in the informal sector, will
have to be the principal source of sustained growth. The informal sector is



- 6 -
highly integrated with the economy of northern Nigeria, is relatively
diversified, and appears to have largely adjusted to the economic changes in
Nigeria (such as the depreciation of the naira during 1987-89). The magnitude
of informal sector activity in Niger is imperfectly understood since a large
proportion of trade with Nigeria takes place unofficially. The formal private
sector is relatively small, with a few large companies and a number of medium
scale enterprises, but contributes a disproportionate level of government
revenue.  Government-induced constraints, such as labor legislation and price
controls, as well as the high cost structure induced by the overvalued exchange
rate of the CFAF, have made adjustment to a changing economic environment
difficult for the formal sector and have led to its contraction. Very little is
known about migration to the coastal countries and the importance of remittances
in household budgets. Migration to Nigeria has traditionally provided a safety
valve when natural or economic crises occur and may well represent an important
source of investment capital for the informal sector. The principal issue with
respect to the private sector is to create a more favorable enabling environment
which will: encourage the informal sector to expand, modernize, and participate
more fully in the modern economy; promote regional integration by increasing
commodity trade and factor movement with neighboring countries; and reduce
constraints to private sector activity. Niger's adjustment efforts to date have
included economic liberalization reforms, but further effort is needed in this
area.
19.         Financial Sector.  Niger's financial sector is in crisis due largely
to the virtual collapse of the public sector financial institutions which
dominated the banking system. A small private banking sector is in relatively
good health but serves a market restricted to the major cities. Weak management
and government interference with consequently poor financial performance led to
the liquidation of the agricultural credit bank  (CNCA)  in 1988,  and the
bankruptcy of the housing  finance  institution  (Credit  du Niger)  and the
liquidation of the Development Bank of Niger (BDRN) in 1990.   The BDRN was
Niger's main commercial bank: it held about 50 percent of total deposits and
extended more than 65 percent of short term credit: in the economy. Improving the
performance of the financial sector will require: implementing the recently
announced WAMU-wide banking sector reforms; rigorous collection of BDRN bad
debts; and ensuring that the capital structure of the newly established bank
(SONIBANK) is predominantly private sector. Reforms are also needed to encourage
the development of both formal and informal private financial systems to make
financial markets more competitive and responsive.
20.         Uranium sector.   Although the role of the uranium sector has
diminished during the 1980s, this sector remains of crucial importance to the
economy as it accounts for about 8 percent of GDP, 75 percent of export proceeds,
and some 15 percent of Government revenue.   Since the cost of production,
including the indirect subsidies paid by the two uranium mining companies to the
public electricity and transport companies, is higher than the negotiated
contract price, which itself is some 40 percent above world market prices,
production costs will need to be reduced substantially in order to ensure the
sector's survival. Areas of cost savings are wages and salaries, electricity,
transportation, hospital administration and mining town management fees, and debt
reduction consistent with Niger's overall debt management strategy. These cost
savings will unavoidably have trickle down effects on the Government budget and



several parastatals and will need to be dealt with in the context of overall
public resource management.
21.         Human Resources Development.   Niger ranks among the bottom five
countries in the world for all social indicators. Progress in this area will be
both an effect and a driving force in improving the welfare of Niger's
population. Significant and sustained improvement in human resource development
is crucial for both long term growth within Niger and, in the absence of
employment opportunities at home, to improve the chances for migrants to find
gainf'ul employment in the coastal countries. The key issues in the development
of hunman resources are: (a) to lower the growth rate of population from its
current level of 3.2 percent; (b) to improve the coverage of primary health care;
and (c) to increase the level of basic education.
22.         Reversing the decline in per capita income will require slowing the
rate of growth of population, which on present trends will rise to more than 10
million by 2000 from the 7.5 million in 1989. Population pressures are evident
both in urban areas and in arable rural areas where population densities have
doubled in the last 25 years.  Food production in Niger will be unable to keep
pace with the growing population as cultivation expands into more and more
margiLnal areas and as fallow cycles are further reduced.   The rapid rate of
population growth will also erode the delivery of services in education and
health unless increased resources are made available for these sectors. Reducing
fert:Llity rates is also essential to improve the health and economic status of
womeni. The Government is aware of the importance of population efforts, and is
currently preparing a Population Action Program with support from several
mult:Llateral agencies including IDA.   Family planning will be given a major
thrust through expanding public sector family planning delivery channels and
deveLoping alternative channels to service delivery using community-based
distribution and encouraging private sector and NGO agents.
23.         In the health sector, the principal issues are to reduce infant and
maternal mortality, reduce the incidence of endemic diseases (such as malaria),
and improve infant and child nutrition levels which have been falling.  Safe
motherhood programs should be an integral part of health strategy which should
result in increased life expectancy from the low level of 44 years. Improvement
in these areas will also help reduce fertility rates, and ultimately slow down
population growth rates.  Although stated government policy favors preventive
medicine and primary health care over higher cost curative medicine, actual
expenditure in the health sector does not reflect these priorities.   A key
element in restructuring government expenditure will therefore need to be to
refocus actual expenditures towards basic health care services. Encouragement
and support should also be given to private sector and non-government delivery
of primary health care.
24.         The principal  issue  in the education sector  is how to  raise
significantly the level of primary school enrollment in the face of constrained
resources and a rapidly rising school age population. Improving the very low
rate of female enrollment is also critical to improve equity, enhance the
productivity of women, reduce fertility and mortality rates, and promote key
development objectives in family welfare (e.g., nutrition). Both supply - i.e.,
physical access to primary schools, and demand - family attitudes and
preferences, contribute to the very low rate of female enrollment, especially in



- 8 -
the rural areas.   Expanding the primary education system must therefore be
complemented with specific efforts to promote female enrollment and encourage
parents to send girls to school. Government strategy aims to increase primary
enrollment from 29 percent in 1989 (the rate for girls is 20 percent) to 40
percent in 1995/96, with the ultimate goal of universal primary education. Such
a target requires the number of pupils enrolled to increase by 80 percent by
1995.   The principal instruments towards achieving this target will be: (i)
increasing the efficiency of resource use by lowering unit costs; (ii) increasing
the flow of resources to primary education; and (iii) improving the quality and
relevance of the education system.
25.         Natural Resource Management and Agriculture. Subsistence agriculture
and livestock are the foundation of the Niger's rural economy.   The natural
resource base is threatened by environmental degradation, thus undermining the
livelihood of the vast majority of the 85 percent of Niger's population.
Priority objectives in the rural sector in Niger are to slow down or reverse
present environmental trends, maintain existing levels of per capita production
to help achieve food security, and provide a modest source of economic growth.
The key issues are: (i) environmental management; (ii) food security and (iii)
the incentive structure for farmers; and (iii) delivery of public services.
26.         The trends induced by the growing population coupled with periodic
droughts include: more extensive agricultural exploitation resulting in
deteriorating land management; declining fallow periods and yields; movement into
marginal areas; encroachment by agriculturalists in traditional livestock areas;
soil erosion; watershed degradation; and pressure on woodland resources for
household energy.   Priority needs to be given to improved natural resource
management for which local populations must take primary responsibility.
Existing rules of land use which do not ensure security of land tenure, are a
major impediment to improved natural resource management.  Work is currently
underway to prepare a "Rural Code" which is designed to establish a legal and
social framework for determining land use patterns and rights.  However, the
adoption and introduction of such a global instrument may take a number of years.
In the interim, short and medium term actions can be taken to improve land tenure
and the willingness of farmers to invest in resource management. Specifically,
legislation should be enacted to cover grazing, water, and forest resource
rights, and to improve conflict resolution between agriculturalists and
pastoralists.  Techniques to improve water harvesting, soil stabilization and
natural fertilization need to be disseminated.
27.         Despite the reforms that have already been introduced to liberalize
the cereals market, and as part of efforts to create an enabling environment,
further reform is needed to improve the incentive structure facing farmers and
pastoralist. The continued existence of agricultural parastatals (e.g., RINI -
rice milling and OPVN - food stock manager), the lack of adequate pricing
information for farmers, and political interference in local structures (such as
cooperatives), has slowed down the development of an enabling environment in the
rural economy.  Cooperative reform should focus on eliminating political and
administrative interference and improved training for cooperative management.
In the irrigated sector, continued efforts shouLd be made to encourage the
private and cooperative sectors by reducing the role of the state in managing
irrigation schemes. Better dissemination of market and pricing information is
needed, and official prices for cotton will need to continue to be adjusted to



- 9 -
fluctuations in world market prices. In addition, the development of autonomous
rural associations, capable, of channeling savings and extending loans for viable
operations need to be promoted and encouraged.
28.         Delivery of Public Services. Government services need to be improved
to be more responsive to the needs of farmers and livestock owners. The national
agricultural research structure needs to be strengthened to improve research
priority setting, research programming, budgeting and financial management as
well as research staff planning and training.  Research priorities should be
directed towards farming systems and natural resource management and away from
single crop productivity research.   The link between research and extension
services must be significantly improved for dissemination of research results.
Agricultural services at the regional and sub-regional level are starved of
resources and cannot provide even a basic level of service to farmers.
Bank Group Assistance Strategy
Past IDA Assistance
29.         Since 1985, the principal objectives of IDA strategy for Niger have
been to support the Government's efforts to adjust to the economic difficulties
engendered by the slump in uranium prices, improve the management of public
resources, liberalize economic activity and strengthen the basis for long-term
growth. IDA has supported the Government's reform program through adjustment and
investment operations which focussed on sectoral expenditure programs and policy
reform.   IDA investment projects also supported long-term growth in priority
areas (such as primary education, preventative health care and agricultural
research), and maintenance and rehabilitation of existing assets. Adjustment
lending (SAL I and the Public Enterprise Sectoral Adjustment Program (PESAP))
have represented 50 percent of IDA commitments in Niger during FY86-90.  The
adjustment program supported by the PESAP, especially since the death of
President Kountche, has highlighted the difficulties in deepening the reform
process.   Reforms which affect powerful interests in the public and private
sectors have been more difficult to achieve.
30.         Project lending has financed a full range of projects in infra-
structure, education, health, agriculture (rainfed, irrigated, and livestock),
industry and energy. Since 1980, the commitment of IDA resources for investment
projects has steadily increased, averaging 1-2 projects per year, and, as of mid-
FY91, there are thirteen ongoing projects with undisbursed commitments of about
US$120 million. In education, good progress has been made in supporting a redir-
ection of public resources towards primary education, and establishing the basis
for more rapid growth in primary school enrollment ratios.   In transport,
implementation of physical investment programs has been successful.   Project
implementation in most other sectors (agriculture, health, industrial finance)
has 'been poor, in terms of physical progress and development of sustainable,
replicable systems.  Such performance is not limited to IDA projects and is a
general reflection of weak administrative capacity coupled with the difficulty
to identify economically sound projects.  The single IFC investment (a Wheat
Milling Company) is performing poorly and is currently being restructured. A
lack of more extensive involvement by the IFC in Niger results from a combination
of natural and policy-induced constraints which affect private sector investment.



- 10 -
Composition of IDA Lending, FY86-90
US$ million        Percent
Agriculture               29.2               10.3
Human Resources           46.2               16.4
(Education)              (18.4)              (6.5)
(Health)                 (27.8)              (9.9)
Energy                    31.5               11.2
Transport                 30.0               10.6
Adjustment Lending       140.0               49.6
Technical Assistance       5.5                1.9
Total Commitments 282.4               100.0
Country Strategy and Priorities
31.         Despite Niger's natural constraints to growth, IDA activities in
Niger are focussed on the most important actions to reverse the past downward
trend in per capita incomes and improve social indicators, including: (a)
supporting institutional and incentive policy reforms aimed at promoting
efficient growth of private sector production; (b) supporting reforms designed
to increase the efficiency of public resource use; and (c) addressing long-term
human capital and natural resource issues. The central theme of IDA strategy,
by trying to reverse the decline in per capita income, is to achieve long term
poverty alleviation, food security and improved nutritional status. In Niger,
as in other Sahelian countries, poverty and food insecuritv are pervasive
problems affecting the vast majority of people.  The low absolute levels of per
capita income, coupled with the fact that the bulk of the population live by
subsistence agriculture or livestock, mean that poverty alleviation will depend
far more on broad-based growth and the expansion of basic services than on
targeted programs of assistance.
32.         Proposed Lending Program.   The pace of IDA lending is linked to
Government's ability to implement successfully the macroeconomic and sectoral
reform programs set out in the Fourth Year PFP. These reforms are an essential
prerequisite for the resumption of longer-term growth, and hence the lending
program has been structured to encourage timely act:ion on Government's part. The
lending program potentially includes adjustment operations that will be available
to support the implementation of reforms. It also includes investments in the
core sectors of human resources, agriculture (including the environment), and
infrastructure maintenance, which could proceed even in the absence of reforms.
The pace and volume of lending would thus reflect government's willingness and
ability to implement reforms. In parallel, IDA, together with other donors, will
seek to help the Government develop the institutional capacity to speed up the
adjustment process.
33.         As currently programmed, the lending program for 1991-95 tentatively
totals US$343.9 million. This represents the upper limit for lending that the
Bank would be able to undertake in Niger on the assumption that economic policy
reforms are implemented.   In the event of slippage or failure to implement
reforms, the lending for adjustment operations would not take place. The current



- 11 -
program consists of two Structural Adjustment credits, one hybrid adjustment
operation in human resources, and six investment credits focussing principally
on the long term issues of population, education and agriculture.
Approximately 30 percent of the proposed allocation would be non-project
resources (SALs US$87 million, non-project portion of hybrid US$10 million).
34.         Adlustment programs supported by IDA and cofinancing resources would
be intended to prevent the most harmful effects of disorderly adjustment. By
sustaining non-durable imports at minimum acceptable levels, by promoting
investment and expenditure in the social sectors and improving the conditions for
economic activity, adjustment programs help cushion the poorest segments of
society. While political difficulties stand in the way of economic adjustment,
the pace of adjustment lending is likely to be slowed considerably.   It is
currently envisaged that a proposed second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL II)
could focus on public resource management, the financial sector, trade and
private sector incentives, and, if appropriate, efforts to restructure the
uranium sector. During the design of SAL II, specific attention will be given
to ccmponents that are aimed at protecting the poorest groups in Niger in
collaboration with the Bank/UNDP Social Dimensions of Adjustment Program.  A
financial/private sector project is included in the reserve program.
35.         Debt Restructuring is an integral element of the adjustment process
and development assistance to Niger, to reduce debt service from the present
unsustainable levels. IDA will continue to support debt relief efforts through
the Special Program of Assistance (SPA), and as indicated above through use of
the IDA Debt Reduction Facility to support Niger's efforts to eliminate all
medium term public and publicly guaranteed commercial debt.
36.         The forthcoming Education Sector Project (hybrid) which was appraised
in July 1989 addresses public resource and policy issues. This hybrid would help
ensure that sufficient resources flow to primary education by reducing unit costs
and by slowing the growth of public financed secondary and tertiary education.
Specific efforts are also being made to ensure increasing enrollment of girls in
the primary education system. The program also includes a functional literacy
component directed towards women, based on pilot programs tested by UNICEF.
These changes are necessary to make the education system a better and more
equitable instrument of development. The protests of students and other groups
has Led Government to review the policy package which will require strong
political commitment to implement.  If agreement can be reached on the policy
reforms, Board presentation would be scheduled for late FY91.
37.         IDA Investment Lending focusses on human resources and agriculture,
which are the key to long term development and economic growth, are given
priority in the proposed lending program. A Population and Health Project under
preparation would assist Government to implement its national population program
and continue primary health activities started under the first Health project.
A follow up Education investment project would continue support for primary
education.
38.         The Private Sector Irrigation project would support recent government
initiatives to promote smaller scale private sector management of irrigated
agriculture, away from the larger public sector managed schemes. Agricultural
Services would provide investment and technical resources to develop extension



- 12 -
services in support of the agriculture and natural resources management strategy.
A Natural Resources Management project is proposed to build on the experience of
ongoing projects with important environmental components such as the Small Rural
Operations and the Household Energy Project.  IDA would also support further
reforms in the agriculture sector including giving local communities autonomy to
manage natural resources, improving land tenure in certain areas (grazing land
and bottomlands), and introducing the Rural Code. Institutional changes will be
aimed at improving government services (primarily research and extension) and
cooperative development.
39.         A Local Government project to strengthen institutional capacity and
support policy changes at the local government level is proposed. Such policy
and administrative reforms are needed to support the Government's stated policies
of decentralization and will involve clarifying financial relationships with the
central government to give greater autonomy and a greater proportion of available
resources to local governments. The infrastructure sector consumes a very large
portion of the investment budget and has growing recurrent budget implications.
There are also a number of distortions in pricing and competition in the
transport industry, which raise financial transport costs well above their
economic levels. A Transport Sector Project aims to tackle these issues. The
Public Works and Employment Project aims to improve the maintenance of public
works and improve the implementation rate of the Public Investment Program
through employment generating labor-intensive activities.
Programs of Special Emphasis
40.         The Programs of Special Emphasis (PSEs) are an integral part of IDA's
assistance program_in Niger. Food Security issues are addressed through IDA's
agricultural strategy which is aimed at improving rural sector productivity
through research and extension, assessing the adequacy of early warning systems,
identifying vulnerable groups, analyzing household coping strategies and
assessing emergency preparedness. IDA will continue to focus on cereals and food
aid policy, while deferring to other donors to provide food aid in response to
short term food crises due to drought or other natural causes. The ESW program
includes sector work to further investigate food security issues.  Women in
Development issues are being addressed in the ongoing and proposed education and
health operations in the human resources sector which include specific elements
to improve female access to education and health facilities. The ongoing Small
Rural Operations project also includes environmental management and productivity
components designed for women's groups.  Environmental issues are tackled on
several fronts: natural resource management is an integral part of IDA
agricultural strategy and is prominent in the ongoing Household Energy and Small
Rural Operations projects. The Population Project is aimed at slowing population
growth, critical for long term sustainable natural resource use. An in-house
environmental strategy paper will be prepared in FY92 in order to identify more
clearly the appropriate role for IDA beyond thesea two areas.
International Finance Corporation
41.         Given the present difficulties of the modern sector in Niger, there
are limited opportunities for large scale IFC investment in the medium term.
However, initiatives such as the African Development Facility (APDF) and the
Africa Enterprise Fund (AEF) for which four investment inquiries have been



- 13 -
received from Niger, offer opportunities for the IFC to support the development
of smULll and medium scale enterprises. IFC's strategy will also be to support
large and medium scale projects as investment opportunities arise. A possibility
lies in petroleum exploration and exploitation based on good prospects for oil
in the Agadem Basin in north-eastern Niger. Investment would consist of drilling
and the infrastructure necessary to export the oil to Nigeria.
Economic and Sector Work
42.         The ESW program will aim at providing the analytical underpinning of
the country strategy.   It seeks to support three key areas of the country
strategy: (i) public resource management; (ii) agricultural growth and
environment; (iii) medium and long term social and human resource development.
Key studies planned include a Public Expenditure Review (FY 92) which will aim
at determining the medium term expenditure profile for both recurrent and
investment expenditure. The Review will also take into account the ripple effect
on public finances of the expected decline in uranium earnings. Sector work in
agriculture will focus on food security, cereals marketing, incentives and
private sector growth opportunities and natural resource management.   In the
human resource development sector work will be undertaken on labor markets,
health financing and alternative delivery channels for family planning.
Collaboration with the IMF, Donors and Non-Government Organizations
43.         The PFP is the principle vehicle for IDA/IMF collaboration and
provides the umbrella for donor assistance. IDA will work closely with the IMF
to ensure consistency in policy reforms and will continue to promote donor
cooperation at both the overall macroeconomic level and the specific sector
level.   The lending program,  which potentially  includes three adjustment
operations, is designed to provide cofinancing vehicles for the transfer of non-
project resources under the Special Program of Assistance (SPA). IDA will take
the lead in organizing donors' meetings in the context of the SPA to mobilize
resources to support the adjustment programs and will work with the UNDP in
preparing future sectoral Round Tables.   Through Public Investment Reviews
(PIRs), IDA will aim to ensure that projects financed by other donors respect the
criteria established under the adjustment program.
44.         The role and impact of Non-Government Organizations (NGOs) in Niger
has been more limited than in many sub-Saharan countries. Government control and
the political nature of many organizations (e.g., the cooperatives, the Societe
de Developpement, the Samariya, Women's Association of Niger) has slowed down the
creation of grassroots domestic NGOs. In number, the international NGOs are well
represented (about forty). IDA is actively seeking to cooperate more fully with
NGOs particularly in the design of sub-projects under the Small Rural Operations
project. In other critical areas, such as family planning activities and primary
health care, the role of NGOs is an explicit element in the IDA dialogue, but
further work is needed to generalize stated government policy that NGOs are
important for development.
II.   The Public Works and Employment Proiect
45.         Project Objectives.  The main objectives of the project are: (a) to
create, at least temporarily, substantial new employment in urban areas as



- 14 -
rapidly as possible using the private sector, thereby stimulating small local
private contractors and consulting firms; (b) to improve, through execution of
the works financed by the project, the individual skills of the workers who will
be employed, and the corporate competitiveness of the firms that will carry out
works so as to develop their capacity to respond to increased opportunities for
sustained employment after completion of the project; (c) to demonstrate the
feasibility of labor-intensive projects and test the procedures that will enable
the public sector to commission such projects that are economically and socially
useful; and (d) to review existing public works programs and recast them with the
intent of speeding up their implementation and overall performance. In pursuing
these objectives, the following conditions should be fulfilled: (i) avoiding any
increase in civil service employment; (ii) combining low cost and high
visibility; (iii) supporting, but not replacing, other development programs; and
(iv) using transparent but expeditious and flexible procedures for subproject
bidding, appraisal, contracting, and disbursements.
46.         Project Description. The components of the proposed project are: (a)
a program of public facility and infrastructure rehabilitation and maintenance
in urban areas to be carried out under labor-intensive schemes by local
contractors; (b) a package of services related to work organization, management,
and labor force training to be offered on a voluntary basis to local contractors
who will be awarded contracts under component (a); (c) a supervision and
monitoring component in order to monitor closely the progress of the project and
to prepare the transition toward locally supported employment of the target
group; (d) a selective audit of the public works program to identify bottlenecks
and design system improvements; and (e) a package of consultant services related
to a training program for the beneficiaries and engineering firms on the
preparation of feasibility studies and technical project proposals; a program
aimed at increasing grassroots participation in urban infrastructure maintenance;
and the preparatory work for the establishment of a mutual guarantee company.
The project will make a contribution to the development of the Nigerien
contracting and engineering consultancy industries, through increasing the demand
for contractors and providing technical and managerial training and through the
extensive use of local consultants for project preparation and supervision. The
implementing arrangements are critical for effective fulfillment of the project's
objectives. An Executing Agency has been created to execute component (a) of the
project.   It will serve as a model for other public agencies in terms of
achieving low costs and efficient-work methods.  The Executing Agency has private
legal status and is led by a manager recruited from the private sector.  The
Agency will have a small staff including an Executive Director assisted by one
Financial Director and one Technical Director. The activities of the Executing
Agency will be guided by a Procedures Manual outlining the policies and
procedures to be followed in the conduct of its activities. Such an agency will
be able to avoid the cumbersome, slow, and inefficient procedures that public
institutions are obliged to follow in calling for bids, awarding contracts, and
disbursing, which result in de facto discrimination against small contractors.
The other components will be executed by the Unite de Coordination of the
Ministere du Plan et de la Cooperation.
47.         The project, to be carried out over t:hree years, provides funds for
labor-intensive civil works, equipment, training, technical assistance, and
incremental operating costs.  The total cost of the project is estimated at
US$33.3 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$5.7 million



- 15 -
(17 percent). The subprojects to be executed by the Executing Agency that are
financed  under  the  Credit will  be  exempted  from  duties  and  taxes.    A
US$3.3 million contribution--10 percent of project costs--will be provided from
government budgetary resources, as agreed upon at negotiations. These funds will
be channelled through the Executing Agency and will be used to execute
subprojects  selected by the Agency.    Cofinancing totalling US$10 million
equivalent (30 percent of project costs) is being assumed by other donors. A
breakdown of costs and the financing plan are shown in Schedule A.  Amounts and
methods of procurement and of IDA disbursements and the disbursement schedule are
shown in Schedule B. A timetable of key project processing events and the status
of Bank Group operations in Niger are given in Schedules C and D, respectively.
A  map  is  attached.       The  Staff  Appraisal  Report  No. 9032-NIR  dated
January 11, 1991 is also attached.
48.         Agreed  Actions.    The  Executing  Agency was  created  prior  to
negotiations and its statutes and bylaws have been approved by IDA.  During
negotiations, agreements with the Government were reached on the detailed
operational guidelines of the agency, including, inter alia, the eligibility
criteria of the subprojects to be included in the program and the procurement
procedures.   The following actions, aimed at ensuring rapid start-up of the
project, will be conditions of effectiveness: (a) the Executing Agency will be
staffed by a Director General, a Technical Director, and a Financial Director
with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association; (b) the
Executing Agency shall have selected subprojects whose aggregate estimated cost
is equivalent to US$4.25 million or more, and the Association shall have approved
the selection of such subprojects; (c) a Convention has been signed by the
Borrower and the Executing Agency; (d) the Executing Agency has prequalified an
initial list of enterprises and engineering firms; and (e) the Executing Agency
has selected auditors acceptable to the Association. A condition of disbursement
after January 31, 1993, will be that the management of the operations of the
Executing Agency, the performance by the Executing Agency of its obligations
under the Convention (including procurement procedures), and the performance by
the Executing Agency (and Implementing Enterprises) of their respective
obligations under Subproject Agreements have been found satisfactory after review
by the Association and the Borrower.
49.         Benefits.  The project is justified by its economic benefits, its
impact    on   poverty    alleviation    and    indirectly    securing    other
development/adjustment objectives.  First, economic rates of return have been
calculated at 26 percent and 51 percent for removal of sand from public
faciLities and pavement rehabilitation subprojects. Second, the project has been
designed to have a substantial impact on poverty alleviation, in addition to its
economic benefits. The ultimate beneficiaries will be the low-paid temporary
workers in the building and construction trades. Since these workers tend to
spend their wages close to home, substantial multiplier effects on the local
economy can be expected.  These benefits are likely to be more pronounced since
the building and construction trades have a greater facility than other
industries to take on additional labor rapidly in response to changes in demand.
Third, the project will alleviate the difficulties faced by the Government in
carrying out its adjustment program by helping to create a favorable socio-
political climate. While the project is not expected to create permanent jobs,
it will provide a minimum of 12,000 man-years of temporary employment. To the
extent that the minimum wage (SMIG) is actually not generally honored by the



- 16 -
small firms in the construction industry, wages in small and medium enterprises
average half the SMIG, the project may well create over 24,000 new temporary
jobs, at an average direct cost of US$1,008 per man-year.
50.         Risks.   The main risks arise from possible inability of Niger's
economy to develop enough stable job opportunities during the period of program
execution, leading to pressure from the Government to extend the program beyond
its initial period. This risk cannot be addressed within the proposed project
but should be alleviated if the ongoing adjustment process is implemented
successfully. Another risk is that the continuation of employment for those who
would benefit from the program should not take the form of their being hired by
local governments when the program ends. Such continuation of employment would
jeopardize previous efforts of public sector management improvement, including
restrictions on personnel hiring, implemented during the recent years by the
central and local governments. Lastly, the control of proper use of funds is
more difficult with such a program than with regular investment projects. The
implementing arrangements have been carefully designed to minimize this risk.
51.         Recommendation.  I am satisfied that the proposed Credit will comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
January 11, 1991



- 17 -
SCHEDULE A
NIGER
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
LOCAL       FOREIGN       TOTAL |
FOREIGN
(_ USS million)
Component (a): Labor-intensive Civil          22.65          3.38      26.03          13%
Works
Component (b): Services to                      1.01         0.49       1.60          32X
Contractors
Component (c): Monitoring                       0.48         0.32       0.80          40%
Contract Management Study                       0.00         0.30       0.30         100%
Mutual Guarantee Co.                            0.00         0.10       0.10         100%
Training Program for Beneficiaries              0.06         0.20       0.26          80%
Grassroot Participation Program                 0.10           -        0.10           -
Executing Agency Operating Costs                1.74         0.10       1.84           5%
PPF and Executing Agency Capital                1.28         0.48       1.76          27%
Buidget                                            _
Base Costs                                    27.30          6.38      32.88          16%
Price Contingencies                             0.34         0.28       0.62          44%
Total Project Costs (1)                       27.64          6.e8      33.30          17%
(1) Numbers may not add due to rounding.
Financing Plan
X OF
LOCAL      FOREIGN        TOTAL       TOTAL
I          ~~~PROJECT
COST
(USS million)
Government                                       3.3                      3.3          10%
IDA                                            15.6          4.4         20.0          60%
Other donors (OPEC fund, KfW) (to                8.7         1.3         10.0          30%
be determined)
Total Project Costs                             27.          6.7         33.3         100%



- 18 -
SCHEDULE B
NIGER
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT' PROJECT
PROCUREMENT METHOD AND DISBURSEMENTS (1)
PROCUREMENT METHOD
PROJECT ELEMENT                                   _
IC8           LCB      CONS.      N.A.      TOTAL
Civil Works                                0.00     28.03                             26.03
(12.73) (2L                       (12.73)
Services to Contractors                                            1. 0s                1. 0
_ __  _    (1. 0)        (1. 60)
Monitoring                                                        0 80                 0.80
_    (0 80)              (0. 80)
Contract Management Study                                         0.30                 0.30
(0. 30)             (0.30)
Mutual Guarantee Co.                                              0.10                 0.10
_________  (0 . 10)  (0. 10)
Training Program for Beneficiaries                                0.25                 0.26
_    (0. 25)             (0.25)
Grassroot Participation Program                                              0.10      0.10
________(0.10)   (0.10)
Executing Agency Operating                                                   1.84      1.84
Costs                                                       _               (1.84)    (1.84)
PPF and Executing Agency                             0.28                    1.50      1.78
Equitpment                                          (0.26)        _         (1.50)    (1.72)
TOTAL                                      0.00     26.26         2.96       3.44     32.68
_____________________________________     _______    (12.99)       (2. 9g    (3.44)    (19.38)
(1) Figures exclude price contingencies.
(2) Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
Estimated Disbursements
FY91                     FY92                      FY93
T Total                             2.0                       8.9                      9.1
Cumulative                        2.0                      10.9                     20.0



- 19 -
SCHEDULE C
NIGER
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT
PROCESSING EVENTS
al)  Time taken to prepare                                         10 months
}b)  Prepared by                                        Government with IDA assistance
(c)  First IDA mission                                           February 1990
(d)  Appraisal Mission Departure                                   June 1990
()  Negotiations                                              November 1990
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness                                May 5, 1991



20  -                                              SCHEDULE D
- 20 -                                  ~~~~~Page 1 of 3
kun!T rite,tj  f I l/9' Ia4 jl..z .SO
Status Of Bank Groun ODerationS                                R1 NISER
PFDBR.25 - Su;ry ctatient !.Of Loans and IDA Credits
(LOA dataas of 121,301090 - MIS data as of 4"li/l91'
Amount in US$ mJllion
(less cancellatilos)
Lean :        Fisal                                                                                                Undis-  Closing
Creit  o        Year   Rarrowqer                            PurDose                        Bank           IDA      bursed   Date
22 Credits(s) closed                                                                                     201.24
11510-WIG       1981    NIBER                                EDUCATION 1                                21.50         3.29  06130/90(R)
C12250-NIB       1982    N,SER                                INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMIE                       16.00        3.68  12131/90(R)
122A260-N       1982    NIGER                               FORESTRY 11                                  15.10         .42  06130/90(R)
C13090-NI6      1983    NIGER                               WATER SUPPLY                                  6.50         .33  06/30/88(R)
C13940-Ni6      1983    NISER                               HIGHWAYS IV                                  23.60         .S1  06/30/91R)
C15110-NIB       1985    NiGER                               POWER ENGNEERINB                             7.50        1.54  12/31/90(R)
c61Bo-NIG       1985    NIBER                                IRRIGATION REPHAB.                           9.30        1.37  12131/91(R)
C16680-NIG      196    NWISER                                HEALTH                                      27.80        20.50  06f30/93
C17060-NlB       1986    NIGEIR                              TRANSPORT.SECTOR CRE                         15.00         .56  06/30193
A0310-NIG(S)  1987    NIGER                                 P.E.SEcTnR A.lJlDSTMEN                      20.00         1.04  09/30/90(R)
C17400-NIB      1987    NIGER                                PRIM EDUC REV                                18.40       13.89  06/30194
C18330-NIG(S)  1987    NISER                                 P.E.SECTDR ADJUSTMEN                        60.00         7.16  09/30/190(R)
1 380 f-NiB      198     NIGER                               P.E.INST.DE'VELOPMENT                         5.50        2.20  06/30/92
C8800-NIG      198.8    NIGER                               ENERSY                                      31.50        28.31  12/31/94
18900-NIG       1988    NiTER                              SMALL RURAL OPERATIO                          9.30        6.71  06/30196
21220-N,15         1990    NISER                                AGRIC. RESEARCH                             19.90       21.06  12/31'95
TOTAL number Credits       1L6                                                                            301.90       112.87
TOTALt**                                                                               503.14
of which renaid                                                                        8.53
----- - - -  -- ----
TOTAL held by Bank !c ,IDA                                                             494.60
Amount sold
of which recaid
TOTAL undisbursed                                                                                   112.91
* Not yet effective
N* Not yet signed
s** Total Approved, Repayments, and Outstanding balance represent both active and inactive Loans and Credits.
(RI indicates formally revised Closing Date.
.S) indi.-ates SAL/SEAI  Loans and Credits.
The Net Approved anfd Bank Repayments are historical value, all others are market value.
The Sipningq   Effective, a,d Closing dates are based uporn the Loan Department offical data and are not taken
{ro, tLa Task Budget tile.



SCHEDULE D
-21 -                                                  Page 2 of 3
Run Time: 011111/91 at 11.33.22
Status Of Bank Group Operations In NIGER
PFDBR25B - List of Closed SALs and cecals
Amount in UlS$ milIion
(less cancellations)
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                                               Undis-  Closinq
Credit No.   Year   Borrower                              Purpose                         Bank          IDA      bursed   Date
Cr0120-NIS  1986    NIGER                                 SAL                                         40.00          .00  121311187
L6600 -NIS  :98b6   NIGER                                 SAL                                         20.00          .00  12/31/87
Total NIGER
-60.00        .00



SCHEDULE D
- 22-                                                  Page 3 of 3
run Time: 01/11/91 at 11.33.22
Status Of Bank Sroup Operations In
PFDBR2x - List of Thsed SALs and Seral;
Amount in Ai ilion
liesc canceliatiTns)
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                                               Undis-  iLosing
Credit No.   Year   Borrower                              Purpose                         Bank          ADA      bursed   Date
TOTAL
6b.00         .00



o-  2-  4-        r Guez=m<^/6                             d                            Ii;'                         12-                           14                          hRD 16779R I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RD1679
0.           2-                           4-                                                                                     io-                           12---                        14-L-
N I G E RL7                                                                                                                                                                    imi
Paved Roazds (I or 2 Lanes) <--   --|(i
---Poved Roads under Construction                          \--\                                     \,                                                                                                                i
E,,gineeired Gravel Roads                  !.o                                                                  
Simple Earth Roauds                                         \4 .                             I      I. 
-_-_   Maintained Tracks \\-    - 
------ -Simple T,ccks                                                                          A,_,E               _..                                                !. 
.R vers \In ul    
\          t   ~~~~Airports                               }\                                      f\        /     |"                                                                                                       t
0  Depaurtment Capitals                               S                                                                               
16 \     ---  ~Deportmenl Boundories/                                                      ^r                                             /|/6-
Wner.otio,,al Bou,,claries            !Tkhi-Tb..d.7                           X
M               A          L          I                                   *./ dbmisn.lt| 
t :          't              i          |         l~~~~~~~     ~      ~    ~~AHOUA     |\       
*)  91 5    3Ds Irm ichy ' /34M0X_/brJnnkVf Kell- - - - -N g u i gm'- - - - - -
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i>
T.11h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MK iIN



