Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 2209-1 NIR
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Public Works and Employment Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 23, 1994
CREDIT NUMBER 2209-1 NIR
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 23, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF NIGER (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Public Works and Employment Project), dated April 5, 1991 (the 
Development Credit Agreement), for the purpose of assisting, inter alia, in the 
creation of employment through the carrying out of public works;
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of said public works by increasing the amount made 
available under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to six million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
6,900,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing to 
provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments to the Development
Credit Agreement
Page  2
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by 
substituting "; and" for "." at the end of Subsection (i) and adding a new Subsection 
(j) as follows:
"(j) "Amending Agreement" means the Agreement Amending the Development 
Credit Agreement (Public Works and Employment Project) between the Borrower 
and the Association, dated December 23, 1994;".
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty million eight 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 20,800,000) (the Credit), which 
includes an original amount in various currencies equivalent to thirteen 
million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 13,900,000) and an 
additional amount in various currencies equivalent to six million nine hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,900,000) (the Additional Financing)."
Section 1.03. A proviso is added at the end of Section 2.04 (b) of the 
Development Credit Agreement reading as follows:
"; and provided, however, that any commitment charge on the Additional 
Financing shall accrue from a date sixty (60) days after the date of the Amending 
Agreement."
Section 1.04. The following amendments are made to the table set forth in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement:
(a)
the amount of the Credit allocated to Category (1) (a) is increased from 
SDR 9,840,000 to SDR 16,420,000;
(b)
the amount of the Credit allocated to Category (3) is increased from SDR 
1,450,000 to SDR 1,770,000; and
(c) 
the total amount of the Credit referred to at the end of the said table 
is increased from SDR 13,900,000 to SDR 20,800,000.
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until 
satisfactory evidence shall have been furnished to the Association that the execution 
and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been duly 
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions, satisfactory to the Association, of counsel acceptable to the Association, 
showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and 
is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association dispatches to the Borrower notice of its acceptance 
of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this 
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, 
unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If 
this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this 
Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
Page  3
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
By /s/ Adamou Seydou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
