FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (MoFED) -
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT MANGEMENT UNIT (ERPMU)
EMERGENCY DEMOBILISATION AND REINTEGRATION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
May 2003
FILE COPY
2



Table of Contents
Table of Contents .....................................................3
Introduction .....................................................4
Restructuring EDRP .....................................................4
Environmental and Social Assessment ....................................................6
Environmental and Social Assessment of ERP Activities Added to EDRP              ...................................7
Annex 1    IDPs in Tigray Region ....................................................              13
Annex 2    IDPs in Afar Region .................................................... 29
Annex 3    Deportees/Returnees in Tigray Region .....................     ................................ 37
Annex 4    Deportees/Returnees in Amhara Region .....................      ............................... 42
Annex 5    Deportees/Returnees in Afar Region .....................................................  49
Annex 6    Environmental Impacts of Rehabilitation Interventions ............................................... 53
Annex 7    Socio-economic Impacts of the Interventions - Safeguard Issues ................................ 58
Annex 8    Monitoring and Evaluation ....................................................          59
Annex 8    Monitoring and Evaluation ....................................................          59
Annex 9    Rehabilitation Strategy for Deportees .................     ................................... 62
3



Introduction
I . Objectives of the Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project (EDRP) and
Implementation Experience: The overall development objective of the Emergency Demobilization and
Reintegration Project (EDRP) is to assist the Government of Ethiopia to: (i) demobilize, reinsert, and
reintegrate 133,000 veterans, (ii) rehabilitate 17,000 disabled veterans through the provision of medical
services, (iii) reallocate public resources to priority social and infrastructure investments by reducing
defense expenditures, and (iv) support to macro-economic stability.
2. The EDRP Credit (US$170 million) is financing (i) demobilization, (ii) reinsertion and (iii) reintegration.
The current closing date is December 31, 2003. As of February, 2003, US$ 124.19 million (SDR 97.6
million, 72.3% of the IDA credit) had been disbursed.
3. The project became effective in February 22, 2001. The implementation of the demobilization activity
has been highly satisfactory. It was targeted to demobilize 60,000 veterans in the first phase and 90,000
in the second phase. The achievement was 70,996 veterans in the first phase and 70,034 in the second
phase. As of today, a total of about 141,O00veterans have been demobilized and reintegrated into their
community. The majority of veterans (about 90%) who returned to rural areas with access to land have
reintegrated rapidly with the support of resources provided by the project. In addition demobilized
veterans have received different types of reintegration assistances (from regional governments) such as
provision of training, land for agriculture and housing construction, employment opportunities in public
and private sectors, agricultural extension services, rental of residential and business houses , etc.
4. Additional targeted assistance in the form of training and education will be required, especially for urban
veterans who are economically vulnerable (female, disabled and HIV/AIDs positive veterans) and
disabled veterans. Training will be provided to this group after need assessment. The procurement of
equipment, training and civil works for the rehabilitation of five regional Prosthetic Orthotic centers
(POCs) and the establishment of a National Rehabilitation Center will be the focus of the program over
the coming years. Works are limited to the rehabilitation of existing medical facilities. The National
rehabilitation center will be the only new construction, but will be constructed inside the compound of
the Black Lion Hospital (leading referral hospital in the country). The existing medical waste plan of the
hospital will be applied to the National Rehabilitation Center.
5. The EDRP is also fulfilling its major goal of macro-economic stability. Since the initiation of the EDRP,
defense expenditure has declined from 40% to 17% of recurrent Government expenditure, and similarly
the share of defense expenditures as a percentage of GDP has reduced from 13.2 % in 2000 to 5.1 %
percent in 2001. On the other hand, the share of social services which was 15.3% of the total expenditure
in 1999/00 has increased to 22.5% in 2001/2002 fiscal year.
Restructuring EDRP
6. Background and rationale for restructuring EDRP: On December 5, 2000, the Executive Directors
approved two emergency operations in Ethiopia, to cope with the aftermath of the conflict: an
Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project (US$170 million) to demobilize and reintegrate
150,000 veterans; and an Emergency Recovery Project (US$230 million) to help the war affected people
to rebuild their lives and resume productive economic activities, reconstruct and rehabilitate destroyed
damaged infrastructure to restart the provision of services and support macro-economic stability in the
country.
7. The Emergency Recovery Project (ERP) Credit is financing (i) household rehabilitation, (ii) de-mining,
and (iii) road rehabilitation/improvement. The closing date of the project has been extended by two
4



years, from December 31, 2003 to December 31, 2005, to allow time for the road works to be designed,
procured and constructed. All road construction works are rehabilitation/maintenance activities carried
out on the existing roads, without changing their alignment or width. This extension will also help to
consolidate the de-mining activity. Four companies of de-miners have been trained to international
humanitarian standards and deployed to Eastern, Western and Central zones of Tigray Region and at
Bure in Afar Region. As the manual de-mining activity is inherently sluggish, capacity enhancement
through the incorporation of Mine Detection Dog Team and Mechanical Team, is underway.
8. As of February 2003, SDR 75 million (39.8 %) of the ERP credit had been disbursed. About US$86
million of a total of US$110 million was disbursed for the household rehabilitation against a positive list
of imports, 80% of this has been disbursed to beneficiary households.
9. After identifying all IDPs, Families of Deceased, and deportees, and agreed on benefit packages for
them (need assessed) it has been determined that there would be a shortfall of funds in the household
rehabilitation component. The Government of Ethiopia has identified all internally displaced households
(63,000) including IDPs in Zalambessa, families of deceased (68,000) and deportees from Eritrea
(71,000), and agreements have been made with each beneficiary household regarding the support
package they would receive This component is financed in three releases, through a positive list of
imports. To date, US$86 million (US$40 million first release and US$ 46 million second release) out of
a total of US$ 110 million hasbeen disbursed for the household rehabilitation. Some 34,000 IDPs, 50,000
families of deceased, and 39,000 deportees were assisted as of February 2003.-About 27,000 IDPs,
18,000 families of deceased and 3,000 deportees will be assisted mainly from the third release ($24
million). Additional resources are needed to rehabilitate the remaining 2,000 IDPs and 29,000 deportees.
The shortage of funds for household rehabilitation is due to an increase in the benefits per deceased
militiaman, and arrival of more than expected number of deportees/returnees from Eritrea. Benefits per
deceased militiaman were increased because it turned out that almost all militiamen supported not only
their own household (wife/children) but also their parents and younger siblings). In addition, the flow of
deportees from Eritrea was expected to stop after the peace agreement was signed in June 2000, but
20,000 more households were either deported or returned through September 2002.
10. Although included in the ERP project description, the town of Zalambessa was not fully appraised due to
uncertainties about its future. The town was completely destroyed. Residential houses, office buildings,
and other infrastructure such as water supply, schools, health facilities, power and telecommunications
lines have been dismantled and all the residents were displaced. Zalambessa is found in the northern part
of Eastern Zone of Tigray along the Ethio-Eritrean boarder. It was one of the main areas of conflict. The
ERP has assisted displaced rural people around the town since 2001, but only began to help town
residents more recently. Reconstruction of destroyed houses has not yet started due to the shortage of
reconstruction funds under ERP. Zalambessa was an important trade center for both Tigray and Eritrea
before the outbreak of the war between the two countries. Agricultural goods such as, cereals, pulses,
vegetables, oilseeds, livestock, livestock products, and coffee from the surrounding area were
sold/traded at the weekly market. Thus, the reconstruction of Zalambessa town will not only benefit the
displaced residents of the town, but also the surrounding population. Further, the reconstruction of
Zalambessa will contribute in starting the normalization of relations between the peoples living in the
boarder areas of the two countries.- Based on a recent Reconstruction Plan including a detailed damage
assessment and a program of support to households, the Government has requested the Bank to finance
the housing reconstruction of Zalambessa under EDRP.The rehabilitation of 196 km of the main road
between Mille-Assab was part of the Road Rehabilitation Project (RRP) Credit (Cr. 2438-ET). The
project was approved by the Board on November 19, 1992, became effective in June 1993 and had a
mid-term review in June 1997. Implementation was generally satisfactory. Of the three main civil works
contracts, Contract I (Logia-Semera) was completed satisfactorily, Contract 2 (Elidar-Burie) was 48%
completed, and Contract 3 (Burie-Assab) 95% completed. The quality of work has been generally good.
Work on Contract 2 was moving quickly and was expected to be substantially completed by April 1999
when the border conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea extended into the contract area, which led to
5



termination of Contracts 2 and 3. In this connection, three types of claims were made by the contractor
under these contracts originating from (i) the contractor's main office, (ii) variations and other items
which have been submitted on site, and (iii) the termination of the contract. The Government has
requested IDA support for financing part of the costs of the arbitration award settlement. The proceeds of
the Credit would finance the balance of expenditures determined to be eligible for IDA financing.
Environmental and Social Assessment
An overview of the ESA for ERP
11. The program of ERP was classified as environmental category B because no component was expected to
have a significant environmental impact. An Environmental and Social Assessment (ESA) was
undertaken in Tigray, Afar and Amhara Regions at the end of the first year of the project to (i) more
carefully evaluate possible adverse social and environmental impacts associated with beneficiaries
returning to their communities, reconstructing their homes, and restarting their farming activities, (ii)
establish a socio-economic baseline, and (iii) evaluate the first release of household funds. The ESA was
aimed to assess the potential environmental and social impacts associated with the household
rehabilitation component (internally displaced peoples - IDPs , families of deceased militia - FDs,
deportees/returnees from Eritrea) of the ERP. The summary below covers only those categories of
beneficiaries ( IDPs and deportees/returnees) that will be added to EDRP.
12. Internally Displaced People (IDPs): Internally Displaced People are found in Tigray and Afar Regions
who have lost their properties due to the conflict. At the time of the ESA , the total number of IDPs in
Tigray was estimated at about 54,836 in 47 war-affected tabias of the region. The first phase of the ERP
assistance was disbursed to about 12,000 IDPs in Tigray at the time of the ESA. In Afar, need assessment
for pastoral IDPs was underway at the time of the ESA and disbursement to beneficiaries was not started.
Of 331 sampled IDPs in Tigray, about 83% declared that they have returned to their origins and most of
them have already resumed their activities, though not at full scale. For some of the IDPs who did not
return, house damage and landmines were the major reasons for not returning to their original places. The
ESA reported in Tigray that cultivation was limited due to fear of landmines. The socio - economic
baseline survey in Tigray show that about 54% and 34% of the urban and rural IDP household members,
respectively have primary education and above, while 21 and 51%, respectively are reported to be
illiterate. The details of the baseline information of IDPs in Tigray is provided in Annex 1.
13. Due to the production system in the Afar Region (mobility), it was difficult to distinguish displacement
from normal movement of pastoralists with their animals. However, it was learnt during the survey
period that pastoralists have been displaced from some kebeles bordering Eritrea and the movement of
livestock for grazing and watering has been restricted by the fear of landmines. The survey indicates that
the herd size per household has drastically reduced as compared to the pre-war holding. According to the
baseline survey, the household members of IDPs in Afar are illiterate and only 15% of the 84 sampled
IDPs reported to have primary education. This is mainly due to the fact that even before displacement,
children in Afar were engaged in livestock herding and the current conventional education system is not
relevant to the region unless an education system which takes the mobility of pastoralists into account is
put in place. The details of the baseline survey in Afar is provided in Annex 2.
*14. The survey results in both Tigray and Afar do not raise concerns about potential adverse environmental
impacts as a result of future restocking and housing reconstruction programs. The purpose of restocking
is to replace the lost animals, and is not increasing the herd sizes against what they used to be before the
conflict. Moreover, livestock has usually been purchased locally. Qualitative information collected from
beneficiaries, officials and experts confirms this view. Furthermore, the strategy of reconstructing houses
in Tigray where the highest proportion of IDPs reside has shifted from the uses of beams to other
materials which avoids the adverse environmental impact.
6



15. In areas where the rehabilitation started, it was observed that the restocking rate of livestock was small
compared to the pre-war level. The application of inorganic fertilizer was limited and guided by
Development Agents of the Bureaus of Agriculture. Pesticides were not included in the rehabilitation
package, and therefore its use was not observed by any of the farming beneficiaries in Tigray. With
regard to housing reconstruction in Tigray, the possible impact on the environment due to the potential
use of wood to provide wooden beams as construction material has been avoided due to the shift from
the traditional earth packed masonry houses to a new type of housing which involved corrugated iron
sheet roof covering. The major reason for this shift was the constraint in getting the thick wooden beams
that were used to support the earth roof although the communities were given the option of using their
preference in material selection.
16. Deportees/returnees: One of the effects of the Ethio-Eritrean conflict is the deportation of about
110,000 Ethiopians from Eritrea. Among these deportees, a majority of them are in Tigray followed by
Amhara. At the time of the ESA for ERP, rehabilitation assistance for deportees was not started.
However, recently, registration has been completed and rehabilitation of deportees started in all parts of
the country. The finding of the survey suggests that getting job opportunities was a priority for all
deportees. Prior to the conflict, they were productive members of the society in Eritrea, able to support
themselves. Most of the deportees are in conditions of dependency after deportation. Women and young
girls who are unable to find jobs and/or start productive economic activities, have been forced to risky
activity - commercial sex work, especially in the areas of high military presence, are exposed to sexually
transmitted diseases, including HIV/AIDS. The ESA study in Tigray, Amhara and Afar (Annex 3, 4 and
5) suggest that the deportees are more interested in income generation activities (IGAs). Among the
various IGAs, petty trading has been considered as the major choice of the beneficiaries. Similar to the
urban IDPs and FDs, the deportees also believe that petty trading does not require special skills and huge
capital and that they can generate better income from this type of activity.
Environmental and Social Assessment of ERP Activities Added to EDRP
17. The EDRP was classified as environmental category C, as it was not expected to have any environmental
impact. Given the widely dispersed reintegration effort of veterans. The planned civil works under EDRP
are limited to the rehabilitation of existing medical facilities. Hence, an Environmental and Social
Assessment (ESA) was not required for EDRP. The purpose of this ESA is therefore, to review the
environmental and social concerns related to the activities of ERP which are to be added to the
restructured EDRP.
18. The following are the ERP activities that will be added to EDRP:
- Rehabilitation of the remaining 29,000 deportees/returnees throughout the country.
-  Rehabilitation of 2000 non-pastoral IDPs in Afar Region including reconstruction of 880 homes.
-  Rehabilitation of other IDPs in the war affected area that may need assistance following implementation
of the border settlement.
-  Reconstruction of 887 homes and 273 businesses in Zalambessa.
-  Settlement of the Mille-Assab road contract claim.
Household Rehabilitation
19. Rehabilitation of remaining deportees/returnees: Out of 71,000 deportees, the majority live in Tigray
(75%) and Amhara (17%).So far, 39,000 deportees (54.9%) have been assisted with the first and
substantial part of the second release under ERP. It is expected that about 29,00 deportees who still
remain un assisted throughout the country will be rehabilitated under EDRP. Deportees are concentrated
in urban areas of the country. It is estimated that about 75% of the deportees are in Tigray Region,
mainly concentrated in Mekelle, Adigrat and other small towns. In Amhara Region, most of the
deportees are residing in Kombolcha, Dessie, Gondar, towns, with the highest concentration in
7



Kombolcha, Dessie and Woldiya. In Afar Region, Dubti, Assaita and Bure are the major towns where
deportees are concentrating
20. The needs of the deportees have been assessed and identified on a participatory basis under ERP. With
their urban background in Eritrea most of the deportees preferred to reside in urban centers. Hence,
income generating schemes (IGS) have been considered to be the appropriate rehabilitation intervention
for deportees residing in urban centers. Accordingly, the deportees came up with a long list of IGS,
which include: petty trading, metal works, wood works, poultry, grinding mills, soap making, dairy
farming, waste collection, etc. As deportees have long been stayed in Eritrea, they have no residential
houses in Ethiopia. After spending the initial government cash handout on their arrival (which was.ETB
1000 per household head and ETB 1500 for married households), for their immediate consumption and
house rent most of the deportees are currently living in tents, plastic houses, camps. There are cases
where some deportees use a portion of ERP assistance for house rent and for the construction of
residential housing units, although these line items have not been identified as eligible in the Technical
Annex. Most of the IGS identified by the beneficiaries do not have adverse environmental impacts. For
instances, petty trading activities have no physical work on the environmental and as a result will not
create any adverse environmental hazards to the area'.
23. On arrival in Ethiopia, most deportees/returnees headed to their towns/villages. There are no major
cultural disparities with the local communities and many possess productive skills and their major
vulnerability is the complete loss of their properties and lack of resources to start new life. They have
been well integrated with the communities sharing the scarce social services and economic opportunities
in the respective urban centers. It is important to note that the deportation has resulted in an increase of
unemployment. Although, job opportunity is generally limited in the country, the situation for those
who came back with out skill and formal education, is much worse. As a result, there has been concern
that some desperate deportees, particularly young girls, may be forced to take up commercial sex work in
order to generate income for their living. Thus, the rehabilitation interventions for deportees provided for
additional resources for social services and economic opportunities in the urban centers where the
deportees are concentrating. Additional employment opportunities will also reduce the number of
commercial sex workers, which in turn may reduce the impact of HIV/AIDS. This means that the
rehabilitation interventions will not cause negative impacts but will instead have added economic and
social values.
24. The Emergency Recovery Project Management Unit (ERPMU) has a national Project Implementation
Plan (PIP) for Deportees, which provides criteria for screening potentially negative environmental and
social impacts. Based on the national PIP, Tigray and Amhara Regions have prepared an implementation
strategy for a comprehensive rehabilitation of deportees in the respective regions. In Tigray, the Office
for Rehabilitation and Social Affairs (ORSA) carried out a regional workshop involving donors, NGOs,
technical line Bureaus, local officials and selected beneficiaries on the comprehensive emergency and
long term rehabilitation needs of deportees/returniees in April 2002. Following that, ORSA made a
situation analysis of the deportees and designed a comprehensive rehabilitation strategy of deportees in
Tigray Region in December 20022.
For details on environmental impacts of rehabilitation intervention of deportees, see, ESA for ERP, Page 83 and Pages
88 -89 on the suggested rehabilitation strategy for deportees. Deportees/returnees who already have skills are being
provided with means of production that enables them directly engage in productive activities either through
employment or self employment.
2According to this strategy, the objective is first to meet the emergency basic needs of deportees/returnees as a stop gap
measure to the long term interventions in the rehabilitation efforts. This will be complimented with multi-sectoral
longer term interventions in the deportees current areas of habitation to support the reintegration process leading to self
reliance. Ultimately the planned interventions under the strategy is to support and reinforce the Emergency Recovery
Program efforts by filling the intervention and resource gaps for the smooth reintegration of deportees/returnees into the
local community.
8



Over and above the income generation support offered under ERP/EDRP, the strategy recommends the
following actions be taken by government:
*  to provide permanent shelter for about 12,000 vulnerable deportees through self help low cost housing
construction program,
*  in towns with high deportee concentration existing public services such as health, education, water
supply, sanitation etc, will be strengthened to avoid pressure and ensure easy access to this facilities,
*  ensure access to basic education for all deportee school age children, through the provision of school
fees, educational materials and other support,
*  facilitate access to credit facilities, micro business management training, skill training, market
information, etc, for deportees engaged with IGS, to support their effort to establish and run income
generating activities. In this regard special focus will be on female headed and vulnerable deportees,
*  meet the basic food needs of deportees for six months and supplementary food for children and pregnant
women, child headed families and elderly for one year to bridge the gap between relief assistance and
self reliance,
*  provide special support in terms of family reunion through facilitating cross country information
exchange, institutional adoption, skill training etc, to street children, children headed families, on the
basis of individual case studyand elderly and disabled deportees will be assisted through the provision of
assistance to their close blood relatives and for those who do not have relatives center based services will
be provided by communicating voluntary NGOs and other institutions.
25. Rehabilitation of EDPs: Under EDRP it is expected to rehabilitate about 2,000 non-pastoral IDPs in Afar
and other IDPs in Afar and Tigray that may need assistance following implementation of the border
settlement. The benefit packages include agricultural rehabilitation assistance (restocking) for farming and
pastoral households or income generation assistance for urban households. Housing reconstruction benefits
under this component will be provided to those urban IDPs whose homes were destroyed or damaged in
Afar (880 IDPs in Bure and other boarder towns who are non-pastoral IDPs). The benefit packages and the
maximum ceilings of support for the different categories of beneficiaries will be the same as the
households supported under ERP, excepting for household reconstruction in Zalambessa.
26. The ESRDF Afar Office in collaboration with woreda and kebelle rehabilitation task forces has carried
out a household assessment (HA) in four war affected woredas (Berhale, Erepti, Elidar and Dallol) and
identified 5010 IDPs (households) requiring rehabilitation assistance. Of these households, 4130 (82%)
are pastoral IDPs who chose to be rehabilitated with restocking. The remaining 880 are urban IDPs who
will be provided project assistance for income generating activities, housing construction and household
items. Between July 2002 and January 2003, about 3000 pastoral IDPs have received rehabilitation
assistance. The maximum rehabilitation assistance provided was Birr 5000 per household for 900
destitute IDPs, who lost most of their livestock since they were in the boarder areas during the war. With
the maximum rehabilitation assistance, each pastoral IDP is expected to buy a camel, 5 sheep/goats, 2
heifers, household items and mobile housing unit. The household assessments and household allocations
to each IDP were carried out on a participatory basis involving the beneficiaries themselves. Priorities
were given to destitute pastoral households in occupied tabias/kebelles. In addition to the ERP
assistance, the ESRDF RO has provided 5 shoats to 2470 households in the war affected areas in
collaboration with FAO. The Bureau of Agriculture has also provided veterinary drugs and vaccines to
those fDPs in collaboration with FAO. The regional Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Bureau
(DPPB) is also providing food assistance in collaboration with WFP in areas affected by the drought.
27. In Afar, the estimates of livestock holding before and after the conflict show that the households have
lost significant number of their livestock and restocking is required to sustain their livelihoods The herd
sizes of almost all livestock species have declined as a result of the losses of animals during the conflict,
especially camels and oxen. For instance, 70% of the households used to own 3 and more camels before
the conflict. However, after the conflict, only 13% of the households own this herd size. According to
9



the survey results, most of the households remained with 1 ox and I camel which is much below the
livestock holding before the conflict3. On the other hand, as pastoralists are mobile community, there is
no pressure on a specific area that leads to environmental degradation.
28. According to the estimates, restocking of animals lost in the conflict will not result in adverse
environmental impact. The purchases of livestock for restocking will be made locally and the species
used to restock are indigenous. In the event of potential negative environmental and social impacts, the
ESRDF Afar RO has developed a comprehensive " Project Implementation Plan" adopted from the one
in Tigray Region and describes; i) the process of community consultations which is used to prioritize
needs to remain with in budget constraints, ii) the process of delivery of cash and materials to beneficiary
households and the screening and monitoring of environmental and social impacts. The ESRDF office
also utilizes experts of the Bureau of Agriculture, Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Bureau , Bureau
of Finance and Economic Development and other technical bureaus in the region during project
implementation.
29. Reconstruction Programme for Zalambessa: Homes and businesses as well as community
infrastructure in Zalambessa will be reconstructed. EDRP will finance household reconstruction, ESRDF
will finance school, health and water supply facilities, and Power II will finance power supply facilities.
A separate ESIA will be prepared for the reconstruction of Zalambessa to identify mitigation measures for
potentially negative environmental impacts related to construction. Both ESRDF and EEPCO will employ
their normal monitoring and evaluation procedures during construction. In addition the Resettlement
Policy Frameworks adopted for the ESRDF and Power II Projects will be employed to ensure that people
adversely affected by the construction of community infrastructure will be fairly compensated. For water
and power lines, the Power II RPF will be used to assess compensation, since it was designed specifically
to address compensation along utility transmission lines.
30. The total number of displaced households from Zalambassa, including those that do not own property, is
2072. Of these households, about 48% are female headed, and 63% have four or more family members.
All displaced people in Zalambessa were non-farm IDPs, 60% of whom were engaged in some form of
trading before displacement. The elderly and orphans constitute about 2% of the displaced. Most
households (1686) have already received rehabilitation assistance for income generation from the
proceeds of the ERP 2nd release. The remaining households will receive assistance from the proceeds of
the ERP3rd release.
21. The residents in Zalambessa will receive project assistance under EDRP for partial reconstruction of
1160 housing units (887 residential and 273 commercial) destroyed during the conflict. Beneficiaries had
a choice of receiving assistance for family houses or commercial buildings, but not both. The residential
housing reconstruction assistance package for displaced households in Zalambessa ranges from Birr
35,500 for households with two family members (29%), Birr 41,516 for household with 3-4 family
members (34%), and Birr 50,764 for households with 5 or more family members (45%). The maximum
floor area of the reconstructed houses would be 50 square meters (excluding the wall thickness) for
households with a family size of 5 or more. This is about 65% of the average or 15% of the largest
houses that existed before the conflict. The unit costs have been established taking into account lower
cost construction materials (e.g. chika/mud mortar instead of cement mortar) and assuming that internal
finishing work will not involve cement tile flooring and glazing work. In this way unit construction costs
have been reduced by about 34%. For those who lost commercial buildings (e.g. restaurants, hotels, tea
rooms, workshops, flourmills and ware houses), the average housing assistance would be Birr 48, 800
and the maximum would be Birr 80,000 per unit. With the proposed assistance, beneficiaries can
reconstruct at least 49 square meters, but no more than 84 square meters. The proposed maximum
assistance is about 35% of the value of the average destroyed property.
3 For more details, see, ESA for ERP (Chapter 3, page 64 -79).
10



22. The community infrastructure in Tigray and Afar are being financed through the existing ESRDF
resources (US$15.2 million) reallocated to ERP school, health and water supply facilities. The
community infrastructure in Zalambessa will be financed entirely through the existing ESRDF Credit.
The fund available for the community infrastructure is expected to be utilized within the closing date of
the ESRDF Supplemental Credit - December 31, 2004. The ESRDF through its regional offices in
Tigray and Afar Regions are responsible for the implementation of the community infrastructure
activities. ESRDF has an operational manual that provides criteria for an environmental screening of
each project during its appraisal, in order to identify potentially negative environmental and social
impacts at early stage. As part of a request for a Supplemental Credit and in order to comply with current
WB safeguard requirements, ESRDE has produced an Environmental and Social Management Plan (after
completion of an Environmental and Social Assessment) and a Resettlement policy framework in June
2002. The first document details mitigation, monitoring, and institutional measures to be considered
during project implementation to avoid or mitigate potential adverse environmental and social impacts.
The Resettlement Policy Framework clarifies the principles for social impact mitigation, via
compensation for loss of properties and livelihood, and relocation or resettlement, for completion of on-
going projects. The implementation of the community infrastructure in Zalambessa will be guided by the
ESRDF operational manual and the Environmental and Social Management plan and Resettlement
framework approved by the Bank, except along water transmission lines, where the Power II RPF will be
used.
23. Reconstruction/Rehabilitation of Power supply Infrastructure (Energy 11): The power supply
rehabilitation activities in Zalambessa will be financed from a reallocation from the on-going Energy II
project (Cr. 3019-ET), and its implementation is being carried-out by the Ethiopian Electric Power
Authority (EEPCo). This component is to rehabilitate and reconstruct damaged power supply facilities.
The power rehabilitation work at Mekele, Adigrat and Bure have been completed. A major part of the
fund for this component goes to procurement of goods that are envisaged for the reconstruction of
damaged power supply facilities. Since the power rehabilitation work in Zalambessa involves only a
change of poles and replacement of distribution lines, safeguard and environmental issues related to
resettlement, acquisition of land, loss and damage of property will not be triggered, excepting perhaps
along power transmission lines if construction occurs during the planting season. EEPCo has an
established Unit (PMU) responsible for coordination of project management activities for IDA financed
projects. The existing set-up will be used for project coordination and environmental management
purposes. During rehabilitation work, measures will be taken to minimize disruption to traffic for both
pedestrian and vehicular to ensure safety of humans and animals. The work is carried out by EEPCo
itself, which has a considerable experience in the design and construction of its system. EEPCO has a set
of regulations for the construction of distribution lines which include details on safety aspects. The
potential impacts of all activities are well known and can be addressed through standard mitigation
measures and proper construction monitoring. The social issues related to this component is the potential
for increased transmission of HIV/AIDS. In connection to this, EEPCO has developed HIV/AIDS
prevention strategy that targets awareness creation in the project areas. It has also prepared a
Resettlement Framework for dams and transmission lines under Energy 11 project, which clarifies the
principles for social impact mitigation, via compensation for loss of properties and livelihood, and
relocation or resettlement, monitoring and evaluation and grievance resolution mechanisms. The
Environment and social monitoring unit of EEPCO will monitor the environmental and social
mitigation actions.
Environmental and Social Assessment for Zalambessa:
33. As the town of Zalambessa is completely destroyed, the town population was displaced and currently
residing in Fatsi, Adigrat and outskirts of the town itself. Assets that were owned by the community were
also completely destroyed. There is no currently functional structure or asset that will be affected
through the community infrastructure and housing reconstruction work. As reconstruction will be carried
out on existing sites, issues related to land acquisition and resettlement are not expected.
11



34. The ERP Project Management Unit (PMU) in Tigray has carried out a preliminary survey of the people
who are currently residing in Zalambessa. About 290 former residents have returned and live in the
ruins of Zalambessa with plastic covered sheds. The majority of the residents are still displaced and
reside out of Zalambessa. About 90% of these reside in and around Adigrat town which is 50 kilometers
south of Zalambessa or in Fatsi which is 20 kilometers south. About 100 households reside in Mekelle
and 90 in Addis Ababa. At present a total of 291 households are living in Zalambessa in temporary
plastic shelters. Of these households, 271 are former residents of the town living on their own property
awaiting reconstruction assistance, 20 are new comers (10 are deportees, 4 are demobilized soldiers and
6 are commercial sex workers). The deportees and demobilized soldiers have received rehabilitation
assistance, and are currently living with relatives and rented houses in the outskirts of Zalambessa. The
six commercial sex workers are currently living with plastic sheds on land holdings of formerly
displaced IDPs. The Government has proposed to provide rehabilitation assistance for this people from
EDRP along with some plots of land. These people will move to the new plots with their current
property, and will not face any financial losses due to reconstruction. Potential impacts related to the
reconstruction of Zalambessa will be addressed through a separate ESIA and application of the standard
environmental and social assessment procedures of ESRDF and EEPCO. A resettlement plan for the
commercial sex workers is provided in the EDRP ESA.
35. The reconstruction of community infrastructure in Zalambessa will include water supply, school, health,
and administrative facilities. All of these will be constructed on their former sites, including the water
supply system that will follow the former layout of boreholes, pipelines, treatment facilities, and storage
reservoirs. Potential negative impacts related to degradation of soil cover, vegetation, and natural
habitats at construction sites and disposal areas will be assessed. Construction impacts related to dust and
noise impacts during construction will also be addressed in the impact assessment with mitigation
measures built into the construction contracts.
36. Potential negative environmental impacts related to the operation of these facilities will also be
addressed in the ESIA. For water supply the natural quality of the water at the source will be confirmed
and the design will be checked to ensure that it will not be degraded from surface contamination and that
the safe yield of the local groundwater will not be exceeded. The design of health facilities will be
according to standard designs. Nonetheless, the ESIA will check to confirm that provision will be made
to dispose of medical waste properly. The main topics to be addressed in the EIA include (i) regulatory
background of the ESIA, (ii) description of the project, (iii) social and environmental baseline, (iii)
public consultation, (iv) potential social and environmental impacts, (v) social and environmental I
action plan, and (vi) monitoring and evaluation plan. The outline of the EIA for Zalambessa are given in
Annex 10.
37. Projects in Disputed areas (OP. 7.60): Zalambessa is one of the tension areas along the boarder
between Eritrea and Ethiopia. The rehabilitation of displaced around the boarder area has been effective
in stabilizing peace between the two countries and normalization of relations between peoples living in
the boarder areas. Before the project was negotiated, the Governments of Ethiopia and Eritrea signed
letters confirming the they would honor all debts to IDA regardless of the final disposition of land
between the two countries and related assets that they may have financed.
12



Annex 1 IDPs in Tigray Region
Regional Background:
The Tigray Regional State situated in the northeastern highlands of Ethiopia covers an area of
approximately 80,000 sq. kms. It has a population of 3.3 million people of which 85% live in the
rural areas and the remaining 15% live in urban and semi-urban areas. The regional economy is
based on agriculture on which 83% of the population depend for their livelihood. Agriculture is
primarily rain fed type and subsistence-oriented in nature. Crops such as sorghum, teff, barely and
millet mainly, and some maize and pulses grow in the region. The main livestock raised in the area
include cattle, goats, sheep, horses, donkeys, mules and poultry.
In Tigray, the average size of land available to four-person households is 0.5 hectare, too small to
support the family on agricultural production alone. The average production of cereals, the major
agricultural output is 4-7 quintals per household in the drought prone areas and this level of staples
cereal production can only feed a family for 5-8 months a year at best. In support, non-farm
activities provide supplementary incomes for many. However, food insecurity still remains at
significant level.
As a result of the Ethio-Eritrean conflict, about 10 percent of the total population of Tigray was
displaced and lost the agricultural production, livestock, sources of livelihood, homes and
belongings. The deportation of Ethiopians has also increased the burden of the region. Moreover, as
a result of the war, many households lost their breadwinners. With the recent Comprehensive Peace
Initiative between Ethiopia and Eritrea, the war affected areas in Tigray must deal with the
challenges of post war recovery at the household and community level to enable an effective return
to productive and secure lives. This part of the report includes information on IDPs, FDs and
Deportees in Tigray Region. ERPMU has been established in Tigray which deals with
rehabilitation of the war-affected population in the region.
Internally Displaced People:
The initial number of the internally displaced people in Tigray was about 315,936 of which 116,416
were from the western zone, 88,978 in the central zone and 110,542 people from the eastern zone.
The distribution of displaced households is given in table 1 below.
Table 1.Distribution of Internally Displaced Households
No   Woreda                                   Beneficiaries/HH Heads
1   Tahitay Adiabo                                    9,417
2   Lailay Adiabo                                     4,494
3   Kafta Humera                                      12,113
4   Aheferom                                          8,137
5   Merbleke                                          8,490
6   Irob                                              4,017
7   Gulomekeda                                        8,108
8   Gantafeshum                                         60
Total                                             54,836
13



Source: ERP Office, Tigray
Displacement Situation
The first people believed to be displaced were those who left their place in May 1998. This is also
evident from table 2 that the majority of the people were displaced in 1997/98 and diminished
gradually in both rural and urban areas.
Table 2: Distribution of Respondents by Year of Displacement
Year of Displacement                  Number of Re spondents
Rural (n=315)       %       Urban (n=33)     %
1998                         238           75.6          13
1999                         71            22.5          18
2000                          1             0.3           -
2001                          3             1.0           -
2002                          2             0.6          2
Total                        315          100.00         33        100.00
In the process of rehabilitation, priority was given to reintegrating of the displaced with the
community. The success towards this end is believed to be a pillar for the whole process. It was
learnt that many displaced people both from rural and urban areas have already returned to their
original place. The time of return for most of them was year 1992 (1999/2000) and 1993 E.C
(2000/01)
Table 3. Distribution of Respondents By Current Place of Residence
Living at original Place               Number of Respondents
of Residence              Rural (n=313)       °       Urban (n=33)    %
Yes                            259           82.7          33         100
No                             54            17.3          -           -
Total                         313           100.00        33        100.00
Table 4. Distribution of Respondents By Year of Return to their Original Place
Time of Return (EC)                  Number of Res ondents
Rural (n=246)        %        Urban (n=31)      %
1990                6              2.4            2           6.45
1991                49             19.9           -
1992               110            44.7            -
1993                79            32.1           25          80.64
1994                2              0.8            4          12.90
Total              246            100.00          31         100.00
For most of the rural IDPs, farming was the primary occupation. It was learnt from the survey that
most of the rural IDPs (83.5% of those reported) and almost all urban IDPs have resumed their
previous activities. The focus group discussions with the beneficiaries revealed that the fear of
14



landmines prevented them from cultivation at a full scale. It was also observed that most of the
displaced people in the sample area (Rama Town) for urban IDPs have started petty trading
activities.
A significant number of displaced people from rural areas covered by the survey (17.3%) have still
not returned to their original places. Attempt was made to investigate why they did not return. The
result is summarized and presented in Table 5 below.
Table 5. Respondents (Rural IDPs) By Reasons for Not Returning to their Place (N=266)
Reasons                              Number of Respondents4
Fear of Landmines                               52                     52.5
House Damaged and not habitable                 35                     35.35
Already Settled                                  2                     2.02
Other reasons                                   10                     10.10
Total                                          266                    100.00
Fear of landmines was the major constraint preventing the rural people to return to their place. The
displaced people consulted were eager to return back to their original place and those already
returned considered it a privilege to come back. The need to return back is strongly manifested by
the fact that only few of the respondents from rural areas (2.02%) included in the survey have
decided to settle where they were during the survey.
Socio-economic Characteristics
The sample survey result indicated that the sex ratio of the displaced and eligible beneficiaries for
support was almost equal in rural areas. The variation was also minimum in urban areas. The
distribution of the beneficiaries is summarized and presented in the following charts and in the
annex volume of this report.
Sex Distribution of Beneficiaries-   Sex Distribution of Beneficiaries-
Rural IDP                            Urban IDP
Female    Male                                  Male
50%      50%                          56% F44%
The level of education of the beneficiaries was also assessed. This is due to the fact that in the process of
aspiring for long-term impact, the need for availing education facilities for the people particularly the
children is fundamental. It was, however, found that more than 50% of the sampled beneficiaries from rural
and a significant proportion from urban areas were illiterate. The number of beneficiaries with primary level
education was, however, significant in both cases and this is believed to imply children who were attending
school during and after the conflict.
4 As indicated in Table 3, 54 respondents reported that they did not return to their villages. In this table however, the
number of respondents seems higher which is caused by multiple responses.
15



Level of Education-Urban IDP           Level of Education-Rural IDP
9%             El Illiterate          0%          Ql Illiterate
1%             Read and Write       0* Read and Write
21%~~~~~~~~%
6N <3 O Primary Lev/el  34%       C3 Primary Level
V  79%  OSecondary Level            52%  OSecondary Level
54%             0 Higher Education                      Education
EM Not Ready for                  I Not
School                               Ready for School
In the process of rehabilitation, focus should not only be given to restoring and/or supporting
routine activities, but also upgrade and encourage people to apply some special skills they have (if
any). Thus, the study attempted to identify what special skills do the beneficiaries have. It was
found out that the majority of the beneficiaries in both rural and urban areas do not have any special
skill. Few people had skills in masonry/carpentry and metal work, but the food processing skill
indicated by few people in rural areas may not be a promising venture as the areas are mostly rural
and the food processing service may not required much. A good proportion of the beneficiaries
were also students who may need to get exposed to some vocational training programs. The details
are given in the annex volume of this report in the chapter of rural IDPs.
Before displacement, farming was the major occupation of the beneficiaries from rural areas. Areas
that generate employment opportunities like a simple daily work seems to be insignificant (rural
areas) as people who had this opportunity (before displacement) were only 1% of the sampled
beneficiaries. Table 6 presents the result.
Table 6. Occupation of Beneficiaries Before Displacement
Occupation Before                     Nu mber of Beneficiaries
Displacement              Rural (n=l 735)    %      Urban (n=159)     %
None                                          -           27        15.72
Farming                        517          29.8          -
Daily Laborer                   18           1.0          5          3.14
Petty Trade                    21            1.2          37        23.27
Artisan                         4            0.2          2          1.25
Housewife                      140           8.1          8          5.03
Maid                           51            2.9          48        30.18
Employee                                      -           27         1.98
Student            -           829          47.8          -
Young for school               102           5.9          -
Other                            _-                       5          3.14.
Total                         1735         100.00        159        100.00
Assessment was made to estimate the current annual income of the respondents (who were mainly
the heads of the households). The majority of the respondents from rural areas (5 1%) reported that
16



they were earning less than 100 Birr per annum. This is suspected to be the cash income generated
only. Respondents earned above Birr 2000 per annum were only 4% of the sample.
The average monthly income generated by respondents from urban areas ranged from less than 500 birr to
above 2000 birr. It was observed that significant variation existed between the income of beneficiaries from
rural and urban areas.
Estimated Annual Income-Rural IDP          Estimated Monthly Income-Urban IDP
Above                                                      Above
2000 Birr                     ~~~~~~~1000-      2000 birr
500-2000    2000 Birrsthan                           2000 birr            2%
Birr     1%0Les than                              18%
15%                         51%            500-1000
00500                          birr ~~~~~~50-00--___Less than
1Bir/                                     birr 1                500 birr
Birr                                    1%70%
30%
Most of the displaced people surveyed were living on hand outs given by agencies like The World
Food Program (WFP). However, the support may not be extended for a longer period of time and as
WFP indicated during the discussions, the support will be terminated at the end of year 2001 or the
first months of year 2002.
Considering this background, assessment is made as to how the beneficiaries will support
themselves and their family in case they do not have any source of income/job. More than three
quarters of the respondents from rural areas replied that they were relying on government and other
non-governmental organizations' handouts. It was also alarming that none of the respondents had
any kind of saving to fall back on. The support from relatives is naturally not expected much as
most of them were facing the same fate during the conflict. Respondents from urban areas were
entirely expecting government support. The finding is summarized and presented in Table 7 below.
Table 7. Respondents By Source of Income to Support their Family
Sou,rce of Income                        Number of Res ondents
Rural (n=213)  |_%_| Urban (n=8)               %
Dependent on relatives           1            0.47            -           -
Government assistance           175           82.15          8           100
NGOs assistance                 23            10.79           -           -
External Remittance              1            0.47     _
Petty Trade                      4            1.87
Earlier Saving           ___
Other Sources                    9            4.22            -           -
Total                           213          100.00          8         100.00
17



Community Infrastructure
Areas occupied during the conflict have lost most of the basic social infrastructure (water supply,
education, health facilities). Therefore, restoring these services is a challenge in the process of
rehabilitating the displaced people.
It is important to note that the damage assessment and cost estimations of the community infrastructure could
not be presented by damaged levels (minor, major, & sever) due to the following reasons:
*  The infrastructure were designed and constructed not in a standard manner. For instance,
even primary schools are not constructed in similar standards in different locations.
*  As per our assessment, some of the social infrastructure were already renovated and some others are
under construction. Restoration of basic community infrastructure facilities such as health,
education, and water supply are underway in Tigray Region
*  In addition, the survey covered some sample woredas and it is difficult to draw conclusions
on the number and types of community infrastructure damaged by level of damage.
Despite the attempts made to restore the supply of potable water services in most of the rural areas,
water supply was found to be a major problem in areas like Bademe. A strong request was
forwarded by all people consulted (the displaced people, the RTF and woreda officials) to give
priority to restoring this service.
It was learnt during the survey that most residents get water from nearby rivers, unprotected wells
and public outdoor sources (common distribution water points in towns). Only few people had safe
water supply. The few water sources made available before the conflict were found to be destroyed
during the occupation.
Table 8. Respondents By Source of Potable Water
Source of Potable Water                  Number of Respondents
Rural (n=54)       %      Urban (n=33) |    %
Pipe                              13           4.1          7          21.21
Public Outdoor                    112         35.1          24         72.72
Protected Well                    54           16.9         -
Unprotected Well                  113         35.4          -
Others/River                      27           8.5          2           6.06
Total                            319         100.00        33          100.00
It was observed during the survey period that quite a large number of children attend schools. However, the
facilities available in some of the schools were below standard. The children are required to carry their own
chairs to and from schools and forced to learn in window and door less rooms. This was particularly observed
in schools visited in Badme. The situation of the health facilities was no exception.
18



Access of Children to School-        Access of Children to School-
Rural IDP                            Urban IDP
No                                      No
21%                                     3%
Ylv es                               Yes
79%                                97%
Investigation was made why some families do not send their children to school. Most of the
children, according to the respondents, were young for school but a significant number of the
respondents in rural areas (24.19%) indicated that they were not able to support their children go to
school.
The absence of health facilities was highly pronounced as 78% of the respondents in rural areas
indicated that the health institutions are very far from where they are living. The urban areas seems
to be in a better position with regard to having access to health facilities.
Housing reconstruction:
Most of the internally displaced people particularly those from rural areas lost their houses, animals,
and household materials during the conflict. The level of damage varied from complete to partial
destruction.
The problem of housing was significant in areas like Bademe and Irob woredas. Some other areas
were also under direct artillery attack. For instance, houses in four kebeles around Gerhu-sernay
were totally destroyed. In some cases the internally displaced people were forced to stay in plastic
sheets covered roofs and this had became a cause for fire hazard. The plastic sheets used for roofing
in Woretle kebele of Irob woreda were found to be old and request was forwarded to seek solution
before the arrival of the rainy season. No housing package was fully in place for all the affected
groups and areas. Only a pilot project was underway in Marta Kebele of Gulomekeda wereda.
Most of the displaced people from rural areas (85.8%) did have their own houses before
displacement. The houses were constructed traditionally (Edimo) and only few of them did have
roofs of corrugated iron sheets. The findings of the survey indicated the types of roofing materials,
damages made to the houses, and types of items required for reconstruction and their possible
sources are summarized and presented in the annex section.
The number of houses and the extent of damage by woreda are indicated in table 9 below. The
damage level is provide as minor, major and severe
Table 9: Number of Houses Damaged by Woreda
Woreda                            Number of Houses and Extent of Damage
Minor        |       Major        |       Severe
Erob                          882                 1618                  467
19



Gulomekeda                    597                  2091                  2413
Gantaafeshum                   5           __16
Ahferom                       782                   1395                  769
Mereblehe                     544                   741                   159
T/Adiabo                      644                   684                  1639
L/Adiabo                      350                   513                  544
Kaffa Humera                  175                   273                  472
Humera town                   173                   268                  280
Totals                        4152                  3874                 6759
Source: Tigray EPRMU, 2001
The estimated quantities of Reconstruction Materials are shown in Table 10 hereunder.
Table 10: Total required housing reconstruction materials in Tigray Region
No.    Type of Construction material        Unit          Total Quantity
1.    Corrugated Iron Sheet                 Pcs              511,895
2.    Cement                               Quntal             51,412
3.    Nails                                  Kg              231,645
4.    Metal doors                            Pcs              19,247
5.    Metal windows                         Pcs               19,247
6.    Wooden poles                          Pcs              386,075
It was learnt during the focus group discussions that wooden poles are transported from adjacent regions,
Gonder and Wollo. Stone is readily available in most places other construction materials are industrial
products which can be found from national central market such as Addis Ababa and Mekele. Therefore, the
above construction materials are readily available and can be supplied.
The comparisons of cost estimates for reconstructing houses are provided in Table 11 below. The
table shows that the survey estimates are lower than the ERP estimates. However, the survey
estimates do not include contingencies and other costs. Thus, it could be concluded that the ERP
estimates are generally adequate for housing reconstruction.
Table 11: Estimates of Housing Reconstruction (Birr)
Level of      Number of           Unit Cost             Total Cost
Damage          Houses
ERP       Survey       ERP         Survey
Estimate   Estimate    Estimate    Estimate
Minor              4,152        3,000      2,310     12,456,000   9,591,120
Major              7,583        7,000      4,541     53,081,000  34,434,403
Severe             6,759        15,000    11,385    101,385,000  76,951,215
Totals             18,494     1                    1166,922,000  120,976,738
20



Generally, there is a shift from the traditional beam and earth packed roofing to a new type which is
replaced by corrugated iron sheet roof covering. Traditional door and window openings were
wooden beams and plinks and this also were replaced by sheet metal. The major reasons for this
shift is the constraint in getting the wooden beams that are used for roofing and door and window
openings. The big trees from which these beams made from are not available in the region.
However, the communities were given the option of using their preference in material selection.
This shift in using construction materials reduces the concern of adverse environmental impact.
According to the result of the focus group discussions in different woredas of Tigray, the shift from
traditional housing construction to modern method is acceptable and does not have any negative
social impacts. Most respondents expressed their need to reconstruct their houses in relatively
modern way by using corrugated iron sheets and timber - this has also been encouraged by the
region. Most respondents were suggesting to get the timber within the region and also from near by
Amhara Region. Its implications on the environment and forest resources in the neighboring regions
should, however, be investigated.
Livestock holding
The effect of the war on the environment was significant especially in areas occupied during the
conflict. Trees were cut and forests destroyed to build trenches and also to construct houses after the
occupation. The effect was particularly significant in areas like Bademe and Irob weredas. As a
result of the destruction of forests, wild animals were believed to be affected. But soil degradation
is said to be not serious in T/Adiabo in general. It was stated that in some areas the grazing lands
have not been used during the occupation and now not fully utilized for fear of landmines as a result
of which their forage content is substantially improved. The woreda RTF in T/Adiabo indicated that
some environmental protection activities were going on. The community is also contributing to the
protection of the existing forests.
Only few people had livestock during the survey and this has little impact on the grazing lands. Of all the
sampled beneficiaries, only 71 respondents reported to the questions and indicated their livestock number.
This highlights only few people owned livestock-the source of which is expected to be new purchases made
by the support from the program. The results are presented in the following chart.
Ownership of Private Grazing Land-
Rural IDP
Yes
22%
No
78%
Table 12: Size of Livestock Herd Before and After the Conflict
Oxen                 Cows             Sheep and Goats
| Before displacement           262                   252                  418
Purchased  with  the           126                    64                   33
21



Project benefit     l
Currently owned                235                  213                  293
*  The oxen purchased.following the payment of the benefits account for about 53% of the present
number and the cows for 30%. The Project benefits prove to contribute very significantly to the
efforts by the displaced households to restore their incomes.
*  As all numbers still remain less than they were initially, no immediate adverse environmental impact
can be expected so far as the result of the benefits.
Owning a private grazing land is not common in most parts of the country and the study area is not
exceptional. However, it was found out that about 22.5% of the respondents in rural areas did have
a private grazing land. But this result should be taken with caution as the level and standard of the
grazing land is not set and known and the possibility of having that kind of property in parts of the
country (the northern part) where land is a precious asset and scarce is questionable. The carrying
capacity of the grazing land was also investigated. The majority of the respondents indicated that
the land they own could support more than 10 animals.
Table 13. Respondents (Rural IDPs) By the Carrying Capacity of The Grazing land Owned
(n=66)
Carrying Capacity    Number of Beneficiaries
1-2 animals                     14                     21.21
2-5 animals                     18                     27.27
5-10 animals                    12                     18.18
More than 10 animals            22                     33.33
Total                           66                    100.00
Landmine Effects
Effective resettlement and return to productive lives by IDPs in Tigray and Afar has been hindered
by the presence of landmines and unexploded ordinance (UXOs) affecting the health and safety of
human and livestock. Although some IDPs have returned to their origins, they could not start their
usual productive activities due to landmines and the landmines has reduced the land for cultivation
and grazing. This has also extended the dependency period of IDPs on other communities and
outside support. The movement of women for safe water has been restricted. The landmine also has
negative environmental impacts - removal and disturbance of the fertile tip soil, and increased soil
erosion due to the explosion of landmines. The de-mining effort is not expected to cause any
negative environmental impacts. The understanding is that the de-mining will be conducted
manually and any sophisticated machines will not be employed that will affect the environment.
The landmine concerns of the community have been presented by woreda in table 14 below. The
fear of landmines is high in the woredas, especially in Mereblehe, L/Adiabo and Gulomekeda. In
Gulomekeda woreda, landmine concern is very particularly in Gerhu-sernay, Marta, Weratle and
Bademe tabias. Cultivation has been restricted by landmine fears and this has been declared by all
respondents in Merblehe and 93% of the respondents in L/Adiabo. All parties consulted during the
survey indicated that vast areas are landmine infested and unable to be put under cultivation
affecting the return of the IDPs and their economic activities. According to the information obtained
in these areas, no full-scale de-mining activities have yet started except those done by the army to
free major highways and some farmlands and grazing areas. People have not yet returned to areas
22



like Selamo in T/Adiabo woreda. A study demarking areas infested with landmines along with their
priority was conducted by the woreda officials and sent to the concerned authorities. It is, however,
a concern by all parties consulted that there could be areas that are not yet identified.
Table 14: Land-mine Concerns By Woreda (Respondents in %)
Parameters               T/Adiabo    L/Adiabo   Mereblehe   Gulomekeda     Irob
Yes   No    Yes   No   Yes   No    Yes    No    Yes No
Tabia occupied by        51    49    100   0    50    50     69    31    100   0
Eritrean Troops                               I           I
Landmine                 82    18     76   24   100    0     67    33    62   38
Attended Landmine        59    41     79   21   33    67     88    12    92    8
awareness sessions
Landmine is hidden in    59    41    90    10   100    0     92     8    94    6
your tabia                   IIII
Cultivation prevented by  39   61    93    7    100    0     83    17    71   29
landmines
Many areas were under occupation. About 75% of the respondents from rural areas indicated that
their village was under occupation. The people consulted in the occupied areas feel the presence of
landmines and the majority of them reached by the questionnaire indicated that there were incidents
of landmines. More than 90% of the people interviewed also replied that they know people either
killed and/or injured by landmines.
Recognizing this effect, the ERP has established the Ethiopian Mine Action Organization (EMAO)
and some land miners have already been trained. In addition, Rehabilitation and Development
Organization (RADO) is working to create awareness about landmines and provide counseling
services to landmine victims in the affected woredas of the region. The survey result as indicated in
the above table suggess that the majority of the respondents have attended the awareness raising
sessions. For instance, 88% and 92% of the respondents in Gulomekda and Irob woredas,
respectively reported that they have attended the awareness raising sessions conducted by RDO and
other governmental organizations. RADO is conducting landmine awareness creation programs in
schools, and also by organizing a listening groups in kebeles (15 groups/kebele). It has organized
task forces at kebele levels to identify needs and assist in mapping the areas suspected of having
landmines. The organization also provides vaccine services for livestock by its agents and supplies
other agencies with information about landmines. The results of the survey with regard to
landmines is summarized and presented in Annexes section.
The result of the survey showed that about 81 % of the respondents in rural areas had attended
landmines awareness creation sessions. The majority of the training programs were conducted by
RADO.
23



Amttended Landmines               O rg an izatio n       pro%
Awareness Creation Sessions-                     Landm       ine_
Rural IDP
No
19%
Yes
81%
1 r
The effect of fear of landmines was vivid as three quarters of the people contacted from rural areas
indicated that they had farmlands not cultivated as a result. This has a negative contribution to the
efforts made to rehabilitate these people at least in the short run. People who did not return to their
place have also put fear of landmines as one of the primary problems for not returning.
Food Assistance Assessment
The World Food Program indicated that the support package (as of November 2001 the number of
people supported was 307,000) follows WFP standard of 2100 calories/person/day that amounts to
15 KG of cereal (wheat/sorghum), and 4.5 KG of oil per month. Households with children aged
below five years were getting additional support of Famix.
According to WFP, the support is mainly in kind (food items). WFP was also assuming that in the
year 2002 most of the beneficiaries will not continue at a status of displaced people, would return
back to their place and resume farming and support themselves. The organization also expects that
the number of people who would not return back to their place for fear of landmines will be small.
But the regional DPPB believes that the IDPs that would not return to their village as a result of
landmines could be significant and these people need assistance in the year 2002. According to the
bureau, the number of people needing support can be as high as 134,000. The office of the region's
Emergency Rehabilitation Program estimates the number of the internally displaced households at
54,836.
Almost all the displaced people consulted during the survey were getting food assistance during the
survey and this has been going on for more than 6 months. Detailed result of the survey is
summarized and presented in the annex section. According to the majority of the respondents, equal
amount of support is provided to all households.
Access to Food (Current)-Rural IDP     Access to Food Assistance-Urban
No                                    IDPs
3%                                     0%
0                                      0
Yes                                  100%
97%                                |E3Yes No
24



Table 15. Duration of the Food Assistance
Duration                              Number of Respondents
Rural (n=309)        %      | Urban (n=33) |_%
1-3 months                 2              0.6
4-6 months                  2             0.6            -
More than 6 months         305           98.7           33            100
Total                     309           100.00          33          100.00
A significant number of people from both rural and urban areas have been receiving food assistance
before the start of the conflict. Of the total people consulted from rural areas, about 43.2% of them
had access to food support before the conflict. There was a mixed response obtained from
respondents regarding the size and frequency of the current food assistance in comparison with the
support made before. The result of the survey is summarized and presented in the annex section.
Estimates of Food Assistance:
The major organization that has been supporting the displaced people in the region was The World
Food Program. The organization follows support in kind strategy that generates 2100 calories per
person per day. .
As indicated above, about 99% of the IDPs reported that they need food assistance for more than 6
months. The regional DPPB also claims that food assistance will be required for most of the IDPs
for at least one year. The argument is that even though some IDPs have returned to their origins,
they have not yet started their productive activities due to landmines and other factors. Therefore,
the food assistance requirement is estimated for 134,000 IDPs.
Table 16: Food Assistance Requirement for LDPs
Food Item        Quantity per     Duration         No. of       Total Food
month (kg)      (months)      Beneficiaries   requirement
(Quintals)
Wheat/Sorghum         15             12            134,000        241,200
Oil                  0.75            12            134,000         12,060
FAMIX                 2              12            33,500          8,040
Assumptions:
*  Food assistance is required for 134,000 IDPs for one year.
*  25% of the deportees are children under five years old and pregnant and/or lactating mothers
(33,500) that need supplementary food
Needs and Priorities
To make the intervention successful and achieve the objectives set for it, the felt need of the people
should be investigated and interventions should be designed accordingly. The beneficiaries stressed
that it is only need-based intervention that brings about a change in their living situation.
Beneficiaries were asked what they want most in the near future. The result of the survey is
summarized and presented in the annex section Table 17.
25



Table 17. Distribution of Respondents By First Priority
First Priority                              Number of Respondents
Rural (n=322)             Urban (n=26)     %
Moving from where they are now       5           1.55          -
Building House                      127          39.44         4         15.38
Finding Job                          15          4.65          7         26.92
Getting food                         74         22.98          1         3.84
Start Farming                        46          14.28         -           -
Getting Land to Cultivate            31          9.62
Buying Animals                       24          7.45          -           -
Starting a business                  -                         14        53.84
Total                               322         100.00        26        100.00
The need for housing was seriously raised time and again by most beneficiaries from rural areas
during the discussion sessions. This was substantiated by the result of the survey that the majority
of the respondents put building a house as their first priority. Only few people wanted to move from
where they are and this also indicates that most of them have already returned to their original
place. Starting a business activity was preferred by the majority of the people in urban areas.
Diversification of activities in the future also encourages and supports the beneficiaries to get
involved in some off-farm activities strengthens their income base and make the intervention
successful. This is determined by the potential of the area where these people are living. Most
respondents expressed their interest to get involved in these activities. But in some areas like
Woratle kebele of Irob woreda, people who chose to get involved in other innovative and off-farm
activities were very few. This could be due to the fact that these people are mainly herders and give
attention to rearing livestock.
Need for Non-farm Activities-Rural IDP
No
19%
Yes
81%
Petty trade was the activity chosen by most of the respondents in both rural and urban areas. These
activities were chosen because most respondents indicated that they have already experience in the
area. Petty trading is not requiring any specific training to initiate it and as long as one has little
capital to start with, entrance into the venture is easier. The existence of market for the product also
motivated them to make the choice.
People want to get settled in a relatively decent house before getting involved in any activity. When
asked what support is required from the government to start the off-farm activities chosen, most
beneficiaries from the rural areas still demanded support for housing. The response of most people
from urban areas was not specified, but some demanded training apparently to start business
activities. The findings of the survey are put in Table 18 and the annex section.
26



Table 18. Respondents By Support Needed to Start the Non-farm Activities
Support Required                         Number of R     spondents
Rural (n=271)                  Urban (n=28)       %
Training                       19            7.07            3           10.71
Tools/Equipment                15            5.53             1          3.57
Livestock                      19            7.07             -
Land for Farming               11            4.95             -
Support for Housing           222           81.91            2           7.14
Other Supports                 3             1.10            22          78.57
Total                         271           100.00           28         100.00
The rehabilitation program has a limited life over which the beneficiaries are expected to become
self-sufficient and need no external support. This being the major objective of the intervention,
getting the view of the beneficiaries about the time required for self-sufficiency was vital for better
judgment. Assessment was made with this regard and only 16% of the respondents from rural areas
replied that they will become self-sufficient in about six months time. More than half of the people
consulted indicated that at least one year is required for full rehabilitation and asked for the support
Time Required for Full Rehabilitation-
Rural IDP
Above 24
months  Less than
1%     6 months
13-24      16%
months -
23%
7-12
months
60%
to continue for the time indicated.
Respondents from urban areas were asked to identify the serious problem they have during the
survey. Getting access to employment opportunity from the government and/or other agencies that
generates income was the major problem identified.
Urban IDPs By Major Problem
Lack of
Other        food
27% pe           Lack of
No access        -  Shelter
to public            5%
services
3%         No job
Opportunity
46%
27



HIV/AIDS Awareness:
The HIV/AIDS pandemic is one of the major problems in Ethiopia. Recognizing this fact, the
Emergency Rehabilitation Program has identified this issue as one of the major components of the
rehabilitation program.
A preliminary assessment was made to investigate if the beneficiaries did have some basic
knowledge about the pandemic. Almost all people consulted indicated that they did have the
information and accessed to some training and/or counseling services.
Most of them also know one or more methods that should be used to protect themselves from being
infected. Most of the respondents were also using one of the major prevention mechanisms. The
majority of them reported that that one-to-one was the method they were using. The source of
information about the pandemic was mainly from meetings and this indicated that the kebele/Tabia
officials were performing significant job with this regard. This was also confirmed during the group
discussions. The role of media, particularly radio was also found to be significant in creating
awareness about HIV/AIDS. The result of the survey is shown in Table 19 and annex volume of
this report.
Table 19. Distribution of Respondents By Knowledge about HIV/AIDS
Know           Number of Respondents
Rural (N=320)                   Urban (N=33)   %
*Yes            319             99.7           33             100
No             1                0.3 
Total         320              100.00         33             100.00
28



Annex 2 IDPs in Afar Region
Regional Background:
The Afar Region in the north and north east of Ethiopia is located in the greatest rift valley and
extends to Eritrea and Djibouti. The region has five administrative zones and 29 woredas and 28
urban centers. The region is further organized into 32 Kebeles (i.e. Urban Dwellers Association)
and 323 farmers association (Rural Kebeles). Rural household settlement pattern of the Afar is
mainly structured along clan and /or tribe. Settlement points are usually preferred in areas of
abundant grazing and water resources. The local community lives in a cluster of 8 to 10 hats in one
place and in large settlements. Each tribal territory contains segments from a large number of clans
(Mela). The clan is subdivided into local community (Kidoh), and the next lower level is the
extended family (Dahla), followed by the household (Burra).
The population of the Afar Regional state is estimated at about 1.7 million people, 90% of which
are pastoralists and 10% agro-pastoralists. Pastoralists entirely depend on livestock, while agro-
pastoralists practices some cultivatin in additional to livestock husbandry. The estimated livestock
population is 1.16 million Tropical Livestock Unit (TLU) comprising a mixture of cattle, camels
(usually herded by younger men), sheep, goats and lactating cows (usually herded by women, girls
and boys). Afar Region as other pastoral/agro-pastoral areas in the country and other African
regions is characterized by unpredictable and unstable climatic condition as well as ecologically
fragile environment Annual rainfall is between 200 - 600 mm with mean daily temperature of 30 -
50 degree centigrade at an altitude of between 100 - 1000 masl.
Apart from animal husbandry and limited cropping, trade is the next important means of livelihood.
Trade comprises marketing of livestock by products, salt production and marketing, renting of
animal power (notably camel) and marketing of traditional crafts. Among the traditional crafts,
which have economic importance, are blacksmith, leather work, household utensils made of wood,
grass and palm tree, carpet and rope making. Some of the products that are produced by black
smith are Gille and Debra which are traditional weapons ( similar to dagger and spear), spade and
axe. Various types of leather cases and containers to hold Gille and to contain milk (Kodaa), water
(Saar), butter (Okassa), and Grain (Graib) are produced and marketed by the Afars.
Due to the Ethio-Eritrean border conflict, pastoralists and agro-pastoralists in woredas bordering
Eritrea were displaced and lost the agricultural production, livestock, sources of livelihood, homes
and belongings. The livelihood of the pastoralists is based on movement of animals in search of
water and grazing land. However, due to the border conflict and the landmine concerns, their
movements have been restricted and that shortages of water and grazing have become serious in the
region. Livestock marketing has also been constrained by the border conflict.
The Regional ESRDF Office in Assaita serves as a PMU for the implementation of the household
rehabilitation sub-component. Unlike in Amhara and Tigray Regions, no disbursement was made to
beneficiaries in Afar until the undertaking of this survey
Internally Displaced People (IDPs) in Afar are the pastoralists and those who used to live in rural
centers (small towns) in the region. The total number of IDPs in the resgion is estimated at about
29



3,100 households of which 408 are urban. It was learnt during the field visit that almost all
pastoralists who reside in the woredas bordering Eritrea have practically been displaced. During the
conflict, they lost their livestock, houses and other properties. Most importantly, they have lost the
tradition of movement from one locality to the other in search of water and grazing.
Socio-demographic Characteristics:
The sex distribution of IDP household members shows that 52% are male and 48% are females. The
age group of the majority (62%) of the household heads are above 30 years old. While 37.8% and
39% were of the age group between 16-30 and 5-15 years old, respectively. The marital status of
the rural IDPs is not very different from the urban IDPs. In rural areas, about 95.4% of the
respondents reported that they were married, while in urban areas, the finding indicates that --% of
the respondents are married. The rate of divorce is very low in the Afar Region due to the cultural
and religious factors.
The educational status of the pastoralists has not been encouraging even before displacement. The
finding of the survey shows that 83% of the pastoral IDPs (household members) have reported to be
illiterate, while only 15% have primary education. The situation is better with urban IDPs where
40% of the households members have primary education. This indicates that there are school aged
children who are not going to school for various reasons - children are herders in pastoral
production system and unless a special mobile education system is introduced, there problem will
remain pervasive.
Activities of IDPs:
Rural IDPs in Afar are mainly pastoralists whose livelihood depends on livestock production as
well as some cultivation, while the urban IDPs are engaged in non-farm activities. The survey result
shows that 47% of the urban and 72% the rural IDPs did not have any jobs even before they were
displaced. There is also a substantial decrease of activities in both urban and rural areas as a result
of the displacement. The survey finding indicates that mixed farming (livestock and crop)
decreased from about 11 % to 8%, livestock from about 22% to 13%, while petty trade from
decreased from about 4.5% to 1.0%.
Table 1. Activities of Pastoralists before and after Displacement (N= 202)
Activity                             % of Pastoralists Involved
Before displacement      After Displacement
Livestock and crop                  10.9                    7.9
Livestock husbandry                21.8                     13.5
Livestock and petty trade           4.5                     1.0
Housewife                           15.8                    15.8
No job                              47                      61.8
Totals                              100                     100
30



In urban areas, most of the respondents reported that they did not have jobs before and after the
displacement. As indicated in the table 3.2 below, the number of those urban IDPs who were
involved in petty trade (20.3%) has decreased to 11% and as a result the number of the jobless has
increased (79%).
However, this survey result should be interpreted carefully since the respondents tended to report
that they do not have means of survival and they needed assistance.
The urban IDPs in Zone One of Afar Region are from Bure town. The displaced people moved to
Manda and Dubti towns during the conflict. Some of the IDPs were shopkeepers and small
restaurant owners who are mostly non-Afars. In general, the Afars live within the area where
livelihood depends on livestock production, livestock trading and transporting merchandise from
the port to the inner country by camel.
Table 2. Activities of Urban IDPs Before and After Displacement
Activity        Before Displacement        After Displacement
None                   71.9                      79.3
Daily laborer           0.5
Petty trade            20.3                      10.9
Housewife               5.2                       8.8
Maid                    0.5                       0.5
Other                   1.6                       0.5
Totals                  100                       100
Displacement and Property Loss
The conflict and the resulting displacement have different impacts on the urban and pastoral IDPs.
The urban IDPs who were traders and shop keepers have lost their shops and goods when displace.
These IDPs were able to re-establish their business after the aversion of the occupation.
On the other hand, the displaced pastoral IDPs from and around Bure town who mainly used to
depend on livestock production, livestock trading and transporting merchandise from Assab port
were and are still the most war-affected group. Their livestock were raided; they lost their
permanent water sources and the foothills grazing areas located both in Ethiopia and Eritrea, which
are vital during the dry season to maintain their livestock until the next rain season. The rainy
season is the time when pastoralists intensify their movement while during the dry season they limit
their movement in water bank areas, which they apparently lost during the war.
The pastoral IDPs have moved from war affected woredas to other woredas and/or to different
kebeles within the same woredas which are relatively free of landmines. According to the regional
bureau of agriculture, currently, there are a total of 33,301 IDPs (about 3,OOOHHs) in the region.
Some of them were displaced from Bure to Elidar and Logia, while those who used to live in Dalul,
Erepti and Afdera moved within the same woredas but different kebeles of the respective woredas
shich are relatively free of landmines. Due to the loss of the dry season grazing areas, their seasonal
migration pattern and stocking and de-stocking pattern have been disturbed. During discussions in
31



Bure town, the 'urban' displaced group said they are now left without cattle and they are only able
to keep goats and camels that are more resistance to water shortage. The presence of the army in the
area was also affecting their production system. They also indicated that the system of selling
livestock when there is rain and keeping only restocking herd at the dry season grazing area is
disturbed as a result of losing the grazing and water points.
Both urban and pastoral IDPs have lost their property during displacement. According to the survey
results, out of 102 respondents 67% of them reported that they lost property of value Birr 2000 and
above. Livestock loss is the highest in the list of property lost (43%) followed by loss of household
utensils (32.4% of all the property loss). The loss of cattle (cows) among their herds has deprived
them of having milk, their major source of nutrition. This situation is intensified with the people
(IDPs) living in the 'town' proper where there is high demand for water. Women pointed out the
problem they are facing in building the traditional home, due to the palm trees. The details are
provided in the annex volume of this report under the Afar chapter.
Livestock Holding:
Due to the conflict, the herd size per household has been affected. The herd sizes of sample
households before and after displacement are provided in table 3 below. As indicated in the table,
the herd sizes of almost all livestock species have declined as a result of the losses of animals
during the conflict, especially camels and oxen. For instance, 70.7% of the households used to own
3 and more camels before the conflict. However, after the conflict, only 13% of the households own
this herd size. According to the survey results, most of the households remained with 1 ox and 1
camel which is below the livestock holding before the conflict. Similarly, the percentages of
households owning large herd sizes has reduced in all species as indicated in the table.
Since they are also forced to keep a smaller number of herds, their income from sales of livestock
and their purchasing ability of the necessity goods (grain, edible oil etc.) have decreased. This
situation is causing pressure on Afar women who are responsible for building and maintaining the
family.
Table 3. Percentages of Sample Households Owning Livestock Before and After Displacement
Livestock Species  Herd size (heads)  Percentage of Households Owning Livestock
Before                After
Camels                     1                 12.2                 78.30
__ _ _ _ __2     17.10                  8.7
3 and above           70.7                  13.0
Totals              100                   100
Oxen                       1                 20                   90.9
___ ___ ___ _ _   2         15                    9.1
3 and above            65
Totals              100                   100
Cows                       1                  3                   64.7
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   2  3  17.6
3 and above            94                   35.2
Totals              100                   100
Sheep                      1                                       50
32



2                  8                    10
3 and above            92                   40
Totals              100                  100
Goats                      1                                     43.5
2                 2.6                  4.3
3 and above           97.5                 52.2
Totals              100                  100
Pack animals               1                23.50                 90
______________ _ 72                     29.4                   10
3 and above            47
Totals              100                  100
Estimates of Livestock Holding:
From the sample household survey results of table 3 above, the number of livestock owned by the
total ID households in Afar (3,100 households) is estimated in Table 4 below. According to the
technical annex of the agreement between the IDA and the Ethiopian government, the benefit
package related to livestock is an ox, a heifer, 3 small ruminants per household. The estimate in
Table 4 shows the additional stocks that will be acquired through the ERP support. It is evident
from the table that the households have lost significant number of their livestock of all species and
restocking is required to sustain their livelihoods and restocking of animals for those households
who lost due to the conflict will not result in over stocking and adverse environmental impact.
Although a detail study on stocking rates and land carrying capacity in Afar is required, it is
envisaged that additional stocks of the ERP support will not result in overstocking. Moreover,
purchases of livestock for restocking will be made locally and negative environmental impact is not
expected. However, it should be noted that if the ID pastoral households that are concentrating in
relatively free of landmine areas do not return to their origin and continue sharing the grazing
reserves and water points, there will be a potential negative environmental impacts as a result of
overstocking in the existing areas.
Table 4: Number of Livestock before and after conflict
Camels   OXEN         Cows       Sheep     Goats       Pack
animals
Before       12,396    11,625     14,849     14,756    15,274     9,836
After        4,981      3,354     8,552      8,370      9,706     3,410
differences  7,415      8,271     6,297      6,386      5,568     6,426
ERP                  3,100      3,100      6,200     3,100
Landmines:
The woredas and kebeles bordering Eritrea are assumed to be landmine infested areas. The focus
group discussions with various stakeholders in Afar Region revealed that the movement of livestock
is restricted due to landmine fear. According to the results of the survey, the kebeles where 98% of
the respondents lived were occupied by Eritrean troops. About 60% of the respondents reported
that there have been landmine incidences in their woredas/kebeles. Some of them witnessed 1-5
33



people killed by landmines and up to 7 people injured. A large majority (73%) of the respondents
expressed the opinion that the existence of landmine in the woredas has been the concern of the
community and has hindered the use the rangelands for their livestock grazing. House damage
coupled with landmine have been the reasons for not returning to their origins, especially for the
urban IDPs.
It was learnt during the survey that no full-scale de-mining activities have started except those done
by the army to free major highways and some farmlands and grazing areas. People have not yet
returned to areas. The effort of Rehabilitation and Development Organization (RADO) towards
creating awareness about landmines and the counseling provided to landmine victims is
encouraging. The organization is conducting landmine awareness creation programs in schools, and
also by organizing a listening group in kebeles. About 70% of the respondents reported that they
had awareness training on landmine.
Food Assistance
Even before the conflict, Afar Region is one of the food insecure areas of the country. Food security
in the region mainly depends on livestock which is a risky and not dependable economy due to
recurrent drought in the region. According to the survey, only 31 % of the pastoral IDPs have
received food assistance, while the majority (69%) of them have not received at all. Of those who
received food assistance, 50% of them reported that they were assisted for 6 months and above,
while 43% of them had the assistance for 1-3 months. The situation of food assistance is better in
urban areas than rural areas mainly due to accessibility. To this effect, 46% of the urban IDPs
declared that they had food assistance from DPPB and WFP. About 75% of the urban IDPs reportd
that they received food assistance for 6 months and above, while 18% of them received for 1-3
months only.
In Afar, there are 3,100 ID households, mainly rural. The average household size (as indicated by
the regional ESRDF) is estimated at seven persons. Therefore, according to the Bureau of
Agriculture of the region, the total number of IDPs estimated at 33,301. The region claims that
food assistance will be required for the total number of IDPs for one year. To this effect, food
assistance requirement is estimated using the WFP standard.
Table 5: Estimated Food Assistance Requirement
Quantity     Total No.   No. of   Duration of    Total
Food items    person/month    of IDPs   children      the      amount in
required         in kg                 mothers    assistance    quintal
in months
Sorghum/wheat        15         33,301                   12        59,941
Oil                 0.75        33,301 -                 12        2,997
FAMIX               2.00                    8,325        12         1,998
* Assumptions:
o Food assistance is required for one year.
o 25% of the IDPs are children under five years old and pregnant and/or lactating
mothers (8,325) need supplementary food assistance.
34



Access to Social Services:
Access to social services is one of the problems in the Afar Region even before the border conflict
with Eritrea. Social services are among the poorest in the country. Schools, health facilities and
potable water are not easily accessed. The survey result shows that currently, 47% of the
respondents (rural IDPs) use unprotected water well, while others use rain-water and other
unprotected water points. According to the 1994 census, only 3.2% of the population has access to
piped water. It was learnt during the survey period and from the literature that water-born diseases
are among the common concerns in the region.
Rural                               Urban
Cmnuw     PRixe
others                                  Fpe       Rpe
22%             Unprotect               6%  X      1/
ed Well
Ponds               48%
13%          ;
17%                              880/0
Regarding education, 60% of the pastoral IDPs reported that their children do not go to school due
the fact that schools are not accessible, children herd animals and they cannot support the education
of the children (clothing, stationery, etc.). The 1994 national census suggests that only 7% of the
population is literate, but this figure should be higher since some improvements have been made in
the education sector. As one of the emerging regions, access to health is very limited in the region.
About 54% of the IDPs reported that they go to health facilities when the family members are sick.
The remaining 46% prefer to visit the traditional healer since it is cheaper and they believe that they
can easily be cured.
Major problems, Needs and Priorities:
An attempt was made to prioritize the major problems of pastoral and urban IDPs. The survey
findings indicate that 70% of the pastoral IDPs declared that food shortage is the major problem
which is consistent with the above finding related to food assistance. The next major problem of the
pastoral IDPs were found to be lack of job opportunities and shelter both. The problems of the
urban IDPs reported are lack of job opportunities, lack of shelter, lack of food and other public
service with a percentage.
The survey indicates that the rural IDPs priority is petty trade. About 56% of the respondents
declared petty trading as a top priority followed by 26% of them who prefer mixed farming
(livestock and crop) and 18% livestock production only. Urban IDPs first choice was also similar
to the rural IDPs - petty trading is a priority. In addition to petty trading, finding a house and ajob
have been the second choices for 44% of the respondents. As expressed by the respondents, the
choice of petty trading as a priority is mainly due to previous experience of respondents and the
assumption that there will be market for the business.
35



The presence of the Ethiopian army in the area has contributed to the demand for goods produced in
small towns of Afar. There seems to be also some expansion of the town and more movement of
young girls both deportees and from the neighboring regions in the highlands due to the increased
opportunity of employment in the newly emerging bars and other business activities.
HIV/AIDS:
HIV/AIDs is a concern in Afar where the military has settled. As the result of the military
settlement, the number of bars and commercial sex workers has increased in the region. Generally
speaking, most of the urban IDPs and pastoral IDPs are aware of the HIV/AIDS. About 87% of the
pastoral IDPs declared that they are aware of the epidemics and have gone to consultation meetings.
In urban areas almost all respondents claimed that they know about HIV/AIDS and had consultation
by various organizations.                                                     I
The sources of information about HIV/AIDS were reported to be various. About 60% and 65% of
the urban and pastoral IDPs, respectively learnt about the epidemics at community and kebele/clan
meetings, 34% of the urban and 43% of the pastoral IDPs have learnt through radio. It is interesting
to learn here that quite a large proportion of pastoralist are using radio which is encouraging for
future development efforts in the region. The detailed information about HIV/AIDS is given in the
annex volume.
36



Annex 3 Deportees/Returnees in Tigray Region
A baseline survey on deportees was carried out by UNICEF in Tigray in September, 2001. The
survey covered a sample size of 600 deportee households. Structured interviews and participatory
methods were applied for establishing the baseline information. The findings of the survey are
summarized and presented here.
The duration of stay in Eritrea of the interviewed deportees/returnees varies. However, the majority
of them has spent over 20 year in the country. This implies that many deportees/returnees - and
especially the children of the interviewees - have never lived in Ethiopia. This is a possible element
of vulnerability: for children, because they might have difficulties in adapting to the new
environment, and especially in school. For the family as whole, the loss of the family support
networks after many years of absence adds to the economic and social fragility. Youth (both boys
and girls) also face difficulties of integration, especially in urban areas.
Table 1. Duration of stay of deportees/returnees in Eritrea
| 0-5 years  6-10 years    11-20 years     Over 20 years
136-         107           98              265
23%          18%           16%             44%
It was estimated that as a result of the Ethio-Eritrean conflict in May 1998, an estimated 95,000
Ethiopians were deported from Eritrea of which about 75,000 are in Tigray. The results of the
UNICEF survey indicate that deportees are a fragile social group within Tigray. Since there are no
major cultural disparities between the deportees/returnee and local communities, and many already
possess productive skills, their major vulnerabilities are due to their complete loss of property,
means of livelihood and lack of social networks to fall back upon
While receiving the standard DPPC/DPPB food ration and cash grant, the study indicates that only
17% were able to start income generating activities. The majority became--and remain--dependent
on relief assistance. Some women expressed their concern for the lack adequate food for their
children; the planned reduction of food distributions in IDP areas which affect deportees/returnees
as well, might have concerning consequences on the nutritional status of deportee/returnee children
and other vulnerable categories, especially the elderly.
The support from relatives of origin was found to be below expectations. The study indicates that
most deportee returning to their village/town of origin (75%), found little to ease the process of
reintegration. Only a minority of the respondents was able to receive actual material support from
family members and to find a stable source of income. The reasons for families not being able to
provide support are "poverty" of the (host) family (72%).
Despite commendable efforts of the regional authorities, it has been difficult to ensure that all
deportee children go to school. The Regional Education Bureau adopted a policy of entry exams for
children who do not have documentation. However, some were unable to complete the exams and
join school in time for the current academic year (September-June). Other constraints to education
include lack of money to buy education materials and uniforms, and to a lesser extent, lack of
37



places in schools. Most schools are operating on double shifts already. In some schools in Mekele,
over 70 children are found in a single classroom.
Most of the deportees have problems with housing. To this effect, the initial relief package is
exhausted in a few months in order to pay for the rent. Increased urban poverty and social tensions
are often experienced. In rural areas, deportees receiving monthly food rations (approximately
19,000 were on the REST/WFP distribution list until November 2001) have used their rations to
pay for accommodation, sometimes only a plastic shelter. Children and the elderly are the ones who
suffer most of exposure to cold weather, especially in Adigrat and surrounding areas.
When they were in Eritrea, most adult deportees were engaged in a number of activities, mostly
unskilled and were living in the urban areas especially in Asmara. They were petty traders,
domestic and casual workers, masons etc.
Access to employment opportunities for returnees/deportees will mostly depend on the overall economic
development the region. As mentioned earlier, major recovery programmes (ERP/WB) have targeted IDPs
and the families of the deceased. Recovery/rehabilitation of returnees/deportees has yet to be started. A
concerted action and strong is necessary. Previous poor and untimely response towards the plight. of
returnees from Assab in Amhara Region (South Wollo) has brought about a difficult situation in which
integration and economic recovery appear unattainable.
Table 2: Engaged in income generating activities
_____l_l_|                                    Yes      No       n/v
Eastern zone     Rural       Hawzien          11      49             T
Sae Sae          10       50
Gantafeshum       2       38        17
_Urban       Adigrat          15      103        5
Central zone     Rural       Ahferom           10      20
Urban        Axum             30       30
Adwa              2       58
Western zone     Urban       Shire             17      43
Mekelle          Urban       Mekelle           7       84        7
TOTAL                                         104      475       29
Percentage of total                           17%     78%        5%
The finding of the survey suggests that getting job opportunities is a priority for all deportees. Most
left Eritrea for economic reasons where, prior to the conflict, they had been productive members of
the society, able to support themselves. Most are now in conditions of dependency. The number of
people who have been able use DPPC/B cash grants to initiate a business or other economic activity
is small (10%), as many were compelled to spend the money for household utensils and furniture,
sending children to school, paying rent, etc. Women working in the Mekelle's market were
interviewed in focus group discussions. As their activities are traditionally low income generating
and small scaled (tea/coffee making, selling of small items etc.), competition is high and making
enough to meet family needs is a major challenge. In many respects, this condition of lost
livelihoods mirrors the plight of the 1999 returnees from Assab to Amhara Region who faced an
exceptionally difficult situation in which integration and economic recovery appear unattainable.
38



For women and young girls especially, the inability to find a job or to start up a small business,
exposes them to increased risk of being involved in prostitution, especially in areas of high military
presence and sexually transmitted diseases, including HIV/AIDS.
Potential Income Generating Activities (IGS):
Major income generating activities identified during the survey in both rural and urban areas are
similar except for few activities particularly applicable to rural villages. The summary of these
activities is presented in the following table.
No         Income Generating Activity
1   Petty Trading
2    Running Tea Rooms
3    Livestock Trading
4    Local Brewing and Selling Food
5    Hides and Skins Trading
6    Tailoring
7    Butchery
8    Running Local Oil Mill
9    Metal Work
10   Poultry Farm
11   Group Run Grain Mill Project
12  Bee Keeping
Petty trading, running tea rooms, local brewing and selling food, tailoring, butchery, metal work, running oil
and grain mills were typical income generating activities practiced in urban areas visited. One can also find
most of these activities exercised in some rural areas located nearer to the towns. Bee keeping is an activity
particularly mentioned by rural IDPs in Irob woreda. Similarly rural FDs in T/Adiabo woreda of Mentebteb
kebele mentioned the possibility of involving in trading small animals like sheep and goats. Achievement of
good result by displaced women in Rama town involved in local brewing activities has been observed during
the fieldwork. It was also observed in some towns (Axum, Inticho, Adigrat) that deportees particularly those
in young ages were doing very well in running small tearooms and liquor bars.
Petty Trading: This activity does not require any specific training to initiate it. A little start up capital for
initial investment and some know how about running a business could be what is needed. But for reasonable
result, a preliminary assessment/knowledge about commodities demanded in that particular area needs to be
conducted by the person wishing to involve in the venture. Short orientation programs with regard to this
activity (record keeping, tum-over issues etc.) may also be an added value for its success.
Considering the prevailing situation in Tigray Region, petty trading does not look a promising
venture as most people were displaced and lost their property and relying on external support for
their livelihood. This certainly suppresses demand for the items. It can also be observed that many
people may get involved into this venture and make the items available on competitive basis and
eventually lead to decline in prices.
Running Tea/Coffee Rooms and Local Brewing/Food Processing: These income-generating
activities are promising particularly in towns located near the border and where the military
presence is significant. This situation is expected to generate huge demand, but may be short lived
This is manifested by the fact that in some border towns visited, the business seems to be saturated
as a result of the involvement of several people in the venture. For instance, all houses in
39



Gerhusernay town are apparently converted into mini shops and bars to accommodate the demand
generated. It was observed that the venture is still promising in towns such as Rama where demand
is generatedfrom within the locality.
Besides the demand issue, these income-generating activities need significant initial investment for
equipment, and furniture, and running budget for house rent, utilities and other miscellaneous
expenses. The beneficiaries (the IDPs and Deportees) may not fulfill these inputs with the
rehabilitation support provided. Families of the deceased in urban areas may be in a better position
to initiate this activity as the benefit package obtained could cover the cost of initial investment and
running costs. Intervention with this regard should, however, take into account the initial
investment issue and the specific situation of the area. A blanket recommendation should not be
made for all the target areas.
Tailoring and Metal Work: These income-generating activities require some training and people
who are expected to get involved in these activities need to have some background. Two categories
of beneficiaries can be identified with this regard: beneficiaries with some traditional know-how
and people with no or little background but have the interest want to initiate it with some support.
The second group ofpeople would certainly require some training with this regard.
Providing trainings depends on the availability of resources and institutions (private/public) offering
these training programs. These factors determine the cost of the training, the duration and the
number of people to be trained. It seems most unlikely that training institutions are available in
most of the affected areas putting the second group of people on a disadvantaged position.
For those beneficiaries with some know-how of tailoring and metal work, provision of initial capital
to procure the equipment required is necessary. Tailoring seems to be a viable activity in some
border towns but metal work is mentioned only in one woreda i.e. Irob (apparently selling the
services to the community). Irob woreda is, however, not easily accessible to the nearest town,
Adigrat, to create demand for its products. This makes the proceed from this venture not promising
and generates demand for the service only from the surrounding locals. It can, however, be
supported with minimum input and probably little training to improve the already available
knowledge. It is believed that people who will get involved in this venture do have some know-how
about metal work.
Grain Mills: This income-generating activity needs substantial initial investment and significant
running cost afterwards. The beneficiaries particularly families of the deceased who mentioned this
activity do know the investment required, but they suggested pulling resources together in the form
of an association and initiate the activity. The idea is commendable, but considering the
background of the beneficiaries (most of them are women who lost their husbands), it makes
management of the project difficult. Besides this, investing all the support on one investment
opportunity increases the riskfactor.
The investment seems to be viable in rural areas where the service is not yet adequately provided,
but the managerial capacity of the beneficiaries in rural areas in smooth running of the business
should be seriously looked at. Moreover, the tradition of the people in the area working together in
harmony and run the business needs consideration. The overall mandate to initiate this cooperation
should be totally left to the beneficiaries themselves.
40



Poultry Farming/Bee Keeping: Poultry farming on commercial scale needs through knowledge
about the business and requires strict management. The risk is also very high when the initial
investment required is taken into account. It seems unlikely that the beneficiaries in both rural and
urban areas (under the prevailing circumstances) can handle poultry farming at commercial level.
Keeping poultry at household level could be feasible but it may not bring about significant and
rapid change in the living standards of the beneficiaries. This can, however, be improved with some
orientation programs conducted where relevant addressing the management, marketing etc. of the
product. Besides, the possibility of integrating this venture with other income-generating activities
needs to be investigated
Bee keeping is specifically mentioned by people from Irob woreda. There seems to be a traditional
know-how of producing honey in this woreda. It looks feasible to introduce modem bee keeping
methods so that production can be improved. Experience tells that the proceed from the sale of
honey is also significant. But creating demand for the product should be assessed and facilitated
before initiating the activity.
Transport Services - Cart: Significant job creation has been observed in some areas by
introducing this income generating activity by some non-governmental organizations. This activity
is particularly feasible for women with some entrepreneurial motives and living in and around
towns. It could be adapted to fit into Tigray Region 's situation. The animals requiredfor the service
are also donkeys. Some beneficiaries mentioned during group discussions that this income
generating activity is feasible in some selected towns/areas of the region.
41



Annex 4 Deportees/Returnees in Amhara Region
Demographic Characteristics:
The demographic characteristics of deportees show that in general they have few members as
compared to the local residents (host community) as well as the national average. For example, the
survey result shows that in Kombolcha where the second largest number of deportees live, only
8.8% have more than four members, 20% have four members, while 52% have only one member.
The number of female-headed households is also higher than the male-headed ones, the percentage
being 55.4% and 46.6%, respectively. The age composition of deportees as generalized from the
sample by Tsegaye (2001:18) is found to be 1.5% under the age of five, 32.5% eighteen to fifty five
years, and 6.9% above fifty five years.
Age Composition
35%-M    _
25%                  i
15%     E 
<5 years 18-50 >55 years
years
Household Characteristics
.  Female-headed
60%                   ~~~~~~~households
600h%            |              | F | * Male-headed
50%                   ~~~~~~~households
45%     l
40%
1
This demographic structure of deportee households is attributed to the fact that, in many cases, the
entire household was not evicted together and thus each family member might have been registered
separately. Furthermore, since any on-going or expected assistance is based on official registration
the family members remained, at least in registration files, separated and independent households,
while in actual fact they may be living together.
42



There are also few incidents in which family members were registered separately for the purpose of
obtaining more than their share during the disbursement of the first government support upon
arrival in Ethiopia which was Birr 1,000 per single household head, Birr 1,500 for a couple and Birr
100 for each child.
Another feature of the current household structure is high rate of divorce and separation. Besides
the separation during the process of deportation under adverse circumstances, the rate of separation
and/or divorce is reported to be high among deportees. The phenomenon is attributed to adverse
circumstance of a different kind. Many household heads are reported to have left for different
places in search of employment, in most cases to Afar Region, leaving their family behind. This
condition is thought to have resulted in the current unbalance between female headed and male
headed households and the fact that the female population in general is higher than the male.
Deportation and Loss of Property:
As per the various focus group discussions with the deportees, the travel from Eritrea (Assab) to
where they finally arrived (various towns in Amhara) was arduous and formidable. It took more
than a month on the average and many have died on the way because of fatigue, starvation or
disease or a combination of all. According to one study report, 17% of the deportees reported that
at least one member of their family was separated during the deportation process and of these about
34% did not still know the whereabouts of the missing family members(s).
It therefore goes without saying that these people were economically bankrupt, physically
deteriorated and psychologically afflicted upon arrival in Ethiopia.
According to the survey, the all the deportees claimed that they lost their property in the form of
either money, valuables, house furniture, clothes, houses (of residence or/and trade), established
businesses and means of production.
The losses of houses, businesses and means of productions are captured in the out put table of
questionnaire under the item column "others" and the percentage of respondents who so lost such
properties amounts to 18.05% in the case of deportees in Amhara (see annex tables for details).
Educational Status of Deportees:
Since the vast majority of the deportees were "economic migrants" who moved to Assab (then an
important port city of Ethiopia), aspiring for economic success by engaging in all sorts ofjobs or
businesses, only few have higher level academic qualifications. The survey result shows that 15.8%
of the deportees are found to be illiterate. The majority of individuals in this category are women
who are often disadvantaged. The vast majority (51.30%) have primary education and those who
got higher level education are 1 .30%of the sample.
This fining shows a disparity with a study made for ZOA Refugee Care, which reported that 34% of
the surveyed deportees were found to be illiterate and 22% have higher education. Although this
disparity is highly exaggerated, it could be assumed that those who have better educational
qualification might have either secured employment or might have left to other places (including
the capital) looking for job at the time of our survey which took places after nearly 2 years. Given
the fluid nature of the current life situation of deportees it is possible that there exists a perpetual
43



movement and change of residence. This might be even more applicable to those who have the hope
and potential for securing employment elsewhere.
Current Livelihood Situation:
The current livelihood situation of deportees is precarious and fragile. According to our survey
result, 47.2% are daily labourers. Given the unreliability and unpredictability of daily labour, and
the meagerness of the income obtained, it is hardly possible to consider this category of deportees
as having adequate and consistent means of income.
Even among those who have been categorized as petty traders, some are cigarettes vendors, "Kolo"
sellers and the like whose daily profit could not exceed two Birr on the average.
The result of the survey shows that 34% of respondents earn less than Birr 50.00 per month, 50% of
them earn between Birr 51-120 and only 1.9% are reported to have a monthly average income of
more than Birr 350.00.
Given the sky-rocketed current living cost and the fact that these people have to pay for house rents
and other expenditures out of this meager income, it would have been impossible to them to survive
had it not been to the relief support they were getting.
According to the survey 81.00% of deportees in Amhara live in rented houses, 15.10% live with
relatives, and 0.8% live in camps. Only 0.8% are reported to live in their own houses. Of those
living in rented houses 91.10% pay less than Birr 50.00 per month for house rent. It should be noted
here that it is not because house rent is cheap that these people pay this amount, but it is because
they are living in "dungeons", as one FGD discussant in Dessie put it.
Indeed, it was disclosed during the focus group discussions that in most towns where large number
of deportees live, house rent was dramatically increased by about 30-50% as a result of the high
demand for houses.
A repot of a study done for Forum on Street Children Ethiopia (FSCE) stated that 10% of deportees
have no shelter at all and live in the streets and church yards, while others live in poor quality
houses in untidy corners of the towns (ELias 2001). This fact is also revealed in our survey result
which showed that 2.40% live in "other" conditions which is the category that includes deportees
who have no shelter at all.
As one study report stressed and as it was repeatedly raised in focus group discussions (FGDs) with
deportees, inability to pay house rents at all or failure to pay timely on the part of deportees, is
usually the cause of conflicts between deportees and the host community, especially house renters.
It is thus considered as one of the drawbacks that worked against the social reintegration of the
deportees with the host communities.
It was reported in one of the focus group discussions that many deportees have left for the low lands
of Afar not only for the reason of looking for job opportunities, but also due to the fact that the hot
climate is more friendly to poor people as they are to worry neither about heavy clothes (blankets)
for the night's wear, jackets (pullovers) for the day's wear nor about houses (shelters) to pass the
night in.
44



Food Assistance:
Food assistance to deportees has been on and off for about two years till ZOA refugee Care started
to distribute food on a monthly basis since June 2001 and continued to do so for a little more than a
year. ZOA started its intervention in response to the result of an assessment on the nutritional status
of deportees conducted in September 2000. The result of this study showed that there existed a
serious malnourishment among both adult and child deportees. The report thus concluded
recommending immediate provision of food ration as well as free and adequate medical service
among other things.
ZOA again conducted a study on the same issue, this time, a sort of impact assessment, only after
five months of the intervention, October 2001. The result was claimed to have revealed that the
over all situation of nutritional status of the beneficiaries has significantly improved, that death rate
has reduced by 33% and household income has raised, as a result of the intervention.
Consequently, it was recommended that free distribution of food should discontinue except to the
aged and the disabled while the rest should be embraced in an EGS (FFW) program and eventual
sustainable rehabilitation.
Accordingly, ZOA stopped its food assistance as of July 2001 as per the recommendation, although
it did not give equal weight to other aspects of the recommendation i.e. the shift to EGS and
rehabilitation. As a result, deportees stayed for more than four months without either receiving food
assistance or being given the opportunity of involving in EGS (FFW). Besides, the reason for the
discontinuity of the food assistance was not made clear to them and the information gap made the
deportees to conjure up all sorts of imaginary causes for the discontinuation of the assistance.
It was only at the last week of December, during which time this study was going on that they got
food assistance again. This time it was from South Wollo DPPD and was only 12.5Kg of wheat
without the extra items that ZOA's assistance consisted of. 5 This aid by DPPD was not only
insufficient but also did not seem to last long. Indeed even personnel of Dessie DPPD did not seem
to know how long the assistance would last. In general the food aid had been intermittent except the
13 consecutive months of ZOA's intervention and often than not the grain was of bad quality. On
the whole, the food assistance. At present is neither adequate nor reliable and thus, the situation
calls for immediate and appropriate measures.
The food assistance provided to these deportees so far has been sporadic and inconsistent. The duration of
the assistance ranged from 3 to 12 months though not all deportees were addressed. Most significant food
assistance provided, both in terms of duration and number of beneficiaries was that of ZOA Refugee Care
which lasted for 13 consecutive months (from June 2000 to July 2001) and from which 7909 deportees
benefited. ZOA's assistance program consisted of 15 kgs of wheat/corn, 0.6 kgs of oil and 1.5 kgs of lentil
per person/month.
The outcome of our study showed that these people need food assistance before and during the
rehabilitation process including the training time. In focus group discussions with representatives of
relevant government line departments, NGOs and target groups (deportees) it was reported that one
important factor that greatly contributed to the not very successful attempt of rehabilitating about
500 deportees in Desie and Haik towns by some NGOs was disregard to the necessity of a certain
grace period during which time beneficiaries could be provided with food assistance lest they
5 ZOA used to distribute 15Kg. of wheat/corn, 0.6 Kg. of oil and 1.5 Kg. of lentil per person per month.
45



consume part of their capital. The study therefore indicates that the deportees need food assistance
until the IGS the deportees would involve in become dependably profitable.
Rationale for the Suggested Duration of the Food Assistance:
The suggested duration of the food assistance is 12 months. Reasons for arriving at this conclusion
include:
The output of the questionnaire survey which shows that the majority of respondents (abou 60%)
reported that it will take them one year to be fully self reliant.
The assumption that during the last several months after the food assistance discontinued, they
might have been borrowing money and food items from friends and relatives and might have been
indebted. Hence, besides the required food consumption, they would also be obliged to pay back
their debts and this might adversely affect their eventual rehabilitation.
The recognition that the deportees, at least the majority of them, are going to involve in new type of
business after staying jobless or having been engaged in quite different activities and the transition
may take some time before they fully master the new activity and establish themselves.
The assumption that their new business engagement necessarily involves competition with people
already in the business and better established, requiring considerable " learning period".
25% of the deportees (3,718) are children and pregnant and/or lactating mothers that need
supplementary food assistance.
It is therefore believed that a 12 months grace period will highly contribute to the success of the
rehabilitation effort and the achievement of the sought objective; the eventual self-reliance of the
target groups.
The food assistance requirement is estimated using the WFP standard of the quantity and variety of
food intake required for a healthy and productive life of an individual person
Table 9: Estimated Food Assistance Requirement
Food items      Quantity     Total No.    No. of    Duration of    Total
required     person/month      of       children       the      amount in
in kg      Deportees      and      assistance    quintal
mothers    in months
Sorghum/wheat        15         14,879                    12       26,782.20
Oil                 0.75        14,879   1           1    12        1,339.11
FAMIX               2.00         3,718               1    12         892.32
46



Access to Social Services:
Potable water: Individual interviewees and discussants of FGDs confirmed that though they could
not afford to rent houses with piped water facilities, they normally buy buckets of water for
domestic consumption, except laundering, either from public water stands or from individuals
(including their land lords/ladies) who own tapped water points. This is what our statistical survey
result confirmed since it showed that 78.6% of respondents reported to get water from water taps
owned by individuals, while 14.3% and 2.4% reported that they get water from public water stands
and protected well respectively (see annex tables for details).
Education: Regarding access to formal education of school-age children of deportees the survey
shows that 65.5% are reported to attend schools at various levels. It is assumed that targeted
intervention of NGOs such as FSCE which focuses on provision of school materials and uniforms
for deportee children might have contributed positively to the percentage of enrollment.
Accordingly to FGD participants, all government schools were cooperative with regard to
enrollment of deportees' children. It was pointed out that deportees' children were admitted to
classes even without the formal requirements of producing legal certificates from the previous
schools since, in most cases, the deportation process didn't allow to go through such formal
procedures. Instead the schools made deportee students above the level of first grade to sit for
entrance exams equivalent to the students' claimed grades.
Health: Respondents reported that in the first few months of deportation the morbidity and
mortality rates of deportees, especially children was high. The situation started to change to the
better when government health institutions started to provide medical assistance free of charge to
deportees.
Even after this, deportees faced problems since they could not afford to buy prescribed drugs not
available in the pharmacies of the government health institutions. This problem was solved by the
intervention of ZOA Refugee Care, which started covering all medical expenses for deportees since
June 2000.
Consequently, the percentage of deportees visiting "modem" health institutions raised to 96.8%.
The rest 3.2% do not go to clinics or hospitals not because of money constraints but due to
individual beliefs and/or attitudes, religious or otherwise. (see annex tables for details).
47



Needs and Priorities
Only insignificant (negligible) number of deportees show interest to involve in any income
generation activity related to agriculture. This might be attributed to the fact that almost all
deportees are accustomed to urban life, at least after their migration to Assab.
Since the choice of IGS has to be seen from the perspective of the skill, knowledge and experience
of the individual deportee on the one hand and the availability of resources and market potential on
the other, the fact that agriculture-related IGS is not preferred by deportees in Amhara seems
justifiable. Moreover, IGS related to dairy farming, cattle fattening, sheep rearing and poultry
require at least a place where the animal can wait even if cut and carry (indoor feeding) system
might be applied. Unlike FDs who show real interest to involve in such activities, deportees do not
even think of them since they do not have a place for themselves leave alone for cattle. It is
impossible to acquire land for the purpose at individual level. On the other hand, deportees are
absolutely repulsive to the idea of cooperatives any form of collective ownership.
Therefore, the requirement of deportees which is initial capital for starting petty trades and service
giving activities deserves due attention. The vast majority prefers to be involved in petty trade, and
urban based service-giving activities. There was however an unanimous opposition to any
rehabilitation strategy based on any sort of cooperatives or group IGS. The reason for their
resentment of group IGS seems two fold. First people did not yet get over with the memory of the
forced collectivization attempts of the Derg and the unpleasant consequences thereof. Second, the
not very successful attempt of two local NGOs, AARRDP and DSCP, to rehabilitate 500 deportees
by organizing them in to cooperatives is a current phenomenon that could be cited as evidence for
the dismal consequences of group IGSs.
HIV/AIDS:
Deportees, are at higher risk of HIV/AIDS Efforts are being made by governmental and non-
governmental organizations to raise the awareness level of the community about HIV/AIDS. With
the objective of coordinating the activities of all organizations involved in social organizations in
relation to HIV/AIDS, a secretariat office was established last year at the regional level in Bahir Dar
town with offices in other towns in the region Anti-AIDS committees involving sector
departments, NGOs, religious and other similar governmental and non-governmental
representatives were formed at the zonal, Woreda, Kebele, school and institution levels.
According to the survey results, almost all the sample deportees (97%) have the knowledge of
HIV/AIDS. The sources of information include meetings (37%), radio (45%) and from friends.
48



Annex 5 Deportees/Returnees in Afar Region
Background:
According to the initial assessment of the Afar Regional ESRDF, the total number of deportees is
estimated at 1,774 people. Most of the deportees residing in Afar Regional state used to live in Bure
and Assab towns before the conflict. Bure town was the major war zone and the town has been
totally abandoned and the dwellers displaced and property damage was reported. The area
bordering Eritrea is heavily mined and as a result there are still some incidents where livestock and
people are victims.
The Bure town is now re-established with temporary accommodations (corrugated iron sheet wall
and roof houses). The town's proximity to the boarder where military bases are still functioning has
made it an insecure area. Moreover, discontinuity of the use of Assab port has left both Bure and
Manda towns without their usual trading activities. The presence of the Ethiopian army is the only
thing that sustains the town. Almost all the internally displaced people (333 out of 342) are from
Bure town (ESRDF report).
The Tendaho large-scale cotton plantation and its location on the Assab -Addis Ababa route has
contributed for Dubti to be the center of employment and trade. While Dubti town (woreda capital)
is located off the road of Assab, the job opportunity in the cotton plantation has made it a well-
established town as compared to other towns in the region.
Logia town being close to the new regional capital (Samara Town) is getting the advantage of the
city's construction. For this reason, 435 out of 475 deportees of the woreda are living in this town.
The deportees here enjoy a better opportunity of employment in the construction sites, trading and
restaurant work.
The categorization of internally displaced people from Bure town as 'urban' did not exactly fit the
situation of the town livelihood where there are only few shop keepers and small restaurant owners,
while the majority of the people of the town are pastoralists.
There are two types of deportees - the Afars and non-Afars, especially from bordering regions of
Amhara and Tigray. These deportees have also faced with different types of problems at the time of
deportation and at their present situation. When deported, they also lost their properties including
cash, furniture, clothes and other household utensils. To this effect, 32% of them declared that they
lost household furniture and 22% have lost clothes. The details are given in the annex volume of
this report. During deportation, the Afars were not allowed to leave Eritrea. One deportee said
"even a child who has one of his parents an Afar was not allowed to leave". This situation forced
the Afars to return to their country crossing unofficial entry points, thus missing registration by the
International Committee for Red Cross (ICRC) and government authorities. This situation has
resulted in loses of initial identification and the immediate integration of the Afars into their
respective clans and they have been deprived from the 1000 Birr entitlement for the deportees. The
immediate integration is still creating difficulties in tracing Afar deportees that have spread
throughout the area and are constantly moving.
49



On the other hand, deportees that were not originally from Afar were forced to leave Eritrea. They
were handed over to the ICRC or have walked in groups to Ethiopia and reported to government
authorities. This formal deportation and entry have helped the deportees to get assistance and
recognition as deportees.
Social Integration of the Deportees:
The social integration of the deportees depend on being an Afar or not. The Afars are able to
integrate immediately unlike those deportees from other regions whose lives have been
discontinued from their origin except some family ties. The integration of the deportees as observed
by the survey team indicates that the level of integration depends on the resource base of the
deportees. Those deportees who had high level of income (in the case of few Afars who had some
money) are able to start re-establishing themselves by getting involved in some trade activities. But
those who did not have neither the capital nor any skill are still marginalized with high dependency
on external assistance.
These are deportees whose origin is mostly Amhara and Tigray. These non-Afar deportees are
moving around to other parts of the country looking for places to settle and employment
opportunities. Generally, this uncertainty of settlement has put them under the pressure of
displacement and frustration while the Afar deportees automatically settled and they are on the
process of re-establishing themselves.
In the case of housing, while the Afars were able to live in their traditional housing that they are
able to build, the non-Afar deportees have to compete for the few houses in the towns. As indicated
in the table below, most of the deportees (69.7%) live in rented houses and others live with relatives
and in camps. The majority of them (45% of those who live in rented houses) pay a monthly house
rent of Birr 50-100 which is high in the Afar Region standard where houses are not as expensive as
in other towns of the country. This could however partly be explained by the fact that more
deportees are competing for the few houses available.
Table 1: Housing Situation
Housing           No. of respondents          %
Rented house                     62                  69.7
Own                               8                   9
With relatives                   11                  12.4
Camp                              1                   1.1
Others                            7                   7.9
89                  100
Access to social services:
Access to safe water, as shown in survey output is very limited among the Afar deportees. Only
27.6% of them have access to safe water from both tap and public water points. The remaining
62.9% get water from other unprotected water sources, which implies that there is a high chance of
vulnerability to water borne, and water related diseases. On the other hand, their access to health
institutions is high (94.4%). The percentage of school age children attending school is 48.30%,
which is much less than of Amhara which is 63.50%
50



The deportees in general do not have high educational level. The survey result shows that 35.3% are
illiterate, 6.6% can only read and write and 39.2% have primary education, 8.09% have secondary education
and only 0.98% have higher education. Consequently, the information on their pre- deportation occupational
status shows that 22.6% were petty traders and 11.30% of them were engaged in unskilled labor work. This
trend is not changed after deportation. Indeed the survey shows that even more people are involved in these
two fields after deportation as 30% are now petty traders and 25.8% are day laborers, though the type of
petty trade or unskilled work they were engaged and the amount of income they derive from these
occupations may vary greatly.
Table 2: Occupation Before and After Deportation
Occupation                Before                  After
Number        %       Number         %
None                          7         11.3        5          8-2
Daily labour                 7         11.3         16        25.8
Petty trade                  14        22.6         19        30.6
Cottage industry             2          3.2         2          3.2
House wife                   6          9.7         2          3.2
House worker                 7         11.3         9         14.5
Others                       19        30.6         9         14.5
Totals                       62         100         62         100
Food Assistance:
The survey result shows that only 6% of the deportees (mainly those who live in camps) have
received food assistance, while the majority (94%) of them have not received at all. Of those who
received food assistance, 50% of them reported that they were assisted for 6 months and above,
while 43% of them had the assistance for 1-3 months. Therefore, their livelihood depends on daily
labour and support from other individuals.
The discussions with the community members and the regional DPPB and ESRDF suggest that
deportees in the region need food assistance for one year. Accordingly, the WFP standard has been
used to estimate the food assistance for the total estimated number of deportees (3,000 households)
for one year.
Table 3: Estimated Food Assistance Requirement
Quantity     Total No.    No. of    Duration of    Total
Food items    person/month       of       children      the       amount in
required         in kg       Deportees   mothers    assistance    quintal
in months
Sorghum/wheat         15          15,000                   12         27,000
Oil                  0.75         15,000  I          1     12         1,350
FAMIX                2.00                    3,750         12          900
Assumptions:
* The total number of deportee households is estimated at 3,000
*  According to the national average of household size, the deportee household is multiplied by
5 and the total number of deportees is estimated at 15,000
* Food assistance is required for one year.
51



25% of the deportees are children under five years old and pregnant and/or lactating women
(3,750)
The monthly income of the deportees is indicated in the graph below. According to the graph, about
40% of the deportees get a monthly income of Birr 121-250. Only a few of them (7%) get above
Birr 350 per month.
The future needs and priorities of the deportees are reported as petty trading which is related to their
current occupation. Although there is an opportunity of employment in the cotton plantation farm as
daily labourers, none of them indicated this area of occupation as a future means of livelihood
because of the seasonal employment nature of the plantation and also depends on the success of the
cultivation.
HIV/AIDS is a concern particularly for the deportee young girls in Afar Region. Owing to lack of
means of livelihood and the presence of the military base in Afar, the number of young girls joining
the commercial sex business has been increasing There are some efforts being made by
governmental and non-governmental organizations to raise the awareness level of the community
about HIV/AIDS. According to the survey results, almost all the sample deportees (98%) have the
knowledge of HIV/AIDS. The sources of information include meetings (37%), radio (45%) and
from friends.
52



Annex 6 Environmental Impacts of Rehabilitation Interventions
The complementarities between economic development and environmental sustainability have
increasingly become important in global economic development strategies. The World Bank has
embarked on a major effort to incorporate environmental issues into its lending and advisory
activities. The government of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia (FDRE) has also
promulgated environmental policy and strategies to guide sustainable economic and social
development in the country. To this effect, the present study has given due attention to
environmental impacts that the rehabilitation interventions might entail in the target regions.
Potential negative social and environmental impacts and related mitigation measures were identified
by a multi-disciplinary team during project appraisal. PMUs were established in Tigray and Afar to
manage the household rehabilitation component for IDPs, deportees, and families of deceased in
those regions, and in the Federal Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Commission and their
regional bureau to manage the household component in the other regions for deportees and families
of deceased. Each PIU prepared an implementation plan for its part of the project. Plans for IDPs
set out the budgetary allocation process, the process of community consultations which is used to
prioritize needs to remain within budget constraints, the process of delivery of cash and materials to
beneficiary households and the screening and monitoring of environmental and social impacts.
Plans for deportees and families of deceased set out the process of beneficiary identification,
consultation to agree on a support package, flow of funds, and assessment of potential negative
social impacts. During implementation the PMU Task Force has tracked these potential impacts
with a view to mitigate them if it proved necessary. The starting point for the ESA was the
assessment of the mechanisms put in place by the Project Management Units (PMU) in addressing
potentially negative social and environmental impacts.
The following consultations were carried out to finalize and disseminate the PIPs:
*  Stakeholders Workshop (Tigray Regional State - Adigrat): A workshop was held with some
50 beneficiaries (42 men and 9 women) from Tabias in the Eastern Zone of Tigray in
Adigrat on January 28, 2001. The Workshop was opened by a regional official (Dr.
Solomon Inquay, then Head of Regional Social Affairs Bureau and now Regional
Parliament Spokes Person). After general briefing on the ERP objectives and operational
mechanisms, beneficiaries were asked to provide their views on the main aspects of the
process where by assistance would reach beneficiary households and on various
implementation issues. Participants were divided into three groups and discussed in detail: i)
project implementation cycle, ii) housing reconstruction and iii) agriculture and income
generating activities. The output of the workshop was a detailed implementation manual on
the household rehabilitation component that describes: i)approaches and principles,
ii)project implementation cycle, iii) players and roles and iv) benefit packages. The
workshop also updated stakeholders on environmental and safeguard issues.
* Focus group meetings with 27 people (15 men and 12 women) was carried out in an area
where 2400 displaced households reside in January 2001 in Tigray and issues related to: i)
overgrazing ii) community management of rehabilitation process, iii) women's lead role,
iv) monitoring and v) partnership between government, private sector, NGO and community
were discussed.
53



*  Rehabilitation Task Forces established at the local level(woreda and kebelle level) drawn
from woreda/kebelle administrations, technical bureaus (agriculture, health, education,
etc),CBO representatives (farmers, women and youth associations) are the key
implementation support units closer to the households. In less than three months after
project effectiveness, the ERP has oriented 1086 persons in the regions of Tigray, Amhara,
Afar, Oromia SNNP, Somali, Benishangul-Gumz and Addis Ababa, who are members of
local level rehabilitation task forces. The orientation for the rehabilitation task forces
focused on ERP - objectives and principles, project implementation cycle, their own roles
and the roles of other players, and the skills and information needed for specific tasks(e.g.
household assessment, environment screening, compiling community requests, etc.).
*  The rehabilitation task forces at woreda and tabia/kebelle level in turn have informed the
ERP objectives and operational guidelines to the beneficiaries in various kebelle and sub-
kebelle level meetings carried out between March 2001 and November 2002. In fact,
individual beneficiary households have been visited by members of rehabilitation taskforces
during need assessment and advise was provided to 61, 000 IDPs, 69,000 families of the
deceased and 71,000 deportees on the choice of an appropriate agricultural or income
generating activities.
Generally, environmental degradation is a concern in northern Ethiopia, especially in Tigray Region.
Deforestation and soil erosion are the major cause for land degradation and poor agricultural performance.
Some efforts are underway to combat the environmental degradation in the region. Some these efforts
include terracing and area enclosures. The case of Afar is different regarding environmental issues and is
related to stocking rate and the land carrying capacity. The equilibrium of the land carrying capacity and
stocking rate in pastoral systems, particularly in Afar, has been debatable in the existing development
literature. Therefore, further research will be generally needed to draw conclusions ivhether the land carrying
capacity and the stocking rates are compatible or not.
The findings of the study showed that most of the household rehabilitation interventions do not create
adverse environmental impacts.The ESA has addressed environmental and social issues by category of
beneficiaries and rehabilitation interventions:
1.    Interventions for Internally Displaced People (IDPs)
The efforts of the government and the World Bank are geared towards assisting the IDPs to start
normal productive lives and benefit packages have been set for the rehabilitation of the IDPs. The
benefit package for IDPs includes agricultural inputs, housing reconstruction, IGS and household
utensils. The agricultural rehabilitation assistance for Tigray farming IDPs includes restocking,
purchase of farm implements and fertilizer, while for the Afar farming IDPs, the package also
includes restocking, purchases of farm tools and improved seeds. On the other hand, the
rehabilitation assistance to an Afar pastoral IDP household includes restocking with a camel, 2
heifers, and 5 small ruminants.
In Afar, the estimates of livestock holding before and after the conflict show that the households
have lost significant number of their livestock and restocking is required to sustain their livelihoods.
Environmental risks associated with restocking activities could arise from an increase in herd size,
or from the introduction of new species to local environment. Restocking in Afar is solely through
54



local purchases, so the herd size is not increasing and no new species of livestock is being
introduced. Even with the proposed restocking, the number of cattle owned by IDPs will be below
pre-conflict le'vels. ,As a result, no incremental adverse environmental impact can result from the
restocking intervention. This is not to say that there are not grazing problems in the Afar Region but
only that the ERP is not exacerbating them. The planned Pastoralist Project in Afar will address
long term issues related to stocking rates, land carrying capacity and economic development in
pastoral Afar.
The ESRDF Afar Office in collaboration with woreda and kebelle rehabilitation task forces has
carried out a household assessment (HA) in four war affected woredas (Berhale, Erepti, Elidar and
Dallol) and identified 5034 IDPs (households) requiring rehabilitation assistance in 2001. Of these
households, 4124 (82%) are pastoral IDPs who chose to be rehabilitated with restocking. The
remaining 880 are urban IDPs who chose to be assisted with income generation activities. Between
July 2002 and January 2003, about 3000 pastoral IDPs have received rehabilitation assistance. The
maximum rehabilitation assistance provided was Birr 5000 per household for 900 destitute IDPs,
who lost most of their livestock since they were in the boarder areas during the war. With the
maximum rehabilitation assistance, each pastoral IDP is expected to buy one camel, five
sheep/goats, two heifers, household items, and a mobile housing unit. The household assessments
and household allocations to each IDP were carried out in a participatory fashion involving the
beneficiaries themselves. Priorities were given to destitute pastoral households in occupied
tabias/kebelles. In addition to the ERP assistance, The ESRDF RO has provided 5 shoats to 2470
households in the war affected areas in collaboration with FAO. The Bureau of Agriculture has also
provided veterinary drugs and vaccines to those IDPs in collaboration. The regional Disaster
Prevention and Preparedness Bureau (DPPB) is also providing food assistance in collaboration with
WFP in areas affected by the drought.
Currently, there is an active food security project amounting to US$100.6 million being
implemented in selected 156 woredas of the regions of Amhara, Oromia, SNNP and Tigray ( where
large proportion of ERP beneficiaries reside). The major objective of this project is to build the
resource base of poorer rural households, increase their employment and incomes, reduce the real
cost of food and improve nutrition level of children under 5 years of age as well as pregnant and
lactating mothers. This project is believed to compliment the ERP beneficiaries by providing grants
to communities or kebelles to increase household and community assets and incomes by better
management of rain fed agriculture (crops and livestock); investment in small scale irrigation; better
natural resource management through "zero tillage" technique on farms, and catchments level
activities to conserve soil, reverse soil degradation, improve water harvesting and use, and improve
distribution of labor; development of off farm enterprise; reduce stunting in children under 5 years
of age and improve child and adult nutrition through a community based child growth promotion
programme; and investment in training and development.
The pastoral development project, which is currently under appraisal, is expected to do most of the
above activities in the pastoral areas of Afar, Somali, Oromia and Southern regions.
The environmental risks associated with housing reconstruction for IDPs could be improper site
selection and drainage and sanitary problems, over use of local materials that can cause
deforestation, and lack of proper design and necessary structure. However, almost all the
reconstruction activities are small scale and will be executed in already developed areas. In
addition, there is a shift in Tigray from the traditional beam and earth packed roofing to a new type
55



which is replaced by corrugated iron sheet roof covering and this shift in using construction
materials reduces the concern of adverse environmental impact. Moreover, the IDPs will be fully
involved in all steps of the reconstruction activities from planning to completion of the
reconstruction.
Under the household rehabilitation component of ERP, IDPs are being assisted with agricultural
benefit packages (oxen, heifers, sheep, goats, farm implements, seeds and fertilizer), but the
procurement and use of pesticides was not included in the rehabilitation package, and none was
found during the ESA. Accordingly, no adverse environmental impacts are expected.. The
agricultural benefit packages are not expected to cause any damage on the environment since the
farmers get technical assistance through the extension pram of the ministry of agriculture on how to
use them, when to use them and in what quantities to use them.
2.    Interventions for Families of Deceased
The benefit package for FDs includes agricultural inputs and IGS. The needs assessment of urban
FDs revealed that IGS including petty trading, grinding mills are the priorities. For the rural FDs,
purchase of livestock is the predominant priority. Acquiring oxen for traction, pack animals for the
purpose of renting out and generating income, small ruminants for rearing and reselling were
identified as priority needs. Housing construction or maintenance, which is not part of the benefit
package, has also been identified as a priority. Regarding the environmental impacts of these and
other related rehabilitation interventions, the analyses provided for rehabilitation interventions of
deportees and IDPs are applicable.
3.    Interventions for Deportees
Deportees are concentrated in urban areas of the country. It is estimated that about 80% of the
deportees are in Tigray Region, mainly concentrating in Mekale, Adigrat and other small towns. In
Amhara Region, deportees are residing in Bahir Dar, Kombolcha, Dessie, Debre Tabor, Gondar,
Woldiya and Bati towns, with the highest concentration in Kombolcha, Dessie and Woldiya. In
Afar Region, Dubti, Assaita and Bure are the major towns where deportees are concentrating.
During the survey, the needs of the deportees were assessed and identified on a participatory
fashion. Accordingly, income generating schemes (IGS) have been considered as the appropriate
rehabilitation interventions for the deportees. The deportees came up with a long list of IGS which
include petty trading, poutry, grinding mills, soap making, dairy farming, waste collection etc.
Furthermore, housing was identified as one of the rehabilitation interventions for this group of
beneficiaries as they depend on their relatives or live in rented houses.
Most of the IGS identified by the beneficiaries do not have adverse environmental impacts. For
instances, petty trading activities have no physical work on the environmental and as a result will
not create any adverse environmental hazards to the area.
According to the technical annex, shelter is not included in the benefit package for deportees.
However, if shelter (urban) is to be included in the benefit package, there could be certain
environmental and social issues to be considered - the land acquisition is an issue in urban areas;
56



improper site selection could cause drainage and sanitary problems etc. To this effect, before the
construction of the houses, mitigation measures should be thought. The mitigation measures include
involving the beneficiaries in the process of appropriate selection of sites and designs, housing
construction following standard drainage system and urban planning.
57



Annex 8 Monitoring and Evaluation
1.    Current Practices
For projects/programs to be successful in impacting on the beneficiaries, appropriate monitoring
and evaluation should be in place. The M & E system should demonstrate how information flows
at various levels, the reporting period, the M & E formats and basic indicators, level of detail in
reporting at the different levels up the ladder, degree of responsibility of each stakeholder in the
system, means of transmitting feedbacks.
For the ERP M & E, there is already a structure (particularly in Tigray and Amahara) in place for
reporting of the process of the program implementation, which flows from Kebele to the Federal
level. For instance, in the Amhara Region, the Kebele Technical Task Forces (TTFs) are supposed
to report to their respective Woreda TTFs. The Woreda TTFs in turn report to zonal committees and
the latter do to their respective sub-regional ERP Management Units in Bahir Dar and Dessie. Both
the Federal ERPMU and Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Bureau (DPPB) of the region have
the responsibility of monitoring and evaluating the activities of the West and East Amhara ERP
Management Units and the sub regional ERPMUs summit their periodic reports to the former. The
responsibilities of the various organs at different decision making levels are outlined in the working
manuals and the different directives. However, the systems actually being implemented and the
effectiveness of the monitoring and evaluation process in general greatly vary from Woreda to
Woreda.
In Tigray, a well-established reporting system is applied where the 'Kushet' RTF committee reports
to the Kebele RTF which in turn reports to Woreda RTF. The 'Kushet' RTF committee monitors the
utilization of the benefit by each individual beneficiary according to the priority set. In cases of
diversions, in some areas like Gulomekeda (Tigray), there is an agreement form that the beneficiary
signs before getting the support. This agreement obliges him/her to use the money according to the
plan. In cases of diversion for other uses, the total fund extended is to be re-paid by the beneficiary.
The community structure is also playing significant role in controlling the utilization of the support.
Besides the regular reports coming from 'Kushet' and Kebeles, the Woreda RTF are conducting
regular random monitoring activities at Kebele and 'Kushet' levels.
In general, the existing M & E practices have brought about successful results as it has been
reported in the evaluation report. However, there were certain problems that need to be resolved to
be the foundation of an effective M & E system for the rest of the life of the program.
2.    Constraints in the Existing M & E Activities
Committee members at the Woreda level have their own responsibilities and assignments in their
respective offices, and the ERP task is an additional undertaking. In addition to this, the common
free-rider problem in committee works; lack of clearly defined guidelines and responsibilities to be
enforced among members caused lack of commitment on ERP activities in certain respects. The
ERP activities seem to be undertaken in an ad hoc basis and problems usually arise whenever
committee members are altered.
59



Effective and proper follow-ups of the programs involve field trips in the different parts of each
Woreda, which could not be pursued in the absence of per diems and transport facilities. In spite of
being felt as a serious constraint, ERP has not allocated budgets for such and related activities.
Owing to this, mostly, the reports of the Woreda ERP implementing committees is based largely on
books of accounts of their finance departments and the activities of beneficiaries in the surrounding
areas of the capital city of the Woreda.
3.    Proposed Monitoring and Evaluation System
As it is displayed in the diagram below, the behavior of the program requires at least four levels of
reporting beginning from the target groups at the community level to the federal bodies. There are
three different M & E activities.
* Monthly flow-up by kebele RTFs and quarterly report at woreda level - currently, the
kebeles report to woredas on a monthly basis which is very important for the woeda to
compile the information on a quarterly basis.
* Rapid assessment on certain issues which require special attention
* Mid-term and ex-post evaluation which will be based on surveys
Quarterly Follow-up/ Monitoring
At the community and beneficiaries level, the follow-up of the input delivery and the proper use of
the funds should be done by the community committee themselves. Simple one-page forms need to
be developed in this purpose and would be filled quarterly by the community committee to monitor
the following points:
-     new purchases,
-     remaining balance,
-     record of the use of the grant including intended and non-intended purchases.
The proper uses of benefits should be closely followed up at community level. For this purpose, a simple
one-page format needs to be developed to be filled by committees every month. Based on the monthly
reports of the Kebele,, the woreda ERP committee (RTA or TTF) might act accordingly if the situation
requires immediate measure. The woreda committee through its secretariat should organize and summarize
the monthly reports of the various community ERP committees and report to the regional ERP coordinating
committees. Depending on the nature of the findings of the Woreda M & E reports, the regional committee
either reports to the Federal ERPMU or take measures as required.
The regional coordinating committees should develop two types of formats for reporting the status
of the program implementation. On a quarterly basis, it needs to report to the Federal responsible
bodies about the actual disbursements, the overall functioning of the M & E system at the woreda
and Kebele ERP committee levels and major constraints to the Federal bodies. The second type of
the report should take into account an overview of the actual uses of the fund by beneficiaries in
addition to the overall performance of ERP committees at different levels. This report is expected
two times per year.
The Federal ERP coordinating committees should provide its feedback within a reasonable period
(but fixed a priori) for the regular bi-yearly reports of the regions and immediate reaction might be
worthwhile whenever deemed necessary.
60



In order to effectively undertake the proposed monitoring and evaluation, it might require a
permanent employee or permanently assigned personnei to undertake the activities of ERP at the
woreda level and be a permanent secretariat for the ERP coordinating committee at the woreda
level. The employee would be primarily responsible to collect monthly reports of the community
committees and organize them in a manner that suits the demands of the regional ERP coordinating
committees and avail them to the Woreda ERP committee for discussion and approval. In addition,
he/she could be responsible to assess the functioning of the committee members vis-a-vis their
responsibilities and reports to them for timely corrections.
At the woreda level, ERP should allocate funds for per diems and transportation to conduct field
trips and the actual use of the fund might be justified through the submission of field reports to the
regional level. There should also be experience sharing among different Woredas that might be
organized by the regional ERP coordinating committees.
4.    Rapid Assessment
In some instances, there could be a need to undertake a rapid assessment in order to explore the
situation and take immediate corrective measures. Thus, under such circumstances, the federal,
regional or the woreda level ERP coordinating or M & E committees may undertake field trips and
make rapid assessments out of plan. This needs its own arrangements and formats depending on the
nature of the issue.
5.    Evaluation
A mid-term and an ex-post evaluation are proposed. The mid-term evaluation will be conducted on
the mid of the project life span and will make some recommendations for the further operatins of
the program. When the program terrninates, an ex-post evaluation will be carried out which will be
aimed at assessing the impact of the program on the beneficiaries. Part of the samples that have
been used for the evaluation of the 1st disbursement could be re-used so as to monitor changes on a
sample of households that would be followed over the whole project life.
61



Annex 9 Rehabilitation Strategy for Deportees
1.    General rehabilitation strategy
1.1.  Needs Assessment
Following the conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea in May 1998, about 1 10,000 Ethiopians were
deported from Eritrea. The deportees are living all over the country, particularly in urban areas of
Tigray, Amhara and Afar. Most of the deportees are women, children and the elderly who have
arrived with little possessions and without means of survival.
According to the needs assessment conducted with deportees in Tigray, Afar and Amhara Regions,
some Income Generating Schemes (IGS) could be considered and developed to rehabilitate the
deportees. The results of the survey and the focus group discussions with deportees and other
stakeholders revealed some possible IGS.
Some of the potential IGS that were identified by the deportees in the three regions include the
following:
* petty trading
*  grinding mill and other produce processing activities,
*  soap making,
* hand-pump mechanic,
*  Butter and honey trading
* public stand-tap operator,
.  tailoring
*  artisan
*  Provision of cart service
* Metal work
* mechanic/garage,
* mason/carpenter, plumbing, painting, and other construction activities,
* activities in related with waste collection,
* peri-urban vegetable/fruit production
The survey results also show that some of the deportees have the skills in some of the above
activities. Details on demographic and socio-economic features of the deportees are provided in the
annex volume of this report.
1.2. Preparation of Individual Business Plans
The establishment of the business plan and the detailed technical formulation of the Project should
not be a desk exercise done by experts. Past experience with deportees and other income-generating
schemes shows that this needs to be done in a participatory manner, with the beneficiary the main
actor in the development of the plan.
Simple forms should be prepared for the plan to address the following:
62



*  fixed assets and inputs required,
*  manpower requirements,
*  expected sales,
*  operation expenses,
*  loan repayment,
*  depreciation.
Simple financial and economic indicators need also be developed, and thresholds for these
indicators could be determined in relation with MFIs, banks, and organisations with experience in
MFIs. Projects requiring expensive fixed assets or with long return periods should as a rule be
avoided. Attention should be paid to the potential involvement of other household members
(spouse, children) in the Project.
The focus groups discussions with some governmental and NGO staff who have been involved in
the first efforts of deportee rehabilitation show that there are lessons to be learnt from these
experiences, specifically those carried out by AARRDP and DSCP in Dessie town.
1.3.   Markets and Financial Cost and Benefit Analysis for Some IGS
Deportees are concentrating in the towns of Mekelle and Adigrat, Axum and Inticho of Tigray Region. In
Amhara, they are concentrating in Komboicha, Dessie, Woldiaya, Bati, Bahir Dar and Gondar, while in Afar
they are residing in Assaita, Bure and Dubti. There are difference IGS taking place in these towns before and
after the conflict. It was observed during the survey in these towns that some of the deportees have also been
engaged some activities - tea/coffee shops and small bars, metal work and others which suggests that some
of the IGS could be viable to the deportees if supported financially and technically especially in providing
some basic training programs.
Generally, it was learnt that the IGS preferred by the beneficiaries include running tea/coffee shops, metal
work, tailoring and cart services, particularly in Mekelle, Adigrat, Kombolcha, Woldiya and Dessie towns.
Tea/coffee shops are promising, especially in towns located near the border and where the military presence
is significant in Tigray and Afar Regions. Tailoring and metal work seem to be a viable activity in some
border towns but metal work is mentioned only in one woreda i.e. Irob (apparently selling the services to the
community).
Furthermore, petty trading has been found as one of the potential IGS in Kombolcha, Dessie, Assaita towns.
The activities can also be replicated and implemented in other towns in the region for the internally displaced
people especially for those living in urban areas near and around the borders.  They petty trading can
involve buying and selling of consumers' goods such as salt, sugar and tea, kerosene etc. Grain marketing is
also possible if the size of the capital permits.
The financial costs and benefits of some the selected IGS have been presented below. The current cost of
inputs and output have been considered for the estimates of the financial costs and benefits of the selected
IGS which are more or less applicable in the major towns of Tigray, Amhara and Afar Regions.
63



Indicative Financial Return and Cost Analysis for some IGS (Birr)
No       Project                       Items                   Amt.                    Year
1        2      3       4       5
1   RUNNING           Expenditure
TEA/COFFEE        Equipment
SHOPS             Chairs (40 birr/unit)                    10     400       -       ---
Tables (40 birr/unit)                    3      120        -      -
Cups (3 birr/unit)                       20     60         -      -
Kittle (40 birr/unit)                    3      120        -      -
Spoons (2 birr/unit)                     20     40         -      -
Stove (1500 birr/unit)                   1      1500       -      -
Shelf (500 birr/unit)                    1      500        -      -
Sub Total -Investment                           2740       -      -
Running Cost
Salary                                 2       2400      2400    2400   2400    2400
Waiter/Waitress (100 birr/month)         1      1200       1200   1200    1200    1200
Cooker (100 birr/month)                  1      1200       1200   1200    1200    1200
Guard (100 birr/month)                          6000       6000   6000    6000   6000
Consumables (500 birr/month)
Utilities                                      1200      1200    1200   1200    1200
Water (30 birr/month)                           1800       1800   1800    1800    1800
Power (150 birr/month)
Coffee/Tea Rooms Rent (200 birr/month)          2400       2400   2400    2400   2400
Maintenance/Replacement                         -          500    500     500    500
Sub Total - Running Cost/Year                   16200      16700  16700   16700  16700
Revenue/Sales (in Birr)
Tea - 0.25/unit - 100 units sold/day            7,800      7,800  7,800   7,800  7,800
Coffee - 0.75/unit - 50 units sold/day          11,700     11,700  11,700  11,700  11,700
Milk - 0.75/unit - 50 units sold/day            11,700     11,700  11,700  11,700  11,700
Soft drinks - 1.75/unit - 10 units sold/day     5,400      5,400  5,400   5,400  5,400
Breakfast - 2.50/unit - 15 units sold/day       11,700     11,700  11,700  11,700  11,700
Sub Total - Sales/Gross Revenue                 48,300     48,300 48,300  48,300  48,300
84



Less Expenditure                               18,940    16,700 16,700  16,700  16700
Net Revenue                                    29,360    31,600 31,600 31,600  31600
2   Tailoring        o Material
* Sewing Machine                  1        2,000     -       -      -      -
* Training                        LS       1,500     -       -      -      -
o Work Place
* Room (150 birr/month)                    1,800    1,800  1,800  1,800   1,800
o Running Cost (300 birr/month)                  3,600   3,600   3,600  3,600  3,600
o Maintenance/Replacement                          -      250    250     250    250
o Sub Total - Expenditure                        8,900   5,650   5,650  5,650  5,650
o Gross Revenue - (30 birr/day)                  9,360   9,360   9,360  9,360  9,360
o Net Revenue                                    460      3710   3710   3710    3710
3   Metal Work       o Equipment                             LS       1,000
o Training                                       1,500
o Work Place (100 birr/month)                    1,200    1,200  1,200  1,200   1,200
o Running Cost (200 birr/month)                  2,400   2,400   2,400  2,400  2,400
o Maintenance/Replacement                          -      200    200     200    200
o Sub Total - Expenditure                        6,100   3,800   3,800  3,800  3,800
o Gross Revenue (25 birr/day)                    7,800   7,800   7,800  7,800  7,800
o Net Revenue                                    1,700   4,000   4,000  4,000  4,000
4   Cart Services    o Investment
* Donkeys                         2         400      -       -      -      -
*Cart                             1        1500      -       -      -      -
Feed (50 birr/month)                       600     600     600    600    600
* Replacement/Maintenance                    -      500     500    500    500
o Sub Total - Expenditure                        2500     1100   1100    1100   1100
o Gross Revenue (20 birr/day)                    6,240   6,240   6,240  6,240  6,240
o Net Revenue                                    3,740   5,140   5,140  5,140   5,140
5   PETTY            o Revenue from sales                             15,000  15,000  15,000  15,000  15,000
TRADING OF       o Total Expense                                  12,576  12,576  12,576  12,576- 12,576
85



CONSUMERS         o      Purchases of goods                        12,000   12,000  12,000  12,000  12,000
GOODS             o      Labour (8 md/month*12*Birr 6)               576      576    576     576    576
o Gross Benefit                                   2,424    2,424   2,424  2,424   2,424
Note: The estimates provided for costs and benefits are similar for each year. However, it is assumed that they will change with price
variations and when the beeneficiaries capitalize part of their benefits every year.
86



1.4.  Participation of the Deportees in the Process
During the focus group discussions, deportees expressed the opinion that they have been
abandoned. Economic rehabilitation cannot be achieved without some degree of psychological
rehabilitation, and consultation with deportees on important issues is certainly one way to make
them feel better recognized. It is proposed that committees of deportees should be formed at
town level to discuss rehabilitation issues with the implementation organisation. More
importantly, the committees should participate in the final review of projects when they are
submitted to financial support.
1.5.  Financing
Procedures need to be developed with the MFI(s) involved to determine:
*  the eligible amounts and duration of loans (6),
*  application procedures,
*  the conditions and duration of repayment, as well as possible grace period and other
specifics,
*  the interest rate,
*  the guarantees,
*  the penalties triggered by incapacity to repay in due time.
1.6.  Institutional Arrangement
It is possible that some of these capabilities may not be found within the usual implementation
organisations used by the ERP so far (the woreda/kebelle task forces). The first stage of the
preparation of the detailed action plan for deportees should therefore be to identify external
organisations with these capabilities, and to assess the required capacity building if any. There is
a strong NGO presence in some of the concerned areas, and some of them are already active with
deportees. NGOs and specialised micro-finance institutions (MFIs) should therefore be included
in the organisations whose capabilities will be assessed, and which may take part in
implementation .
In Amhara Region there are several NGOs involved in IGS. Some of these NGOs include the
Amarha Development Association (ADA), Organization for the Rehabilitation and Development
of Amhara (ORDA), SOS Sahel, and others are involved in income generating schemes,
particularly in food insecure woredas (urban and rural) in Amhara Region. The Amhara Bureau
of Trade and Industry is also undertakeing income diversification assessment in some sample
woredas of the region, which is financed by Swedish International Development Agency (Sida).
The Amhara Credit and Saving Institution (ACSI) is also active in providing credit facilities for
income generating schemes. In Tigray Region, there are various NGOs involved in the
rehabilitation of the displaced, particularly the Relief Society of Tigray (REST) and others.
Dedebit Rural Credit Institute is also providing credit facilities. However, there are such few
institutions in Afar Region. Afar Pastoral Development Association (APDA) through which the
6     In accordance with experience gained with MFIs throughout Africa, most loans should be short-term, with
a duration in the order of 6 months.
87



rehabilitation program could be implemented. Furthermore, the relevant government
organizations, such as, Bureau of Trade and Industry, Agriculture, BoLSA could be involved in
the rehabilitation process.
1.7.   Selection of Pilot Towns
The rehabilitation program should start with pilot towns of the different regions. The selection
criteria of the pilot towns could be presence of NGOs undertaking similar projects, the
concentration of the deportees, availability of micro financing institutions. The deportees should
be provided with the budget constraint - the ceiling of the benefits that they can get from the
program so that they can prioritize their needs. With the budget constraint they have, it is
possible to encourage them to seek additional resources from MFIs or other sources to start their
business. The experience of the program in the pilot towns can be replicated to other towns.
1.8.  Provision of Training
One of the basic criteria rules for project development and selection should be that the
beneficiary has already some basic technical knowledge of the activity he/she is willing to
launch. As a rule, technical training requirements should therefore be limited. Training will
mainly aim at developing basic skills in the following domains:
*  basic accountancy: simple forms (7) and rules must be developed and addressed at
training stage,
*  finance: relations with the MFI, loan application, loan repayment, guarantees, penalties,
*  monitoring of the economic performance of the activity,
*  legal framework if required.
Where technical training is needed, existing organizations will be used. Apprenticeships may
also be developed where feasible (construction activities).
1.9.  Food Assistance
Past experience with deportees shows that where people did not receive food support and had a
grant to rehabilitate, they used part of this grant to purchase food, which hampered the
rehabilitation efforts.
Deportees should therefore get food assistance during the training and rehabilitation period.
Except for the most vulnerable households, the delivery of the food assistance should be made
conditional, for example, to the following:
* effectiveness of the involvement of the household in the project preparation,
* effective attendance to the training sessions,
* effectiveness of the first repayments of the loan.
7      This is not the complex accountancy needed for a formal cooperative or company. The aim is to allow the
project initiator to monitor his own activity with simple indicators.
88



Based on the findings of the survey, the deportees require 6-12 months to start generating income
and help themselves. Therefore, the food assistance could be planned for this period.
1.10. Shelter
In addition, the regional authorities should be supported in finding solutions for the lack of
shelter, through provision of semi-permanent housing materials in rural areas and investigate
options for low-cost housing in urban areas. Deportees/returnees should be specifically targeted
in the regional and federal level policies, aimed at improving access to housing and land.
1.11. Preparation of Action Plan
Prior to implementation, the stages described above should result in the preparation of a detailed
action plan, establishing the following:
*  budget,
*  "menu" of eligible activities, resulting from the market studies,
*  implementation arrangements for each region, including technical support, financing,
training, with details on the functional relations between Regional PMUs and other
partners involved,
*  modalities of fund channeling taking into consideration the likely involvement of Micro-
Finance Institutions,
*  food aid requirements and identification of associated donors,
*  assistance package for vulnerable households.
1.12. Monitoring
Monitoring includes the following two aspects:
Daily follow-ups of the project development and implementation: this would be done by each the
implementation organisations selected at zone/town level and would comprise of the following:
*  assistance in project development, establishment of the business plan with the
beneficiary, assistance in loan application;
*  assistance in project implementation; where feasible, participation of the deportee
committee in this assistance should be sought;
*  monitoring/evaluation by the ERPMU at regional and federal levels of the proper
implementation of the program and of the good performance of initiated income-
generating project. The baseline gathered on deportees for the ESAwill be used in this
purpose, with check surveys every two years conducted on the same households that have
been initially sampled.
2.     Rehabilitation Strategy for the Vulnerable Groups
The general strategy for the rehabilitation of deportees is presented in the previous section.
Ideally, the strategy proposed might be utilized in the rehabilitation process of the deportees in
89



general but specific strategies are of paramount importance if designed for the most vulnerable
groups - orphan, elderly and disabled.
2.1.   Needs and Priorities
Since orphans, the aged and the disabled are hardly able to participate and become part of respondents in
an assessment that does not particularly and exclusively target them, it is difficult to capture their specific
needs and priorities. Furthermore, it is believed that either the family head and/or the oldest in the family
were reached during the assessment process. It has, however, been possible to acquire considerable
information regarding these groups and their needs from focus group discussions, key informants,
interviews and reports of studies that targeted these groups.
A simple questionnaire could be designed to specifically investigate the need of these target groups.
Previous interventions of similar cases by other organizations could also be assessed to determine the
type, and amount of their needs and priorities.
2.2.   Rehabilitation Plans
The preparation of a rehabilitation plan for these vulnerable groups should pay special attention
to the particular physical and mental conditions of the members of the group. Since there is no
homogeneity among the members of the three target groups regarding their physical and mental
capacities, skills and interests, it is important to treat them accordingly. To make the planning of
the intervention participatory and needs oriented, either the members of the target groups
themselves or their guardians (patrons) or both should be involved in the process from the outset.
2.3.   Institutional Arrangement
The regional Emergency Rehabilitation Office will have the capacity to undertake the
determination of the number of the beneficiaries and finalized the needs assessment process. The
input of organizations involved in similar interventions within the region and/or from other
regions in the past could be exploited to substantiate the needs assessment.
NGOs and multilateral organizations targeting these groups have already started various types of
interventions in some areas of which some are aiming at long term rehabilitation programs. For
instance, in Amhara Region, Forum for Street Children Ethiopia (FSCE) Dessie branch is
supporting 389 children of which 197 are under the age of five. The support includes provision
of supplementary food for the under fives and school materials for the rest. UNICEF in
collaboration with the Labor and Social Affairs Department of South Wollo zone has targeted
500 orphans of which it has trained 227 in various skills including hotel catering, typewriting,
electricity, tailoring and auto mechanics. It has also started provision of a seed capital, equipment
and furniture on loan to the trained. Hope Enterprise, Ethiopian Orthodox Church (EOC)
Children's Homes, Ethiopian Evangelical Church Mekan Iyesus (EECMY) and Dessie Street
Children Project (DSCP) have enrolled some orphan or abandoned children in their orphanages
and/or training institutions. In Tigray similar efforts are being made by various organizations
including UNICEF, REST, EOC and EECMY.
Help Age International, ZOA Refuge Care, Agency for Assisting Refugees, Returnees and
90



Disabled People (AARRDP) are also engaged in relief and rehabilitation of deportees in general
and the most vulnerable in particular. These organizations are, therefore, potential partners for
ERPMU to work in collaboration with in its effort to rehabilitate these particular social groups.
2.4.  Provision of Training
It can plausibly assumed that the elderly and the disabled have some sort of training and
experience. They might have already been engaged in one or another form of activites and
probably need only refreshing skills and/or upgrading courses relevant to the IGS they intend to
involve in. However, the orphan and abandoned or separated youth of relevant age need to be
trained in new skills that will enable them start some IGS and generate income. The experiences
of UNICEF/LSAD and Hope Enterprise could be good examples.
More importantly, most of the organizations involved in the rehabilitation endeavor have
conducted needs assessments so as to identify viable income generating schemes and the
required training that enables beneficiaries to involve in the IGS they choose although some of
the assessments were conducted at post intervention period. It is, therefore, recommended that
ERPMU make use of the various study reports with some adaptations and also work in
collaboration with these organizations regarding the training schemes.
2.5.  Orphans
Information obtained from secondary sources revealed that quite a number of children are either
orphaned, separated from their parents during deportation or abandoned by their parents due to
economic stress the deportation entailed. According to UNICEF sponsored study conducted in
1999, about 1363 children who are separated from their parents were identified in Tigray.
Another study on deportees revealed that 15 deportee street children were identified in Mekelle
town that are orphaned and were between 15-17 years of age.
Other studies of deportees by ZOA, FSCE and AARRDP also indicated that divorce and family
disintegration is increasing among deportees living in Amhara, which implies the increasing rate
of children that need immediate support and economic and psychological rehabilitation.
The special rehabilitation program should identify and exclusively focus on orphans, abandoned
children (by one or both parents) and children separated from their parents/families during
deportation. IG Activities identified during the assessment by the deportees are mainly not
compatible to the need of the under age children. Thus, for children of less than 14 years of age,
the basic and primary need is getting adequate food, proper accommodation, clothing, a school
facility and basic health services.
It is, therefore, recommended that
* Attempts should be made to unite the children with their relatives in Ethiopia (if any) and
provide the necessary materials, and support there (probably using the tracing service
provided by the Red Cross Society to locate the relatives). If the reunion is successful, the
relative/patron of the child should take all the responsibilities with regard to supporting
91



the child/children. In cases where the child is of adequate age, this option could be
assessed with him/her involvement.
*  Orphan, abandoned or separated children under the age of 14 should be able to get
sponsorship programs or be entrusted to orphanages and children's homes that existed in
different parts of the country.
*  Children who are 14 and above should be provided with appropriate training that will
enable them create jobs and generate income. They should be provided with start up
capital under the guardianship of close relatives or friend of the family or relevant
organization. In cases of absence of a guardian a permanent accommodation should be
established for this group as well.
* The provision of start up capital (or loan) should be in such a way that the guardian
(individual, institution) take full responsibility to see to it that it is spent on eligible
expenditures and repayments are regularly and timely made.
2.6.   The Elderly (Aged)
According to available information, there are about 331 elderly deportees above the age of 60
in South Wollo zone alone, while there is a feeling that more number of deportees are
stationed in Tigray. The on-going census will establish the actual figure of the deportees in
general and the aged in particular.
Despite the similarity in age, however, it is assumed that some of the members of this group
(the elderly) are mentally active than others and are capable of managing their own business
if supported and engaged in schemes of their preference.
For those whose old age has impaired their capacity, however, it is recommended that
* They be provided with rehabilitation support through able bodied close relative they
trust will run the intended IGS on their behalf,
S
The relative chosen as patron or assistant by the beneficiary should be made to vow
his/her commitment and sign for the loan or support money together with the
beneficiary.
* Should the aged deportee incapable of working as well as assigning a patron or
assistant, he/she should be entrusted to NGOs who give support to such people.
* The planning of rehabilitation for the aged deportees should take into account
experiences of NGOs such as Help Age International. Other NGOs focusing on the
aged should also be contacted. ZOA Refugee Care who has planned to build 300
houses to alleviate the housing problem of deportees might also be consulted on how
92



the housing project could involve the elderly.
* Forming an association of the elderly could be investigated so that they pull their
resources together and run the business jointly or with few people. If external support
may be required, this could also reduce the manpower need to run the activities.
Elderly with no relative/patron and unable to get involved into any self supporting
activity should be accommodated in places established for this purpose (if available).
This can be done by the government or NGOs or by the collaboration of the two.
2.6.  The Disabled
Physically disabled people are not always and necessarily incapable of working and supporting
themselves. Indeed, some of them have valuable skills to depend on for their livelihood. It is,
therefore, necessary that the ERPMU identify the skills, potential and interest of the disabled
person(s) as a precondition for designing a rehabilitation strategy.
Accordingly, it is recommended that:
An association of the disabled could be formed so that they pull their resources together and
run the business jointly or with few people. This could be viable particularly in running
workshops, and other handcrafting activities. If external support may be required this could
also reduce the manpower need to run the activities.
* The disabled person could name another person (a friend or relative) to run on his/her
behalf the IGS he/she intends to involve in. In this case the provision of assistance
money (loan) should oblige the co-signing of both the beneficiary and his relative
(guardian) to comply with the requirements set. The guardian should be willing to
take the responsibility of timely repayment of the loan.
In cases of failure to live up to the expectation on the part of the guardian, appropriate measures
should be taken based on the wishes of the beneficiary.
The disabled with no relative/patron and unable to get involved into any self supporting activity
should be accommodated in places established for this purpose (if available). This can also be
done by the government or NGOs or by the collaboration of the two.
The financial requirement for all the three target groups depends on which alternative is selected.
Thus, a financial needs assessment should be done for all the alternatives proposed to determine
the assistance.
2.7.  Monitoring
Monitoring of the rehabilitation process for the most vulnerable is also a factor of the alternative
selected. Thus, a clear monitoring system should be in place for all the alternatives. Monitoring
could be
93



* Regular reports to the region's ERP on the progress of the beneficiary by the
responsible, supported by constant follow-ups and visits by the ERP staff and/or
relevant institutions in the area on the proper functioning of the IGS and take
corrective measures if need be.
* The monitoring activity should also make sure that the disabled beneficiary is actually
benefiting from the IGS and that implementation is going as per his/her wishes.
A long-term rehabilitation strategy should be investigated with the hosts of the beneficiaries
(orphanages, the relatives, the family) during the monitoring process.
94



Annex 8 EIA Outline for Zalambessa EIA
1. Background - Scope of the Document -1 page
1.1. Zalambessa destroyed by war, to be reconstructed, ERP & EDRP, implementation PMU
and Tigray PMU, World Bank credits for ERP & EDRP
1.2. This document is the ESIS for Zalambessa component, prepared in compliance with
Ethiopian requirements, ESRDF policies and OD 4.01.
2. Regulatory Background of the ESIS - 3 pages
2.1. Ethiopian Regulation Requirements (this can certainly be recycled from an existing
ESIA)
2.1.1. Present briefly policy and disclosure requirements as stated by Environmental
Authority
2.1.2. Project will be implemented by ESRDF for the most part, and therefore ESRDF
internal policies will be complied with - brief description, date of approval - As per
ESRDF policies, this is categorized as an LEA (Limited Environmental
Assessment) see ESRDF Environmental & Social Management Plan page 24
2.2. World Bank Policies
2.2.1. OP 4.01 - Environmental Assessment: is complied with - it is a category B
project
2.2.2. OP 4.04 - Natural Habitats: not applicable because urban context, no sensitive
environmental resource
2.2.3. OP 4.09 - Pest Management: not applicable, pesticides will not be used
2.2.4. OP 4.11 - Cultural Property: not applicable, reconstruction of destroyed structures
2.2.5. OP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement:
2.2.6. OP 4.20 - Indigenous People, OP 4.36 - Forests, OP 4.37 Safety of dams and OP
7.50: International waterways: not applicable
2.2.7. OP 7.60: Projects in disputed areas: both countries have agreed to the
International Court settlement that puts Zalembessa in Ethiopian territory
3. Summary Description of the Rehabilitation Project - 4 pages
3.1. Household Rehabilitation Component - 2 pages
3.1.1. State objectives, target groups, numbers as per "Project implementation manual
and plan" dated Sept 02
3.1.2. Summarize implementation and rehabilitation plan - who, when, budget
3.2. Community Infrastructure Component - 2 pages
3.2.1. Describe components (water supply, schools, health, others)
3.2.2. Describe implementation and rehabilitation plan - who, when, budget
95



4. Environmental and Socio-Economic Baseline - 5 to 8 pages
Attempt to illustrate the text with a few photographs so that the reviewers clearly
understand the sort of context
4.1. General: state here that this is a town, therefore no issue related with biological
environment
4.2. Land and Atmospheric Conditions
4.2.1. Topography and Geology - 12 page description - photographs
4.2.2. Climate - 6 lines description
4.2.3. Hydrology and Hydrogeology - - 6 lines description
4.3. Socio-Economic Conditions
4.3.1. Administrative Boundaries and Local Governance - 12 page description
4.3.2. Population and Ethnicity- 1/2 page description
4.3.3. Land Use, Settlement Patterns, Housing and Land Tenure- 1/2 page description
4.3.4. Economy and Employment- 1/2 page description
4.3.5. Community Services and Infrastructure- I page description of the previous and
present situations - photographs
4.3.6. Characteristics of the present population of Zalambessa - 3 pages
-    categorize people presently there in the following categories
-    IDPs having returned and eligible to ERP/EDRP packages,
-    deportees being assisted by ERP and
-    squatters/sex workers
-    briefly describe housing conditions, water supply, status of public services -
photographs
-    briefly describe activities - mention military and their potential evolution in the
future - photographs
4.4. Cultural Features ('/2 page)
4.4.1. History - Short note on history of the town
4.4.2. Archaeological and Historical Features - any destroyed or undestroyed historical
monuments
5. Public Consultation - 2 pages
5.1. Public Consultation Undertaken To-Date
5.1.1. Describe consultation meetings undertaken with community representatives and
Government institutions
5.2. Consultation Plan
5.2.1. Describe plan for on-going consultation with community and government
96



6. Potential Environmental and Social Impacts - 5 pages
6.1. Potential long term impacts of the "no project" option
All negative impacts: Landmines, people remaining IDPs for a long time, psychological
effects of the destruction, security and safety issues
6.2. Household Rehabilitation Component
6.2.1. Positive impacts of the Project: people will be able to resume a normal family and
social life, and to resume economic activities, elimination of a threat to persons'
safety and security, aesthetics and landscape, positive economic immediate impact
(jobs, activity for local contractors and suppliers)
6.2.2. Potential Negative Environmental Impacts:
6.2.2.1.Construction: See table 23 in ESRDF Environmental and Social Management
Plan: quarrying if any, management of debris
6.2.2.2.Grazing / overgrazing: compare number of livestock in the future situation
and in the past situation
6.2.2.3.Potential Relocation addressed hereunder
6.3. Community Infrastructure Component
6.3.1. Positive impacts of the Project
6.3.1 .1 .Health, waterbome diseases, time gained for women, schooling and education
6.3.2. Potential Negative Environmental Impacts
6.3.2.l.Water Supply: see matrix 22a in ESRDF Environmental and Social
Management Plan - only "overexploitation of aquifers" is relevant to our project
6.3.2.2.Potential Relocation addressed hereunder
6.4. Relocation
6.4.1. Land acquisition impact for community infrastructure
6.4.2. Relocation impact, refer to categorization as per above § 4.3.6
7. Environmental and Social Action Plan
7.1. Matrix of Negative Impacts and Related Mitigations
7.1.1. Summarize environmental impacts and state what mitigations will be - refer to
tables 22 in ESRDF Environmental and Social Management Plan
7.1.2. Relocation: mitigations as per ESRDF - note that squatters are not supposed to
receive compensation against land or structure that they occupy under new WB
resettlement policy OP 4.12, but are expected to receive "resettlement assistance" -
define what this resettlement assistance will be: moving allowance paid in cash,
allocation of a small plot of land in the vicinity, some construction assistance .... -
Consult with local authorities and community representatives on eligibility
7.2. Implementation of the Environmental & Social Action Plan
7.2. 1. Responsibilities
7.2.2. Costs and Financing
97



