FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
MIINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (MoFED)
EMERGENCY DEMOBILISATION AND REINTEGRATION PROJECT
Resettlement Plan for Zalambessa
May 23, 2003
FILE         am



Compensation Plan for Zalambessa
Background
All homes, businesses and community infrastructure in the town of Zalambessa were
completely destroyed in the conflict with Eritrea, so most of the town population has been
displaced to Adigrat town which is 50 kilometers south of Zalambessa or in Fatsi which is 20
kilometers south. The total number of displaced households from Zalambessa, including those
that do not own property, is 2072. 1160 of these households lost their homes and/or businesses
during the conflict. Beneficiaries who owned both homes and commercial buildings will receive
financial assistance to reconstruct one or the other, but not both. 887 households have chosen
to reconstruct their homes and 273 their businesses. Most households (1686) have already
received rehabilitation assistance for income generation from the proceeds of the ERP 2nd
trance releas,e. The remaining households will receive assistance from the proceeds of the ERP
3rd tranche release. Residential houses and commercial buildings will be reconstructed under
EDRP. As reconstruction of houses, businesses and community infrastructure will be carried out
on existing sites, there will not be issues related to land acquisition and resettlement for those
that were displaced from Zalambessa.
Census Suirvey
At present a Itotal of 291 households are living in Zalambessa in temporary plastic shelters while
they wait for ffinancial[assistance to help them rebuild their homes. Of these households, 271 are
former residents of the town living on their own property awaiting reconstruction assistance, 20
are new comers (10 are deportees, 4 are demobilized soldiers, and 6 are commercial sex
workers). The deportees and demobilized soldiers have received rehabilitation assistance, and
are currently living with relatives and rented houses in the outskirts of Zalambessa. The six
commercial sex workers are currently living in plastic sheds on land holdings of formerly
displaced IDFPs. The commercial sex workers will be displaced from there current living quarters
as a result of household reconstruction in Zalambessa, so should be compensated for financial
loss and provided a place to reside.
Compensation
The Government will provide rehabilitation assistance for the six commercial sex workers. Each
will receive the same monetary support as deportees under ERP/EDRP. Along with this fair
financial support, each will be given technical assistance to prepare a business plan and be
encouraged to establish a new trade. In addition, the Woreda administration and the regional
government hiave confirmed that each of the six CSW will have legal title to a plot of land,
including a plot plan and building permit, which gives them the same right to land as any other
resident of Zalambessa. The six commercial sex workers were consulted on the plan for their
resettlement, and agreed with the proposal.
Institutional Responsibilities
The ERP Project Management Unit in Tigray together with the Woreda Task Force will be
responsible for ensuring that the beneficiaries receive the agreed property plus technical and
financial assistance.
2



Monitoringi and Implementation
The Woreda Task Force is responsible for implementing the household component of the ERP in
its jurisdiction, including Zalambessa. In so doing, the Task Force has been responsible for
assisting IDPs, families of deceased and deportees. In Zalambessa, the Task Force will be
assisted by the Tigray ERP Project Management Unit. The Tigray PMU together with the
National PMU is responsible for monitoring implementation.
Timetable and Budget
The beneficiaries will receive their plots of land, together with technical and financial assistance
in July or August 2003, before household reconstruction in Zalambessa begins. Each beneficiary
will receive ETB 3,500 plus a plot of land.
3



