                             Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)

                                                                                                Report No: AC109
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 06/05/2003
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A.1. Project Statistics
Country: ETHIOPIA                                           Project ID: P073196
Project: Demobilization and Reintegration Project           Task Team Leader: Ingo Wiederhofer
Authorized to Appraise Date: September 28, 2000             IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: December 5, 2000                             IDA Amount ($m): 170.60
Managing Unit: AFTES                                        Sector: Other social services (100%)
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery Loan (ERL)           Theme: Conflict prevention and post-conflict
Status: Lending                                             reconstruction (P); Social risk coping (P)


I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
 The objective of the Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project (EDRP) is to assist the
 Government of Ethiopia to: demobilization, reinsertion, and reintegration of 133,000 veterans, (ii)
 rehabilitation of 17,000 disabled veterans through the provision of medical services, (iii)
 reallocation of public resources to priority social and infrastructure investments by reducing
 defense expenditures, and (iv) support to macro-economic stability.

 The objective of the Emergency Recovery and Rehabilitation Project (ERP) is to: i) help the war
 affected people to rebuild their lives and resume productive economic activities, ii) reconstruct and
 rehabilitate destroyed and damaged infrastructure to restart the provision of services; and iii) support
 macro-economic stability in the country.

 The proposed credit amendment would add several of the sub-components of ERP to EDRP to address
 the funding needs of the former, allowing its objectives to be achieved in full. In so doing, the objectives
 of the EDRP would not be compromised. The restructured EDRP components are listed in I.A.3 below.

I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
The proceeds of the restructured EDRP credit will finance the following ERP sub-components: (i)
rehabilitation of the remaining 29,000 deportees/returnees throughout the country; (ii)
rehabilitation of 2000 non-pastoral IDPs in Afar Region including reconstruction of 880 homes,
(iii) rehabilitation of other IDPs in the war affected area that may need assistance following
implementation of the border settlement; (iv) reconstruction of 887 homes and 273 businesses in
Zalambessa; and (v)) payment of eligible expenditures of Mille­Assab road maintenance contract.
These components are consistent with the original EDRP objective of helping the country deal with the
human, material and financial destabilization caused by the war.

 Household Rehabilitation:
 The ERP household rehabilitation component was designed to help the war-affected population to
 rebuild their lives and resume productive economic activities. It provides assistance to Internally
 Displaced People (IDPs) along the border with Eritrea through income generation support to farming,
 pastoralist and urban households; housing reconstruction; and provision of basic household goods. It
 also provides income generation support to deportees and deceased militia throughout the country.
 Income generation support consists of agricultural packages for farming and pastoralist households, and

                                                        2
                                                                                                        ISDS



 training and startup financing for small businesses for urban households. The agriculture package allows
 farm households to purchase livestock (including an ox, heifer and small ruminants), tools, seeds and
 beehives, and pastoralist households to purchase livestock (including a camel, heifers, and small
 ruminants). Communities determine the cash ceiling that each household can receive, constrained by an
 overall budget for the community.

 Eligible beneficiary identification and household needs assessments have been completed for nearly all
 IDPs, families of deceased militia, and deportees/returnees from Eritrea. The total number of project
 beneficiaries are 63,000 IDP households, 68,000 families of deceased, and 71,000 deportee/returnee
 households from Eritrea. As of February 2003, 50% of the IDP households, 70% of the families of the
 deceased, and 55% of deportees have received rehabilitation assistance under ERP. The un-disbursed
 balance of ERP will finance the remaining 18,000 families of deceased, 27,000 IDPs, and 3,000
 deportees. The EDRP will finance: (i) household rehabilitation of 29,000 deportees throughout the
 country, (ii) household rehabilitation 2,000 non-pastoral IDPs in Afar including reconstruction
 of 880 houses, and (iii) household rehabilitation of other IDPs in Afar and Tigray that may need
 assistance following implementation of the border settlement. The benefit packages and the
 maximum ceilings of support for the different categories of beneficiaries under EDRP will be the same
 as in ERP.

 Reconstruction of Zalembessa
 Every building in Zalembessa was destroyed in the war. The total number of displaced households from
 Zalambassa, including those that do not own property, is 2,072. The homes and/or businesses of 1,160
 of these households were completely destroyed during the conflict. Of these households, 50% are female
 headed, 65% have four or more family members, and 2% are elderly or orphans. Sixty percent were
 engaged in some form of trading before displacement. Most households (1,686) have already received
 rehabilitation assistance for income generation from the proceeds of the ERP 2nd trance release. The
 remaining households will receive assistance from the proceeds of the ERP 3rd tranche release. The
 community infrastructure will be financed through the existing ESRDF resources (US$15.2 million) for
 school, health and water supply facilities, and the Power II Project for power supply. Residential houses
 and commercial buildings will be reconstructed under EDRP. Beneficiaries who owned both homes and
 commercial buildings will be allowed to reconstruct one or the other, but not both. The number of
 damaged housing units has been found to be 1160, 887 of which are residential and 273 are
 commercial. In terms of size, the reconstructed homes/businesses will be about 65% of the average or
 15% of the largest homes that existed before the conflict. In terms of cost, they will be about 35% of the
 value of the average destroyed property.

 Mille-Assab Road maintenance contract: This component will finance part of the Mille-Assab Road
 maintenance contract settlement, which resulted from the termination of the contract as a result of the
 war. The proceeds of the Credit would finance those expenditures determined to be eligible for IDA
 financing.

I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
 About 90% of the IDPs reside in Tigray regional state and the remaining in Afar. About 30% of the
 families of the deceased militia reside in Tigray, 27% in Amhara, 21% in Oromia,12% in Southern
 Nations Nationalities and Peoples Regions, and 5% in other regions of the country. About 75% of
 deportees reside in Tigray and 14% in Amhara.

                                                       3
                                                                                                           ISDS



 Zalambessa is located in the northern part of Tigray Region at the Ethiopian-Eritrean boarder, covering
 about 100 hectares. The town is divided into four kebelles, namely, Araguro, Aratkilo, Addis Alem and
 Mebrak Tsehai.


B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)

Comments: The EDRP was classified as environmental category C, as it was not expected to have any
significant environmental impacts. The widely dispersed reintegration of 140,000 veterans into civilian life
so far has been found to be enviromnmentally neutral. Government is fully aware of possible HIV/AIDs
risks associated with EDRP. Health counciling and voluntary HIV/AIDs testing to veterans is an integral
part of EDRP in demobilisation centers. No major physical works are envisaged under the project. All
planned works are limited to the rehabilitation of existing medical facilities. The environmental and social
issues that concern EDRP are related to the new activities of ERP that have been added to it. Accordingly,
EDRP has been reclassified as category B, due to the rehabilitation activities under the household
rehabilitation and community infrastructure components.

 The program of ERP is classified as environmental category B because of potential impacts of housing
 and community infrastructure reconstruction in Zalambessa. An Environmental and Social Assessment
 (ESA) was undertaken in Tigray, Afar and Amhara Regions at the end of the first year of the project to
 (i) more carefully evaluate possible adverse social and environmental impacts associated with
 beneficiaries returning to their communities, reconstructing their homes, and restarting their farming
 activities, (ii) establish a socio-economic baseline, and (iii) evaluate the first release of household funds.
 The study confirmed that there are no appreciable negative environmental and social impacts. In areas
 where the rehabilitation started, it was found that herd size, after restocking, was below the pre-war
 level. Restocking is being coordinated with other projects/programs affecting livestock management in
 pastoralist areas. The application of inorganic fertilizer is limited and guided by Development Agents of
 the Bureaus of Agriculture. Pesticides are not included in the rehabilitation package, and were not found
 to be used by the beneficiaries in Tigray and Amhara. With regard to housing reconstruction in Tigray,
 the possible impact on the environment due to the potential use of wood to provide wooden beams as
 construction material has been avoided by shifting from the traditional earth packed masonry houses to a
 new type of housing employing corrugated iron sheet roof covering. The major reason for this shift is
 the constraint in getting the thick wooden beams that can support an earth roof, and people's preference
 for corrugated roofing.

 Since the IDPs are returning to their original homes issues related to involuntary resettlement have not
 been triggered. The demining component under ERP is intended to ensure the safe return of civilians to
 their homes and livelihoods by clearing areas affected by mines and unexploded ordnance.

 Integration and acceptance of deportees/returnees in the communities has not been a major problem
 according to the UNICEF study on deportees/returnees in Tigray, even where concentrations of
 deportees/returnees are high, in large part because most people are returning to their places of origin.
 Income generation support is intended to help integrate the deportees into the local economy and make
 them self supporting.

 All homes, businesses and community infrastructure in the town of Zalambessa were completely
 destroyed, so most of the town population has been displaced to Fatsi and Adigrat. As reconstruction of
 houses, businesses and community infrastructure will be carried out on existing sites, there will not be
 issues related to land acquisition and resettlement for IDPs. At present a total of 291 households are
 living in Zalambessa in temporary plastic shelters while they wait for financial assistance to help them
 rebuild their homes. Of these households, 271 are former residents of the town living on their property

                                                      4
                                                                                                        ISDS



 awaiting reconstruction assistance, 20 are new comers (10 are deportees, 4 are demobilized soldiers and
 6 are commercial sex workers). The deportees and demobilized soldiers have received rehabilitation
 assistance, and are currently living with relatives and rented houses in the outskirts of Zalambessa. The
 six commercial sex workers are currently living with plastic sheds on land holdings of formerly
 displaced IDPs. The Government has proposed to provide rehabilitation assistance for this people from
 EDRP along with some plots of land. These people will move to the new plots with their current
 property, and will not face any financial losses due to reconstruction. A separate impact assessent is
 being prepared to address potential environmental impacts related to the reconstruction of Zalambessa.
 In addition, standard procedures set out in the Power II Resettlement Policy Framework will be used to
 assess compensation for anyone that should loose crops as a result of the reconstruction of water or
 power lines in Zalambessa.

C. Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on   for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
                                    Policy                                          Triggered

    Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                        Yes      No      TBD

    Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                Yes      No      TBD

    Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                 Yes      No      TBD

    Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                   Yes      No      TBD

    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                               Yes      No      TBD

    Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                Yes      No      TBD

    Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                       Yes      No      TBD

    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                           Yes      No      TBD

    Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                Yes      No      TBD

    Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                     Yes      No      TBD



Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.

II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Potential safeguard issues relate to rehabilitation activities under the household rehabilitaion
component. The provisions of OP4.01 were adhered to in preparing the Environmental and
Social Assessment. OP4.12 on resettlement will be involved, if squatters are displaced as a result
of reconstruction of household or community infrastructure in Zalembessa. OP 7.60 on Projects
in Disputed Areas applies since people in Zalambessa and other communities along the border
with Eritrea are benefitting from the IDA investment.



II.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
In light of the conclusions reached in the ESA report for EDRP, cumulative impacts are not
anticipated under the household rehabilitation component.

II.D.1c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.

                                                       5
                                                                                                         ISDS



In light of the conclusions reached in the ESA report for EDRP, long term impacts are not
anticipated under the household rehabilitation component.

II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
This project was designed to respond to the emergency needs of the population at the time;
hence, alternatives were not considered.

II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
 Potential negative social and environmental impacts and related mitigation measures were identified by
 a multi-disciplinary team during project appraisal. PMUs were established in Tigray and Afar to manage
 the household rehabilitation component for IDPs, deportees, and families of deceased in those regions,
 and in the Federal Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Commission and their regional bureaus to
 manage the household component in the other regions for deportees and families of deceased. Each
 PMU prepared an implementation plan for its part of the project. Plans for IDPs set out the budgetary
 allocation process, the process of community consultations which is used to prioritize needs to remain
 within budget constraints, the process of delivery of cash and materials to beneficiary households and
 the screening and monitoring of environmental and social impacts. Plans for deportees and families of
 deceased set out the process of beneficiary identification, consultation to agree on a support package,
 flow of funds, and assessment of potential negative social impacts. During implementation the PMU
 Task Force has tracked these potenital impacts with a view to mitigate them if it proved necessary.

 In March 2003, the Borrower prepared an ESA report which assessed the potential environmental and
 social impacts of the household rehabilitation component. It was concluded that these rehabilitation
 activities do not cause adverse environmental and socio-economic impacts. A separate ESIA is being
 prepared for the reconstruction of Zalembessa, including mitigation measures for social and
 environmental impacts. This ESIA will be carried out in accordance with EA procedures under
 the obgoing ESRDF and Energy II Projects. The approved Resettlement Policy Frameworks of
 the ESRDF for school, health and water supply facilities and the Power II Project for power
 supply rehabilitation will be employed to ensure fair compensation for those that may be
 adversely affected by the reconstruction of community infrastructure.

 The Governments of Ethiopia and Eritrea have signed letters confirming that they would honor all debts
 to IDA regardless of the final disposition of land between the two countries and related assets that they
 may have financed.



II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The main stakeholders in this project are federal, regional and local government agencies; affected
communities, individuals, and NGOs. The federal agencies coordinate all components of the proposed
project and ensure that the project fulfills effectively and efficiently its mandate. Regional agencies are
responsible for the overall management and monitoring of the program in the respective region. Program
implementation in the regions is supported by Regional Steering Committees and Rehabilitation Task
Forces which are established at local levels where the majority of the affected beneficiaries reside. NGOs
provide technical assistance, training, and advisory services to target beneficiaries in planning income
generating activities. The target community members are participating in decision-making on beneficiary
assessment and prioritization of assistance. The ESA reports for ERP and EDRP will be disclosed to the
affected communites, NGOs and stakeholders at the same time.

                                                     6
                                                                                                        ISDS




E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy.
Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.


[ ] S1. ­ Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
         in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. ­ One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
         technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. ­ No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. ­ Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
         similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
         safeguard issues.

F. Disclosure Requirements

Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:                        Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              3/3/2003          3/15/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          5/28/2003         6/9/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           5/28/2003         6/4/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive        Not Applicable Not Applicable
Directors (For category A projects)

Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                                       Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              5/15/2003         5/15/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          5/28/2003         6/9/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           5/28/2003         6/4/2003

Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:                            Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable

Pest Management Plan:                                                     Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable

Dam Safety Management Plan:                                               Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable

If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.

Signed and submitted by              Name                                                 Date
Task Team Leader:                    Ingo Wiederhofer                                     June 3, 2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:

                                               7
                                                                 ISDS




Approved by:                    Name                 Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Serigne Omar Fye    June 3, 2003
Sector Manager/Director          Laura Frigenti      June 3, 2003

