                  PROPOSEDAMENDMENT TO THE CREDITAGREEMENT

                       FEDERALDEMOCRATICREPUBLICOFETHIOPIA

                         EmergencyDemobilizationandReintegrationProject
                                            (Credit3437-ET)


 1.       This memorandum seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to amend the
 Development Credit Agreements (DCA) for the Ethiopia Emergency Demobilization and
 Reintegration Project (Credit 3437-ET, EDRP). The proposed amendment to the credit agreement
 for the EDRP would support a new component aimed at providing additional reintegration
 assistance to food-insecure communities in which veterans have settled with a view to enhancing
 the sustainability ofthe veterans' reintegration.


                                        I. BACKGROUND


 2.       The main development objective o f the project i s to assist the Government o f Ethiopia to
 demobilize and reintegrate 150,000 veterans and to support macro-economic stability following the
 cessation o f hostilities with Eritrea inJune 2000.

 3.      A Credit in the amount of SDR133.7 million (US$170.6 million equivalent at the time)
 was approved by the Board o f Directors on December 5, 2000, and became effective on February
 22,2001. The key activities o f the project are to demobilize and provide reintegration assistance to
 150,000 soldiers discharged from the Ethiopia National Defense Force (ENDF). Implementation
o f the project has been satisfactory, and its objectives have largely been accomplished.

4.       There is presently an estimated cost saving o f US$40.4 million for the EDRP. These
savings result from several factors, including (i)lower costs for demobilization and reintegration
activities than originally estimated, especially with respect to demobilization, civil works, and
technical assistance, (ii)  the non-utilization o f approximately US$16 million reallocated from the
EDRP to finance related Emergency Recovery Project (Cr.3438-ET) activities in June 2003, and
(iii)significant exchange rate gains.

5.       The Development Credit Agreement of the EDRP has been amended twice since
Effectiveness. On August 2, 2001, the World Bank agreed to amend the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) inorder to permit additional procurement methods. On July 24,2003, the World
Bank accorded a second amendment in response to a Government request o f February 5, 2003 to
utilize US$35 milliono f EDRPresources to finance: (i)      income generating activities and household
rehabilitation activities for 29,000 deportees and internally displaced persons, and (ii)road
rehabilitation activities. However, US$16 million o f the amount allocated for the activities agreed
inthe secondamendment are unutilized to date. Governmenthas confirmed that theseresources are
available for allocation to safety net activities under the EDRP.

6.       In its letter dated November 9, 2005, the Government has requested the restructuring of
Credit 3437-ET to utilize the cost savings to finance supplementary reintegration assistance to food
insecure communities in which veterans have settled. The objective o f such assistance would be to
enhance the sustainability o f the veterans' reintegration.         The new component would be
implemented within the framework o f an ongoing Project, the Productive Safety Nets Project

                                                           2


 (PSNP), appraised by a World Bank task team in September 2004 and approved by the Board o f
 the Bank on November 3,2004. The purpose o f the proposed amendment is, through the use o f the
US$40.4 million saving referred to above for a new component, which would finance sub-projects
 in food-insecure communities in which a substantial number of veterans have settled following
 their demobilization. These sub-projects would target food-insecure households and invest inlocal
public works.        This modification will require an amendment of the project description,
procurement, implementation arrangements and Schedule 1 (Withdrawals o f the Proceeds o f the
 Credit), as well as the financial covenants of the Development Credit Agreement.


                      11.      PROJECTIMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE


 7.       All project legal covenants have been met, and the project is moving satisfactorily towards
meetingits development objectives. The following paragraphs describe the implementation status
o f the project's main components.

 8.       Part A 1. Demobilizationand Reintegrationof veterans: A total of 148,005 veterans,
98.6% o fthe original target, have been demobilized and have returnedto civilian life. Government
has formally informed the Bank that it does not envisage any further demobilization within the
Project. Over 98% o f demobilized veterans have received all reinsertion and reintegration benefits
envisaged in the original Program. The majority o f veterans have returned successfully to
productive civilian livelihoods. However, concerns remain as to the sustainability o f the economic
reintegration o f veterans who have settled inchronically food-insecure communities inEthiopia.

9.       The fiscal impact of the EDRP has been substantial. The reduction in force of the ENDF
has helped to facilitate a significant shift o f Government expenditures from the defense sector to
other social and economic development priorities. This reduction in defense expenditure has also
contributed to rapid macro-economic stabilization following the cessation o f hostilities in June
2000.

             Table 1:GovernmentofEthiopiaPublicExpenditurePatternsfor
              Military expenditure and Social Service Expenditure(2000-2004)




** Based on Government definition o f social sectors, other social sectors includes urban dev't, social welfare, cultureI
and the Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Commission.
Source: MOFED.

10.      Part A 2. Support for income generation assistance and housing rehabilitation for
Internally Displaced Persons, deportees and returnees: Implementation of part A.2 of the

                                                   3


Project, which envisaged the provision of support for (i) rehabilitation o f 29,000 deportees and
                                                            the
returnees, (ii)  the rehabilitation o f 2,000 non-pastoral internally displaced persons (IDPs) in the
Afar region, includingthe construction o f 880 houses, (iii)  therehabilitation of other IDPs that may
need assistance; and (iv) the reconstruction o f 887 homes and 283 businesses in Zalambessa has
largely been completed.

11.      Part B. Institutional Strengthening: The Government's institutions at the federal,
regional and local levels have been strengthened adequately to undertake Project implementation.
At this time, institutions for the implementation of part A1 are in the process of being closed.
Institutions to undertake the proposedpart D of the Project have been strengthened inthe course o f
the implementation o f the Productive Safety Net Project.

12.      Significant complementary reintegration assistancehas been provided to disabled veterans.
Works to rehabilitate five regional Prosthetic Orthotic Centers (POCs) have been largely
completed, and equipment and materials for their medical rehabilitation has been purchased. The
construction o f a National Rehabilitation Center (NRC) i s under way. Training o f 20 orthotic
technicians and 25 physiotherapists has been completed, and training for an additional 10
physiotherapists and 20 orthotic technicians i s ongoing and scheduled to be completed by
December 2005.

13.      Part C. Road Construction: Implementation of Part C of the Project, the rehabilitation o f
196kmo f the mainroad between Mille and Assab has been completed.



 111.      REQUIREMENTS OF O.P. 13.25 ONTHE USE OFPROJECT COST SAVINGS


14.      The World Bank's Articles require that loans/credits be used only for approved purposes.
When the World Bank determines, after consultation with the Borrower, that there are project cost
savings, normally the balance i s canceled. On an exceptional basis, however, the World Bank may
agree to apply some or all o f the savings to finance additional project activities not included in the
originalproject description provided that:

    (a) implementation i s satisfactory and includes substantial compliance with the Agreements
         for the proiect. As noted in paragraphs 7-13 above, mplementation performance has been
         satisfactory.

    (b) the additional activities have high priority and are consistent with the original uroiect
         obiectives The main development objective o f the project i s to assist the Government o f
        Ethiopia to demobilize and reintegrate 150,000 veterans and to support macro-economic
         stability. The provision o f grants to food-insecure households for labor-intensive public
        works in communities where veterans have settled will improve the prospects for the
        social, economic and environmental sustainability o f these communities, and thus enhance
        the prospects for the sustainable reintegration o f the veterans. Furthermore, the local
        public works will also benefit the veterans.

   (c) the proposed activities have been fully appraised by Bank staff and are economically
        justified. Appraisal o f the technical, economic, financial, and institutional and safeguard
        aspects o f the proposed activities was successfully completed in September 2004 in the
        context of the preparation of the Ethiopia Productive Safety Nets Project.

                                                    4



        (d)    financing o f the activities does not violate country limits on cost sharing.         The
             recommendation i s for IDA to finance 100% o f the foreign costs and 90% o f local
             costs o f equipment and works, and 100%o f foreign consultants requirements and 85%
             o f local consultants requirements, as well as 100% o f safety nets grants, which i s
             consistent with country limitson cost-sharing.


 15.    A review of the cost estimate and financing plan for the proposed new safety nets activity
 confirm that the costs to be financed by the Bank comply with the provisions o f OD 6.00 Bank
 Financing, and are consistent with the approved country financing parameters. There will be no
 recurrent cost financing or the financing o f taxes and duties.



              IV.      PROPOSEDAMENDMENTS TO LEGAL AGREEMENTS

 Rationale
 16.    An estimated 58% of veterans demobilized under the EDRPhave returnedto communities
located in food insecure woredas. The sustainability o f the reintegration o f these veterans i s at risk
due to the food security challenges confronting their communities. The provisiono f grants to food-
insecure households for labor-intensive public works in communities where veterans have settled
will improve the prospects for the social, economic and environmental sustainability o f these
communities, and thus enhance the prospects for the sustainable reintegration o f the veterans.
Furthermore, the local public works will also benefit the veterans. It i s worth noting that veterans
are present inover 95% o f the woredas targeted by the Productive Safety Nets Project.


DescriptionofNew Activities


 17.    ComponentD: Safety NetActivities:

        a) Labor-intensive public works           will provide grants to households whose adults
        participate in public works sub-projects. Sub-projects to be undertaken as part o f public
        works will be determined locally by the beneficiary communities through an annual,
        participatory planning process. With appropriate technical assistance being provided by
        woredas and regions, sub-projects will focus on, but are not limited to, environmental
        rehabilitation.

        b) Direct support will provide grants to households who are labor-poor and cannot
        undertake public works. Beneficiaries will include, but are not limited to, orphans,
        pregnant and lactating mothers, elderly households, other labor-poor, highrisk households
        with sick individuals (such as people living with HIV/AIDS), and the majority o f female-
        headed households with young children.

18.     ComponentB (2): InstitutionalSupport:This component will focus on strengthening all
remaining aspects o f program implementation, especially for the new Component D, including (i)
capacity building at community level to strengthen beneficiary identification and local level
planning, financial management, procurement and technical training at woreda and regional level
to ensure that all sub-projects are appropriately designed and rapid response mechanisms are in
place to ensure smooth program implementation; (ii)      support to the development o f a monitoring

                                                   5


and evaluation framework and a program MIS.This includes the implementation o f a beneficiary
survey, and a detailed program "process" survey after the first 12months; and (iii)  procurement o f
essential goods and services.


Main Conditions andRevisionsto the LegalAgreements


 19.     In addition to modifications to the project description and objectives, procurement and
disbursement arrangements, the following revisions will be made to the legal documents.

(a) General Financial. Implementation and Operational Covenants

       A new Part D will be added to the Project Description for the implementation o f the
       productive safety net grant activities.


  0    The Closing Date o f the project will be extended from December 31,2005 to June 30, 2007.

       Government will ensure that resources disbursed under Category 1 of the Project, remaining
       available inthe Demobilization and ReintegrationFundAccount of the EDRP, and no longer
       required for demobilization and reintegration activities, will be made available for Part D of
       the Project. For these purposes, these resources will be transferred to the EDRP Safety Net
       Account, to be established by MOFED.

       Establisha new Special Account B for part D o f the Project, to be known as the EDRP Safety
       Net Account, and to be established by MOFED.


OrganizationalandImplementationArrangements


20.      The new component of the Project would be implemented by the Food Security
Coordination Bureau (FSCB) within the framework o f the Government's the larger Food Security
Program (FSP). To mainstream integration o f program activities into the FSP interventions, no
separate program management unit i s envisioned. Instead, the existinginstitutional structure will be
used, such that food security line agencies at every level o f Government will be responsible for the
oversight and coordination o f the PSNP, with implementation o f program activities being
undertakenby woredas and kebeles, line ministry/agencies and other partners.

21.      The Federal level Food Security Coordination Bureau (FSCB) in the Ministry o f
Agriculture and Rural Development would be responsible for overall strategic guidance including
providing technical support, training, coordination and monitoring and evaluation. The FSCB
would also responsible for ensuring that the appropriate linkages between the EDRP, PSNP and
other FSP interventions.

22.     The regional Bureaus of Agriculture and Rural Development, through the regional food
security coordination offices, would be responsible for technical content o f activities such as
developing and consolidating annual implementation plans, mobilizing technical assistance fi-om
other line agencies, and reviewingprogress reports and providing feedback to the implementation
units. The Woreda Agricultural and Rural Development Offices would be responsible for
operational tasks such as planning, supervision, procurement and financial management.

                                                   6


 23.      All program woredas will prepare an Annual Work Plan and Budget (AWPB) for the
 coming implementation year and submit it to the Regional Food Security Coordination Office
 (RFSCO) who will consolidate and submit to the Federal Food Security Coordination Bureau
 (FSCB) by the beginning o f December o f each preceding year. The AWPB should include, at a
 minimum: a) list of safety net activities (sub-projects); b) the number of beneficiaries for each
 activity; c) the budget breakdown for each activity (benefits to households and non-transfer costs o f
 sub-projects); d) the administration cost for program implementation with source o f financing; e)
 timeline for safety net activities by quarter; and f) evidence o f community participation in
 development o f the plan.


 Procurement

 General


 24.      Procurement for the new component would be carried out in accordance with the World
 Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and
 "Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May
 2004, and the provisions stipulated inthe Development Credit Agreement. The various items under
 different expenditure categories are described ingeneral below. For each contract to be financed by
the Credit, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for pre-
qualification, estimated costs, and time frame have been agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank in the Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually or as
required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in institutional
capacity.


ProcurementCapacityAssessment
25.      The Procurement Implementation arrangement for the PSN project would be used for
implementing procurement activities under the safety net component of EDRP. The Project
Implementation Manual (PIM) and the Procurement Procedures for the Safety Net Project would
be applicable for the component.

26.      Procurement capacity assessment for the Procurement Unit o f MoARD and other
ImplementingAgencies were conducted during the preparation of the PSN Project. It was noted
that there was limited capacity at Regional and Woreda level although the there was some capacity
at the Federal level, Based on the finding o f the review and agreed actions a procurement
procedures manual has been prepared and activities are currently ongoing to conduct procurement
training at various levels under the PSNP. The experience with PSNP within the last year has
however shown that procurement capacity i s still a matter o f concern. An assessment o f the
procurement capacity and performance o f the PSNP would be conducted in October 2005 and
would form the basis for determining the procurement capacity actions required, if any, for
buildingcapacity to effectively implementthe procurement activities under the ERDP component.

27.      Procurement would be conducted at Federal, Regional and Woreda level by the following
the procedures of the PSN project. The Woreda Technical Team would be responsible for the
public works and small value goods following shopping and community procurement procedures at
woreda level as appropriate. The Regional BOARD will be responsible for procurement o f goods
for its own needs and those that are not available at competitive prices at Woreda level following
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) and shopping procedures for goods that are available within

                                                      7


 the Region. The Federal MOARD will be responsible for handling large value procurements at
 International and National level and procurement o f goods that are not available at Regional and
 Woreda Level. Inaddition consultant services shall be carried out by the FederalMOARD.

 28.       On the basis of an updated procurement capacity assessment conducted by Samuel Haile
 Selassie, Senior Procurement Specialist in October 200, the Food Security Coordination Bureau of
 the Ministry o f Agriculture and Rural Development has adequate procurement capacity. The
 agency's procurement capacity risk i s rated high.


 Disbursement
 29.       Disbursements are expected to be completed by June 30, 2007. IDA would finance 100%
 foreign consultancy costs and 90% of local consultancy costs, as well as 100%of foreign costs and
 90% o f local costs for goods, equipment and supply and installation contracts for Part D o f the
 Project. IDA would finance 100% o f safety net and community public works grants. The project
 completion date i s December 3 1, 2006, and the credit Closing Date for June 30, 2007. To facilitate
 disbursements under the new component o f the project, a new special account B will be
 established. The authorized allocation will be increased to US$8 million for a Special Account B,
 which will be utilized for financing o f component D. This allocation would represent
 approximately 12months o f disbursements o f the productive safety net activities. The allocation o f
 credit proceeds i s provided inAttachment 1.


 Safety Net Component Cost
 30.      The reallocation of about US$32 millionundisbursedresources o f the Credit would be for
the safety net distributiodtransmission componentbeingfinanced as described above.'


                                 ProposedCost (Safety NetActivities)

                 New Safety Net activities                   Local           Foreign     I   Total
                                                                   (Figures inUS$million)
     PublicWorks                                                32.00' I
                                                                       I              0 1      32.00
     Direct Grants to VulnerableHouseholds                        8.00                01        8.00
     InstitutionalSupport                                            0                0             0
     TotalCost                                                  40.00                 0        40.00



Environmentaland Social Safeguards
3 1.      The PSNcomponent includes a community `public works' component aimed at developing
communal infrastructure and assets in areas o f chronic food shortage. The program will provide
food or grants for labor provided by community members in the implementation o f the projects.
The Government's full Productive Safety Nets Program i s expected to serve around 262 woredas,
inwhich public works will be conducted over a five-year period in approximately 3,600 kebeles,


'Anadditional   Ethiopian Birr equivalent o f US$15 million disbursedunder category Io f the Credit would be
'transferredbe
            to the EDRP Safety Net Account to finance Part D o f the Project.
   Itshould   notedthat US$16 million o f these resources have already been disbursed under Category Io f
the Project. These resources would be reallocated fromthe DRFAto Special Account B.

                                                       8


 involving some 21,600 comrnunitie~.~The Bank's support will finance a part o f the overall
 program.

 32.     The selection of the public works activities will be driven by the local planning process.
 They may include, for example, hillside terracing, land reclamation, improvement o f roads or
 bridges, improved access to water, or repair o f health facilities. Inthe case o f pastoralist areas, it i s
 to be expected that projects may include development of water points, agro-forestry, or initiatives
related to livestock. Giventhe nature and large number o f these public works, it i s important that
 their design and implementation follow good practice in order to manage any potentially adverse
 impacts. While it i s acknowledged that many of the public works will themselves be intended to
rehabilitate the natural resource base, it i s equally important that such projects be well-designed
 and executed to ensure that undesirable impacts are avoided or mitigated.

 33.     Ethiopia's Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) proclamation, the World Bank's
 safeguard policies and international standards subscribed to by the other donor partners are
applicable to the safety nets component. In keeping with Ethiopia's Environmental Impact
Assessment proclamation, the term `environment' in this context covers biophysical, social and
cultural heritage impacts.

34.      In the case of the PSNP, Government has produced a global Environmental and Social
Management Framework (ESMF) for the PSNP that sets out simple procedures to be followed for
the assessment and mitigation o f environmental and social impacts. The ESMF also provides
criteria for sub-project selection, checklists for preliminary project assessment (to avoid a location
or project design which might give rise to undesirable impacts), and a shortlist o f mitigating
measures to be taken during project implementation. This ESMF will also be adopted for the
safety nets components to be financed under the EDRP.

35,      The project selection procedures excludes projects within or adjoining territories under
international dispute, projects requiringrelocation o f residents, and dams in excess o f 15 meters in
height.

36.      The procedures will ensure that participation in the projects i s entirely voluntary; each
community member will have the option to opt out of a project, should he or she desire to make no
change in their existing livelihood situation. In the event that a community member desires to
voluntarily relinquish assets, or access to assets, inthe course o f project implementation, he or she
may do so, and will be entitled to compensation from the project. Wherever possible, such
compensation will take the form o f the asset loss being taken into account in the net benefits
accruing to the member, The ESMF commits the PSNP to providing guidelines for such
compensation arrangements, and for the production o f medical waste management plans and
integratedpest management plans where required.

37.     Preliminary project assessmentwill be conducted at woreda level, and compliance with the
recommended mitigating measures will be monitored by the concerned Development Agent (DA).
Only in exceptional cases will it be necessary for a project to be reviewed at a higher level, in
which    case under Ethiopia's           Environmental Management proclamation,              the regional
Environmental Bureau, or equivalent office, would be the determining authority.

38.     Training required at the various levels for implementing the ESMF procedures will be
provided within the framework o f the PSNP awareness-creation and training program. Monitoring


  Based on an average o f 15 chronically food insecure kebeles per woreda, and 6 communities per kebele.

                                                 9


o f the implementation o f the ESMFprocedures will take place within the integrated M&E system
designed for the Government's FSP.

39.      The environmental management process and guidelinesdeveloped for the PSNP have been
approvedby the Environmental ProtectionAuthority of Ethiopia.


Economic Analysis


40.      The poverty profile for Ethiopia provides some important quantitative dimensions to the
situation o f the poor. In 1999/00, 42.2 percent of the population lived below the national poverty
line (calculated on minimumcalorie requirement o f 2200 kcal, or 40 cents per adult per day). The
profile also provides the proportions of persons in "extreme poverty", i.e., those below the food
poverty line based on 1650 kcal. For the country as a whole, 22.5 percent o f households belong to
this category of extremely poor households. These are households on the verge of starvation or
destitution. For most o f the year, these ultra-poor households have little or no cash to purchase

have very small landholdings and very few livestock - perhaps a few hens and a couple o f goats -
food from the market, nor do they have any assets to sell to smooth consumption. They typically

or none at all.

41.      The Risk and Vulnerability Assessment (2004) estimated that about 50 percent o f the
population are considered poor, an additional 27 percent move in and out o f poverty, and 14
percent who are not poor now have a high probability o f falling into poverty in the future with a
single large shock. Nearly five to seven million people or 10 percent o f the population are
considered to be chronically food insecure, inthe sense they cannot feed themselves throughout the
year from their own incomes even in good years. Inaddition, at least another six million people
suffer from extremely low and highly variable incomes depending on the vagaries o f the annual
rains.The above analysis, coupled with findings from other available literature, underpins the
following broad conclusions:

     Approximately 20% o f households inthe country are extremely vulnerable to serious shortfalls
    in food consumption. These households, due to extremely low and highly variable incomes,
    are unable to feed themselves even in good years, and even in regions where the agricultural
    sector has beenregistering positive growthrates.

    Chronic food insecurity and poverty are closely linked. Despite some improvements in recent
    years due to increased fertilizer use, low and uneven agricultural trends, coupled with high
    population growth rates, have resulted in a long-term secular decline in per capita food
    availability (Figure 10-1).

                                                      10




                           Figure 10-1: Per Capita Food Production 1970-2000




      Improvements in farm productivity could help extend the number o f months o f survival for
      some; yet the probability o f drought occurring remains very high in Ethiopia, largely due to
      excessive climatic variability.        Measures o f variability o f annual rainfall across Ethiopia
      between 1967 and 2000 provide evidence for this claim: for annual rainfall, variability ranged
      from a low o f 18 percent to a high o f 81percent -- among the highest in the world. (Risk and
      Vulnerability Assessment, 2004). Inaddition to the failure o f the rains, health risks (including
      both malaria and HIV/AIDS) exacerbate the vulnerability o f the poor, driving millions into
      poverty traps. Thus, notwithstanding some improvements in farm productivity, food insecurity
      i s bound to remain both widespread and chronic inEthiopia in the near-term.


                      V.       B E N E F I T S AND RISKS AFTER A M E N D M E N T S

 Economic Benefits of the Productive Safety Nets Component


 42.       Protective benefits: The safety nets activities would have protective and productive
 benefits in food insecure communities. The core elements o f protection include reduction of (a)
 extreme hunger,(b) malnutrition, and (c) asset depletion andpoverty traps.

           a) Extreme hunger: By receiving grants (to buy food), or food directly, the households will
           be able to smooth consumption and stave off hunger during the lean season. The average
           transfer benefitswould reachUS$146 per food insecure household per annum. Because the
           program beneficiaries are drawn from the bottom three deciles o f consumption distribution
           in program woredas, the transfers amount to a gain of 48 percent of consumption
           expenditures4.




   The average consumption for the three bottomconsumption deciles i s about US$lOO per adult equivalent
(Poverty Assessment, 2004). The household data shows that these households have, on average, 3 adults.
Therefore average total consumption is about US$300per year. The US$146 annual transfer per household
i s therefore equivalent to about 48% o f consumption.

                                                     11


         b) Long-term malnutrition: This increase in income i s also expected to lead to a reduction
         in malnutrition.     A recent study on Ethiopia indicates that a 1 percent increase in
         consumption per adult equivalent will lead to 0.2 percentage point change in child
         malnutrition -- measured as weight-for-age score', Globally, the elasticity o f malnutrition
         with respect to income i s estimated at -0.56. Since the Program will provide about 48
         percent increase in consumption per adult equivalent, this would imply a 24 percent
         decrease in malnutrition among program beneficiaries. Additionally, given that long-term
         malnutrition i s known to lead to irreversible losses in long term productivity7, the transfer
         provided i s expected to reduce the potential for these losses among beneficiary households.

         c) Asset depletion and poverty traps:             In Ethiopia, there are several paths to
         impoverishment and poverty traps. The most direct way i s through asset depletion, which
         often happens as a response to shocks which result in households having unmet
         consumption needs. This would mean selling an oxen, other livestock, farm implements,
         and other assets as a way to smooth consumption. Evidence o f poverty traps i s emerging,
         albeit slowly. Village studies in Ethiopia point to a growing level of destitution over time'
         in places where frequent drought, population growth and environmental degradation lead
         to small plots o f poor quality, and which do not sustain livelihoods. In the northern
         highlands o f the Amhara region, 20 percent o f households which were not destitute in
         1992/93 became so 10 years later. Furthermore, the studies noted that the villagers had the
         widespread feeling that (a) the proportion o f the poor had increased, and (b) the current
         poor were ina more precarious situation than a decade ago. These same studies also show
         that the likelihood o f becoming destitute was higher for female-headed households. Such
         households who were not destitute in 1992/93 were 2.5 times more likely to become
         destitute by 2001/2002 than male-headed households.
43.      A study of rural households dispersed over several ago-ecological zones and regions
found that the damaging effects o f shocks, when not addressed adequately, are long lasting. The
findings show that households that suffered substantially duringthe 1984-5 drought, which resulted
inanationwide famine, continuedto experience 2 to 3 percentless annual per capita growth during
the 1990s than those who were not hit as hard9.

44.      Another source o f poverty trap i s to delay investment in human capital by reducing
consumption, through rationing or "tightening one's belt". While this i s an important risk coping
mechanism, there are costly long run implications in terms o f the future productivity o f the
individual, household and the nation. It i s especially risky when it is extended to children. In
Ethiopia, children between 6 and 24 months, who lived in communities where half the crop area
was damaged, and who did not receive food assistance, experienced 0.9 cm less growth, inthe six
months following the harvest, than children who livedincommunities without crop damagelo.

45.      The productive safety nets activities will contribute to the reduction of poverty traps in
three ways. One, by ensuring transfers to chronically food insecure households, consumption
shortfalls are met, risk o f malnutrition i s reduced and the long term poverty-inducing consequences
o f malnutrition are avoided.    Two, the consumption-smoothing effect o f transfers means that

 See Christiaensen,Luc andAlderman, Harold. Child Malnutrition in Ethiopia: Can Maternal Knowledge
Augment theRole of Income? Economic Development and CulturalChange .52(2) 287-312. 2004.
'Haddad,Lawrence    andAlderman, World Bank Economic Review, 2003.
 CopenhagenConsensus, 2004
 IDS/Savethe Children-UK
 DerconandKrishnan, 2000
loYamano, Alderman, and Christiaensen,2003

                                                       12


 households need not deplete their productive assets. In addition, the Program will, through public
 works activities, create community assets which will complement the productivity o f household
 assets. Third, the Program protects and builds the assets o f specific target groups within the
 chronically food insecure population, who are exceptionally vulnerable. Although the main focus
 o f the public works activities i s to buildproductive community assets, there i s an explicit provision
 for the community to assist in enhancing the productivity o f lands owned by labor-poor, female-
 headed households through the public works activities.

 46.      Several benefits are non-quantifiable: for example, the Program aims to save the lives of
 the chronically food insecure-a      benefit that i s difficult to quantify. Therefore, it i s worth stressing
 that the quantification o f the measurable direct and indirect benefits below will remain an under-
 estimate.

 47.      ProductiveBenefits: Inaddition, the new Programis expected to improve the productive
 nature o f the safety net activities. The main avenues for this are through the leveraging o f the non-
 transfer component o f the program and more efficient use of labor.

 48.      Environmentalbenefits. A combination of intensive farming practices, overgrazing and
 demographic pressure, have led to substantial land degradation and growing numbers o f rural
 households with inadequate landholdings. About 50 percent o f the highlands are believed to be
eroded, and 25 percent o f them severely so. This has constrained agricultural productivity and rural
income growth. It i s increasingly seen as a major cause o f vulnerability.

49.       The safety nets activities will contribute to reducing and reversing environmental
degradation through comprehensive integrated watershed management plans that encompass
terracing, bunding, gully control, area closures and multi-layered agro-forestry. Evidence from
ongoing projects inEthiopia fundedby WFP shows that sustained integrated investments following
this approach canrehabilitatedegraded watersheds andleadto increasedagricultural productivity.

50.      Reduced isolation and improved market integration. The safety nets activities will
contribute towards reducing isolation and improve access to public services. Although distances to
most services (such as health, education, food markets, and water supply) have declined,
remoteness still defines the lives o f many Ethiopians. Distance to food markets, water, health and
transport services are all highly significant determinants o f poverty11 and improved access to
infrastructure i s a critical factor for promoting economic growth.            Specific work on Ethiopia,
(Dercon, 2002), finds that access to road infrastructure i s a highly significant variable inexplaining
differing growthexperiences across villages. Through the public works activities, communities will
build rural feeder roads, construct and repair schools and health clinics, and improve the
availability o f drinking water. An overview o f public workfare programs in various countries has
highlighted the potential o f public workfare programs inthis regard. Inparticular, the Maharasthra
Employment Guarantee Scheme in India has contributed significantly to the growth o f irrigation
infrastructure andrural roads12.


ReintegrationBenefitsandImplementationRisks

50.      The main benefits of the proposed new safety net activities would be improved
reintegration prospects for veterans who have settled in food-insecure communities and an


"EthiopiaPovertyAssessment2004
'*Subbarao,  2003, and Dev, 1994

                                                13


enhancement o f the food security o f vulnerable households in these communities. The main risk
would be capacity constraints at different levels o f Government. This risk would be mitigated by
substantial capacity investments through the PSNP as well as intensive implementation support by
the World Bank.




                                 VI.    RECOMMENDATION
51.     IamsatisfiedthattheproposedmodificationsofCr.3437 complywiththeArticlesof
Agreement o f the Association, and recommend that the Executive Directors approve amending the
legal agreements for the credit inaccordance with the terms o f this memorandum. The amendments
to the Development Credit Agreement and the Project agreement will then be forwarded to the
Government o f the FederalDemocratic Republic o f Ethiopia for signing.


                                         14


                                                                   Attachment 1


                             RevisedProjectExpenditureTable

               Governmentof the FederalDemocraticRepublicof Ethiopia

                 EmergencyDemobilizationand ReintegrationProject

                              ProcurementandDisbursement

    A. Summary of ProposedProcurementArrangementsfor RemainingResources
                                     (SDRmillion)


                                             ProcurementMethod      TotalCost
                                                                     (including
           ExpenditureCategory            ICB       NCB     Other  contingencies)

 1. EligibleImportsrequiredfor PartA                                         0

 2. CivilWorks                             1.00      0.40      -08        1.48

 3. Goods

    a. Equipment& Furniture                1.10      0.50     0.46        1.96

    b. Vehicles                               0         0        0           0

4. Consultant Services, Training &                            1.07        1.07
    Audits

5. Operating Costs                                            0.27        0.27

6. Community PublicWorks Grants                               9.14       14.00

7. DirectSafety Net Grants to                                 9.14        2.29
Vulnerable Households


TOTAL*                                                                    21.7
   ofwhichIDA Financing                                                   21.3



*Total Cost include taxes and duties.

z 8
00 0   0
       2m
        3




0 0
v        0
         r-
d  8     m
       2




Y      a
v)

u
8
M
E  Ba
   Y   b
.I
Y
BE =I

   La
   2
vi w

..
d




Ch
?   0
3
3   z
3


                                                  17


                                                                                   Attachment 2


      DetailedDescriptionof the PartnershipArrangements of the Productive Safety Nets
                                              Component

 The safety nets component will be implemented through the implementation arrangements
 utilized for the implementation o f the Productive Safety Nets Project (PSNP), which i s itself a
 component o f the larger Food Security Program (FSP). Food security line agencies at every level
 o f Government will be accountable for the oversight and coordination o f the Program, with
 implementation of program activities being undertaken by woredas and kebeles, line
 ministry/agencies and other partners.


 Partnershiparrangements

 52.      Context. Ethiopia has had several years o f experience with multi-donor collaboration on
 single-sector support in Health, Education, and Roads Development Programs. In the last three
 years (the period o f CAS implementation), substantial progress has beenmade inharmonizing the
 Bank's programmatic support through the PRSC series and the multi-donor budget support.
 Moreover, the Government, the Bank and the donors have made significant progress in
 harmonizing due diligence and review processes required by Ethiopia's external partners. To
 align the due diligence processes with Government's planning and budget cycles, the traditional
 annual series o f Public Expenditure Reviews (PERs), Country Financial Accountability
 Assessments (CFAAs), and Country Procurement Assessment Reports (CPARs), are being
replaced by the Joint Budget and Aid Review (JBAR) and Annual Fiduciary Assessments
 (AFAs).

 53.     The PSNP was conceived within this context. The Rural Development and Vulnerability
working group o f the programmatichudget support donors, together with major donors in
humanitarian assistance joined the Government to form the Coalition for Food Security. The
PSNP has enjoyed strong commitment and support from these donors from the time it was
identified as a pillar of food security in Ethiopia. In their recent summit, the G-8 leaders
endorsed Ethiopia's PSNP as a key instrument for reducing hunger and food insecurity in
Ethiopia. They singled out the harmonized framework, spearheaded by the Coalition for Food
Security, as the entry point to their support.

54.      Financing. The program is co-financed by several donors, with strong representation
from the G-8 aid agencies. Currently, agencies that have stated their commitment include CIDA,
DCI, DFID, EU, USAID and WFP. At present, the EUand IDA are discussing modalities for co-
financing the Program. The common triggers for Phase I1o f the IDA APL may be usedby the EU
to provide budget support inthe future.

55.      Collaboration and movement towards a SWAP.                The Government and donor
commitment to the common framework to date has involved joint missions during concept
development and several stages o f program design, joint appraisal and provision of, and sharing
of, common technical assistance. Both food and grant donors support and finance a PSNP that is
integrated into a broader woreda development plan in order to improve the development
effectiveness o f the Program activities, especially those involving the public works sub-projects.
The goal o f donor partners over the medium-term i s to provide budget support for the financing
o f the program. To move towards such a financing instrument, there is a commitment to adopt

                                                18


common triggers. Inthe short-term, even though donor partners do not have a formal Sector Wide
Approach (SWAP), they are adopting a SWAP-like arrangement. This extends to the provision o f
technical assistance, commitment to a common financial and procurement procedures within the
framework o f JBAR and AFAs, and a coordinated dialogue with the Government o f Ethiopia.
Finally, a common framework in monitoring and evaluation i s being developed which will have
common sets o f actions and indicators.

56.      Joint supervision. Within the donor group, there i s a strong commitment to establishing
a mechanism for ensuring effective and coordinated support to program implementation. This
mechanism will be particularly critical during the transition phase where humanitarianrisk i s high
and institutional capacity i s being developed. Details o f this arrangement are being developed.
Options include donors jointly recruiting re gional representatives who will monitor and support
program implementation in recognized high-risk areas. These representatives would report to a
joint Government-Donor team. The continued efforts towards coordination and harmonization
willbe important to mitigate potential humanitarianriskassociated with the start-up o fthe PSNP.

57.     There i s equally strong commitment to undertake joint missions twice per year to review
progress in implementation on areas o f training and awareness creation, capacity building,
financial management, rapid response mechanisms, etc. Coordination between Government and
donors i s expected to be guided by a Memorandum o f Understanding.

                                                 19


                                                                                     Attachment3

                              FinancialManagementAssessment

 General
 The implementation arrangements for PSN will be usedto implement the safety net components
 o f EDRP. To this effect, the implementation manual and the financial management guideline will
 be equally applicable for the safety net components o f EDW.MoFED will be responsible for the
 overall financial management; and the FederalFood Security Bureau, the Regional Food Security
 Offices, and the Woreda Finance and Economic Development Offices will be responsible for
recording and reporting the financial transactions o f the safety net components o f EDRP.

 FundFlows arrangements
MoFED will open a US$ special account at the National Bank o f Ethiopia for the safety net
components o f EDRP. From time to time MoFED will transfer money from the SA in to the
pooled birr account as deemed necessary. Then transfer o f money from the pooled birr account to
FFSCB will follow the same procedures for PSN. MoFED will be responsible for the day-to-day
management o f the Special Account and the pooled Birr account.

Accounting System, AccountingPoliciesand Procedures
PSNuses the government accounting system, which i s double entry modified cash basis to record
and report the financial transaction o f the program. The government's accounting policies and
procedures applicable to PSN are also beingused. Inorder to align the government's accounting
system with PSN needs, a financial management guideline has been prepared. The guideline
follows the government accounting system, policies andprocedures as much as possible.

Since the safety net components of EDRP will follow the PSN financial guideline and also the
same implementingagencies o f the PSN will be involved in the safety components o f EDRP,
there i s no need to develop a new accounting system or develop new accounting policies and
procedures, what ever i s applicable for PSN will be applicable for the safety net components o f
EDRP.

ManagementReporting(FinancialManagementReports)
The RFSCOs and WoFEDs are responsible for reporting the uses o f funds transferred to them.
The FSCB requires monthly reports from all entities participating inthe implementation of PSN,
but fkom the practical point of view, quarterly reports are highlyrecommended. The FSCB will
prepare the quarterly reports based on the FM guideline developed for PSN. It will be the
responsibility of the FSCB to consolidate quarterly and annual reports and submit the same to
MoFED, including the safety component o f EDRP. The FSCB will also be responsible for
submitting consolidated annual accounts for external auditors and working with the external
auditors.

The Bank requires quarterly Financial MonitoringReports (FMRs) to be submitted45 days after
the end o f each quarter. These include financial, procurement and physical reports. Considering
the nature of the Program, the FSCB will send consolidated FMRs to the Bank, including the
safety components o f EDRP, on a semi-annual basis to be received 45 days after the end o f each
six months.

                                                        20



 Audit

 Internal Audit:
 MoFED has an inspection department performing post audit activities on assessing whether the
 budget utilizationis inline with the intendedpurposes. The staff ofthe inspection department are
 not adequate enough to conduct audits for all line ministries. The department does the audit (the
 audit will include the resources from EDRP) on a sample basis by assessing the risks in sector
 ministries. Each of the implementingagencies has an internal audit department that performs post
 audit activities on all the financial transactions o f the agencies.

 External Audit:
 According to the Ethiopian Constitution, the Office o f Federal Auditor General i s responsible for
 carrying out the audit o f all the financial transactions o f the federal government and subsidies to
 the regions. Each o f the regions has Regional Auditor General responsible for auditing financial
 transactions in the region. The Office o f Federal Auditor General usually delegates its
 responsibility mostly to the Audit Services Corporations, the government-owned audit firm, and
 insome cases to private audit firms to carry out the audit.

According to the new audit policy o f the Bank, the FSCB will prepare consolidated program
 accounts, including resources from EDRP, which include all the sources from donors and the
 government and related program expenditures, and the auditors will express a single opinion on
the consolidated program accounts. Considering the nature o f the Program, the audit reports
 should be submittedto the Bank ninemonths after the end o f each fiscal year, which ends on July
 7 o f each year.

Disbursements
Disbursement o f funds from the EDRP will exactly follow the PSN disbursement and
replenishment procedures. The details are as follow:

Money will be transferred from the Special Account (opened for safety net component o f EDRP)
into the pooled birr account at the Federal level. Transfer o f money from Federal to the regions
and from the regions to the woredas will be based on the annual woreda work plans and budgets.

The Bank will accept consolidated reports o f signed woreda confirmation as a basis for
replenishment ofthe SA. Once theregions receive confirmation ofreceipt of funds from woredas,
the RFSCO will consolidate receipts from the woredas and submit a request for replenishment to
the FSCB, for onward transmissionto the Bank for replenishment.

Since the proceeds o f EDRP will be transferred into the pooled birr account, the firm o f
accountants to be employed for PSNwill review the financial transactions at the woreda level to
ensure that the grants have beentransferredto eligible beneficiaries o f the Program.

These disbursement arrangements are authorized by the Bank on an exceptional basis given the
requirements imposed by the need to avoid disruption in the flow o f funds to extremely
vulnerable beneficiaries and the delays in getting regular utilization reports from lower levels.
The recognition o f disbursement on confirmation from woredas o f receipt o f program funds
transferred from the regions i s made only for replenishment purposes. Reporting and auditing
requirements specified in the PIM and the PAD o f PSN are also applicable for the safety net
components o f EDRP. In particular, the FMRs and audit reports on the annual accounts o f the

                                                   21


Program must be submitted within the requiredtime, Woredas will submit regular reports to the
regions, and regions to FSCB.

To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures under EDRP, MoFED will establish a
new Special Account in the National Bank o f Ethiopia. In order to meet the demands of the
borrower, the Bank will deposit an initial deposit o f US$8 million into the new Special Account
immediately after the amendment o f EDRP Development Credit Agreement. The D C A o f the
EDRPwill be amended to reflect the opening of the new SA and also to establish the authorized
allocation o f the SA. MoFED will submit replenishmentapplications at least once a month.

Conclusion
The evaluation above indicates that the financial management arrangements for the safety net
components o f EDRP satisfy the Bank's minimumrequirements under OP/BP10.02. The project
financial management risk is assessed as beingsubstantial.


                                                     22


                                                                                  Attachment4

                                          Procurement

General

58. Procurement for the new component would be carried out in accordance with the World
     Bank's "Guidelines: Procurementunder IBRDLoans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and
     "Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated
    May 2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Development Credit Agreement. The various
     items under differentexpenditure categories are described ingeneral below. For each contract
    to be financed by the Credit, the different procurement methods or consultant selection
    methods, the need for pre-qualification, estimated costs, and time frame have been agreed
    between the Borrower and the Bank in the Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be
    updated at least annually or as requiredto reflect the actual project implementation needs and
    improvements ininstitutional capacity.

ProcurementEnvironment

59. Procurement would be conducted at Federal, Regional and Woreda level by the following the
    procedures o f the PSN project. The Woreda Technical Team would be responsible for the
    public works and small value goods following shopping and community procurement
    procedures at woreda level as appropriate. The Regional BOARD will be responsible for
    procurement o f goods for its own needs and those that are not available at competitive prices
    at Woreda level following National Competitive Bidding(NCB) and shopping procedures for
    goods that are available within the Region. The Federal MOARD will be responsible for
    handling large value procurements at International and National level and procurement of
    goods that are not available at Regional and Woreda Level. In addition consultant services
    shall be carried out by the FederalMOARD.

60. The Procurement Implementation arrangement for the PSN project would be used for
    implementingprocurement activities under the safety net component of EDRP. The Project
    Implementation Manual (PIM) and the Procurement Procedures for the Safety Net Project
    would be applicable for the component.


ProcurementofWorks


61. Labor Intensive Public works, subprojects to be undertaken at the kebele (sub-district) level,
    with direct participation of the beneficiaries will form the major part of the procurement
    under the safety net component, The subprojects will include small scale, labor intensive
    interventions such as hillside terracing, land reclamation, improvement o f roads or bridges,
    improved access to water, or repair o f health facilities etc.

Procurementof Goods:

62. Goods would include items required as part o f Institutional support and tools and materials
   requiredto perform works at community level. The procedures of the PSNP would be used
    for the procurement o f the goods. ICB would be used for contracts costing more than USD

                                                  23


    200,000. Packages less than US$200,000 may be procured using NCB. For packages less
    than US$50,000 procurement can be done following shoppingprocedures.

Selectionof Consultants:                                                                 \




63, Consultant Services shall include provision o f training activities, development o f monitoring
    and evaluation framework, MIS and conducting surveys. The selection o f consultants shall be
    carried out following the procedures o f PSN Project. All contracts for consultant firms
    estimated to cost more than US$ 100,000 will be selected on Quality and Cost Based
    Selection (QCBS) method. Short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than
    US$200,000 equivalent per contract may be composed entirely o f national consultants.
    Services estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO may be procured by using Selection Based
    on Consultants Qualifications (SBCQ). Individual consultants will be selected in accordance
    with SectionV of the Guidelines.

Training.

64. Training activities to building the capacity at community level in program implementation
    and project monitoring would be conducted. The training providers would be selected
    through a competitive process following the Guidelines.

Procurement Capacity

65. Procurement capacity assessment for the Procurement Unit o f MoARD and other
    Implementing Agencies were conducted during the preparation o f the PSN Project. It was
    noted that there was limited capacity at Regional and Woreda level although the there was
    some capacity at the Federal level. Based on the finding o f the review and agreed actions a
    procurement procedures manual has been prepared and activities are currently ongoing to
    conduct procurement training at various levels under the PSNP. The experience with PSNP
    within the last year has however shown that procurement capacity is still a matter for
    concern, and it is thus rated as substantial.

Procurement Planning

66. The 18 month procurement plan for the Safety Net activities and the Institutional Support
    activities - excluding the procurement and public works to be conducted at community - i s
    under preparation. The procurement plan will be integrated in the procurement plan o f the
   PSNproject.

