                                          Document of
                                       The World Bank



                                                              Report No: ICR0000636




                IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                    (IDA-34370 IDA-3437A)




                                            ON A

                                           CREDIT

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 133.7 MILLION

                              (US$170 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                           TO THE

                    FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA

                                           FOR AN

          EMERGENCY DEMOBILIZATION AND REINTEGRATION PROJECT




                                      December 21, 2007




Sustainable Development Department
Fragile States, Conflict and Social Development Department
Africa Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective November 29, 2007)

                                      Currency Unit
                                  Birr 1.00 = US$ 0.11
                                  US$1.00 = Birr 9.0405

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                      July 8 ­ July 7

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
DC     Demobilization Center
DCA    Development Credit Agreement
DRP    Demobilization and Reintegration Project
EDRP   Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project
ENDF   Ethiopian National Defense Forces
ERP    Emergency Recovery Project
FPMU   Federal Project Management Unit
GoE    Government of Ethiopia
ICAS   Interim Country Assistance Strategy
ICR    Implementation Completion and Results Report
ICRC   International Committee of the Red Cross
ISS    Interim Support Strategy
M&E    Monitoring and Evaluation
MoFED  Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
MoLSA  Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs
MoND   Ministry of National Defense
MIS    Management Information System
MTR    Mid-Term Review
NRC    National Rehabilitation Center
PDO    Project Development Objective
POC    Prosthetic Orthotic Center
PRSC   Poverty Reduction Sector Credit
PSNP   Productive Safety Net Programme
RG     Reintegration Grant
RPMU   Regional Project Management Unit
SDPRP  Sustainable Development Poverty Reduction Programme
TSS    Transitional Subsistence Support
UNMEE  United Nations Mission to Eritrea and Ethiopia
VCT    Voluntary Counseling and Testing


            Vice President:                  Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
            Country Director:                Kenichi Ohashi
            Sector Manager:                  Ian Bannon
            Project Team Leader:             Ingo Wiederhofer
            ICR Team Leader:                 Malathi Jayawickrama

                                                            Ethiopia
                      Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project




                                                        CONTENTS


1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design....................................................................1

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ...................................................................4

3. Assessment of Outcomes.................................................................................................................8

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome .............................................................................14

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..........................................................................15

6. Lessons Learned ............................................................................................................................17

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners................................19

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing...............................................................................................20

Annex 2. Outputs by Component ......................................................................................................21

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis......................................................................................29

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes..................................30

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results................................................................................................32

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results........................................................................38

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ....................................... 40-

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders............................................40

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents...........................................................................................41

A. Basic Information

                                                                      ET-Demob & Reinteg
Country:                Ethiopia               Project Name:
                                                                      ERL (FY01)
Project ID:             P073196                L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-34370,IDA-3437A
ICR Date:               12/22/2007             ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                      GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     ERL                    Borrower:
                                                                      ETHIOPIA
Original Total
                        XDR 133.7M             Disbursed Amount:      XDR 127.8M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Federal Project Management Unit
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/25/2000     Effectiveness:         02/22/2001        02/22/2001
Appraisal:             10/04/2000     Restructuring(s):                        07/24/2003
Approval:              12/05/2000     Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:               12/31/2003        06/30/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Highly Satisfactory    Government:            Highly Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory           Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory           Performance:           Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators              (if any)              Rating

Potential Problem Project No                   Quality at Entry      None


                                               i

at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                         No                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                         Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other social services                                         100                100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction          Primary           Primary
Social safety nets                                            Primary           Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:          Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili         Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:        Kenichi Ohashi                     Oey Astra Meesook
Sector Manager:          Ian Bannon                         Arvil Van Adams
Project Team Leader:     Ingo Wiederhofer                   Florian Fichtl
ICR Team Leader:         Malathi S. Jayawickrama
ICR Primary Author:



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objectives of the project are to: (i) demobilize and reintegrate 150,000 veterans; and
(ii) support macro-economic stability in the country. The Project includes a quick
disbursing mechanism that uses a positive list of emergency imports to generate
counterpart funds to finance rapid project implementation.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                               ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
                                             approval           Target        Completion or
                                            documents)          Values         Target Years
                1. Demobilization: Number of veterans demobilized in the first phase (Dec. 2000
Indicator 1 :   - Dec 2001);

Value
quantitative or 0                        60,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/15/2001                 12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   2. Demobilization : Number of veterans demobilized in the second phase
Value
quantitative or 0                        90,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/15/2001                 12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   3. Number of Veterans who have received HIV/AIDS counseling.
Value
quantitative or 0                        75%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/15/2001                 12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from                        Achieved at
                                             approval           Revised        Completion or
                                            documents)      Target Values      Target Years
                4. Reinsertion: Number of Transitional Subsistence Support payments made to
Indicator 1 :   Veterans.

Value
(quantitative   0                        100% of those

or Qualitative)                          demobilized

Date achieved 12/15/2001                 12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %



                                             iii

achievement)
               5. Reintegration: Number of Veterans who have received economic reintegration
Indicator 2 :  assistance

Value
(quantitative  0                           100% of those

or Qualitative)                            demobilized

Date achieved 12/15/2001                   12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 3 :  6. Reintegration: Number of disabled Veterans who have received medical
               rehabilitation assistance (to be confirmed through sample survey)
Value
(quantitative  0                           80%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/15/2001                   12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :  7. Reintegration: Employment status of Veterans.
Value
(quantitative  0                           60% employed
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/15/2001                   12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                          IP             Disbursements
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     06/14/2001           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                27.52
  2     01/04/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                60.51
  3     06/17/2002       Highly Satisfactory            Satisfactory               100.09
  4     12/17/2002       Highly Satisfactory            Satisfactory               123.78
  5     06/10/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory               124.75
  6     11/26/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory               125.49
  7     05/26/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory               142.29
  8     10/27/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory               143.38
  9     05/23/2005           Satisfactory               Satisfactory               144.83
  10    12/19/2005           Satisfactory               Satisfactory               145.35
  11    06/19/2006           Satisfactory               Satisfactory               154.41
  12    12/14/2006           Satisfactory               Satisfactory               163.04
  13    06/14/2007           Satisfactory               Satisfactory               168.76



                                                iv

H. Restructuring (if any)

                          ISR Ratings at  Amount

Restructuring    Board    Restructuring Disbursed at  Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)     Approved                 Restructuring
              PDO Change                                  Key Changes Made
                           DO     IP      in USD
                                          millions
                                                     Restructuring was to allocate
                                                     US$35m of EDRP resources to
  07/24/2003        N       S      S        124.87   provide supplemental financing
                                                     to ERP-- a sister project to
                                                     EDRP.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                       v

                 1. PROJECT CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      The armed conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea erupted along their common border in
May 1998 and continued for two years, displacing about 364,000 people in Ethiopia and either
destroying or damaging infrastructure, including bridges and power supply in both countries. In
Ethiopia, ninety two percent of the internally displaced were in the Tigray Region and the remainder in
the Afar Region. About 110,000 people of Ethiopian origin who had been residing in Eritrea were
deported to Ethiopia, with the majority depending on state support upon their return. An estimated
36,000 Ethiopian households lost their main breadwinner during the war. Both countries significantly
increased the size of their respective armies in the course of the conflict.

2.      As a result of the war, Ethiopia's economy faced severe internal and external imbalances.
Defense spending, which had reached a low of 2.5 percent of GDP in 1996-97, rose to 8.7 percent in
1998-99, and to as high as 13.3 percent in 1999-2000. The fiscal deficit rose to 6.9 percent in 1998-99
and to almost 12 percent in 1999-00. Ethiopia had financed its defense expenditures largely through cuts
in discretionary recurrent expenditure and capital expenditure. The latter, which had steadily grown to
10.4 percent in 1996-97, slipped to 6.7 percent by 1999-2000. Foreign exchange reserves declined by
nearly US$100 million between 1998-99 and 1999-2000 to two months, or below the minimum level
required for the country to withstand an external shock. Investor confidence and private sector activity,
which had already been eroded by the burden of the conflict, economic uncertainty, and balance of
payments constraints, was further impaired as the Government tried to prevent a sharp depreciation of the
exchange rate through a number of controls and non-price barriers.

3.      On June 18, 2000, the two governments signed an Agreement on the Cessation of Hostilities.
In late June, the Government of Ethiopia (GoE) sought Bank assistance, on an emergency basis, to
finance a comprehensive post-conflict recovery program. The Bank's objective was to help Ethiopia
deal as quickly as possible with the human, material and financial destabilization caused by the war, while
simultaneously reengaging in core development issues. Bank support, articulated in the Interim Support
Strategy (ISS) to help Ethiopia in the two years following the war, complemented activities of other
international stakeholders who were also engaged in facilitating the peace process. The ISS included four
emergency operations totalling US$700 million.1 The overall recovery program sought to demobilize and
reintegrate veterans, rehabilitate and reconstruct infrastructure, facilitate the return of displaced civilians
and deportees, and stabilize the economy.

4.      The EDRP, in particular, was designed to link demobilization of veterans to reintegration
needs in order to ensure sustainable social and economic reintegration, and help free up public
resources for investment in the productive sectors. The EDRP was also expected to help GoE
demonstrate its commitment to the peace process. Bank involvement was justified by the timing of the
project and the amount of resources, its previous experience in financing demobilization and reintegration
projects (DRPs), the need to monitor the macroeconomic impact of the recovery program, and its
commitment to be responsive to a client appeal for emergency aid and poverty reduction.




1The four operations were: the EDRP (US$170 million); the Emergency Recovery Project (US$230 million); the
Emergency Support Credit (US$250 million); and the Fertilizer Supplemental Credit (US$50 million). The Bank's
Board approved the ISS (Report No. 21189-ET) and the EDRP on December 5, 2000.


                                                       1

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

5.      The Project's objectives were to assist GoE to: (i) demobilize and reintegrate 150,000 veterans;
and (ii) support macroeconomic stability.
Demobilization and reintegration involved:
    · helping an estimated 133,000 able-bodied veterans and 17,000 disabled veterans to rebuild their
         lives and resume productive economic activities;
    · rehabilitating about 17,000 disabled veterans through the provision of medical services;
    · facilitating the reallocation of public resources to priority social and infrastructure investments by
         reducing defense expenditures.

                                   Table 1: Key Performance Indicators

Component                                      Key Performance Indicator
Demobilization    · Demobilize about 60,000 veterans in Phase I and 90,000 veterans in phase II
                  · Number of veterans who have received HIV/AIDS counseling

Reinsertion       · Number of transitional Subsistence Support (TSS) payments made to veterans
Reintegration     · Number of disabled veterans who have received medical rehabilitation assistance
                  · Employment status of veterans.


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification. No revision.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries.

6.      The primary target group comprised 150,000 veterans (133,000 able-bodied veterans and 17,000
disabled veterans). As a special target group, about 17,000 disabled veterans, who otherwise would be
largely dependent on Government and traditional support systems, were to receive rehabilitation support.

1.5 Original Components

7.      The project had three components: (i) demobilization; (ii) reinsertion; and (iii) reintegration of
veterans, plus special rehabilitation assistance to disabled veterans.

8.      Demobilization of Veterans (US$32.5 million) involved the process of transforming the identity
of military personnel to civilian status, and was to take place in two phases: Phase I (60,000, including
17,000 disabled veterans); and Phase II (90,000 veterans). Demobilization entailed: (a) establishment of
Demobilization Centers (DCs); (b) transport of veterans from collection points to the centers; (c) activities
such as registration, provision of identity cards, collection of socio-economic data, and health screening
and counseling (including HIV/AIDS Voluntary Counselling and Testing (VCT); (d) transport to the
veterans' area of origin; and (e) provision of a transport allowance to facilitate the veterans' return to their
home communities.

9.      Reinsertion (US$57.1 million) was to facilitate the veterans' reinsertion into their communities
through the payment of Transitional Subsistence Support (TSS) cash grants of Birr 2,000 in the form of
coupons. The TSS was the cash equivalent of a defined basket of basic goods and services designed to
enable the beneficiary family unit to re-establish a civilian household. The basket consisted of goods
such as household items, clothing and cooking utensils and made provision for children's education. The



                                                       2

TSS was calculated for a transitional period of 12 months and was to be provided in three installments.
The regional Finance Bureaus, through the woreda administration, were expected to pay the TSS once
veterans had relocated to their homes. The first payment was to be made within one month of the
veterans' return.

10.     Economic Reintegration (US$84.5 million) was to commence after veterans had exchanged their
coupons into the TSS at woreda level. Reintegration activities were designed at the regional level based
on the socio-economic profile of the veterans (obtained at the DCs) and locally available opportunities. A
menu of options to support the economic reintegration of veterans was to be provided in urban and rural
areas. This included upgrading of skills through training or apprenticeship schemes, provision of
employment opportunities through referral services or grants to employers, and provision of micro-
projects or selected agricultural inputs. Ideally after six months all veterans were entitled to receive the
reintegration grant (RG) that varied from Birr 2,000 to Birr 6,000 depending on the category of
recruitment status (militia, new regular, returnee, regular) for able-bodied veterans. Disabled veterans
were eligible for additional financial assistance (up to Birr 11,000 for the severely disabled). TSS and RG
assistance was provided in cash to minimize market distortions and maximize the choice of the recipients.

11.     Reintegration also planned to provide substantial medical support to veterans with severe injuries.
This included rehabilitating and equipping five regional prosthetic orthotic centers (POCs) and the
construction of a new National Rehabilitation Center (NRC) in Addis Ababa. EDRP was also to finance
training of prosthetic-orthotic technicians and physiotherapists.

1.6 Revised Components

12.     A new Productive Safety Net Grant (PSNG) component was added to EDRP and approved
by the Board on a non-objection basis on December 7, 2005 (see Section 2.2). By November 2005,
EDRP had estimated cost savings of US$40.4 million.2 GoE requested restructuring EDRP to utilize the
savings to finance supplementary reintegration assistance to food insecure woredas, in which an estimated
85,000 demobilized veterans (58 percent) had settled. GoE was concerned that the lack of food security
in these communities, further aggravated by the major drought of 2002/03, would compromise sustainable
reintegration. The additional investments sought to enhance sustainability by financing: (i) labor-
intensive public works--grants to households whose adults participate in public works sub-projects at the
community level; and (ii) direct support-- grants to households who are labor-poor and cannot undertake
public works. The new component was implemented within the framework of an ongoing project--the
Productive Safety Nets Project (PSNP), approved by the Board on November 3, 2004.

1.7 Other significant changes

13.     The project's DCA dated December 21, 2000 was amended three times. On August 2, 2001,
the DCA, including Schedule 3, was amended to permit additional procurement methods. In June 2003,
EDRP was restructured and on July 24, 2003, the Bank accorded a second amendment in response to a
GoE request to utilize US$35 million of EDRP resources to provide supplemental financing to the
Economic Recovery Project (ERP, Cr. 3438-ET) to: (i) finance income generating activities and
household rehabilitation activities for 29,000 deportees and internally displaced persons; (ii) reconstruct
homes and businesses in Zalanbessa; and (iii) finance eligible expenditures under the Mille-Assab road



2Cost savings were a result of: (i) lower than planned costs of demobilization and reintegration, especially with
respect to demobilization, civil works, technical assistance and operating expenses; (ii) non-utilization of US$16
million reallocated from the EDRP to finance ERP activities in June 2003; and (iii) significant exchange rate gains.




                                                           3

contract that was financed under the first IDA-financed Roads Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2438-ET). The
second amendment involved revising Schedules 1 and 2, however, it did not require Board approval as
these were related activities under ERP--a sister project to EDRP (ERP ICR Report No.ICR350). By
November 2005, US$16 million of the amount allocated for activities agreed in the second amendment
was unutilized, and was reallocated to the new PSNG component. This modification required an
amendment of the project description, procurement, Schedule 1 (Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the
Credit), implementation arrangements, the financial covenants of the DCA, and also required Board
approval (as discussed in Section 1.6 above).

                  2. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

14.      GoE was strongly committed to the peace process, and had started planning for
demobilization soon after signing the Agreement in June 2000. This helped to prepare EDRP in a
brief time period of about four months. During preparation, the Government's Technical Team on
demobilization and reintegration, under the overall guidance of the Deputy Prime Minister, collaborated
closely with the Bank team in fine-tuning the project's design. This collaborative spirit prevailed
throughout the project.

15.      Several factors contributed to EDRP's sound design: (i) the Bank had substantial experience
and had identified best practices in preparing and financing DRPs in several countries;3 (ii) GoE also had
significant knowledge from implementing the demobilization of over 400,000 veterans following the
conclusion of the civil war in 1991;4 and (iii) GoE had findings from a pilot demobilization of over
10,000 veterans, started in December 2000, to test the resilience and utility of proposed EDRP systems
and procedures. GoE was flexible and modified the pilot's design, and took on board lessons for
improving Phase I demobilization.

16.      The project incorporated key recommendations from previous operations, such as the need
to: (i) support the full transition from demobilization to reinsertion and reintegration to achieve the
primary objectives; (ii) provide identification documents and collect socio-economic data during
demobilization; (iii) provide a short-term social safety net to veterans (i.e. TSS payment), to assist in
reinsertion; (iv) provide training, and information and referral systems to link veterans to local
employment opportunities; and (v) decentralize implementation of reintegration assistance. During
appraisal, GoE also highlighted the need to take comprehensive measures to reduce the risk of spreading
HIV/AIDS. EDRP's three components fully supported the transition from demobilization to
reintegration and were well linked to the PDOs.

17.      The project's risk assessment was satisfactory. The resumption of hostilities or delays in the
peace process was seen as the main external risk. However, both countries had adhered to the



3These include projects in Angola, Bosnia, Cambodia, Chad, Djibouti, Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique, Rwanda,
Sierra Leone and Uganda.
4A detailed analysis of the 1991/92 project for the demobilization of about 450,000 ex-Derg soldiers was at hand in
a World Bank Study of 1996 (Case Studies in War-to-Peace Transition: The Demobilization and Reintegration of
Ex-Combatants in Ethiopia, by N.J. Colleta, M. Kostner, I. Wiederhofer). GoE also had relevant documents from a
demobilization program implemented between 1996 and 1998. In addition, a UN-document was available--
Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration of Ex-Combatants in a Peace-keeping Environment, Principles and
Guidelines, Lessons Learned Unit, N.Y. 1999.



                                                        4

Agreement, and there was an ongoing deployment of UN observers in advance of the full peacekeeping
force (United Nations Mission to Eritrea and Ethiopia, UNMEE). This was expected to lower the risk
considerably. The DCA, however, included a provision for suspending the project if necessary. Also,
IDA and the IMF agreed to monitor government expenditures under the IMF program and the Bank's
planned balance of payment support to verify a reduction in defense expenditures.

18.     Weak implementation capacity and the expected rapid pace of demobilization presented the
main project risks, and related to: (i) the misuse of project funds; (ii) the possibility of leakages in
reinsertion and reintegration cash payments; and (iii) the likelihood of accelerating the spread of
HIV/AIDS via demobilization. EDRP took steps to mitigate (i) and (ii) by: establishing a dedicated
Federal Project Management Units (FPMU) and Regional Project Management Units (RPMUs); and
using existing implementation structures. The FPMU was responsible for central program coordination,
while the regions conducted the day-to-day reintegration assistance operations of the project. The
strategy to channel support programs through existing structures was not only cost effective, but also
facilitated experience- and problem-sharing between the FPMU/RPMUs and government sector agencies
at the federal and regional levels, and helped in the efficiency (timeliness, ease of access) of TSS and RG
payments. EDRP had robust safeguards to prevent direct abuse of project resources and possible leakages
of cash payments: first, there was a comprehensive internal system of verification at the zonal level and
below via the use of coupons; second, the Management Information System (MIS) contained a
comprehensive beneficiary list, and RPMUs were required to provide timely information on the status of
payments; and third, regular ex-post verification of random beneficiary samples were to be conducted by
independent experts. These measures contributed to effective implementation.

19.     EDRP included steps to address the risk of spreading HIV/AIDS via demobilization--risks
that had been documented in other countries. The assembly of veterans in DCs provided the
opportunity to HIV/AIDS VCT. During the pilot phase, GoE evaluated the proposed counseling and
testing procedures and made adjustments to project design and implementation arrangements to improve
the quality of these services. VCT helped to increase awareness about HIV/AIDS prior to veterans
returning home, and determine their HIV serostatus on a voluntary basis. VCT not only became an
integral part of EDRP, but also paved the way to further prevention, care and support of veterans who
tested positive. The project linked to the Ethiopia Multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS Project (EMSAP, US$60m,
September, 2000) during the reinsertion and reintegration phases to ensure sustained support to the HIV
seropositive veterans after return to their communities.

20.     EDRP's design had two weaknesses: (i) the M&E was primarily geared towards measuring
outputs (numbers demobilized/assisted, payments made) rather than program outcomes, and may
have hampered the ability of the program to track reintegration outcomes in a sufficiently timely and
rigorous manner; and (ii) the sequencing of training and payments.           The M&E design may be
attributed to the fact that EDRP was designed to support a process. The project's KPIs and data collected
in the MIS were realistic and measurable. However, given that the project's specific objectives also
aimed to help veterans "rebuild their lives and resume productive economic activities", the M&E system
should have incorporated ongoing baseline socio-economic data and measurable outcome indicators to
capture veterans' livelihoods over time.5 The DCA required a final project evaluation, and the teams also
agreed to conduct several studies as part of the M&E program to shed light on outcomes (Section 3.2).
The vocational and business training activities--an integral part of EDRP, could have been better designed.
The timing of payment of the second RGs should have linked to the timing of training for those veterans
interested in such training, to help them to make use of their second installment (Birr 2,000 or above) to



5This is not peculiar to Ethiopia. Such benchmarks are rare in DRPs developed at the time. (Beneficiary
Assessment, p. 29)


                                                        5

establish themselves in productive activities related to the training. Failure to link these contributed to a
number of veterans expending these resources before training activities were initiated (Section 6).

2.2 Implementation

21.     Favorable Factors. GoE was familiar with the procurement arrangements required for the
quick-disbursing component (US$120 million). These were sufficiently flexible to allow for full
disbursement for financing this component within two years of project effectiveness.
Implementation arrangements for the TSS and RG component through the woreda finance offices
were also effective and efficient. GoE ensured the deployment of capable staff to facilitate project
implementation at both federal and regional levels. The MoND was committed to completing
demobilization activities rapidly. The demobilization phase of the project was completed by
December 2002. Furthermore, GoE was able to disburse reinsertion and reintegration assistance to
able-bodied veterans in a timely manner, enabling the project to complete reintegration assistance
activities to able-bodied veterans by December 2004.

22.     Unfavorable Factors. A few areas of weakness marked program implementation: (i) lines of
accountability and reporting between the FPMU/EDRP and various regional and woreda authorities
were not sufficiently robust. Several regional and other local authorities created expectations
regarding complementary reintegration assistance activities and/or implemented some of these. Yet,
given the decentralized nature of these activities, overall oversight, quality control and evaluation
were inadequate. The reported discrepancy between veterans' perceptions of what they were
promised versus what they received underlines the importance of consistent communication and the
management of expectations across all levels of Government to reduce the risk of beneficiary
dissatisfaction; (ii) the turnover of FPMU/EDRP managers created information gaps in some areas;
(iii) limited procurement capacity in the FPMU/EDRP led to delays in the completion of civil works
rehabilitation activities in the NRC and the POCs; (iv) weak reporting systems from woreda finance
offices up to MoFED led to delays in the reconciliation of TSS and RG payments; and (v) the M&E
system, while initially sound, was neglected in the final three years of implementation, which
focused largely on the provision of assistance to disabled veterans. There was only limited evaluation
of process, cost and output/impact data during this time.

23.     Mid-Term Review (MTR) and Restructuring. The MTR and restructuring were not in response to
project implementation problems (Sections 1.6 - 1.7). The MTR consisted of a Government
commissioned external MTR Report that largely confirmed the successful demobilization and good
progress in the reintegration of veterans.6

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

24.     Design. The KPIs were largely focused on assessing project outputs without seeking to
establish an explicit causal relationship between these indicators and the PDOs. The collection of
process-oriented data with a qualitative focus would have provided the FPMU with timely information on
progress, obstacles and effectiveness of EDRP assistance. Supervision missions highlighted these issues
(February 2002), and their recommendations were followed to a certain degree, but it became clear that
the initial design did not sufficiently allow for assessing program outcomes, particularly with respect to




6Mid-Term Review of Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project, Final Report, Development Studies
Associates (DSA), Addis Ababa, July 2003.


                                                       6

the medium-term social and economic reintegration of veterans. As mentioned, several assessment
studies shed light on outcomes; however, these were done towards the very end of the project in 2007.

25.     M&E Implementation. Measurement of the agreed indicators was quite effective during the
period 2001­2004, during which the project established a comprehensive MIS, and the M&E unit
conducted a number of statistically robust payment verification surveys, as required in the DCA.
Program reporting has also been reliable, with quarterly and annual progress reports submitted to GoE
and the Bank in a timely manner. However, M&E activities have been less robust after 2004, when the
provision of targeted reintegration assistance for able-bodied veterans came to an end, and M&E program
staff departed. For example, M&E of the provision of medical rehabilitation services to disabled veterans
has been uneven, with incomplete information on the numbers receiving rehabilitation assistance and the
quality of the services provided.

26.     Perhaps the single-most significant weakness in the design and execution of M&E was the
lack of a program-wide results framework to assess progress toward full reintegration of the target
population, as well as to assess what types of activities were contributing most to this goal. The
M&E unit made efforts to develop a conceptual framework and indicator map to fill this gap, but a major
challenge remained in terms of not only educating field staff on how to define and measure success, but
also in how to translate the conceptual design into practical field activities and useful analyses for
management and planning purposes. Another weakness in M&E was the lack of details of the diverse
forms of complementary economic reintegration assistance provided by regional and local governments
across the country (i.e. land for housing and businesses, business licenses, training and employment)
within the framework of the program, but outside of IDA financing. This hampered the learning and
adoption of positive and negative lessons across the program.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

27.     Overall, the project presented no significant safeguard or fiduciary compliance issues.
EDRP was initially classified as environmental category C and as such anticipated no compliance issues.
Such a classification is not uncommon to DRPs where reintegration activities (the one component that
may warrant safeguards consideration) are usually small-scale and ex-combatant populations are widely
dispersed. This was particularly the case in Ethiopia where regular reintegration support took the form of
cash payments and limited training.7

28.     Activities added to the project design after original approval--construction and operation of the
NRC-- however, did pose unanticipated potential safeguard problems. Nonetheless, the consultant who
supervised the new works indicated that EDRP: (i) abided by Bank environmental concerns and
safeguards in constructing NRC; (ii) built well-designed medical waste collection facilities; and (iii) made
the recommended construction changes to help ensure better accessibility.

29.     EDRP was reclassified as a category B following its restructuring to support ERP in 2003 due to
potential environmental impacts of ERP's housing and community infrastructure restructuring.
Nonetheless, an ESA conducted during the first year of the ERP found "no appreciable negative



         7 On the other hand, regional governments provided additional reintegration support to approximately
114,000 veterans (such as agriculture extension or provision of land) that may have warranted further environmental
or social assessment. However, as these were not financed under EDRP, there would have been limited scope to
apply Bank safeguard concerns. Furthermore, given that the veteran population did not exceed 0.4 percent of any
region's total population (except in Tigray where the estimated population was around 1.5 percent of the total
population), any possible negative impacts would have been marginal.


                                                          7

environmental and social impacts". These findings are confirmed in the ICR for the ERP (Report No.
ICR350, June 21, 2007).

30.     Fiduciary systems and controls were sound and were consistently rated satisfactory. EDRP
included special arrangements to ensure that both fast-disbursing tranche payments were used according
to the DCA, and that cash-payments were reaching the intended beneficiaries in a timely manner. Regular
statistically valid beneficiary surveys confirmed the receipt of these payments by beneficiaries. The only
serious issue noted by both FMS and independent auditors were the delays in reconciling outstanding
advances to regional offices. While such advances, made primarily for TSS payments, have been
progressively retired over the final course of the project, an outstanding balance of approximately
US$817,000 (7.1m Birr) remained at the time of project closing. GoE is committed to accounting for this
balance. There were some procurement delays related to critical operational equipment for the NRC and
POCs, which delayed start-up of these facilities. There were no other serious procurement issues.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

31.     Physical Rehabilitation Services: Continued effectiveness of POCs and NRC will require
allocation of sufficient budgets to pay and train technical and managerial personnel, procure material and
maintain equipment, and maintain the facilities. With respect to the NRC, MoLSA, the Ministry of
Education (MoE) and MoFED signed a tripartite Memorandum of Understanding outlining the
responsibilities of each stakeholder in advance. MoE is to ensure the management of the facility through
the Black Lion Hospital, to which NRC is affiliated, and MoFED is to ensure adequate budget for NRC's
operation and maintenance. FPMU/EDRP of MoLSA completed a study that provided a detailed
roadmap for operationalizing the NRC. GoE also established a Steering Committee comprising key
stakeholders to ensure the full functioning of NRC. To maximize the potential of NRC, the study
recommends that GoE seek a long-term partnership with an experienced international university or
teaching institution in the field of physical rehabilitation.

32.     The FPMU/EDRP of MoLSA also commissioned an assessment of the financial and clinical
sustainability of the five POCs. Long-term sustainability would be best secured by developing a national
policy framework and strategy for the physical rehabilitation sector. FPMU/EDRP has prepared a
proposal to guarantee adequate resources, and to develop such a strategy to provide systematic long-term
treatment for persons with disabilities in Ethiopia.


                                      3. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

33.     EDRP's objectives remain highly relevant under Ethiopia's development priorities set out in
the Plan for Accelerated and Sustained Development to End Poverty--PASDEP, 2005-2010 and the
Bank's Interim CAS, FY06-07. The PASDEP builds on GoE's Sustainable Development and Poverty
Reduction Program (SDPRP, July 2002) to sustain post-war economic reforms, accelerate growth,
distribute gains to poor people, alleviate food insecurity, and boost private sector development. The CAS
also emphasizes provision of basic services to the poor and the vulnerable and promoting pro-poor growth.

34.     The purpose of EDRP was to release human and financial resources from the military to
economic development and thereby reduce poverty. The project initially supported a safety net for
veterans, followed by targeted economic reintegration assistance. This continues to make a positive
contribution to veterans, their families and communities, and create an indirect demand for goods and
services in local areas. The positive effects of additional money flows on the production environment in



                                                        8

rural areas seem to outweigh any negative effects (EDRP Final Evaluation, 2007). Overall, EDRP has
provided GoE with the means to initiate the social and economic recovery following war-related setbacks
by: (i) helping veterans to rebuild their lives and resume economic activities; (ii) helping to redirect
defense expenditures to productive sectors; and (iii) facilitating private sector confidence and sustainable
economic growth (Section 3.2). These goals remain relevant.

35.     Other project objectives/components relevant to Ethiopia's current priorities include:
· raising HIV/AIDS awareness in veterans, their families and in the general community through the
    provision of extensive education, testing and treatment;
· enhancing food security through the Safety Net Grant Component under PSNP. PSNP is a key part of
    GoE's Food Security Program, within the framework of PASDEP, which is helping Ethiopia move
    towards the MDGs; and
· strengthening the meager medical rehabilitation facilities to provide better care not only to disabled
    veterans, but also to other persons with disabilities.

Achievement of Project Development Objectives

36.     Section 1.2 lists the project's PDOs and KPIs. With reintegration gaining worldwide attention,
there is considerable debate about what reintegration is, how to measure it, and when to consider it
`successful'. The UN Integrated DDR Standards (IDDRS, 2006) defines reintegration as the process by
which ex-combatants acquire civilian status and gain sustainable employment and income. Reintegration,
however, consists of social and political elements, and is not simply about restoring income levels to pre-
mobilization levels.8 Although EDRP did not monitor any economic, social or political outcome
indicators, the project provided for several studies to shed light on project outcomes.9 In particular, the
Final Evaluation of EDRP and the Beneficiary Impact Assessment (BIA) do a commendable task of
identifying and testing a range of variables to measure the influence of EDRP benefits using focal groups
and participatory surveys. This ICR focuses on these findings, and attempts to link the outcomes to Bank
interventions, outputs and the achievement of PDOs (see Annex 2 for detailed Project Outputs by
Component, and Annex 5 for Results and Conclusions of the two 2007 Assessments.)

Outcomes under each Project Development Objective

PDO 1: Demobilize and Reintegrate 150,000 veterans.
KPI: (i) the number of demobilized veterans; (ii) the number receiving HIV/AIDS counselling.
· OUTCOME 1: EDRP successfully demobilized 148,093 (99 percent) of the 150,000 veterans,
    including 17,000 disabled veterans, and contributed to enhanced macroeconomic stability (The
    fiscal impact is discussed under Outcome 8).

37.     Demobilization commenced in late 2000, was well-organized, fast and cost-effective, and was
completed by 2004.10 Phase I demobilization was increased from the planned 60,000 to 70,996. The
MTR survey, which covered five regions (Tigray, Oromiya, Amhara, SNNPR and Addis Ababa) that



8Beneficiary Impact Assessment, p. 30.
9These include: the Mid-Term Review (July 2003), which included field-based surveys and veteran interviews to
measure reintegration of urban and rural veterans using the pre-identified KPIs; the Training Impact Assessment
Report (2004), to assess the importance of training in creating employment/self-employment; and two extensive
assessments-- the EDRP Final Evaluation of June 2007, (which was also a DCA requirement); and the Beneficiary
Impact Assessment (June, 2007). The latter two studies use the UN Standards to define and measure reintegration.
10Although GoE had initially estimated that 150,000 veterans would be demobilized, the Ministry of National
Defense decided to retain the balance.


                                                          9

accounted for 95 percent of the demobilized veterans, indicates that the DCs performed their activities
effectively and efficiently. Over 86 percent of the sampled veterans expressed satisfaction with the
quality of services (ID card and coupon issuance, pre-demobilization orientation, HIV/AIDS
sensitization). Reintegration outcomes are discussed below.

· OUTCOME 2: EDRP ran one of the single largest HIV/AIDS VCT programs and was one of
    the first to start post-test counselling. All demobilized veterans received substantial HIV/AIDS
    sensitisation, booster education and materials in the DCs. 15,723 veterans participated in VCT. The
    rate of HIV prevalence among veterans who participated in the voluntary testing did not deviate from
    the estimates available at the time on HIV prevalence in the general population in Ethiopia. VCT not
    only became an integral part of EDRP, but also paved the way for further prevention, care and
    support of veterans who tested positive. The project linked to the Ethiopia Multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS
    Project (EMSAP, US$60m, September, 2000) during the reinsertion and reintegration phases to
    ensure sustained support to the HIV seropositive veterans after return to their communities. It is likely
    that Ethiopian veterans are better educated on the risks of HIV/AIDS than most Ethiopian civilians.

    Reinsertion. KPI: the number of TSS payments made to veterans.
    Reintegration. KPIs (in reverse order): (i) employment status of veterans; (ii) number of disabled
    veterans who have received medical rehabilitation assistance.

· OUTCOME 3: Over 90 percent of the veterans indicate that the TSS payment--EDRP's single
    most important reinsertion activity--was critical in resuming livelihoods.

38.     A verification survey followed each phase of demobilization to ensure that veterans received the
TSS payments. About 80.3 percent of the veterans received their payment within two months after
demobilization, 15.9 percent received it within three months, and a further 3.8 percent within four months.
The loss of payment coupons by a small number of veterans caused some delays in their payment. The
modality of TSS payment--one month from reaching destination, coupon arrangement, and making the
payment at the woreda capital--was well received by the veterans (EDRP Final Evaluation, p. 51).

39.     EDRP provided financial assistance for reintegration six months after veterans received the TSS
payment. Reintegration payments varied from Birr 2000 to 6,000 depending on the four categories of
injuries/disabilities (1-most severely disabled, 2-seriously disabled, 3-modestly disabled, and 4-mildly
disabled) and classification of military service status (militias, returnee, newly recruited and regular
soldiers) (Annex 2). EDRP performed satisfactorily (for all categories of veterans and across regions) in
terms of payment of the eligible amount, timeliness, and the ease with which it was done. In three years,
EDRP provided reintegration assistance to veterans to help return to a productive urban and rural life in
all eleven regions of the country. Verification surveys indicated that veterans utilized the TSS and RG
grants for daily consumption expenditure and for economic reintegration (see Tables 2 and 3 in Annex 5).
These cash payments have thus contributed directly to Outcome 4 below.

· OUTCOME 4: Veterans have started different types of economic activities and their asset
    ownership and incomes have increased.11

40.     Eighty five percent of the demobilized veterans were rural-based. Of these, the veterans who had
access to land before mobilization (66 percent) were able to reinstate and retain their lands, use funds to




11FPMU and RPMU follow-up tracking surveys, Government ICR, p. 35.



                                                      10

develop their farms, purchase more livestock, repair their houses and resume their lives `as usual'. After
demobilization, 80 percent indicated they owned land. The 'urban' veterans who saved the cash grants
started petty trades, garages, restaurants, fruits and vegetable trade etc.

         Improvement in asset ownership -- The economic situation of the veterans improved quite
considerably among the veterans demobilized into rural areas and urban areas.12 For example, in
among rural veterans, 31 percent owned a house before mobilization, and 56 percent owned a house after
demobilization. The percentage increases in ownership of different types of animals (cows, oxen, goats
etc.) were also impressive. Agricultural land ownership increased from 43 percent to 50 percent. In
urban areas, 7 percent of the veterans owned houses prior to mobilization and 37 percent owned houses
after demobilization. Ownership of urban land increased from 4 percent to 23 percent.

         Increase in household income ­Assessing the total annual incomes derived from all sources
(farm, non-farm, employment, rents, pensions, etc.), there has been a marked improvement in
annual receipts. Part of this increase may accrue to pension payments. The mean income of rural
veterans increased form 3,098 Birr (before mobilization) to 4,197 (after reintegration). For urban
veterans, mean income increased from 3,895 Birr to 4,273 Birr (Final Evaluation, p. 58).

· OUTCOME 5: EDRP activities have provided special care for the disabled veterans, and the
    project has significantly strengthened Ethiopia's overall capacity to care for the medical
    rehabilitation of the nation's persons with disabilities.

41.     A significant number of disabled veterans suffering from locomotion disorder received prosthetic-
orthopedic aids and devices and physiotherapy services. Overall, disabled veterans claim to be faring
comparatively well and also when compared to community-level control groups. EDRP's considerable
provisions appear to have led in many cases to a reasonably secure financial status, given also that almost
all disabled veterans moved to apparent `urban' areas and have managed to earn additional income from
assets (BIA, p. 11). (Annex 2 presents detailed outputs with respect to disabled veterans.)

· OUTCOME 6: Training activities have helped veterans to diversity their incomes and improve
    their economic status.

42.     Rural veterans seem to be in a better position to improve the performance of their day-to-day
agricultural activities. 97.2 percent of the veterans in the Tigray and Amhara regions indicated that they
acquired new skills from training. In these two regions, 85.8 percent and 79.8 percent of the veterans
were able to diversify agricultural activities through training provided by EDRP. Most of them have
applied modern techniques they received, and expect to improve their incomes (Training Impact
Assessment Report, 2004).

· OUTCOME 7: Social engagement of veterans both in rural and urban areas has increased
    significantly.

43.     More than half of the rural veterans are members of development committees. Before
mobilization, only a third of them were members. While veterans in rural areas seem to concentrate their
engagement more in `official' organizations, veterans in urban areas seem to prefer engagement in
traditional organizations (Final Evaluation, p. 59).




12See EDRP Final Evaluation, p. 56-58 for details on improvements in asset ownership and income. These results
are also consistent with observations during the EDRP Implementation Support Mission of May 2003.


                                                       11

     PDO 2: Support Macroeconomic Stability

     · OUTCOME 8: Fiscal developments following demobilization indicate significant
         improvements in macroeconomic stability (Table 2).13 Although EDRP did not include
         macroeconomic targets, following discussions with the World Bank and the IMF, the Government
         had committed to cutting defense expenditures significantly, from 13.3 percent of GDP in FY00 to
         about 5 percent of GDP by FY03.14 This reduction was to expedite economic recovery and allow
         GoE to restore expenditure levels in the social sectors in line with its poverty reduction strategy.

           Table 2: Post-war Trends in Government of Ethiopia Budget Allocation and Expenditure


Sector\Fiscal year                                             2000/01      2001/02      2002/03     2003/04  2004/05

Total Expenditure (million Birr)                                 16235        16,685      19,840      20,232   24,563

Total Recurrent Expenditure (million Birr)                       11585        10,550      13,527      11,961   13,219

Total Recurrent Expenditure (% of total expenditure)               71.4         63.2        68.2        59.1     53.8

Defense (% of total recurrent expenditure)                         31.4         27.2        17.3        20.5     22.1

Defense (% of total expenditure)                                   22.4         15.6        11.8        12.1     11.9

Education & training (% of total recurrent expenditure)            13.6         16.8        16.8        21.0     22.6

Health (% of total recurrent expenditure)                            1.4          5.0        3.9         4.4      5.3

Agriculture & natural resource (% of total recurrent expen.)         5.7          6.4        5.4         7.3      8.8

Total Capital Expenditure (million Birr)                          4649         6,134       6,313       8,272   11,343

Total Capital Expenditure (% of total expenditure)                 28.6         36.8        31.8        40.9     46.2

Economic Development (% of capital expenditure)                    65.5         64.0        65.3        57.7     67.6

Agriculture (% of total capital expenditure)                       11.2         15.5        14.7        22.7     25.5

Natural resources (% of total capital expenditure)                   7.5          8.1        9.4         4.9      9.8

Road Construction (% of total capital expenditure)                 29.2         28.7        30.0        22.2     23.2
     Source: Ethiopia: Building on Progress, A Plan for Accelerated and Sustained Development to End Poverty
     (PASDEP), Volume I: Main Text. MoFED, September 2006, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.

     · Defense expenditure fell to 4.2 percent of GDP in 2003 and to 3.6 percent of GDP in 2004.15 The
         reduction in force in the ENDF helped to facilitate a shift of government expenditures from the
         defense sector to other social and economic development priorities, with recurrent expenditures on
         defense falling from 31.4 percent of government recurrent expenditures in 2000/01 to 17.3 percent of
         recurrent expenditures in 2002/03. Total recurrent expenditure and total capital expenditure as shares
         of total expenditure also evolved favorably. Expenditure on poverty-oriented sectors increased and
         the combined recurrent expenditure share of education and health increased from about 21.8 percent
         in 2001/02 to 31 percent in 2005/06. Capital expenditure on the economic development sector
         increased from 65 percent to 74 percent during the same period, with a proportional growth in the
         capital expenditure allocated to agriculture, natural resources and road sector development.



     13See Annex 2 for further on macroeconomic stability.
     14The Memorandum of Agreement on the IMF Program (November 2000), paragraph 56.
     15Source: MoFED. These are based on the Government fiscal year ending July 7.


                                                            12

· EDRP certainly contributed to the reduction in defense expenditures. Ethiopia's overall macro
    improvements, however, are a cumulative outcome of several programs implemented in the aftermath
    of the war, including the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) and the SDPRP.

· OUTCOME 8: EDRP assisted in consolidating peace, which in turn helped to retrieve private
    sector confidence. The conflict had exerted a toll on private sector development. New investments
    fell from a high of 2.9 billion Birr in 1997­98 to 1.1 billion Birr in 1998­99 and to 0.5 billion Birr in
    the first nine months of 1999­2000.16 The demobilization process was accompanied by little social
    unrest, and there was no evidence of escalated criminal activities in areas of reintegration (BIA, p. 56).
    Foreign direct investment since demobilization has tripled, increasing from about US$100 million in
    2002/03 to US$365 million in 2005/06.

3.3 Efficiency
Not Applicable for emergency operations.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

44.     The PDOs were very relevant to the emergency response, and the PDOs, design and
implementation remain highly relevant to Ethiopia's current development priorities and the Bank's
Interim CAS FY06-07 as discussed in Section 3.1. In two areas, EDRP is considered a model: (i) the
project's attention to the disabled veterans, and its continued emphasis on improving facilities for
Ethiopia's often neglected disabled population; and (ii) the project's important accomplishments in
terms of the awareness it created directly and indirectly about prevention and control of HIV/AIDS.17
There were some shortcomings in the M&E system; however, several studies (that had not been planned
originally) were conducted to help shed light on project outcomes. Overall, EDRP fully achieved its
development objectives.18

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

45.     Improvements in asset position indicate poverty reduction and livelihood enhancement
(Section 3.2, Outcome 4). We can also assume that EDRP has contributed to reducing poverty and food
insecurity among veterans who had returned to food insecure woredas. Poverty in these areas was
aggravated by the major drought that struck Ethiopia in 2002/03. This was one of the reasons why EDRP
resources (US$40.4 million) were transferred to PSNP (WB EDRP Implementation Support Mission
April 2005). Activities under this new component most likely benefited veterans and other vulnerable
groups in these communities.



16Source: Ethiopian Investment Authority, EDRP Final Evaluation, p. 15.
17"The Assessment found that assistance issued to (severely) disabled veterans was well-received, appropriate and
continued to generate a positive impact on the self-reliance of physically impaired individuals and their families.
Where evidence was available, the assessment also found that the HIV/AIDS awareness programme among
veterans, and the subsequent treatment available to those (voluntarily) testing positive, was effective. In these two
respects, the EDRP can be considered something of a model", Beneficiary Assessment, p. 9.
18Outcomes of ERP are reflected in the ERP ICR (Report No. ICR350).




                                                          13

46.     Compared to their male comrades, female veterans generally had skills that appeared more
marketable, (i.e. nursing). Consequently, it is said that female veterans found it easier to reintegrate
economically (Final Evaluation, p. 21). About 20 percent of the demobilized female veterans received
priority in the employment-oriented vocational program. The Tigray Region, which received a
substantial number of demobilized female veterans, provided targeted support through the EDRP sub
project fund in business skill training (to 725 veterans), kindergarten teaching (to 120 veterans) and
telephone operation training. The regional Government offered a course on junior nursing to 80 female
veterans, which helped 262 female veterans to obtain jobs in medical services. Altogether, 1186 or 61.1
percent of female veterans in the region received varied additional reintegration support. The Amhara
Region and the Addis Ababa Administration also provided employment opportunities that particularly
targeted female veterans. In the former, 161 female veterans obtained jobs through project facilitation,
and 73 obtained computer training. In Addis Ababa, 40 female veterans were given employment through
the project. Female veterans, in addition to the targeted interventions, were the favored recipients of the
various region-based non-cash reintegration support, especially in the urban areas (MTR, p. 48).

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

47.     EDRP's investments substantially enhanced service delivery capacity to rehabilitate persons
with physical disabilities in Ethiopia. This included: (i) the rehabilitation of orthotic, prosthetic and
physiotherapy support facilities at five POCs in different parts of the country; (ii) construction of the
NRC in Addis Ababa; (iii) the provision of training to 20 new prosthetic-orthotic technicians (in
partnership with ICRC); (iv) the upgrading of the skills of 19 existing orthopaedic technicians serving in
POCs; and (v) the training of 10 physiotherapists to BSc level at Gonder University and the training of 25
physiotherapy technicians.

48.     The NRC constructed in the compound of the Black Lion Hospital in Addis Ababa is to serve
three major purposes: (i) a national referral center for providing physical rehabilitation services in
Ethiopia; (ii) a training facility for physiotherapy, orthopedics and prosthetics to mitigate the shortage of
skilled human resources in this sector; and (iii) a research facility. The Center is has been constructed and
equipped, but it is not yet fully operational though this is envisaged by January 2008. The facility has the
potential to become a regional center of learning and excellence if managed and resourced effectively.

49.     The project has also enhanced the capacity of the Government to undertake the planning
and implementation of demobilization and reintegration activities in the future. A number of
government personnel have gained useful experience in the management of such activities, and project
planning, and M&E reports will remain available to Government.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative) - None

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops - See Annex 5


                        4. ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

Rating: Moderate

         In the narrow sense of EDRP's PDOs, the risk to development outcomes is considered moderate.
However, in terms of the higher order country-level objectives, the risk to development outcomes may be
significant as described under Peace-Building below.




                                                       14

50.     Peace-Building. The sustainability of program outcomes should be measured at several levels.
Whilst not an explicit objective of the EDRP, World Bank post-conflict recovery assistance to both
Ethiopia and Eritrea following the cessation of hostilities in June 2000 and the Algiers Agreement of
December 2000 was premised on the assumption that the governments would implement the provisions of
the peace agreement in a timely and cooperative manner. However, by November 2007, implementation
of the Agreement's provisions, especially with respect to the demarcation of the contested border, has
stalled. Relations between the Governments of Ethiopia and Eritrea remain tense, with the borders
officially closed at significant economic costs to both countries. The risk of a renewed conflict that could
lead to re-mobilization and macroeconomic instability persists, and represents a significant risk to the
outcomes of EDRP. While similar recovery investments were financed in Eritrea, it is not clear whether
World Bank management put in place mechanisms to ensure exchange of information across project
teams working on related activities in the two countries or has adopted a regional approach in support of
longer-term reconciliation and recovery.

51.     Reintegration. Longer-term reintegration of veterans is largely an individual process affected by
a number of factors described in Annex 5. Surveys suggest that social and economic reintegration of
veterans has overall been successful in terms of community acceptance as well as an improvement in
ownership of assets and income. However, a significant proportion of veterans express dissatisfaction
with respect to their current economic status in relation to their expectations. It is not clear whether this
dissatisfaction is due to unrealistic expectations generated by military and local officials at the time of
demobilization or because of general reintegration challenges in a difficult economic environment.

52.     Physical Rehabilitation Services; The Government has shown commendable commitment to
providing extensive medical rehabilitation and reintegration assistance to disabled veterans through
EDRP, and to making significant capital investments in human and physical resources for this historically
neglected sector. However, there are some concerns with respect to GoE's commitment to ensure the
sustainability of investments in the physical rehabilitation sector. The continued effectiveness of POCs
and the NRC will require the allocation of sufficient budgets for activities discussed in Section 2.5. These
activities could in principle be financed from disbursed project resources that remain available at the date
of Project Closing. However, it is not clear at this time that MoFED will guarantee the availability of
resources for these activities. There is thus a risk that the investments made in this sector under EDRP
will erode over time, and that Ethiopia will miss an opportunity to establish a sustainable national
physical rehabilitation system.


                      5. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

53.     In addition to the speed with which the project was prepared (Section 2.1), the Bank team drew
upon existing expertise and the operation benefited from lessons learned from Bank and other recent
DRPs (Section 6). The project's design supported the full transition from demobilization to reintegration
and the three project components and activities were well linked to the PDOs. EDRP is considered a
model in terms of its attention to disabled veterans and its design of the HIV/AIDS awareness and control
activities. The Task Team Leader (TTL) at appraisal had just completed a similar program in Sierra
Leone and key team members (and future TTL) were specialists in the field.




                                                       15

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

54.     EDRP benefited from regular and substantive supervision throughout the life of the project.
Action plans were prepared and used for follow-up in subsequent missions. The composition of the task
team remained relatively stable during the life of the project, with the original TTL being replaced by a
team member in 2003 who remained the project TTL until the end of EDRP. FM and procurement staff
remained on the project almost through its entire life and key technical consultants for M&E, disabilities
and construction were retained over the course of several missions to ensure continuity in these key areas.
Finally, the Bank team worked hard with the client to redesign the project in response to changing needs
and savings under the project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

55.     The Government moved very quickly to prepare and implement measures to reduce
security-related public expenditures, assist war-affected populations, and restore macro-economic
stability. GoE assigned a dedicated team of well-qualified Government personnel for preparing and
implementing the project both at national and regional levels. The rapid reduction in force of the ENDF
facilitated a significant reduction in recurrent expenditures for defense, and supported the reintegration of
148,093 veterans into civilian life. The flexibility afforded by the retroactive financing provision enabled
GoE to demobilize over 30,000 soldiers before Credit Effectiveness. GoE disbursed the quick-disbursing
resources made available under EDRP in a sufficiently timely manner to demobilize over 120,000
soldiers by December 2001, and begin the reversal of the negative macroeconomic impacts of the conflict.

56.     Given the wide variation in economic and social reintegration environments in Ethiopia, the
Government rightly pressed for greater devolution in implementation arrangements. The
coordination arrangements at the center (especially the FPMU) were vested with sufficient oversight
authority to guide implementation of project activities effectively. Timely and adequate staffing was
assured throughout project implementation.

57.     The Government's commitment to provide extensive resources to assist the disabled was
commendable, as discussed above. GoE needs to act on the recommendations on financial and clinical
sustainability and the detailed start-up plan NRC in order to sustain further investments and the
substantial investments made under the EDRP in the past six years.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

58.     The Emergency Recovery Project Management Unit (ERPMU) of MoFED oversaw overall
implementation of the EDRP. MoND was responsible for pre-demobilization activates and for
HIV/AIDS sensitization and VCT activities in the DCs. The FPMU/EDRP of MoLSA at the federal level,
and RPMUs under the Bureaus of Labour and Social Affairs (BOLSA) in the regions implemented most
Program activities. RPMUs were established from early 2002-June 2004 to support veteran reintegration
activities. In regions with a high concentration of veterans (Tigray, Amhara, SNNPR), Zonal Project
Management Units (ZPMUs) were set up to further strengthen reintegration efforts. At the woreda level,
there was usually a focal person who followed up on issues raised by veterans.


                                                       16

59.     In general, program implementation was characterized by an extraordinary degree of
political will and cooperation among Government stakeholders. GoE ensured that relevant ministries
cooperated closely during the rapid initial demobilization phase, and that regional and woreda structures
welcomed returning veterans appropriately.

60.     Woreda finance bureaus were tasked with the disbursement of TSS and RG payments. In addition,
regional and local governments provided extensive supplementary reintegration support to veterans in the
form of business licences, access to land for housing and businesses, training and employment
opportunities. Beneficiary surveys in the course of implementation indicate that 96 percent of veterans
received their TSS and RGs in a timely manner. There were a few areas of weakness in project
implementation (Section 2.2).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

61.     Against the backdrop of an on-going emergency, GoE put together a highly relevant project,
which achieved its planned outcomes. While there were a few weaknesses in relation to implementation
and fiduciary processes, some of these apparently represented generic (or system-wide) weaknesses,
which could not feasibly be addressed within the short, urgent operating horizon of this operation.


                                           6. LESSONS LEARNED

62.     Positive Lessons

    Project Management: Flexible planning and implementation were vital to EDRP's success, and
    are important to successful demobilization and reintegration programs. EDRP planners were
    constantly on the lookout for the unexpected and accommodated changes in a timely manner. For
    example, during demobilization, the number of veterans to be demobilized in the two phases was
    adjusted, and it was also found necessary to carry out Phase II in several rounds. Unlike in the first
    round of Phase I demobilization, veterans were made to leave the DC in civilian clothes rather than in
    their military fatigues to minimize the risk of abuse of uniforms.

    The provision of medical rehabilitation support to disabled veterans under the EDRP merits
    special mention. The disabled were brought to a relatively better equipped and more favorably
    located Center to recuperate, and they were also provided with skill training to help them earn an
    income when they eventually reintegrated. The benefit package for each of the severely disabled
    veterans included a residential house, a cash grant of Birr 11,000 and additional skills training. None
    of this was included in the original project plan. Rather, it was developed in response to the
    difficulties in providing satisfactory Center-based care to severely disabled veterans and to respond to
    the preferences of veterans with disabilities. The important lesson is that EDRP was responsive and
    flexible in accommodating changes considered necessary to achieve the objectives.

    Financing: Innovative use of emergency financing arrangement allowed for timely, rapid and
    flexible availability of financing. The EDRP included a quick-disbursing component for a positive
    list of imports that provided in three tranches (of USD 60 million, 40 million and 20 million) a large
    injection of local currency that allowed the project to: (i) finance cash-payments otherwise ineligible
    under normal Bank financing, and (ii) provide sufficient cash-flow to manage these payments in a
    timely way as replenishments of special accounts for these tranche payments were not required.
    These resources also contributed to enhancing GoE's access to foreign exchange. The use of the



                                                      17

  retroactive financing provision also enabled the GoE to initiate demobilization activities in November
  2000, three months before project effectiveness. The flexibility of the use of IDA credit was also
  responsive to the long-term capacity building needs in the physical rehabilitation sector. IDA's
  allocation of a substantial sum of the credit proceeds to the NRC is a case in point.

  Decentralized management and decision-making was another feature of EDRP's success and an
  experience worthy of emulation in project management in large countries such as Ethiopia. The
  Government strategy to channel the reinsertion and reintegration financial, technical, counselling,
  referral, and other support programs through the existing regional government structures and systems
  was not only cost-effective, but it also facilitated experience- and problem-sharing among EDRP
  stakeholders, and improved the timeliness of TSS and economic reintegration payments.

  Demobilization: The assembly of veterans in DCs provides a good opportunity for effective
  HIV/AIDS education and VCT.

  Cash Payments: The disbursement of cash payments only after veterans' return to their
  communities of settlement reduced potential loss, theft or wastage of this resource before
  veterans' settlement. Veterans valued the cash payments more than any other assistance provided
  under the project, and these payments contributed significantly to the reinsertion and initial
  reintegration of veterans. Verification surveys indicate that the majority of veterans utilized these
  payments for productive social and economic purposes.

  Use of intermediate survey tools was an important lesson learned and subsequently applied.
  EDRP conducted several quick surveys related to cash payments (from a programmatic aspect rather
  than from an audit aspect) and to demobilization, including the MTR assessment. These were useful
  tools in evaluating whether beneficiaries were receiving their benefits in a timely manner and in
  accordance with procedures, and also to assess utilization of this assistance. This type of survey has
  been applied in subsequent Bank DRPs.

Where more could have been done

  Linkages to Peace Process: Given the political risk and moral hazard associated with post-
  conflict DRP, the EDRP was not linked sufficiently with other elements of the peace process -
  and hence Bank investments have not been linked to ex-belligerents' commitments to
  consolidate peace. Without a regional approach the Bank has not been able to use its leverage along
  with other key actors, including the UN, to strengthen the peace process on both sides (conflict
  prevention practice suggests that individual conflict-mitigating interventions can only be strengthened
  if linked with overall military/ political/ development approaches).

  Managing Expectations: Timely and conservative management of veterans' expectations is
  critical during DRPs. Veterans expressed significant dissatisfaction with their economic status due
  to a disconnect between perceived promises made by military and local government officials during
  and after demobilization (especially with respect to land, employment and shelter), and actual support
  provided at local level. The exaggerated expectations about reintegration assistance to be provided by
  Government may have led some veterans to utilize their cash payments in a sub-optimal manner. It
  has also harmed the credibility of the program and Government in the eyes of some veterans.

  Cash Payments: Additional counseling on the investment of veterans' cash grants could have
  enhanced their use of these resources, as suggested by a number of local government officials
  and veterans. Further, surveys indicate that a harmonization of vocational and business skills
  training, and the provision of the training immediately before or after payments could have possibly


                                                     18

    increased the allocation of the financial assistance for non-consumption purposes. Alternatively, the
    program should have considered the provision of additional targeted post-training toolkits and
    working capital. This is a useful lesson for future programs.

    Sustainability of Physical Rehabilitation Investments: Future programs should address issues
    such as the sustainability of physical rehabilitation investments earlier, during project planning
    and implementation. Notwithstanding the conclusion of a MOU concerning management of NRC
    and the recently-commissioned studies to inform strategies to ensure the clinical and financial
    sustainability of the POCs and NRC, concerns remain regarding the ability of these institutions to
    maintain their current quality and quantity of service, especially in the absence of a comprehensive
    and clear national policy framework and strategy.

    Monitoring and Evaluation: The project's M&E system should have focused on outcomes,
    especially with respect to the status of social and economic reintegration (including the effectiveness
    of business skills and vocational training, employment and income status). This could potentially
    informed Government decisions about the utilization of cost savings after 2003, and the need for
    additional targeted reintegration assistance.



    7. COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES/PARTNERS

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
        Not available yet.

(b) Cofinanciers
        None

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
        None




                                                      19

                                ANNEX 1. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                           Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest
              Components                                                                        Percentage of
                                              (USD millions)           Estimate (USD
                                                                          millions)               Appraisal

DEMOBILIZATION                                       26.8                      9.67                 36.08
REINSERTION                                          53.2                    34.38                  64.62

ECONOMIC REINTEGRATION                               80.00                   50.63                  63.29

OPERATING AND
ADMINISTRATION                                       14.1                      4.08                 28.94

                  Total Baseline Cost               174.1                     98.76                 56.73*

Physical Contingencies                                 0.00                    0.00                  0.00

Price Contingencies                                    0.00                    0.00                  0.00
                  Total Project Costs               174.1                     98.76                 56.73
Project Preparation Fund                               0.00                    0.00                   .00
Front-end fee IBRD                                     0.00                    0.00                   .00
         Total Financing Required                      0.00                    0.00

* Demobilization was very cost effective due to the national commitment and effective collaboration. For example,
the cost of transporting veterans from the collection to the DCs was to come from EDRP, but it was covered by
MoND in a much more cost-effective manner. With respect to reinsertion, the actual payment was lower than the
planned payment due to adjustments in the basket of goods. The costs of reintegration were lower as the
Government provided complementary support (i.e. land, licenses etc.) that was originally to be financed by IDA.



(b) Financing
                                                                   Appraisal      Actual/Latest
              Source of Funds                       Type of                                         Percentage of
                                                 Cofinancing        Estimate        Estimate
                                                                 (USD millions)(USD millions)        Appraisal

Borrower                                                         3.5             0.00              .00
International Development Association
(IDA)                                                            170.60          170.60            .00




                                                           20

                                    ANNEX 2. OUTPUTS BY COMPONENT

Component 1: Demobilization

     · The Project successfully demobilized 148,093 (98.73 percent) veterans by end-2003.

         Demobilization was done in two phases. Phase I (70,996 veterans), from November 2000 to July
2001; and Phase II (77,097 veterans) during July 2001 ­ to December 2003 (Table 1). The number of
demobilized veterans in Phase I increased from the planned 60,000 to 70,996 as at the end of July 2001.
The demobilization process was started in the pilot demobilization center (DC) at Mykinetal in November
2000 with 10,710 soldiers. After gaining experience from a day-to-day evaluation of activities in the pilot
DC, demobilization in the other DCs was implemented immediately after the pilot's completion.

         Demobilization activities under EDRP commenced in the DCs. In this regard, the project
established Regional Project Management Units (RPMUs) in eight regions (Tigray, Oromia, Amhara,
SNNP, Addis Ababa, Afar, Somali and Dire Dawa), and Zonal offices in Tigray, Oromia, Amhara, SNNP,
Afar, and Somali. Focal persons were assigned at woreda level too.

The major outputs/tasks at this stage of the process included:
     · Establishing six DCs in Phase I for the demobilization of able-bodied veterans, while disabled
         veterans were discharged from two medical facilities (discussed further below);
     · Providing the basic needs (food, water, and health services) to the veterans in the DCs;
     · Preparing and issuing individually numbered identification cards to each veteran containing a
         photograph, address, name of person to be contacted in case of emergency, signature, and two
         stamps to facilitate reinsertion and reintegration;
     · Collecting socio-economic data using a structured survey instrument for subsequent computer
         processing of the data;
     · Building on program sensitization and on the benefit package initiated earlier during the pre-
         discharge orientation;
     · Organizing and delivering sensitization programs on HIV/AIDS VCT. All demobilized veterans
         received HIV/AIDS sensitization/booster education, materials and condoms prior to the return to
         their home communities. Voluntary testing was offered to over 110,000 veterans demobilized
         after March 2001. Of these 15,723 veterans volunteered for testing. Intensive post-test counseling
         was also given to both HIV/AIDS positive and negative demobilized veterans. At the MTR, 85
         percent of those sampled had received HIV/AIDS sensitization/booster education and 70 percent
         had obtained VCT while in the DCs (MTR, p. 15). To link and coordinate EDRP HIV/AIDS
         activities at community level, a committee was established under the National AIDS Secretariat.
         Generally, the VCT program carried out at DCs was the largest in its type in Ethiopia and was
         appreciated by different stakeholders including the World Bank;19
     · Distributing TSS coupons to the veterans for redemption at agreed times later on in the process;
     · Arranging transport for veterans to their respective zone capitals and providing a per diem and a
         transport allowance to enable them to return to their communities from the zone capitals; and
     · Compensating the veterans with a cash provision to buy clothes to replace the fatigues (not an
         activity in Phase I).




19It is worth noting that the HIV/AIDS sensitization and VCT built upon an existing HIV/AIDS prevention and
treatment program developed by the ENDF for active service personnel.


                                                        21

                         Table 1: Number of Demobilized Veterans by Region

         Region                  First Phase          Second Phase                       Total
                                     No.                   No.                 No.                 %
Tigray                                   45,907                17,753            63,660               42.44
Afar                                         198                   445               643                0.43
Amhara                                     8,280               20,173            28,453               18.97
Oromia                                     8,673               19,716            28,389               18.92
Somale                                     1.408                 1,668            3,076                 2.05
Benishangul Gumuz                            354                   836            1,190                 0.79
SNNP                                       4,258               11,567            15,825               10.55
Gambella                                     181                   350               531                0.35
Hareri                                       179                   481               660                0.44
Addis Ababa                                1,452                 3,661            5,113                 3.41
Dire Dawa                                    106                   447               553                0.37
        Grand Total                      70,996                77,092           148,093               98.73
Source: EDRP 2007 Second Quarter and Annual Progress Report (April ­ June 2007)

Component 2: Reinsertion

    · To facilitate the veteran's reinsertion into their communities TSS payments of Birr 2,000 were
        provided to 148, 010 veterans (including able bodied and disabled).20 In addition to the
        Ethiopian Birr 2,000 (ETB), a marginal amount was added to disabled veterans to cover medical
        expenses. The amount varies based on the level of disability.
    · At the discharge centers, coupons were given to each beneficiary that entitled him/her to receive
        the specified amount upon return. Demobilized veterans received payments upon arrival to their
        communities. According to the Beneficiary Survey, about 96.8 percent of the demobilized
        veterans received the specified amount within one month time and only 3.2 percent received
        within two months after demobilization. These delays were mainly attributable to losses of
        coupon and/or ID cards.
    · Payments were delivered by Woreda finance bureaus using the government structures. This
        contributed to timely delivery of the payments and efficient reporting between the different levels
        of project management.

Component 3: Reintegration

Economic Reintegration: Grant Outputs

        The reintegration of veterans commenced after they had exchanged their coupons into the TSS at
woreda level. After six months all veterans were entitled to receive a reintegration grant which, varied
from Birr 2,000 to Birr 6,000 depending on the categories of able-bodied, injuries/disabilities and
classification of recruitment status (Table 2).




20Planned demobilization, reinsertion and reintegration involved 150,000. Of the 148,093 demobilized, 148,010
were reinserted and 148,000 received reintegration payments. About 80 veterans lost their coupons, hence the
differences in numbers.




                                                         22

                                    Table 2: TSS and reintegration grants

Type of Army                                Amount of cash in Birr by disability category

                          Category 4                         Category 3                        Category 2

                    (able bodied and mildly             (moderately disabled)              (seriously disabled)

                            disabled)

                TSS      Reintegration    Total    TSS      Reintegration    Total    TSS     Reintegration    Total

  Militia       2000          2000        4000     2000          3000        5000     2000        6000         8000

New Regular     2000          2000        4000     2000          3000        5000     2000        6000         8000

 Returnees      2000          3000        5000     2000          4000        6000     2000        6000         8000

  Regular       2000          4000        6000     2000          5000        7000     2000        6000         8000

   Note: Severely disabled veterans belong to category 1 (special category)


            To make the social reintegration easier, veterans in the DCs were advised to return to their
   original place where they have extended family networks. Moreover, PMUs Regional Administrations at
   all levels provided counseling services to demobilized veterans at local level and also monitored the
   utilization of project financial assistance. RPMUs and regional governments carried out public awareness
   and sensitization about the project.

            The socio-economic data collected by the FPMU at the DCs were entered into the MIS and
   disaggregated by regions and by different variables and submitted to all administrative regions of
   veterans' destinations. Furthermore, national level socio-economic profiles of demobilized veterans were
   prepared and distributed to regions on the basis of veterans' information.

            The following were general principles and possible options to support the veterans' economic
   reintegration. The final menu for the reintegration support was based on: (i) the specific situation in
   different regions of returnees; and (ii) the needs, characteristics and aspirations of the returnees. As seen
   in Table 2, able-bodied veterans were all eligible for a similar amount of assistance irrespective of their
   reintegration choice from the available menu of options. Reintegration assistance was planned to
   minimize market distortions and maximize the choice of the beneficiaries.

            RPMUs used the on going activities in regions rather than develop new service provision
   capabilities. It prioritized components (the income generating activities) by simplicity to ensure rapid
   implementation. All veterans received information on: economic opportunities; counseling on career
   paths and job seeking strategies; referral to jobs, projects preparation, and training. The economic
   reintegration undertaken in the rural and urban areas were different.




                                                           23

               Table 3: Number of Demobilization Veterans that Received Complementary Reintegration
                                           Assistance by Type of Support and Region

Type of        Total     Tigray Afar Amhara Oromia Somali B.Gumuz SNNP Gambella Harari A.A                          Dire
Support                                                                                                             Dawa
Farming          41401     3543               3203                                4410
land
Agricultural     21535    20083                163       975                        314
extension
service
Job               9213       930      60      4040      1583     350              1345           18       64     762  61
opportunity
Commercial        1862       989                 87      776                         10                          643
houses
Higher             865       503               123        44                        195                          86
education
Land for         15244     5270               3332      3494      36       242    2680           89              101
residential
premise
urban
Land for          3770     1764                891       891                         54                          170
business
premises
Residential       6288       131      38      1359      3407                10      909           5       18     411
houses
Credit and        2043       449              1069        41                         91                          100 393
saving
facilities
Rural land        4842     2883               1959                                   73
for housing
Material          7792       356               512      1041   1285                   0                         4139 459
and
financial
Return to          245         0               245                                    0
former jobs
Others           26291     8097       40      7940      4177                45    4253           32       84    1115 593


Total          114391    44,998       98     24923     19674   1671        252   14261         144       166 6698    1506

          Source: FPMU/EDRP

          Special Support to Veterans with Disabilities

                  Approximately 17,000 veterans with physical disabilities received prosthetic-orthopedic aids and
          devices as well as physiotherapy services (see Strengthening of POCs below).

                  Assistance to the Severely Disabled Veterans. EDRP provided Center-based services to 345
          severely disabled veterans in Mickey Leland Center in Addis Ababa from late 2001 onwards (initially
          these veterans had been moved to a center in Alage, south of Addis Ababa, which was, however, found
          not to be suitable for their treatment and accommodation). The veterans received basic necessities like



                                                              24

food, clothing, shelter, medical treatment including referral services, orthopedic services and prosthetic-
orthopedic aids (for the severely disabled), physiotherapy treatment, counseling and other entertainment
activities in the Center. This Center-based rehabilitation assistance was given until they were fully
rehabilitated and able to return to their families. Most veterans preferred to return to their families rather
than remain at the Center. By June 2007, 322 of the disabled veterans had returned to their communities
with the support of the Project (The Quarterly Report for EDRP, April-June 2007). The Project
constructed houses for all of these severely disabled veterans to facilitate their sustainable reintegration.

         Provision of Training to Severely Disabled Veterans. Provision of training both in vocational and
business skill to the severely disabled veterans was one of the major activities performed by FPMU. All
345 received vocational training in Addis Ababa ­ including business skills, photography, music,
electronics, or training in sewing ­ and 283 received further training upon return to their regions. This
training was aimed at helping the veterans to acquire vocational skills after their engagement in practical
activities.

         Overall Reinsertion and Reintegration of Severely Disabled Veterans. The Government has
allocated substantial funds for the reinsertion and reintegration of each severely disabled veteran Birr
50,000 (Birr 35,000 for the construction of residential houses, Birr 2,000 for reinsertion, Birr 9,000 for
economic reintegration, Birr 3,000 for vocational training and Birr 1,000 for transportation) was
allocated. To date, Birr 11.66 million was transferred to Regional Finance Bureaus for the construction of
333 houses for severely disabled veterans. Over 98% of planned houses for severely disabled have been
constructed and completed by Project closing.

         Strengthening of POCs. In response to the surge in prosthetic-orthopedic and physiotherapy care
needs for the 17,000 disabled veterans, GoE financed the rehabilitation of five regional POCs. The
Government included the program of strengthening the existing five POC's, which were located in five
administrative regions (Mekele, Dessie, Assella, Arbaminch and Harar) with the aim of providing
rehabilitation services to disabled veterans. This included new constructions, and maintenance and
modifications to old buildings. The construction included buildings for orthopedic workshops,
physiotherapy rooms, offices, dormitories, and store and metal workshops. Overall, construction
performance was estimated to be fully executed for the five POCs (Mekele, Dessie, Assela, Arbaminch,
and Harar). All necessary medical and other equipment and furniture have been installed and offices
furnished. With the exception of the Harar POCs, the Centers are generally providing intended services
for veterans and other persons with disabilities. The performance of the Harar POC has been sub-optimal
due to persistent management weaknesses.

         EDRP also assisted the Government to enhance the capacity of the five POCs to deliver intended
services. Newly trained Physiotherapists (25) and technicians (20) have been deployed to the POCs to
serve the disabled and other civilians who need these services. Physiotherapists (10) trained for four
years at Gonder University have also been assigned to the POCs and the NRC.

         Construction of National Rehabilitation Center (NRC)/ Black Lion Hospital. In Ethiopia
disability tends to have much higher prevalence because of recurrent conflict, high rates of road traffic
accidents, low access to immunization, and inadequate health and rehabilitation care. However, it was not
possible to set the exact number of persons with disabilities and patients that are in need of physical
rehabilitation services.

         It was important that war disabled veterans were brought back to the meaningful life, since
without this service neither vocational training nor integration with society could be achieved. For
establishing the NRC, Government made a proposal to the World Bank to use the loan given for
rehabilitating the demobilized disabled veterans and others who need the service. The establishment of


                                                      25

the center included the civil works and procurement of goods and equipment. The construction of NRC is
complete and the Center inaugurated. The Center will be managed by the Ministry of Education, and
plans to commence services in early 2008.

         Provision of physiotherapy/Orthopedic Supports to Severely Disabled veterans. The project has
provided orthopedic and physiotherapy support to severely disabled veterans. The service included
maintenance of old and provision of new Orthopedic and physiotherapy appliances.

Training of Veterans

         According to the Training Impact Assessment Report, a total of 52,799 veterans took various
types of skill training in the areas of Small Business Management, Vocational Training and Agriculture
Training (Table 3). Out of the total trained veterans, 57.9 percent, 23.8 percent and 18.3 percent were
trained in Agriculture, Vocational, and Small Business Skill Development training respectively.

         The majority of veterans in all training areas were literate. The rate of literacy in Business Skill
Development and Management was 99.5 percent. In Vocational and in Agriculture it was 99.8 percent
and 96.8 percent respectively. This means that the veterans had an adequate educational preparation that
enabled them to take notes and easily follow their training.

         The majority of veterans (76.3 percent) that took business skill development and management
training have already been in business activity. Therefore, the training would help them in improving the
performance of their day to day business activities. This was also attested by the survey result that showed
that in the views of veterans, 73.7 percent, 80.1 percent and 63.8 percent of the veterans said that they
have already started to keep records of each business activity, been able to record the unit cost of each
item and determine the price of each product, and started to differentiate their business from their own life.
The survey result proved that the economic status of the veterans had improved after the training. To
substantiate this, the numbers of veterans that are found in the highest income brackets have increased
in all training areas after the training.

Social and Political Reintegration

         There is limited data available to indicate outputs of counseling to veterans and support to help
veterans establish or take part in community associations. However, several of surveys indicated that
veterans are warmly received by the local community they reintegrated and faced no significant problem
to participate in social as well as political activities.

Female veterans

         The majority of demobilized female veterans were from Tigray region. The Tigray regional
government provided targeted support to female veterans. These included business skill training, in
which 725 veterans benefited, training to be kindergarten teachers, where 120 veterans benefited, and
training in telephone operation. Additionally, the regional Government offered a course on junior nursing
to 80 female veterans. This facilitated the job search and as a result 262 female veterans obtained jobs in
medical services. Altogether, 1186 or 61.1 percent of female veterans in the region received varied
additional reintegration support. Targeted employment opportunities were also given to 40 and 161
veterans in Addis Ababa and Amhara region respectively. Compared to their male comrades, female
veterans generally had skills that appeared more marketable (i.e. nursing). Consequently, it is said that
female veterans found it easier to reintegrate economically (Final Evaluation, p. 21).




                                                         26

                  Table 4: Number of Trained Veterans by Type of Training and Region


                                   al                                                                                                           l
                                                                        al                                                 of         &                             +
                                                                                                                                                 na                                  &                  noit          o)            &            y

         on                l
                            ta       urt                Skills
                                                                                              driving                                                       ort                                                         diar         phy          pha
                                                                                                                                                                                      ding                                  +           ra
           Regi               To                                                                                                                               pp    uterp                                  cainu
                                                Skills                    ontia
                                                                                   Training                                                                      su           Typing           Security                                   og                             metology
                                        Agricul                                Voc                                                                                                                                           neo                              Catering
                                                              Business                                         Handicrafts   Training  Trainers    Educatio               Com             Guar
                                                                                                     Vehicle                                                                                                     mmoC           (ph         Phot     Videogr                     Cos

    Tigray              9684      5771 2721                            710                  150               -                      72                            50               100                 60                          50                       -          -
     Afar                200                   -       40               60                  100               -                                -                             -                -                      -                          -            -          -
   Amhara               7118      3703 1619                            1500                 160               -                                -                   73                63                              -                          -            -          -
  Oromiya               3917      120                 500              2888                  -               408                      1                                      -                -                      -                          -            -          -
    Somali               500                   -       -               500                   -                -                                -                             -                -                      -                          -            -          -
Beneshangul-
    Gumuz                479      158                  45              185                  15               76                                -                             -                -                      -                          -            -          -

   SNNPR                2234                   -      1100             950                   -               80                      50                            34                         -                      -              10                       10         -
  Gambella                30                   -       -                30                   -                -                                -                             -                -                      -                          -            -          -
    Harari                56                   -       -                          -         30                -                       8                            18                         -                      -                          -            -          -
 Addis Ababa            1808                   -      1200              38                  263              110                     43                                      -                -         58                          34                       30         32
  Dire Dawa              143                   -       -               124                   -                -                      19                                      -                -                      -                          -            -          -
    Total               26169     9752 7225                            6985                 718              674                     193                           175              163                118                          94                       40         32
Source: Training Impact Assessment Report, 2004.



Macroeconomic Situation before and after Demobilisation

               Ethiopia's economy had been performing well since 1992. Consumer price inflation averaged 3.3
percent a year during 1992-99. The fiscal deficit (including grants) fell from 7.8 percent of GDP during
1991-92 to 3.6 percent during 1997-98. This period was also characterized by a major reorientation of
public expenditures from defense to social sectors and vital infrastructure development.

               These favorable trends relapsed after the outbreak of conflict in May 1998. Defense spending,
which had fallen to 2.5 percent of GDP in 1996-97, rose to 8.7 percent in 1998-99 and reached 13.3
percent in 1999-2000. The ENDF increased significantly in size. Consequently, the fiscal deficit rose to
6.9 percent of GDP in 1998-99 and to 10 percent in 1999-2000. The preemptive demands of defense
expenditure during the war were financed by cuts in discretionary recurrent and capital expenditure.
Capital expenditure, which had steadily grown to 10.4 percent of GDP in 1996, slipped to 6.7 percent in
1999-2000. The conflict also led to balance of payment deterioration and reduced private investment.
New private investment, which was about Birr 2.9 billion in 1997-98, fell to 1.1 billion in 1998-99 and to
0.5 billion in the first nine months of 1999-2000. Foreign exchange reserves declined by nearly USD 100
million between 1998-99 and 1999-2000, bringing import cover to two months. Sections 3.1, Outcome 8
describe the improvements in Ethiopia's economy since the start of EDRP.




                                                                                                            27

                     Table 5: Performance Indicators of the Ethiopian economy
                                 in the pre-conflict and conflict period

Selected Indicators                             1995/96      1996/97      1997/98      1998/99  1999/00

GDP21 per Capita                                    248       253.2        242.8        250.6    256.7

Inflation (%)                                        0.9        -6.4          2.3         4.8      4.2

Total Education Expenditure as % of GDP              3.4         3.4          3.5         3.5      3.2

Total Health Expenditure as % of GDP                 1.3         1.3          1.5         1.4      1.0

Total Road Expenditure as % of GDP                   1.8         2.3          2.2         2.5      1.7

Defense Expenditure as % of GDP                      2.0         2.0          4.9         8.7     13.1

Recurrent Expenditure as % of GDP                  15.5         13.8         15.8        20.8     26.4

Capital Expenditure as % of GDP                      9.4        10.1          9.2         9.8      6.6

Total Expenditure as % of GDP                      24.9         23.9         25.0        30.6     33.0

Source: Development and Poverty Profile of Ethiopia, Welfare Monitoring Unit, MoFED, March 2002.



        Table 6: Key Public Expenditure Data & Macroeconomic Indicators (ETBirr Million)

 Descriptions                                     2000/01     2001/02      2002/03     2003/04  2004/05
 Govt Economic Development Expenditure                 3045       3926          4124       4774     7672
 - Agriculture                                          523         950          929       1876     2889
 Govt Defense Expenditure                              3642       2610          2341       2452     2920
 Govt Social Expenditure                                896       1433          1745       2233     3290
 - Education                                            601         730         1017       1666     1896
 - Urban Devt and Housing                               116         163          210         165      828
 - Health                                               165         522          488         346      505
 - Culture and Sport                                      11         11            20         29       37
 - Social Welfare                                          3           7           10         26       24
 Share of social expenditure in
 Government Expenditure                                  5.5         8.6          8.8       11.0     13.4
 Inflation (% p.a.)
 - General                                              -5.2        -7.2         15.1        8.6      6.8
 - Food                                               -10.6       -12.7          24.8       11.8      7.7
 - Non-Food                                              4.9         1.6          1.6        3.2      5.4
 Current Account Balance (US$m)                        -629        -781         -709        -969   -1,521
 Exchange Rate (Birr/US$)                               8.33       8.54          8.58       8.62     8.65
 Imports of:
 - Agricultural Capital Goods                            8.0         7.0          5.9       10.8     24.4
 - Cereals                                              78.0      155.2         189.2     206.1     160.0
 - Other Foods                                          32.0       53.3          42.5       62.9     87.0
Source: MoFED, 2007 data.



21 Gross Domestic Product (GDP) by Industrial Origin at 1980/81 Constant Factor Prices.


                                                      28

                 ANNEX 3. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Not Applicable




                                   29

     ANNEX 4. BANK LENDING AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT/SUPERVISION PROCESSES

(a) Task Team members


            Names                            Title                  Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                                Specialty
Lending
Elizabeth Adu          Lead Counsel                                LEGAF Lawyer
Nat Colletta           Head, Post Conflict Unit                   SDVPCU Demob/Inte. Spec.
Siaka Bakayoko         Senior Financial Management Specialist      AFTFM Financial Mnmt.
Subhash Dhingra        Senior Procurement Specialist               AFTPC  Procurement Spec.
Eyerusalem Fasika      Research Analyst                            AFTP2  Economic Analysis

Florian Fichtl         Senior Social Protection Specialist,
                       Task Team Leader (2000 ­ 2003)              AFTH3  DRP Specialist

Jean-Pierre Manshande  Senior Health Specialist                    AFTH3  Health Issues
Sudeshna RoyChoudhury  Consultant                                     --  Operations
Surjit Singh           Lead Operations Officer                     AFCE3  Operations
Helen G. Tadesse       Program Assistant                           AFTH3  Program Assistance
Mathew Verghis         Senior Economist                            AFTP2  Economic Analysis
Ingo Wiederhofer       Consultant, Post Conflict                   AFTCS  DRP Specialist


Supervision/ICR
Richard Coppinger      Consultant, Civil Works                      --   Civil Engineering
Marcelo Jorge Fabre    Consultant, M&E                              --   M&E Specialist

Florian Fichtl         Senior Social Protection Specialist, Team
                       Leader (2000 ­ 2003)                       AFTH3  DRP Specialist

Samuel Haile Selassie  Sr Procurement Spec.                       AFTPC  Procurement
Rahel Lulu             Program Assistant                         AFMET Program Assistance
Jean-Pierre Manshande  Sr Health Spec.                            AFTH3  Health Issues
Mulat Negash Tegegn    Consultant, Financial Management           AFTFM Financial Mnmt.
Almaz Teklesenbet      Program Assistant                          AFTAR Program Assistance

Ingo Wiederhofer       Senior Operations Officer,
                       Task Team Leader (2003 ­ 2007)             AFTCS  DRP Specialist

Sara Yirga Woldegerima E T Temporary                              AFCE3  Program Assistance
Eshetu Yimer           Sr Financial Management Specialist         AFTFM Financial Mnmt.
Olivier Jadin`         Consultant                                   --   Disability Issues
Sean Bradley           Senior Social Development Specialist       AFTCS  DRP Specialist
Malathi Jayawickrama   Operations Officer, ICR Team Leader        AFTAR ICR Team Leader




                                             30

(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
        Stage of Project Cycle
                                      No. of staff weeks        USD Thousands (including
                                                                travel and consultant costs)

Lending

  FY01                                      12                             81.35
  FY02                                                                      0.00
  FY03                                                                      0.00
  FY04                                                                      0.00
  FY05                                                                      0.00
  FY06                                                                      0.00
  FY07                                                                      0.00
                              Total:        12                             81.35
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                      10                             43.68
  FY02                                      21                           156.22
  FY03                                      24                           125.34
  FY04                                      16                             94.81
  FY05                                      14                             31.81
  FY06                                      11                             33.73
  FY07                                       6                             27.21
                              Total:      102                            512.80




                                          31

                                 ANNEX 5. BENEFICIARY SURVEY RESULTS

General Overview

         The Government of Ethiopia commissioned an independent Final Evaluation (FE) and a
Beneficiary Impact Assessment of the EDRP. The FE's purpose was to critically assess if EDRP's
performance and results at the national and individual beneficiaries' level were consistent with the project
objectives. The BIA focused on examining the impact of EDRP on the socioeconomic reintegration of
demobilized veterans, rehabilitation of disabled veterans, and reduction in defense expenditures. In
assessing project impacts and performance the reports draw primarily on the perceptions of project
beneficiaries, project staff and government officials (at all levels) and quantitative data from project
reports.22

Final Evaluation (FE) of EDRP
         The evaluation regarded the design of the demobilization and reintegration project as an iterative
process through which each war veteran had to pass, and separately assessed each project component, and
how the component was able to facilitate the veterans move from one stage to the next in their return to
civilian life. The assessment team collected both quantitative and qualitative data/information relating to
EDRP implementation. The methodologies followed in the study were deskwork and consultations, in-
depth interview of resource persons/ key informants, focus group discussions, site observation and
interview of sample beneficiary veterans. The assessment also conducted interviews with informed
officials from various government ministries and other relevant organizations at national, regional, zonal
and woreda level. The structured interviews of sample demobilized war veterans were conducted in the
five regions (see below) to which the vast majority returned. The sample consisted of 857 veterans -- 8
percent militia, 17 percent returnees, 28 percent new regulars, and 47 percent regulars. The veterans
interviewed came from Tigray (44 percent), Amhara (20 percent), Oromia (20 percent), SNNP (12
percent), and Addis Ababa (4 percent). Of the total sampled, there were 61 female veterans comprising
11, 6, 1, 0, and 27 percent in the five regions respectively. The sample size is believed to furnish national
level data/ information of reasonable precision (confidence level 95 percent) (See FE for Methodology).

Beneficiary Impact Assessment (BIA) of EDRP
         Drawing on previous assessments and international best practice, the BIA developed a conceptual
framework for measuring reintegration that spanned a range of economic, social and political aspects. It
further stratified veterans into `urban', `rural', `disabled' female and HIV-infected categories. The
Assessment started from the premise that the heterogeneity of veterans and of reintegration experiences
must be explicitly acknowledged if reintegration effectiveness is to be appropriately measured and lessons
learned. The Assessment noted the difficulty in isolating specific causal linkages between entitlements
(such as the EDRP's TSS, cash grants and training), and productive livelihoods and ultimately self
reliance, as the heterogeneity extended not only to veterans, but also to other areas. For example, changes
brought about by the EDRP entitlements and the effectiveness of veteran reintegration will also depend
on at least other three factors: (i) the absorptive capacity of areas of return; (ii) the endowment set (i.e.
level of education, assets, prior work experience) of reintegrating veterans themselves; and (iii) the
quality and quantity of entitlements provided (BIA, p. 29).23



22The BIA draws on the primary data and beneficiary perception data collected by the Final Evaluation. Therefore
this summary mainly refers to the findings of the FE with regard to beneficiary perception.
23The studies acknowledge several biases in their results, including: the self-selection bias, owing to how veterans
were chosen to participate; and the urban bias--the predictably greater number of veterans from urban or peri-urban
who presented themselves and those from rural areas who were often within only two hours walking distance from
town. Therefore, veterans from more remote areas are not represented.


                                                         32

The two assessments examined the following indicators:
   · Economic integration--formal/informal income streams (measured as consumption/expenditure
       patterns), land/house/asset ownership before and after reintegration, quantity/quality of
       employment and other forms of savings;
   · Social integration --acceptance by family/community of return, membership in local associations,
       repeat access to social services, quantity/quality of disability entitlements ­ including care as well
       as referral and related services for HIV+; and
   · Political integration--involvement in local political/bureaucratic structures, voting patterns and
       other forms of political discrimination and expression (BIA, p.32).
   ·
Summary of Final Evaluation and Beneficiary Impact Assessment

Demobilization
   · Respondents stated that the project provided sufficient demobilisation support to ensure
       reinsertion to their communities. The support had a positive impact on the `smooth' transition to a
       civilian life.
   · Demobilized veterans confirmed the provision of adequate support to prepare for reinsertion.

    Table 1: Did you get proper support in the following during the process of demobilization?

               Description of support type                   Total Demobilized Veterans Responding
                                                             Number           Percentage of those who
                                                                             indicate they received this
                                                                                     assistance
  Registration                                                806                      94
  Identification card/ID                                      810                      95
  Orientation about the purpose of demobilization             759                      89
  Sensitization about HIV/AIDS                                748                      87
  Pre and post VCT counselling service                        614                      72
  Money for photograph                                        341                      40
  Transport allowance                                         654                      77
  Money for the purpose of civilian cloth & blanket           283                      33
  Source: Final Evaluation, p. 52.

   · The pre demobilisation orientation on the reasons for demobilisation and benefits of the project
       contributed to raise interest among veterans to take part in the implementation of the subsequent
       project activities (reinsertion and reintegration).

Macroeconomic Stability
   · Macroeconomic results are detailed in Annex 2. The accelerated implementation timeframe had
       considerable budgetary benefits and demonstrated GoE's commitment to the peace process.
       Immediately after cessation of hostilities GoE started planning for demobilization and committed
       itself to cutting military expenditure significantly. The cutback in defense expenditure was
       successfully achieved by reducing the size of the ENDF through the demobilization of soldiers
       and their reintegration into civilian society. GoE also increased social sector expenditures.




                                                     33

Reinsertion
   · Respondents stated that the TSS payments were largely delivered on time and regard the delivery
       mechanism (coupons) as effective. A verification survey followed each phase of demobilization
       to ensure that veterans received the TSS payments. About 80.3 percent of the veterans received
       their payment within two months after demobilization, 15.9 percent received it within three
       months, and a further 3.8 percent within four months. The loss of payment coupons by a small
       number of veterans caused some delays in their payment. The modality of TSS payment--one
       month from reaching destination, coupon arrangement, and making the payment at the woreda
       capital--was well received by the veterans (EDRP Final Evaluation, p. 51). The TSS helped
       veterans cope with immediate financial needs after return to their local communities

Reintegration
   · Reintegration Grants (RGs) were reported to be paid on time with no significant delays.
   · About 96.1 percent of demobilized veterans received their reintegration assistance within the
       specified period of time, and 3.9 percent had not received their reintegration on time due to
       various reasons, such as loss of payment coupons, mistakes in name lists and in some woredas,
       delays in transfer of name list and others.
   · All respondents had received their RGs at the nearest finance office (in most cases at Woreda
       Finance Offices). Veterans demobilized in both phases had received the eligible amount of
       reintegration benefits, in convenient places, smoothly and within a reasonable period of time.
       Most veterans had used the RGs for economic integration and for daily consumption expenditure
   · Due to limitation of urban and rural lands and government and kebele houses, only a few veterans
       indicated they obtained such access to houses and lands. Similarly, despite the employment
       priority given to veterans in all government offices and kebeles, only a few were employed as
       security guards while most veterans were engaged in causal work.
   · Rural veterans who had land before mobilization re-stated and retained their lands, used the funds
       to develop their farms, purchased more livestock, repaired their houses and resumed normal lives.
   · Urban veterans were provided with significantly more support than those veterans reinserted into
       rural areas.
   · Generally, the economic situation of urban as well as rural veterans improved after
       demobilization. Number of assets owned as well as income increased as a result of the
       reintegration support provided.




                                                    34

 Table 2: Purposes for which the Demobilized Veterans (rural) spent the Reintegration
                   Grants they received (multiple answers were possible)

          Purpose of expenditure/use               Total Demobilized Veterans Responding
                                                   No. responding           Percentage
 Personal consumption                                       191                89
 Clothing                                                   165                81
 House repairs & construction                               117                57
 Ox/oxen                                                     91                45
 Medical treatment                                           87                44
 Repay debts                                                 62                30
 Fertilizers & seeds                                         58                30
 Farm implements                                             55                28
 Goats & Sheep                                               53                27
 Cows & heifers                                              49                25
 Establish small business/handicrafts/shops                  22                12
 Wedding & funeral expenses                                  20                10
 Saving                                                      11                6
 Young bulls                                                  6                3
  Source: Final Evaluation, p. 54.




Table 3: Purposes for which the Demobilized Veterans (urban) spent the Reintegration Grants
                                  they received (multiple answers were possible)

          Purpose of expenditure/use              Total Demobilized Veterans Responding
                                                 No. responding             Percentage
 Personal consumption                                      516                85
 Clothing                                                  462                77
 Medical treatment                                         281                48
 House repairs & construction                              214                36
 Establish small business/handicrafts/shops                186                31
 Repay debts                                               108                18
 Wedding & funeral expenses                                 77                13
 Saving                                                     53                 9
 Ox/oxen                                                    46                 8
 Cows & heifers                                             43                7
 Goats & Sheep                                              38                7
 Fertilizers & seeds                                        24                 4
 Farm implements                                            25                 4
 Young bulls                                                10                 2
  Source: Final Evaluation, p. 55.

· 55 percent of the respondents claimed that their integration has been not as successful as it should
  have been compared to their initial expectations at the DCs. Of these, 48 percent of rural veterans
  and 68 percent of urban veterans named the lack of employment opportunities as the major factor.
· Social engagement of the veterans both in rural and urban areas has significantly increased. More
  than half of the rural veterans are now members of development committees. Before mobilization
  only one third of them were members. While veterans in rural areas seem to concentrate their



                                              35

   engagement more in 'official' organisations veterans in urban areas seem to prefer engagement in
   traditional organisations
· Table 6 shows the reintegration amounts that were paid to the various categories of disabled
   veterans. In addition to these grants veterans were provided with certain benefits and additional
   supports from the Government (i.e. from Government hospitals), regional offices, zonal offices,
   woredas and kebeles. The provision of medical services has got by far the highest count. On the
   other hand, only 38 injured veterans have stated obtained advice and assistance on how to start
   income generating activities.

                 Table 4: Changes in the Assets Owned by Demobilized Veterans
                       before Mobilization and after Demobilization (rural)

    Description of asset type (ranked by       Changes in assets owned (Percentage rounded)
                  change)                         Before        After            Change
 House                                               31             56            25
 Ox/oxen                                             28             39            11
 Cows                                                27             37            10
 Goats & sheep                                       17             27            10
 Horses/mules/donkeys                                10             19             9
 Chicken                                             26             34             8
 Young bulls                                           7            14             7
 Heifers                                             10             17             7
 Agricultural land                                   43             50             7
 Farm implements                                     36             41             5
 Watch                                               37             42             5
 Camel                                                 3             4             1
   Source: Final Evaluation, p. 57.


        Table 5: Changes in the Household Assets owned by Demobilized Veterans
                    before Mobilization and after Demobilization (urban)

   Description of asset type (ranked by        Changes in assets owned (Percentage rounded)
                  change)                         Before           After           Change
 Equipment                                        13              45                32
 House                                             7              37                30
 Urban land                                        4              23                19
 Watch                                            28              46                18
 Shops                                             4              19                15
 Telephone line                                    3              18                15
 Bicycle                                           4              10                 6
 Farm implements                                  36              41                 5
 Watch                                            37              42                 5
   Source: Final Evaluation, p. 57.

· Disabled veterans were offered more training opportunities than able-bodied ones. While only
   about 8 % of the able-bodied were offered skill/vocational training about one fifth of the disabled
   were offered a chance. The trainings received by them seem to have not been adequately adapted
   to the needs of this group. 82% of the disabled interviewees answered with "no" to the question
   "Have you benefited from the skill/vocational training you have undertaken". Even in Addis



                                                36

   where trainings were far more easily to organize than for veterans in rural areas, 74% of those
   disabled veterans who had received any kind of training answered with "no". The veterans mainly
   answered with "no" because they felt that the trainings were too short. They had also hoped for
   time-sequenced follow-up trainings to strengthen the knowledge acquired in the first trainings to
   reach a certain confidence level in their chosen vocation.
· Provision of training both vocational and business skill to the severely disabled veterans is one of
   the major activities performed by EDRP-FPMU. The objective of providing such kind of training
   is to help disabled veterans to acquire civilian skills. Accordingly, from the beginning of the
   project up to the end of 2006, 354 severely disabled veterans from Mikey Leland Center received
   different vocational and business skill training. (2006 Fourth Quarter & Annual Progress Report,
   EDRP-FPMU)


     Table 6: If special assistance was given to you as an injured veteran, please indicate what
                        has been given to you (Multiple answers were possible)

                   Assistance (ranked)                        Count         Percentage (rounded)
Medical service                                                  411               91
Money                                                            100               24
Social counseling                                                  92              22
Urban land                                                         81              19
Advice to get skill/vocational training                            80              19
Artificial part of body                                            45              11
Residential house for dwelling                                     42              10
Assistance to get employment                                       40              10
Advice on and assistance to start income generating
activities                                                        38                9

Admittance to school                                              23                6
Agricultural land                                                  11               3
   Source: Final Evaluation, p. 69.




                                                 37

        ANNEX 6. STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP REPORT AND RESULTS

None




                              38

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

SUMMARY

The Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project (EDRP), was a comprehensive package
designed to cope up with the aftermath of the Ethio-Eritrea conflict. The Project had three components
namely: Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration. The total number of veterans demobilized
through out the project life reached 148,093 or 98.73 %; Reinserted 148,093 or 98.73% and Reintegrated
148,093 or 98.73 % and the achievement of the objectives (Original plan being 150,000 veterans) were
highly satisfactory.

The EDRP fulfilled its major goal of macro-economic stability. Since the initiation of the EDRP, defense
expenditure declined from 40% to 17% of recurrent Government expenditure, and similarly the share of
defense expenditures as a percentage of GDP reduced from 13.2 % in 2000 to 3% in 2004/5. On the other
hand, the share of social services which was 15.3% of the total expenditure in 1999/00 has increased to
22.5% in 2001/2002 fiscal year.

Reinsertion is a process where by veterans transformed from military to civilian life. In this regard the
government has allocated Eth. Birr 2000 TSS (Transitional Subsistence Support) to each veteran to cover
the initial economic needs of demobilized veterans upon return to the communities of their choices.

The demobilized veterans reinserted into their communities of origin have started living their normal life.
Those reinserted in urban and rural areas have reunited with their families and started participating in
economic and social activities of their communities

All demobilized veterans have received different types of reintegration assistances from the project and
from regional governments such as cash for starting business, training in various fields, land for
agriculture and housing construction, employment opportunities in public and private sectors, agricultural
extension services, rental of residential and business houses, etc.

EDRP also provided center-based services to 345 severely disabled veterans at Mikye Leland Disabled
Veterans' Care Center in Addis Ababa. The services include medical treatment (including referral
services), supply & maintenance of physiotherapy & Orthopedic appliances, counseling, shelter, clothing,
food, entertainment, physical supports provisions and others.

Vocational & Business Skill Training was provided to 354 severely disabled veterans at a cost of ETB
195,276.

The No. is 354 because some veterans took more than one type of training.
Out of the 148,093 demobilized veterans, about 17,000 of them have different types of disabilities mild to
severely disabilities. In addition, it is estimated that there are more than 7 million people in the country
with various types of disabilities. All these need physical rehabilitation services (prosthetic-orthotic
centers/POCs) namely Mekele, Dessie, Asella, Arbaminch, Harar & Jijiga in terms of buildings that
consist of orthopedic workshops, physiotherapy rooms, offices, dormitories, store & metal workshops,
machineries, equipment & trained manpower.

Furthermore, a New National Rehabilitation Center that is new in its kind in East Africa was built, well
equipped in terms of machineries, furniture, computers, laundry & kitchen equipment, etc. & trained
manpower.

The Center will serve a referral of physical rehabilitation a training & research center in the field.


                                                      39

      ANNEX 8. COMMENTS OF COFINANCIERS AND OTHER PARTNERS/STAKEHOLDERS

No comments available from the Borrower at this time. Borrower has indicated that comments will be
provided. These will be filed in IRIS for reference once received.




                                                    40

ANNEX 9. LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS

World Bank Documents

  · EDRP Memorandum of the President (MOP), Report No. 17794-ET, November 2, 2000
  · EDRP, Technical Annex, Report No. T7405-ET, November 9, 2000
  · EDRP Development Credit Agreement (DCA), Report No. 3437-ET, December 21, 2000
  · EDRP, Aide Memoires and Back-to-Office Reports of Supervision Missions, FY01 ­ FY07
  · Project Status Reports (PSRs) and Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs), 2000 ­
      2006Ethiopia: Interim Country Assistance Strategy, Report No. 21189, November 9, 2000
  · Ethiopia: Public Expenditure Review, June 2004, Report No. 29338-ET
  · Ethiopia Emergency Recovery Project Implementation Completion and Results Report, Report
      No. ICR350, June 21, 2007
  · Ethiopia Emergency Drought Recovery Project Implementation Completion and Results Report,
      Report No. ICR509, June 22, 2007

Government of Ethiopia Documents
  · Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia: Implementation Completion and Results Report,
      November 2007.
  · MoLSA, MoFED: Beneficiary Impact Assessment Report, September 2007.
  · MoLSA, MoFED: Final Impact Evaluation Report, September 2007
  · MoLSA: Training Impact Assessment Report, 2004
  · MoLSA, MoFED, MOE: Operationalization of the National Rehabilitation Center at the Addis
      Ababa Faculty of Science Black Line Teaching Hospital, June 2007
  · MoLSA: Conceptual Framework for the Development of a National Plan for the Physical
      Rehabilitation Sector in Ethiopia, June 2007.
  · MoLSA: Mid Term Review of the EDRP, July 2003.
  · MoLSA: EDRP Quarterly Progress Reports from July 2000 to September 2007.
  · MoLSA: EDRP TSS Payment Verification Report, August 2001
  · MoLSA: A Project to Strengthen the Service Provision of physical Rehabilitation in Ethiopia,
      October 2007




                                                 41

