                                                                                                              92540
Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project                                                           June 11, 2004
The Environmental and Social Assessment Project will assist the government of Ethiopia to
demobilize, reinsert, and reintegrate 133,000 veterans; rehabilitate 17,000 disabled veterans
through the provision of medical services; reallocate public resources to priority social and
infrastructure investments by reducing defense expenditures; and support to macro-economic
stability. 



In general, the emergency rehabilitation interventions are not expected to cause unintended or negative social and economic
impacts. They instead are expected to have added economic and social values for the beneficiaries and the local
communities. The war-affected Internally displaced People (IDPs) in Tigray have moved to neighboring woredas and no
social problems were observed as a result of the displacement. However, where the woredas and tabias have moved to,
had limited social services, and economic opportunities before displacement, and the displacement has increased the burden
on the host community. Similarly, in Afar, the livestock owners have moved to other woredas and/or kebels within same
woredas which are relatively landmine free. Deportees are concentrating in urban centers of Tigray, Afar and Amhara
Regions. They have been well integrated with the communities sharing the scarce social services and economic
opportunities in the respective urban centers. The Emergency Recovery Program (ERP) interventions do not involve
involuntary settlement of beneficiaries. The plan is that the IDPs in both regions will eventually return to their origins and
continue their usual productive economic lives. There could still be some problems associated with the landmines, especially
in some of the woredas and tabias, and this calls for speeding up of the de-mining process. In addition, IDPs displaced from
the disputable areas may face a problem to return and the peace and reconciliation program will be also encouraged for the
IDPs to return to their origins in the disputable areas.
