Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18328-PH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$150 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
THE LAND BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
THIRD RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
September 23, 1998
Rural Development & Natural Resources Sector Unit
Philippines Country Management Unit
East Asia & Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 8, 1998)
Currency Unit = Peso (P)
1 Peso = US$0.0227
US$1.00 = 44 Pesos
FISCAL YEAR
Land Bank of the Philippines: January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARF        -    Agrarian Reform Fund
BSP        -    Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (The Central Bank)
CARP             Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program
CLF        -    Countryside Loan Fund
DBP        -    Development Bank of the Philippines
DENR             Department of Environment and Natural Resources
DOF        -    Department of Finance
EMB        -    Environmental Management Bureau
GOP        -    Government of the Philippines
IDP              Institutional Development Plan
LBP        -    Land Bank of the Philippines
MLF              Micro-finance Loan Fund
NGOs             Non-Government Organizations
PCFC             People's Credit & Finance Corporation
PFIs       -    Participating Financial Institutions
RBs        -    Rural Banks
TBs              Thrift Banks
SDI        -    Subsidy Dependence Index
SCL        -    Single Currency Loan at Libor-Based Floating Rate
Vice President:, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director: Vinay K. Bhargava, EACPF
Sector Manager/Director: Geoffrey B. Fox, EASRD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Arie Chupak, EASRD



PHILIPPINES
THIRD RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
A. Project Development Objective                         .2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators   .2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project         .2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy             .3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices  .4
C. Project Description Summary                          .6
1. Project components                          .6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project  .7
3. Benefits and target population                   .7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements           .7
5. Implementing Institutions                      .8
D. Project Rationale .11
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies . 12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design .12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project .13
E. Summary Project Analyses .14
1. Economic .............................                                  14
2. Financial .14
3. Technical                              .Is
4. Institutional .15
5. Social .15
6. Environmental assessment .16
7. Participatory approach .16
F. Sustainability and Risks .16
1. Sustainability .16
2. Critical risks .17
3. Possible controversial aspects .18



Pace No.
G. Main Loan  Conditions                                                                .     ............................................... 18
1. Effectiveness conditions ..........................................                                                       18
2. Conditions for Disbursement ..........................................                                                     18
3. Other .......................................... 18
H. Readiness for Implementation ................................................                                                          20
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ................................................                                                        20
Annexes
Annex la Project Design Summary ................................................                                                         21
Annex lb Key Performance Indicators ................................................                                                     23
Annex 2a Detailed Project Description ................................................                                                   28
Annex 2b. Credit Operation ................................................                                                               34
Annex 2c. LBP's Operations, Financial Performance and Projections ......................................... 45
Annex 2d. PCFC  Operations, Financial Performance and Projections ......................................... 53
Annex 2e Environmental Technical Services ................................................                                                59
Annex 3. Estimated Project Costs and Financing Plan ................................................                                     64
Annex 4. Financial and Fiscal Impact ................................................                                                    65
Annex 5. Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ................................................                                      69
Table A. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements ................................................                                   71
Table B    Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review  .......................................... 72
Table C. Allocation of Loan Proceeds ................................................                                                 73
Annex 6. Project Processing Budget and Schedule ................................................                                         74
Annex 7. Documents in Project File ................................................                                                      75
Annex 8. Statement of Loans and Credits ................................................                                                 76
Annex 9. Country at a Glance ................................................                                                            78
Map IBRD 27553



Philippines
Third Rural Finance Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia & Pacific Regional Office
Philippines Country Management Unit
Date: September 8, 1998                                  Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Arie Chupak
Country Manager/Director: Vinay K. Bhargava              Sector Manager/Director: Geoffrey B. Fox
Project ID: PH-PE57598    Sector: Rural Development      Program Objective Category:
Lending Instrument: Financial Intermediary Loan          Program of Targeted Intervention:  [x] Yes   [ ] No
Project Financing Data                   [x] Loan         [] Credit        1] Guarantee       [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$150 million
Proposed terms:                             [    Multicurrency      [x] Single currency, specify US$
Grace period (years): 5 years     []   Standard Variable    [   Fixed            [x ]   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: %
Service charge: %
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                 Local              Foreign             Total
LBP                                                                  1.8                 0.2               2.0
PCFC                                                                0.2                  0.1               0.3
IBRD                                                               64.9                 85.1             150.0
PFIs                                                               21.4                  -               21.4
Sub-borrowers                                                      42.4                  -               42.4
Total          130.7                85.4             216.1
Borrower: The Land Bank of the Philippines (LBP)
Guarantor: The Republic of the Philippines
Responsible agency(ies): LBP and the People's Credit & Finance Corporation (PCFC)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):         1999        2000        2001      2002    2003      2004
Annual      30          40          30         30      19         1
Cumulative     30           70         100       130      149       150
For Guarantees:                                      []   Partial credit    [] Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization profile
Financing available without guarantee?:                  []    Yes               [    No
[f yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period: 5 years   Expected effectiveness date: 01/15/99    Expected closing date: 06/06/2005
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



- 2 -
A: Project Development Objectives
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (See Annex la & lb)
Building on the achievements of the Second Rural Finance Project (Loans 3938, 3939, and 3940-PH),
the proposed project would: (a) provide financial support to the rural economy to overcome the
difficulties created by the regional financial crisis, and the devaluation of the Peso through the
establishment of the Countryside Loan Fund III (CLF III); (b) assist the government in its efforts to
alleviate rural poverty through the provision of financial and institutional support to the country's
micro-finance system; (c) strengthen: (i) LBP as the main financial institution serving the rural areas,
and (ii) PCFC as the country's main conduit for micro-finance; and (d) help to enforce financial
discipline on PFIs.
Through CLF III the project would assist private sector enterprises, particularly small and medium sized
operations, to help implement their expansion and modernization plans, to undertake new sub-projects,
and to finance working capital requirements. These enterprises would thus be able to alleviate the
operational and financial problems arising from the credit crunch and currency crisis and take advantage
of new opportunities created by the recent economic developments.
The project would also assist LBP and PCFC in strengthening their institutions and increase their
capacity to provide financial services to the rural areas and micro enterprises, respectively. Under the
project, LBP and PCFC as well as PFIs would be required to apply high financial standards with regard
to solvency, liquidity, profitability, and best management practices, as designed under the proposed
Banking System Reform Loan. LBP and PCFC would each prepare an institutional development plan
(IDP) to be agreed with the Bank and implemented during the project period.
To assist LBP's management and the Bank in monitoring and evaluating project implementation
performance, a set of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) related to project objectives was agreed at
negotiations. The KPIs would include: (i) supporting rural development through financing of viable
investments (number of sub-loans, total sub-project investments, and estimated incremental jobs
created); (ii) strengthening LBP's capacity to finance private sector investments (real increase in equity,
private deposit mobilizations, upgrading loan portfolio quality, and streamlining agrarian lending
operations); and (iii) strengthening PCFC as a wholesale micro-finance institution by raising its equity
and reducing its unit operating costs. More details are in Annex lb.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: Document No. 15362-PH (CAS) and R-98-41 (CAS Progress Report)
Date of latest CAS discussion: March 24, 1998
The project would especially support two of the CAS main goals. It would (i) improve private business
environment by improving availability of long term financing for viable rural investments; and (ii)
contribute to poverty alleviation, directly through the financing of micro-finance enterprises and
indirectly through job creation as a result of the provision of term lending for investments in the rural
areas. The recent CAS Progress Report also reaffirmed the need to respond to both the the new
opportunities resulting from the Mindanao peace agreement and the Asian financial crisis by enhancing
the country's international competitiveness through, inter alia, strengthening and deepening the financial
system. The CAS Progress Report, highlighted the need to intensify Bank's support through technical



- 3 -
assistance and quick disbursing loans. In addition, lines of credit for agriculture and industry would be
provided in light of constrained availability of tern credit to the private sector. This project would
provide some of this credit. Also, because it is directed towards the countryside, it would also provide
essential support to the implementation of the Bank's rural development assistance strategy.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Philippine economy has recovered from its poor performance of the early 1990s and has been
growing for the last 4 years. However, the recent East Asian financial crisis has impacted negatively on
the Philippine economic growth and the stability of the banking sector. Real GNP growth decelerated
from 6.9 percent in 1996 to 5.8 percent in 1997, with a projection of a further decline to a negligible
level in 1998. Currently inflation is exceeding 10%, unemployment as of April 1998 is reported to have
risen sharply to 13.3%, estimates of the fiscal deficit have rapidly escalated, the Peso has weakened and
following a period of decline, market interest rates have begun to rise.
The East Asian currency and financial disturbances in the latter half of 1997 revealed some weaknesses
in the Philippine economy. The liberalization of capital account transactions in 1992 encouraged the
inflow of foreign capital that led to a real appreciation of the peso while the nominal exchange rate
remained stable. The stable peso and higher domestic interest rates relative to interest rates abroad, led
to dollar-denominated borrowings by a number of companies and banks. This led to the extension of
dollar-denominated loans which generally were unhedged by borrowers. Hence, the substantial
depreciation since July 1997 exposed a number of borrowers to liquidity and solvency problems.
Because of a decade of structural adjustment effort assisted by Bank and IMF, a relatively shorter period
of credit growth and reliance on private capital flows, the Philippines' financial problem seems to be of
a different order of magnitude than those of neighboring countries. Net foreign capital inflow declined
sharply from about $8 billion in 1996 to below US$1 billion in 1997, while the current account deficit
widened in 1997 to about $4.5 billion. This was mitigated by an increase in Philippine overseas
workers' remittance of 15 percent to about US$11.5 billion in 1997. Speculative attacks against the
peso reduced international reserves by about US$3.4 billion in 1997. These led to the substantial
reduction in the BSP's intervention in the foreign exchange market.
The commercial banking system is now mruch more liberal and open. Compared with 27 commercial
banks in the late 1980s, there are now 54 banks operating in the country including 14 foreign banks.
Credit has grown at an annual rate of 34% over the last five years and deposits have grown at an annual
rate of 27%. Total assets of the banking system increased by 22 percent in 1997. Universal and
commercial banks account for about 80 percent of these assets with thrift and rural banks accounting for
the remainder. Overall, the commercial banking system appears to be healthy with a risk assets to
equity ratio of about 7.5 (BSP requirement is 10), past due ratio was at its lowest point in 1996 (2.8%)
but increased to 4.7% at the end of 1997. Profitability of commercial banks was substantially improved
between 1994 to 1996 slightly exceeding 18% and 2% on equity and assets, respectively. As a result of
the regional financial crisis, profitability in 1997 declined to about 15% on equity and 1.6% on assets.
The banking system and the corporate sector, however, still experienced stress from the financial shocks
as evidenced by the current tightness in the credit environment. Credit of commercial banks during the
fourth quarter of 1997 and the first half of 1998 was stagnant. While the commercial banks as a group
experienced healthy profit levels in 1997 due to widening gross interest margins, a number of them had
problems on rising non-performing loans, increased incidences of rollovers, falling real estate collateral
values, and compliance with legal reserve requirements. On the other hand, thrift banks and rural banks
experienced greater stress from the crisis. At the end of 1997, the gross non-performing loans of thrift



-4 -
banks and rural banks were reported to be 10 percent and 14 percent respectively. The stress faced by
these banks has contributed to the credit squeeze in the rural economy particularly among the micro,
small and medium enterprises. The regional crisis and its impact on the Philippines have raised concern
about the commercial banks' capital adequacy, loan classification and provisioning practices, increase in
non-performing loans, effectiveness of on-site inspection and off-site monitoring, off balance sheet
activities, inadequate transparency, exit and entry requirenments, liquidity in the system, and the
availability of term credit. The government, in consultation with the Bank and the Fund, has initiated a
number of reforms to address these issues. The proposed project is also one step in the same direction.
The credit squeeze while more severe among the small and medium borrowers also resulted in the
slowing down in private consumption and investment. Unemployment is expected to be well over 10
percent by end 1998 compared with 8.7 percent in 1997. Non-prime corporate borrowers are suffering
from the reduced availability of credit. As a result, the country's fiscal position is a concern in view of
the possible slow down in revenue collection.
The pace of recovery from the sharp economic slowdown of 98 will depend on the depth and duration of
the regional crisis and the effectiveness of the macro-economic and structural policies of the new
administration. This means the adoption and continuation of reforms that promote macro-economic
stability and investor confidence in the financial market which will enable the corporate and the banking
sector to recover from the stress brought about by the credit squeeze and the currency depreciation. The
administration is determined to adopt policies that would strengthen the banking system's capacity to be
more resilient to future financial shocks. Likely measures include: (i) improvement of the prudential
and supervisory systems and implementation of measures that would enable the authorities to deal
expeditiously with problem banks, and (ii) the reduction of peso intermediation costs to reduce
disparities between intermediation in different currencies.
The poor, however, will be provided assistance within a policy environment that promotes a viable and
sustainable financial market. The policy for microenterprise lending has clearly been laid out in the
recently enacted law on Poverty Alleviation. The law supports the provision of microfinance services
within a policy environment that promotes a viable and sustainable financial market. It categorically
states that the government will only provide funds for capability building of microfinance institutions.
The proposed implementing rules and regulations also clearly espouse the use of market-based interest
rates.
The country would need substantial support from both the Bank and the IMF to recover and resume a
sustained growth path in the near term. Government policy of strengthening the financial sector as
stated above and easing the the problems created by the credit crunch would be supported by the Bank
through the Banking System Reform Loan and the two lines of credit to LBP and DBP, the Third Rural
Finance Project (TRFP) and the Private Enterprise Credit Support Project, respectively. The TRFP
would also assist government policy on poverty alleviation through the availabilty of credit facility for
the financing of viable micro-enterprises. Its fiscal impact would also be positive.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
While the financial crisis will weed out or hasten the demise of weak and non-competitive enterprises,
including possibly banks, it is not certain that the weeding out process will be confined to such firms.
The banks, in their desire to protect their balance sheets from exposure to failing firms, especially those
with unhedged dollar denominated loans, might not care or exert effort to distinguish between good and
bad firms. A general credit squeeze is much easier to implemrnent than a discriminating credit policy.
Staying liquid while exploiting high yielding TBills, or taking a position in the foreign exchange market



-  -
is a survival strategy that several banks have adopted, leading to a degree of failure in the credit market.
Indeed, mission interviews indicate that the financial crisis has hit good borrowers which would
otherwise be considered creditworthy and viable, especially the small and medium scale rural
enterprises, who have been caught between reduced bank funding and higher credit requirements due to
the depreciation of the Peso and resulting increased cost of inputs and higher receivables. Export-
oriented firms are also finding it difficult to take advantage of weak Peso due to a lack of credit. The
proposed project would address these issues project component (a).
Clear evidence of strong demand for medium and long term credit for rural investment has been shown
by the fact that funds under CLF I and II which were set up to meet this demand at market rates have
been drawn down substantially ahead of target. There continues to be an absence of medium and long
term Peso denominated financial instruments within the banking system, and given the financial crisis,
this is unlikely to change in the near future. Without such resources, either banks have to finance
investments using short term resources, leading to maturity mismatches in the banking sector, or else
investors are exposed to the financial risk of not having their short term loans rolled over. Additional
Bank resources to support rural investment through a wholesale credit line would help to plug this gap
and enable the Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) and their clients to better match the maturity of
their funding to the maturity of their project or loan. This issue would be addressed through the CLF
component of the proposed project project component (a).
The increasing amount of micro-enterprise activities in the country results in a considerable demand for
micro-enterprise loans in the rural sector. The loan demand of micro-enterprise clients range from
P25,000 to P100,000 for working capital and small capital investments. Due to the perceived costs
associated with small lending, most commercial banks do not lend to micro-enterprises. This market
niche is being served by micro-finance institutions that are mostly comprised of rural banks, cooperative
rural banks, credit cooperatives, and credit NGOs. With the increased demand for micro-enterprise
credit and the reluctance of commercial banks to expose themselves to this type of portfolio, the
government has recently created the People's Credit and Finance Corporation' (PCFC) which provides
wholesale funds to micro-finance institutions. Recognizing the role of micro-enterprise loans in poverty
alleviation, the PCFC has been given the task of lead financial institution in micro-finance. It has so far
accredited 86 MFIs of which 46 are either rural banks or cooperative rural banks. At present, PCFC is
operating with limited funds, which are mostly directed. Availability of wholesale funds for onlending
to MFIs for micro-enterprises in the P25,000 (about US$625) to P100,000 (about US$2,500) range is
severely limited. Most MFIs (especially credit NGOs) rely on donations, grants and a limited volume of
commercial lending; they are not able to easily source finance for this type of lending. These issues are
addressed by project component (b).
Wholesaling of funds, particularly aid resources is necessary because of the large number of banks and
MFIs in the Philippines. The use of a wholesale mechanism allows for competition within the PFIs and
the MFIs and gives access to funds to any qualified institution. Its effective implementation requires the
Apex Institutions to operate efficiently and in addition, accredit and provide training to PFIs/MFIs.
Both Apexes (LBP and PCFC) have drafted Institutional Development Plans (IDPs) to strengthen their
ability to do this. Support for this under Part (d) of the Project is given to PCFC whilst LBP is
supported under Part (c).
PCFC was incorporated and registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission in 1996. Its charter
calls for eventual privatization.



C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component                  Category      Cost Incl.     % of      Bank-       % of
Contingencies    Total   financing    Bank-
_     (US$M)             (US$M)   financing
CLF III A fund, at market interest rates,    Credit     207.1       95.8%       145.0    up to 75%
available through LBP to accredited PFIs on                                              of sub-
a short, medium or long term basis to                                                    project
finance private rural sub-projects that are                                              costs
economically and technically sound,
including those which are under financial
distress induced by the current financial
crisis.
Micro Finance Loan Fund (MLF)          Credit            6.7         3.0%        5.0     up to 75%
Resource lent by LBP to PCFC at market                                                   of sub-
rates would form the MLF which would                                                     project
provide finance for working capital and                                                  costs
small capital investment of micro-
enterprises. Sub-loans under this
component would range from P25,000
(US$625) to P100,000 (US$2,500). Main
MFI conduits would be rural banks and
cooperative banks.
Strengthening LBP. An IDP agreed with   IDP              2.0         0.9%       None    N/A
the Bank and to be adopted by LBP would
focus on ensuring LBP's sustainability while
continuing its rural lending expansion.
Specifically it would focus on (i) improving
the quality of LBP's commercial loan
portfolio, (ii) reducing unit losses on
agrarian lending; (iii) continuing the policy
of automation of systems and management
information flow; (iv) staff training, (v)
mobilization of medium and long term Peso
resources; and (vi) making adequate
arrangements for capital build up.
Strengthening PCFC. Under this        IDP                0.3         0.2%       None    N/A
component, PCFC would also implement an
Institutional Development Plan (IDP) to be
prepared by PCFC and agreed with the
Bank. This would include build up of
PCFC's capital base and strengthening of its
staff capability to implement its various
types of micro-finance programs.
Total         216.1       100.0%      150.0     69.4%



-7-
2. Key policy and institutional reforns supported by the project:
The project has no direct policy component, but is consistent with the policy of a liberalized financial
sector where onlending rates by LBP and the various participating financial institutions are negotiated
freely. No major institutional reforms are involved, but the project would contribute towards
institutional development of LBP and PCFC, PFIs, and MFIs.
3. Benefits and target population:
The CLF III would directly assist small and medium sized economic entities operating in the Philippines
rural areas. Based on the loan uptake of CLF I & II, it is estimated that about 700 economic entities
would obtain credit under the project (in the first round of lending). These would benefit from the
restructuring of their economically and technically viable, but financially distressed businesses, or else
from the establishment of new, or expansion of existing viable entities. The Micro Finance component
would assist micro enterprises in the rural areas and be targeted towards those businesses which are too
small to receive regular commercial finance, but larger than the Grameen style clients of PCFC's ADB
and IFAD supported programs. About 100 PFIs would benefit from being retailers of CLF III. The
availability of more medium term financial resources would help the PFIs to improve the structure of
their balance sheets, allow them to service their clients better and contribute to their profitability. Some
50 MFIs, mainly rural banks and credit co-operatives, would similarly benefit from an expansion in the
availability of term credit for onlending. The institutional strengthening components for LBP and PCFC
would both strengthen the institutions themselves and assist in improving the delivery of financial
services to the rural areas.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The loan would be made to the Land Bank of the Philippines (LBP) with the guarantee of the Republic
of the Philippines. It would, therefore, make no demands on public sector financial resources and be
independent of the administrative capacity of government line agencies.
The CLF III component would be operated as a wholesale banking fund guided by an agreed policy
manual. The main elements of the policy manual would include: eligibility criteria of sub-projects;
Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) accreditation criteria; market interest rates; subsidiary and
sub-loan maturities; appraisal; disbursement; environmental protection; and supervision of sub-projects.
These are detailed in Annex 2b.
LBP would be responsible for implementing the agreed Institutional Development Plan (IDP). The IDP
would be annually reviewed and if warranted, adjustments to the respective strategy, actions, and targets
would be made. In addition a semi-annual report on the outstanding issues and implementation of the
IDP would be prepared by LBP with contributions from the various departments involved in
implementing the IDP. Part of the IDP would involve preparation and implementation of the project
training and Technical Assistance (TA) programs. The preparation work for these would be completed
by November 30, 1998. The programs would be updated annually and be submitted by LBP for Bank
review by November 30 of each year commencing in 1999 for the immediately succeeding year. In
carrying out the training program LBP will employ consultants whose qualifications, experience, and
terms and conditions are satisfactory to the Bank. Details on the principles, targets, and timetable
regarding the implementation of the IDP are provided in Annex 2a.



-8-
The micro-finance component would be carried out by PCFC. The credit element would based on an
agreed policy manual which would cover: sub-borrowers' eligibility criteria, Micro Finance Institutions
(MFIs) accreditation criteria, interest rate structure; appraisal and supervision of micro enterprises; and
sub-loan disbursement arrangements. The funds for implementing the credit element of this component
would be lent by LBP to PCFC from the proceeds of the IBRD loan to LBP. LBP's on-lending rates to
PCFC would be variable and adjustable every quarter. It would be based on the 91 day Thills rate.
PCFC would also be responsible for the preparation of its IDP and its implementation. This would be
reviewed annually and updated as necessary. Progress reports would be submitted to the Bank every six
months. More details are provided in Annex 2a (IDP) and Annex 2d (credit).
Land acquisition and resettlement. Although the project will not finance land acquisition, LBP will
have to ensure that land acquired for sub-project implementation would be on the basis of a freely
negotiated agreement between buyer and seller. No involuntary land transactions will take place under
the project.
5. Implementing Institutions
Land Bank of the Philippines (LBP, for more details see Annex 2c)
Ownership & Orzanizational Structure. LBP was established in 1963 with authorized capital of P 1.8
billion as the agency responsible for financing agrarian reform. Under the new Land bank Act of 1995,
(RA7907) its authorized ordinary share capital was increased to P 7.8 billion all of which is Government
owned. P 7.4 billion has now been paid up, through allocation from reserves. Additionally, SSS (the
social security fund) holds P 1.2 billion of LBP preferred shares (yielding 14%). LBP has recently
submitted an application for a further increase in total authorized capital to P 25 billion. LBP is
controlled by a Board of nine Directors, including the Secretary of Finance (Chairman); the President of
LBP, (Vice-Chairman); the Secretaries of Agrarian Reform; Agriculture and Labor and four other Board
members appointed by the President of the Philippines to represent the Agrarian Reform beneficiaries,
the landowners and the private sector.
LBP is now divided into three main sectors: (i) the Agrarian and Domestic Banking Sector (ADBS), (ii)
the Institutional Banking Sector (IBS), and (iii) the Operations and Support Sector (OSS). Through over
300 branches, ADBS now has nation wide cover and the relative importance of branch banking is
growing. Within the branches, LBP services its two types of client (agrarian2 and commercial). IBS is
still large compared to branch banking in terms of lending, and generates about 65% of loan business
(down from over 80% in 1994), mainly through Head Office. OSS, which is head office based provides
support to the earning parts of the bank, including manpower services, facilities management,
controllership, treasury, and market research.
LBP is the main financial institution in the Philippines that provides agricultural and rural credit through
rural financial institutions and cooperatives to small farmers, fishermen, agricultural enterprises, and
non-farm investments. Since July 1990, LBP, through its Program Lending Group (PLG), has
successfully managed three bank-financed credit funds: the Agricultural Loan Fund (ALF, Loan 2570-
PH), the first Countryside Loan Fund (CLF I, Loan 3356-PH), and CLF II (Loans 3938, 3939, and 3940-
PH). PLG is managing not only the Bank credit funds but also those of ADB, IFAD, and OECF. It is
2   Agrarian Loan is defined by LBP as production loans made to small farmers (up to 5 hectares of land, rice and
corn up to 7 hectares), who are basically agrarian reform beneficiaries. It does not include other agricultural
lending which is part of LBP's commercial banking operation.



- 9 -
staffed with qualified and experienced officers and management and was able over the years to deepen
its exposure and experience in carrying out a wholesale banking operation. LBP is continuing to
upgrade, through a regular and continuous training program, its own staff, and those of the PFIs and
cooperatives. Finally, in terms of its experience, knowledge and institutional set up, LBP is qualified
and suitable to implement the proposed project.
Resources and Assets. LBP has substantially expanded its available resources over recent years to a
total of P168 billion (US$4.2 billion) as of March 31, 1998. These comprise equity P15 billion (9%), of
which P12 billion is from retained profits; GOP deposits P77 billion (46%), private deposits P44 billion
(26%), bills payable (including loans from the Bank, ADB, OECF, IFAD) P18 billion (11%) and other
liabilities of P14 billion (8%). On the assets side, cash and investment in Government securities
together totalled P54 billion or 32% of its total assets, and net loans (including interbank loans) P98
billion (58%), investments in non govemrnent securities, (3%), bank premises and other fixed assets
(3%) and other assets (4%).
Lending Operations. LBP substantially expanded its lending portfolio during the last four years (1993 -
1997) at an annual nominal rate of 30% resulting in LBP's total gross loan portfolio increasing from P32.3
billion in December 1993 to P93.7 billion now (US$2.4 billion). This expansion was mainly in
commercial lending (including to commercial agriculture and government agencies). Wholesale term
lending under ALF, CLF I and CLF II, which uses Bank resources has grown at about 18% p.a. and now
amounts to P6.5 billion or 7% of the loan portfolio. This wholesale lending has been both profitable and
successful. Repayments have been excellent, and as of 1997 year end, there were no past dues from
Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs). After seven years, LBP has only had one bad debt under this
program, for a negligible amount of P0.5 million or less than one hundredth of one percent of the present
outstanding balance.
Portfolio Quality. The quality of LBP's commercial loan portfolio is about average for large commercial
banks in the Philippines. Net non performing loans improved from 2.8% in 1995 to 2.3% in 1996 but
declined slightly to 2.7% in December 1997. This latter figure was in line with the average for Philippine
commercial banks at the same date (2.5%). However if agrarian loans3 are omitted from the analysis, LBP
has fractionally less net past dues (2.49%) than the commercial banking sector average. Since 1995, the
collection rate on agrarian loans and the quality of the agrarian portfolio has improved as LBP has
provisioned adequately in line with the Institutional Strengthening Action Plan (ISAP) agreement under the
Second Rural Finance Project (SRFP).
Impact of the Recent Financial Crisis and Peso Devaluation. Although LBP has foreign exchange
borrowings and deposits amounting to about US$900 million, these are fully hedged; either the funds
are reinvested or relent in matching currencies, or else, as in the case of multilateral and bilateral
borrowings (about US$500 million), the foreign exchange risk is borne by Government. Indeed as at
mid February 1998, LBP's unhedged foreign exchange risk amounted to only US$4.2 million, or about
0. 1% of total assets. The main direct impact of the recent Peso devaluation on LBP therefore was to
increase the size of both total assets and total liabilities by roughly the same amount, therefore slightly
weakening its Risk Assets:Equity ratio. A second but more important point is the effect that the
devaluation has had on LBP's clients and their ability to service their loans. This appears to be more
problematic than the direct effect and in the period December 1997 to March 1998, the level of past
dues on commercial loans has increased significantly. Overall, by March 1998, LBP's net past dues
have increased to 6.2% of total net loan portfolio.
3   See footnote 2 above.



- 10-
Profitability. Liquidity and Solvency. LBP has made profits in each of the past ten years, with nominal
profits averaging about P1.7 billion (US$ 60 million) from 1994 -1997. Real returns to equity have
averaged about 7% for the same period. In 1997, LBP's neit profit before tax of P1.7 billion was just
under 1.1% of total year end assets, below the Philippine commercial bank average for 1997 of 1.64%.
This lower return is because part of LBP's profit, which comes entirely from its commercial banking
operations, is used to subsidize its agrarian lending. LBP has always maintained adequate liquidity, and
its Risk Assets to equity ratio, has remained within the 8:1 ratio covenanted under the Second Rural
Finance Project (SRFP).
Outstanding Issues. Since SRFP, LBP has solved the issues which it had in relation to Land Reform Bonds
and its relationship with the Agrarian Reform Fund. The main issues which it will face over the years to
come are (i) increasing its equity; (ii) ensuring that the quality and profitability of the commercial loan
portfolio improves; (iii) reducing the unit losses on agrarian lending (through reducing operating costs and
improving revenue - better collection and higher interest rates, if possible) and increasing outreach to small
farmers and rural entrepreneurs; and (iv) resource mobilization, particularly medium and long terin. These
issues are addressed under the project through LBP's IDP.
People's Credit and Finance Corporation (PCFC (for more details see Annex 2d)
Ownership and Organizational Structure. PCFC is a govemment owned and controlled corporation
registered in 1995 as a finance company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the
Corporation Code. It is responsible for providing funds to rnicrofinance institutions for onlending to
micro-enterprises in the rural areas. It is initially capitalized at P100 million by the National Livelihood
Support Fund, a fund supervised by LBP. A recently passed law, Republic Act 8425, the Social Reform
and Poverty Alleviation Act, has required an increase in PCFC's capitalization by an additional P 500
million to be provided by the national government over a four year period.
PCFC is controlled by a Board of Directors, including three LBP officials (LBP's President sits as vice-
chair of the PCFC Board), of the PCFC President, the Chairperson of the National Anti-Poverty
Commission, Undersecretary of the Department of Finance and three private sector representatives,
appointed by the President of the Philippines. The PCFC President who responsible for day today
operation of PCFC, is assisted by two vice-presidents, one for the Operations Group and another for the
Finance and Administration.
Under Executive Order No. 148 and the relevant provision of Republic Act 8425, PCFC will be
privatized. The law provides that when the ownership of the majority of the issued voting stocks of
PCFC shall have passed to qualified private investors, it shall be considered a privately organized entity
subject to the laws and regulations generally applied to private corporations. A privatization plan is
currently under preparation.
Resources and Assets. PCFC has resources amounting to P349.9 million as of March 31, 1998. These
comprise equity P100.5 million (28.7%) of which P0.5 million is from retained earnings; bills payable
(including a loan from the ADB-IFAD) P242.3 million (69.2%) and other liabilities P7.1 million (2%).
On the assets side, loans receivable totaled P217.5 million (62.2%); investments in government
securities P70.6 million (20.2%); deposits in banks P59 million (16.9%) and other assets P2.8 million
(0.7%). As a finance company, PCFC is not authorized to mobilize deposits from the public; it can
only source funds from a limited number of creditors.



- 11 -
Lending Operations. PCFC operates as a wholesale lending institution for microenterprise loans. It
operates two loan windows: the HIRAM (Helping Individuals Reach their Aspirations through Micro-
credit) Lending Program and the ADB-IFAD Grameen Program. It has a network of 87 active conduits
comprised of rural banks, cooperative rural banks, cooperatives, credit unions and credit-granting
NGOs. As of March 1998, PCFC has served a cumulative total of 70,725 end-borrowers. Accumulated
loan releases under HIRAM reached P 754.8 million as of end March 1998. Total loans outstanding
were P213 million. Total approved credit lines under the ADB-IFAD window amounted to P 136
million for 9 conduits, but total loan releases to only P 8.5 million.
Portfolio Quality. In its almost two years of operation, PCFC has maintained a high portfolio quality.
It has a very high loan collection rate and has a past due ratio of only 0.78%. PCFC has adopted the
standards set by BSP for non-bank and quasi-banking financial institutions and has strictly imposed the
BSP general loan loss provisioning of 2%.
Profitability, Liquidity and Solvency. PCFC has made nominal profits in its first two years of
operations. Although nominal profits were made in both 1996/7 to 1997/8, they were insufficient to
cover for inflation. Real return on equity was -3% in the year to March 1997 and -7% in the year to
March 1998. The negative profitability can be chiefly attributed to the small lending volume and
PCFC's relatively high operating cost. PCFC maintains a very high liquidity position. Its current ratio
is 3.1:1 which provides ample room for generating a bigger volume of microenterprise loans. Its Risk
Asset to Equity ratio is very conservative at 2.2:1.
Outstanding Issues. PCFC is potentially a critical agency for the poverty alleviation program of the
government in the countryside. To fulfill its task of providing private microfinance institutions funds
for onlending to a vast number of micro-enterprises in the countryside, PCFC will need to be
strengthened. Its present situation of low profitability but sound liquidity and solvency mainly reflect
the fact that PCFC is a very new organization, which is still a long way from full development. Main
issues to be addressed include: (i) weak equity base; (ii) inability to generate profits in real terms; (iii)
need for improvement of its operating efficiency and (iv) lack of necessary personnel, inadequately
trained staff and problem of retaining professional staff. These issues are addressed in PCFC's IDP.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection:
An alternative option for the design of this type of rural finance project, which has been used in some
other countries, would have been for the Bank to lend directly to several retail financial institutions,
without using the wholesale concept. Given the characteristics of the Philippine banking sector in rural
areas (there are several hundred different banks which are creditworthy) such an approach would have
necessarily restricted the number of potential participants. Furthermore a project which achieves only
moderate cover in this way would have been costly to prepare as each of the pre-determined FIs would
have needed to be appraised at the project preparation stage. Using a wholesaling approach provides
every financial institution operating in the country, that meets the accreditation criteria, the opportunity
to participate in the project and accommodate their own clients. Given that wholesale banking
procedures have already successfully operated in the Philippines, the retail option was rejected and the
project has been prepared as another wholesale operation using an existing conduit.



- 12-
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                       Project                          Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation      Development
Progress (IP)     Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
$100 million in 1986 (completed)   Agricultural Credit Project           S                   S
$150 million in 1991 (completed)   Rural Finance Project                 S                   S
$150 million 1996 (ongoing, $105   Second Rural Finance Project          S                   S
million disbursed))
Other Development Agencies
ADB $75 million                    Cooperative Credit Project
ADB/IFAD $34.7 million             Micro-Finance Project
OECF $50 million equivalent        Agriculture Credit.
(completed)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The broad lessons that emerge from the review of the previous agricultural and rural finance projects
are: (i) directed credit by crop or type of investments, at subsidized interest rates, did not sustain
economic growth, improve credit delivery mechanism in the rural areas, or increase access of rural
borrowers to formal credit facilities; (ii) heavy arrears and poor financial conditions of the apex
financial institution or the selected PFIs severely constrained sub-projects' sustainability; (iii) private
financial resource mobilization is extremely important for institutional sustainability and; (iv) strong
financial institutions along with qualified and experienced management and staff at headquarters,
branches and field offices, are crucial to project success; and (v) when interest rates either fell
significantly below or moved well above prevailing market rates, serious implementation problem have
emerged: above market-rates resulted in slow disbursement, while below-market rates led to
concentration of credit to relatively wealthier and large clients. These lessons have been incorporated
in the design of the proposed project.
The ongoing Second Rural Finance Project (SRFP) is progressing well in all its components.
Disbursement under the CLF II has reached about US$100 million (about 2/3 of the loans in two years
after effectiveness), financing some 590 sub-projects with total investments of about P4.3 billion. With
regard to the Institutional Strengthening Action Plan (ISAP), the main progress was in the performance
of private sector resource mobilization and an increase in equity. KPI targets for the period have largely
been met. The specific lessons learned from the ongoing SRFP and incorporated in the proposed project
are: (i) due to the volatility of interest rates it is necessary to shorten the period in which the market
reference rate is being calculated from one quarter to at most a monthly basis in order to better reflect
the market; (ii) the premia for conversion from variable to fixed rates and the associated prepayment
penalties require regular review and adjustment, if warranted; (iii) accreditation criteria for PFIs,
particularly the cut off points, need to be periodically reviewed and adjusted to market conditions; (iv)
within the institutional development plan (IDP), more attention should be given to the lending
concentration issues and collection matters; and (v) IDP targets should be reviewed and updated more
often than in the past to reflect better the new challenges and issues that LBP needs to cope with.



- 13 -
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The proposed borrower, LBP has requested this project. It has a very good record of project
implementation, has achieved substantial institutional growth, and has excellent operational relationship
with the PFIs. All project preparation relating to LBP activities including the drafting of the related
policy manuals, are being undertaken by the borrower, through its Program Lending Group which is
headed by a Vice President of LBP. PCFC, which would implement the comparatively small (US$5
million) Micro-finance Component is a relatively new agency which falls under LBP supervision. It has
indicated commitment to the project by participating fully in the detailed preparation of the Micro-
finance component, including the drafting of a policy manual and its Institutional Development Plan.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's ongoing program of Adjustment and Policy based lending seeks to help the government
establish a stable macro-economic and financial environment through balance of payments and
budgetary support. The latest element of which is the proposed Banking System Reform Loan (BSRL).
Expansion of the regular lending program to include this project would complement the measures to be
undertaken under the BSRL and would address the constrained availability of term credit for the private
sector and assist in institutional development of the credit delivery system. Before the crisis, the local
financial market had started to develop confidence in term credit due to strong economic and business
prospects in the real sector and macro-economic stability, brought about by a decade of structural
reforms. The financial crisis has brought severe credit problems, forcing rationing and shortening of
loan horizons. Making available lines of credit for longer term loans which private credit markets are
loathe to provide at present will help restore confidence in the financial markets and address the
liquidity and working capital constraints currently faced by the business sector. Despite the limited size
of the proposed project, compared with the overall need for term credit to the rural sector, a new loan of
this type from the Bank would be an important signal for restoring investor confidence in Philippine
markets. In addition, the progress that LBP has made in developing itself as an independent financial
institution in the nineties is to a large extent due to its association with the Bank. This development
would be further enhanced through the proposed project.
The proposed project fits comfortably within the agreed framework of Bank assistance to the
Philippines. It is in line with the need to expand the Bank's regular lending program in the rural sector
in response to growth opportunities. In addition, it addresses the critical but temporary difficulties of
firms that remain economically viable but face financially-related problems brought about by the
volatility of both the exchange rate and interest rates and a degree of market failure in the financial
sector. Finally, its micro-finance loan package which is designed to address unfulfilled demand for
credit by micro-and-small scale enterprises provides strong support to the Banks commitment to poverty
alleviation.
The Bank's contribution to the institutional strengthening component (although not financed by it) was
critical under SRFP. By its involvement in this project, the Bank would be able to continue to support
the further institutional strengthening for LBP which has become increasingly important as a result of
the financial crisis. Furthermore, through involvement in this project the Bank would be in a position to
make a ground breaking contribution to the development of a wholesale micro-finance institution, with
the good possibility that far reaching lessons on the successful implementation of this type of operation
could be learned.



- 14-
E: Summary Project Analyses (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annexes 4 and 2e).
1. Economic
The likely impact of the project on the economy as a whole would be that it would contribute toward
maintaining growth and as a result help to boost confidence. The additional availability of medium term
finance at market rate, will help ensure that viable firms would be able to finance their continuing
operations. Without this financing, some of these viable firms might have been forced to retrench as a
result of their banks trying to become more liquid. Given that the fiscal impact of the project is likely to
be positive (see below), government has a strong incentive to guarantee a loan of this type.
As this is a credit operation, with no predetermination of investment, no quantitative assessment of the
likely economic rate of return has been made. All sub-projects will be screened for ex ante financial
viability (see below). The level of price distortion in the Philippines is not high (and is decreasing).
Consequently, there is a reasonable expectation that the investments financed under the project would
show sound ERRs, particularly those involved with job creation in the rural areas, where the shadow
price of labor is well below the financial price.
2. Financial (see Annex 4):
Fiscal Impact: As the project would be implemented by government corporations (LBP and PCFC) and
the private sector, it would not require any Government counterpart funding. The actual cash flow to
Government depends on future inflation and interest rates, but in the base case, assuming a 12% Thill
rate, 7% inflation and a nominal 6% cost of WB finance the the net cash flow to Government estimated
to rise from about P50 (US$1.1 million) in year one to about P720 million p.a. (US$14 million) by year
five, before falling as the foreign exchange risk fund becomes drawn on (For details, see Annex 4).
Direct inflows would include a Guarantee Fee of 1% p.a. (about US$ 1.5 million per year once funds are
fully disbursed) and adequate4 foreign exchange risk coverage fees, averaging about 3.3% of the
outstanding balance. In addition, under present legislation there would be gross receipts tax of 0.65%
p.a.on the loan from LBP to the PFI and about a further 1% on larger loans to sub-borrowers (together
totalling about US$2.2 million p.a. by year 5). In addition, Government would benefit from incremental
taxes (currently at 34%) on the incremental profits of LBP, PCFC, the PFIs and the sub-borrowers.
Total, incremental taxes on incremental profits are estimated to amount to about US$7 million p.a. at
full development.
Sub-borrowers: The project would provide credit assistance to sub-borrowers in supporting their
investment which in turn would contribute to improvement of their business activities and/or welfare.
The main financial impact of the project results from about $210 million of investment under the first
round use of credit by small and medium sized rural based private businesses. These sub-projects will
all be assessed as financially viable prior to investment and the ongoing interest rate to them will be
market based (likely to be of the order of 7-10% in real terms). Consequently, only sub-projects which
show sound ex ante financial rates of return will be supported. Under the similar CLF I and CLF II
programs, ex ante financial rates of return have typically been in the 15% to 30% range, and similar
results for SME investment would be expected under this project. Micro finance sub-borrowers would
4   On the basis that the differential between real Peso 91 day Thill rates and real WB dollar lending rates remains
the same as the average of the past five years, the FX fee paid to Government would be about 25% higher than
needed to compensate for currency depreciation, assuming that purchasing power parity between the Peso and
the dollar were maintained (see Annex 5(d).



- 15 -
receive credit which would otherwise have been unavailable. Investments under this component would
normally be in fast turnover items.
PFIs: The project would have a positive impact on the profitability of PFIs because they are free to set
their own spreads, and therefore, provided their managements' judgments are good, they would only
participate in the project if they perceive it as profitable. As it would be a repeater project for most PFIs
they would have a reliable basis for this. Participating in the project would also help to improve the
liabilities side of PFIs' balance sheets, in that it would increase the average maturity of their resources.
LBP & PCFC. The project would contribute towards the profitability of both these institutions. In
LBP' s case, based on performance under CLF I and II, the incremental contribution to profitability is
likely to be of the order of P70 million per year (US$ 1.4 million). Projections for PCFC indicate that
on-lending these funds will contribute about P4 million (US$80,000) annually to its profit at full
development.
3. Technical:
Most of the project is a repeater type operation with no significant technical impact or risk. The Apex,
the PFIs and the sub-borrowers would all be operating in areas in which the technology is known. The
one new area, which involves about 3% of the project cost is the wholesale micro-finance component.
This is technically new in the Philippines, and the project will be breaking new ground in this regard.
4. Institutional:
Because of IDPs for both LBP and PCFC, the Project will have an important impact in strengthening
those institutions. LBP is a capable institution which has handled previous wholesaling projects well.
The institutional strengthening would be geared towards its other operations (commercial, retail and-
agrarian lending) and includes assisting in its maintaining a sound financial condition in the face of the
currency crisis and ensuring that prudent levels of earnings are retained in the face of pressures from
Government (LBP's shareholder) to pay more dividends than would be commercially justified. PCFC is
a new institution, and its strengthening would be directed towards developing of its effectiveness as a
wholesale finance institution through which funds can be efficiently channeled.
5. Social:
The project is expected to have a positive impact on employment. Indications from CLF II are that
incremental employment is generated based on an investment of about US$10,000 per job.
Consequently, some 20,000 incremental jobs could be expected from the CLF III component. In
addition, the provision of critical financial support to economically sound, but financially distressed
businesses would be important in reducing business closures and associated layoffs. The PCFC
component would be expected to have a significant impact on poverty alleviation through making credit
available to micro-enterprises. This would have a particular effect on underemployment through
borrowers being able to make more profitable use of their own time and to a lesser extent, hire part time
labors. In line with other micro finance initiatives, it is anticipated that the majority of beneficiaries
from this component would be women.



-16-
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category   [] A   [x] B   [ ] C
Adequate arrangements and procedures would be maintained to ensure that sub-projects with adverse
environmental impact will not be financed under the project. LBP will specify that sub-borrowers for CLF
mI funded projects would comply with all laws and regulations of the Philippines related to environmental
protection, consistent with environmental guidelines of the Bank. LBP would be in charge of supervising
compliance. To reduce the risk that sub-projects with undesirable environmental or social impacts would
be financed by CLF, the following measures would be taken. The existing procedures and guidelines
agreed under SRFP among LBP, the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR), and the
Environmental Management Bureau (EMB) would prevail and be applied under the proposed project. All
sub-projects would comply with the Presidential Decree 1586 and its related regulations, which describes
the Philippine environmental legal requirements for new investments. For the following generic sub-
projects: poultry and piggery, agro-processing, land clearing, and fish and pond development, and any
other sub-project as the Bank may require, an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS), as required by the
above Presidential Decree and in line with the guidelines established under SRFP, would be prepared. The
Environmental Unit (EU) of LBP would provide LBP, PFIs, and related sub-projects with environmental
technical assistance and coordination services. To enable performance evaluation in respect to
environment, the EU will conduct, on a spot check basis, environmental audits of the projects endorsed.
These should be done in the presence and assistance, to the extent possible, of the PFIs. The higher of 10%
of the approved sub-projects which require environmental clearance, or 50 sub-projects would be audited
and the level of compliance is expected to be no less than 80%. For more details see Annex 2e.
7. Participatory approach
The primary project beneficiaries are the sub-borrowers, the PFIs (including commercial banks, thrift
banks, rural banks, micro-finance institutions and NGOs) LBP and PCFC. During the course of
preparation, Bank Staff met with representatives of all of these groups to discuss the Project concept and
to try to ensure that project design was in line with their needs and that the proposed procedures were
well understood and acceptable. No controversial issues arose. Full stakeholder participation is assured
as the project is a demand driven operation and as investments under the project are entirely determined
by the participants themselves on a commercial basis.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability of the CLF III operation depends on the profitability of the program to the sub-borrowers,
PFIs, MFIs, PCFC, and LBP. In the long term sustainability would also require the effective
mobilization of term resources to substitute this proposed loan when it becomes repaid. Medium term
sustainability is highly likely.
*  Experience from the ALF, CLF I and II operations has shown that the type of term financing
available is attractive to sub-borrowers, the majority of which would be expected to make profitable
use of the available funds. The fact that loans are fully collateralized would mean the small
proportion of sub projects which went wrong would not jeopardize program sustainability.
*  LBP is a financially sound and well established institution with qualified management and staff. It
can therefore be expected to remain in a financial condition which allows it to continue to
effectively implement this type of wholesale banking operation.



- 17 -
* The program requires an adequate number of active PFIs. There are now about 120 PFIs accredited
with LBP, some 50 of which are active under CLF I and II. They are quite conservative in their
lending decisions and will be likely to select only viable and creditworthy sub-projects. Inevitably,
over the course of the project, poor results from individual PFIs would cause some of them to lose
their accreditation: however, these would be substituted by others.
2. Critical Risks
The main risk to the success of the CLF III operation is associated with the possible deepening of the
financial crisis to a level which would substantially curtail the ability of LBP and the PFIs to carry out
this project. Under severe crisis, credit demand from sub-borrowers would also be substantially
dampened, and rapidly changing conditions could cause investments which ex-ante were viable to
become losers ex post. Overall this macro-economic risk, which is directly related to the overall
performance of the economy appears acceptable, but the perception of it could change quickly over
time. Therefor it will be important to reassess it if there is any delay in project processing. Another
concern on the implementation side is that the introduction of agreed policy measures could be thwarted
or postponed by political considerations, thereby weakening LBP as a financial institution and reducing
its capacity to effectively implement both the lending programs under the project and its own
institutional strengthening action plan.
Risk                         Risk Rating  Risk Minimization Measure
Demand for credit under CLF III may decrease due to  M          CLF III Funds under the project
deepening of the financial crisis and PFIs may become           would be made available at market
extremely risk averse. As a result, the loan may not be         rates, but with longer term than
utilized on time.                                               generally available. This should keep
them attractive - for reinvestment or
restructuring - if not for new
investment. PFIs and potential sub-
borrowers have indicated strong
demand for long term funds which is
confirmed by the uptake rate of CLF
II.
Political interference in LBP's lending operations and  M       LBP is a fully autonomous bank. Past
policy decisions may prevent full IDP implementation.           experience does not indicate Govt.
intcrference in its lending decisions to
SMEs. There may be opposition to
some of the IDP measures,
particularly prudent linkage of LBP's
dividends (to Govt.) to profit in real
terms. This is dealt with through
specific loan covenant.
PCFC may not achieve the necessary volume of lending   N        Focusing PCFC's IDP towards
to allow it to have low enough unit costs to be an              effective market development and
effective wholesaler                                            training of MFIs.
Overall Risk Rating                               M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



- 18-
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
The project proposes to finance economically viable businesses which are under financial stress. This
would include the finance of working capital, and would have the effect of lengthening the maturity of
sub-borrowers' debts. While this is unusual for a Bank project, it is a timely response to the financial
crisis and responds to the perceived needs of SMEs in the Philippines.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
* The approval by LB's Board of: (i) the Institutional Development Plan (IDP); and (ii) the Policy
Manual for CLF III.
2. Conditions for Disbursement
* The signing of a Memorandum of Agreement satisfactory to the Bank between LBP and PCFC to
reflect the detailed arrangement regarding the operation and obligations associated with MLF.
* The approval by the PCFC Board of (i) its IDP along with the related time table; and (ii) the Policy
Manual for the Micro-Finance operation.
3. Other Conditions
*  LBP would exclude itself from retailing the CLF III except for up to US$15 million which would be
used to accommodate LBP's own clients whose operations are viable but under financial distress.
*  LBP would operate CLF on a commercial basis and the latter's net profit would remain within the
Fund as LBP's investments.
*  LBP would submit to the Bank: (i) quarterly progress reports with regard to the CLF Im component
two months after the end of each quarter, i.e. on February 28, May 3 1, August 31, and November
30, of each year commencing with May 31, 1999 ; and (ii) semi-annual report with regard to the IDP
on March 15, and September 15, each year, commencing on September 15, 1999; (iii) a mid-term
review on project implementation and operational issues on March 31, 2001; and (iv) LBP's written
contribution to the project's Implementation Completion Report within six months after the loan
closing date.
*  LBP and the CLF III accounts would be annually audited. The annual audit would be conducted by
an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank and would follow Terms of Reference (TORs) in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles, as approved by the Bank, and such audit, along
with auditors' report on LBP, CLF III, the Project's Special Account, and Statements of Expenditure
related to project activities would be submitted to the Bank within six months after the end of LBP's
fiscal year.
* LBP would follow existing guidelines and procedures for environmental protection and would take
the necessary actions as detailed in Chapter E6 of the PAD and Annex 2e.



- 19 -
*  The project annual training program would be submitted for Bank review by November 30 of each
fiscal year commencing on November 30, 1998.
*  LBP would maintain the following financial indicators: equity to risk assets would not be less than
10%, the liquidity ratio would be not less than 45% of short term liabilities, and net past due loans
to equity of not more than 33% commencing on January 1, 1999, not more than 30% commencing
on July 1, 1999, and not more than 25% commencing on January 1, 2000.
*  LBP would take all the necessary actions to ensure that dividends would be paid only on profit in
real terms (after provisions for possible loan losses and adjustment for the impact of within year
inflation).
*  The Policy Manual (PM) for the CLF III would be issued, incorporating agreement with the Bank as
noted below. Further changes in the PM would not be made without the Bank's prior concurrence:
(i)  Eligibility criteria for CLF III including minimum funding requirements and equity
contribution of PFIs and sub-borrowers as discussed in Annex 2b of the PAD;
(ii)  Interest rates structure as discussed in Annex 2b of the PAD;
(iii) PFIs Accreditation Criteria;
(iv) Sub-project appraisal and computation of ERR and FRR;
(v)  Sub-project review, disbursement and supervision;
(vi) Sub-loan maturity;
(vii) Conformity with environmental laws and regulations;
(viii) Principles regarding acquisition of land and compensation therefor.
PCFC
*  PCFC would exclude itself from retailing the Micro-finance Loan Funds (MLF) and would operate
the MLF on a commercial basis and the latter's net profit would remain within the MLF as PCFC's
investment;
*  PCFC's dividend payments would be made only after: (i) allowing adequate provisioning for loan
losses, (ii) adjusting for the impact of within year inflation, and (iii) when profits allowed, retaining
earnings at a level equal to at least 15% of the growth of PCFC's loan portfolio;
*  During project implementation PCFC would maintain the following financial ratio: (i) risk assets to
net equity of not more than 7:1, (ii) a maximum of net past due to equity of not more than 15%, and
(iii) liquid assets to short term liabilities of at least 25%;
*  PCFC would submit to the Bank (i) quarterly progress report with regard to the MLF component
two months after the end of each quarter, i.e. on February 28, May 31, August 31, and November
30, of each year commencing on May 31, 1999; (ii) semi-annual report with regard to the IDP on
February 28, and August 31 of each year commencing on August 31, 1999; (iii) a mid-term review
on project implementation and operational issues on March 31, 2001; (iv) audited accounts along
with auditor's report on PCFC, and statements of expenditure related to project activities within six
months after the end of PCFC's fiscal year; and (v) part two of the component's Implementation
Completion Report within six months after the loan closing date.



- 20 -
*  PCFC would follow existing guidelines and procedures for environmental protection and would take
the necessary actions as detailed in Chapter E6 and Annex 2e of the PAD.
*  The PCFC training program would be submitted for Bank review by November 30 of each year,
starting November 30, 1999.
*  Policy Manual (PM) for the MLF would be issued, incorporating agreement with the Bank as noted
below. Further changes in the PM would not be made without the Bank's prior concurrence:
(i)  Eligibility criteria for borrowing under the MLF including minimum funding requirements
and equity contribution of accredited conduits and sub-borrowers as discussed in Annex 2b of
the PAD;
(ii)  Interest rates structure as discussed in Annex 2b of the PAD;
(iii) Conduits Accreditation Criteria;
(iv) Sub-project appraisal;
(v)  Sub-project review, disbursement and supervision;
(vi) Sub-loan maturity;
(vii) Conformity with environmental laws and regulations.
H. Readiness for Implementation
The Program Lending Group (PLG) of LBP, has been in operation since July 1990. The PLG has
managed successfully three bank-financed credit funds: the Agricultural Loan Fund (ALF, Loan 2570-
PH), the first Countryside Loan Fund (CLF I, Loan 3356-PH), and CLF II (Loans 3938, 3939, and 3940-
PH). PLG is managing not only the Bank's credit lines but also those of ADB, IFAD, and OECF. PLG
is adequately staffed with qualified and experienced officers and management and was able, over the
years, to deepen its exposure and experience in carrying out a wholesale banking operation. Finally, in
terms of its experience, knowledge and institutional set up, LBP is qualified, suitable, and ready to
implement the proposed project.
T. Compliance with Bank Policies
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies, i.e. OP and BP 4.01 on environmental impact,
OP and BP 10.02 on financial management, and OD 8.30 on Financial Intermediary Lending.
Task Team Leader: Arie Chupak
Sector Manager: Geoffrey B. Fox
Country Director: Vinay K. Bhargava



- 21 -
Annex la
Project Design Summary
Philippines
Third Rural Finance Project
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators      Monitoring and      Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                         (CAS Objectives to
Bank Mission)
(a) improve private business  (a) Policy, regulatory, and  (a) Govt. laws,       Govt remains
environment including         institutional framework     regulations, and       committed to a market
availability of medium and long   becomes more conducive for   procedures introduced.    driven financial sector
term financing.;              private sector activities and
banks' sound development.;
(b) Alleviate poverty         (b) Poverty incidence has been  (b) Progress reports on    (b) Govt. remains
reduced.                    poverty.               committed to poverty
reduction.
(Development
Project Development                                                              Objectives to CAS
Objectives                                                                       Objectives)
(a) provide financial support to   (a) LBP and PFIs increase  (a) LBP's quarterly and   (a) private sector will
the rural economy to overcome    term lending to private  semi annual reports as    positively respond to
the difficulties created by the  enterprises in the rural areas;   well as BSP statistics;    the new framework and
regional financial crisis and                                                    increased resource
augment the CLF to finance                                                       availability; LBP
viable investments in the rural                                                  continues not to be
areas;                                                                           subject to undue
political pressure with
regards to its
operational policy.
(b) assist the government in its   (b) PCFC and MFIs to increase  (b) PCFC's quarterly  (b) There is strong
efforts to alleviate rural poverty  lending and providing financial. progress reports.  underlying demand for
through the provision of financial services to micro-enterprises                 micro-finance; Govt
and institutional support to the                                                 facilitates institutional
country's micro-finance system.                                                  development of PCFC.
Project Outputs                                                                  (Output to
Development
_________________________             ~~Objectives)
Lending to viable economic    * Total investments of sub-  M&E would be regularly  The economy remains
entities in the rural areas to  projects.                 undertaken by the LBP    sufficiently bouyant for
improve their economy, increase  * Number of sub-projects  and PCFC and be       well run enterprises to
employment opportunities, and  financed.                  reviewed by Bank       be financially sound.
thus indirectly contribute to  * Increase in employment.  missions.
poverty alleviation.



- 22 -
Providing micro-finance on a  * Number of micro enterprises
commercial basis which would    financed under the project
directly assist micro enterprises  and their total investments.
and alleviate poverty.
PCFC continues to
Strengthening PCFC as the     * PCFC operates effectively,                         enjoy Govt support and
wholesale micro-finance         meets growth targets and is                        is able to raise adequate
institution.                    financially sound.                                 equity.
The effect of the
Strengthening LBP as the main    * LBP increases its outreach to                   financial crisis on
financial institution serving the  rural areas, improves its                       LBP's borrowers does
rural areas.                    operational efficiency and                         not have an excessively
remains financially sound.                         adverse effect on LBPs
own financial condition.
LBP continues not to be
subject to undue
political pressure with
regard to its interest
rate, lending and
dividend policies.
Project Components                                                                 (Components to
Outputs)
CLF HII                       * Number of loans.           Program Lending Group   Strong private sector
* Total sub-project           of LBP.                 demand for CLF
investment.                                          resources.
* Estimated incremental jobs
created.
Micro-Finance                 * Number of sub-borrowers    PCFC                    Strong MFIs and sub-
* Volume of Loans Provided                            borrowers demand for
*:PCFC's operating costs                              micro-financing.
* PCFC real increase in
equity.
LBP ID)PI                     * Real-profitability and     CORPLAN of LBP.         Management and staff
increase in equity.                                  commLitted to IDP's
* Improvement in quality of                           targets.
Commercial Lending,
* LBP's SDI.
* Proportion of private         V
deposits.
* LBP's agrarian lending
costs.



- 23 -
Annex lb
Philippines
Third Rural Finance Project
Key Performance Indicators
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) have been developed both to measure the effectiveness of the Credit
Components and the IDPs for both LBP and PCFF.
Credit Component
On the Credit component, KPIs for CLF III measure (i) the investment made under project sub-loans,
which is a proxy for its economic impact, (ii) the number of sub-projects financed, which indicates the
degree to which the project has widened its outreach and (iii) ex ante assessment of incremental
employment, which is an indicator of the social benefits achieved.
KPIs for the MLF would measure (i) the number of subloans and (ii) amount of loan releases.
Institution Building.
LBP's IDP is aimed at (i) maintenance of LBP's solvency & liquidity; (ii) ensuring LBP's sustainability
and profitability, (iii) taking steps to make Agrarian Lending becomes more important and more
sustainable, (iv) improving the quality of commercial loan portfolio; and (v) resource mobilization.
* Achievement of (i) will occur if LBP adheres to the various indicators which are included in the
IDP and in some cases form loan covenants viz: Risk assets:equity ratio less than 10:1,
Liquidity above 45%; Net non performing loans to equity ratio less than 25%, provisions to at
least meet an agreed formula related to levels of past dues and restructured loans.
* Sustainability and profitability are important areas,.and KPIs are established for both. - real rate
of return on capital as a profitability measure, and LBPs Subsidy Dependency Index (SDI)'as an
indicator of sustainability.
* There are many factors required to make agrarian lending more sustainable and important.
Targets for these include:
Agrarian lending to reach 15% of loan portfolio by 2002
Real growth of agrarian lending to exceed 10% p.a.
Current collection rate from co-ops to exceed 90%
Provisioning formula to be met
Agrarian operating costs down to 6% by 2002
Necessary agrarian provisions down to 4% by 2002
Interest collection on agrarian lending to increase to at least 10.5% on net loans by
2001.
To take account of these, a composite KPI for agrarian lending is set, based upon parameters set
out in Appendix A. In addition, the Agaraian SDI is targetted to fall to 150%, by year 5. A



-24 -
figure that implies that if the opportunity cost of funds is taken into account, the income from
agrarian collections would need to increase by 150% for there to be no subsidy.
*  Measures to improve commercial loan quality (relating gross and net past dues to total portfolio
and on reduction in loan concentration) are included in the IDP, while the relationship between
net past dues and equity will be covenanted under the loan.
*  KPIs are set to measure both the proportion of private deposits and the improvement in maturity
of resources.
The success of PCFC's IDP will be monitored through its achievement of an adequate capital increase,
the reduction in its operating costs and the achievement of real profis within three years.
Key Performance Indicators
LBP (Jan - Dec Year)        1999      2000      2001       2002      2003
PCFC (Apr - Mar Year)    1998/99   1999/00   2000/01    2001/02   2002/03
Indicator
CLF Lending
Number of Sub-Loans (Cumulative)              60       180        380       550       700
Amount of Sub-Project Investment (P M)      2,200     4,300     6,300      7,700     8,500
Estimated Incremental Jobs (Cumulative)      800      3,000     7,000     11,000    15,000
MLF Lending
Number of Sub-Loans (Cumulative)              500      1,400     2,600      3,700     4,800
Volume of Sub-loans ex reflows (P M)           50        125       200       230       230
Strengthening LBP
Profit in Real Terms (+ve ROE)            No target      2%        3%         5%        7%
SDI to be less than                       No target        0      -2%        -3%       -3%
Proportion Private Deposits                   30%       35%       40%       45%        50%
% of Peso liabilities with over 1 yr maturity  5%      6.5%        8%        10%     12.5%
Agrarian Index (see appendix A)                50        65         70        80        90
Agrarian SDI lower than                      225%      200%      180%       160%      150%
Strengthenina PCFC
Increase in Capital - Net Equity (P Million)  200        200       250       300        350
Operating Costs as % Average Net Loans       5.5%      5.0%      4.7%       4.6%      4.5%
Real Return on Capital                    No target  No target   positive    positive    positive
Proiect Classification at Mid-Term and Completion Reviews
At completion and mid-term reviews, the project's outcome will be classified as 'Highly Satisfactory',
'Satisfactory', 'Unsatisfactory' or 'Highly Unsatisfactory', depending upon the extent to which it has
reached its objectives. It is proposed to use criteria based on the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) as
a major input in making this classification. Consequently, 70% of the project's classification will be
determined by achievement of the pre set indicators shown in Appendix B, and 30% based on the
qualitative asessment of the Mid-Term and the Implementation Completion Reporting teams. This latter
assessment will pay particular attention to the achievement of improved confidence of the Banking



- 25 -
System, the way in which LBP has adapted to change over the project period and the overall
management of the project.
Calculation Details. Calculation would be done by assigning a weighting of 70% to the actual KPI
achievement and 30% to the qualitative assessment. Assuming that the project were rated as
Satisfactory on the qualitative assessment and that the achievement of KPIs were as in the example
given in Appendix B, the calculation would be as follows. With a weighted average score of 2.9, the
project would be classified as Satisfactory.
Weighting   Numerical  Grade in    Weight
Score in   Example    times
Example             Score/Grade
Objective KPI Achievement (see Appendix B)   70%        2.88                  2.016
Qualitative Assessment of ICR Mission on other  30%               S = 3.0     0.900
factors__                                    _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Total                                        100%                             2.916
Note: HS = 4; S = 3; U = 2; and HU =1.



- 26 -
Appendix A. KPI Scoring for Agrarian Lending To become More Important and More
Sustainable
Net Agrarian Loans as Proportion of net    Basis   under 10%  10 - 12.4%    12.5 -  15% +
Loan Portfolio                                                           14.9%
Score       0          5          8          10
Real Disbursement Growth over Previous   Basis  zero or neg  0 - 4.9%    5 - 9.9%   10% &
Year                                                                                 over
Score       0          5          10         15
Current Collection Rate from Co-ops based  Basis  below 70%  70 - 79%   80 - 89%    90% +
on one year earlier releases
Score       0          5          10         15
Provisioning Formula to be Met          Basis                           Not Met      Met
Score                             0          10
Agrarian Operating Costs (excl provisions)  Basis    12.1% +   9.1 - 12%   6.1 - 9%  6% &
as percent of Av Net Outstanding Loans                                              under
Score       0          5          10         15
Annual Provisions needed to meet formula  Basis    10.1% +   7.1 - 10%   4.1 - 7%   4% &
as % of Av net outstanding loans                                                    under
Score      zero        10         15         20
Actual Interest Rate on Agrarian Loans -    Basis   below 8%    8 - 9%    9 - 10.4%    10.5% +
Collections of interest (include service
charge)/Av Net Outstanding Loans
Score       0          5          10         15



ANNEX B Key Performance Indicators at Mid Term and Completion
Mid Term    Completion         Importance       Benchmarks for Mid Term    Benchmarks for Completion                 Example at Complton
Target       Target           Weighting          if less than target        if less than target               Actual  Bank       Numerc  Grade
2000/01      2002/03                              A             B            A              B                 Out-tumr  Grade       Grade X Weigo
INDICATOR
CLF Lending
Amount of Sub-Project Investment (P M)                   6,300        8,500               15.0%             4,200         1,200        7,000          4,000             9o0o   HS               4    0.6
Max % CLF li Loans Past Due                             2.5%          1.5%               15.0%             3.0%          6.0%         2.0%           4.0%                3%     U              2    0.3
Estimated Incremental Jobs (Cumulative)                  7,000       15,000               10.0%             4,000         1,000        8,000          2,000             9000    S               3    0.3
MLF Lending
Number of Sub-Loans (Cumulative)                         2,600        4,800                2.5%/o           1,500          600         3,000          1,200             2000    U               2   0.05
Max % Past Due Loans                                     2.0%          2.0%                2.5%             3.5%          7.0%         3.5%           7.0%o             3.0%     S              3   0.075
Strenathening LBP
Profit in Real Terms (+ve ROE)                             3%           70%               10.0%             2.0%         -2.0%         4.0%           0.0%                6%     S              3    0.3
SDI to be less than                                       -2%           -3%/6             10.0%    I        0.0%         10.0%        0.0%          10.0%               -1%     S              3    0.3
Proportion Private Deposits                               40%          50%                5.0%               30%          20%           40%            25%               52%    HS              4    0.2       M
% of Peso Liabilities with over 1 yr maturity              8%         12.5%               10.0%               6%           10%          10%            15%               27%     S              3    0.3
Agrarian Index (see appendix A)                             70           90               15.0%                60           40            75             45               65    U               2    0.3
Strenathenina PCFC
Increase in Capital - Net Equity (P Million)              250           350                2.5%               200          150           250            150              350    HS              4    0.1
Operating Costs as % Average Net Loans                  4.70%         4.50%                2.5%               6%            8%           5%             70%               6%     U              21  0.05
100.0%   I                                                             Weighted Average                    2.88
Equivalent Nearest Grade            S
Note on Calculation of Ratings for KPI Achievement. Each indicator of the Project is graded Highly Satisfactory (HS), Satisfactory (S), Unsatisfactory (U) or Highly Unsatisfactory (HU). If KPI Targets are met, the rating is Highly Satisfactory (HS)
for that indicator. If worse than target but better than the Benchmark set in column A, the rating is classified as Satisfactory (S). If the performance is between Column A and Column B, the rating is Unsatsfactory (U), and if worse than B, the rating
is Highly Unsatisfactory (HU). To assess the rating of the whole project in terms of KPI achievement, weightings are given to each indicator and scores assigned to each rating (HS=4, S=3, U=2, HU=1) and a weighted average grade is calculated.
In the example, the weighted average of KPI achievement is 2.88, which is between 2 (I.e. U) and 3 (I.e. S), but closer 3, so the overall rating for KPI achievement would be Satisfactory.



-28 -
Annex 2a
Philippines
Third Rural Finance Project
Detailed Project Description
The Credit Component 1 (CLF III - US$207 million; MLF - US$6.7 million)
1.    Credit, under the project, would comprise two funds: the Countryside Loan Fund III (CLF III)
and the Micro finance Loan Fund (MLF). CLF III would provide sub-loans totalling about US$165
million which would finance private rural investments of at least US$207 million. The MLF would.
finance sub-projects in the equivalent of about US$6.7 million.
Countryside Loan Fund III (CLF III)
2.    The sub-component would be operated under the Countryside Loan Fund III (CLF III) to be
established by LBP. The CLF III would provide two types of loans: a Peso or US Dollar sub-loans to
accommodate the sub-borrowers' needs.
3.    The CLF III would be a wholesale banking operation except for an agreed amount (up to
US$15 million) which will be assigned to accommodate LBP's own rural clients who are under
financial distress due to the current regional financial crisis. This would be made available only for the
first generation of disbursement. Resources becoming available from repayments of these funds will
be relent through the PFIs under regular wholesale banking procedures. The CLF III operation would
be determined by market forces and would continue to be oriented to serve small and medium sized
investors in the rural areas. LBP would be the apex institution for channeling the funds through
accredited participating financial institutions (PFIs) for a broad spectrum of agricultural and non-farm
viable rural investments. The CLF III would provide short, medium, and long term loans to finance
private investments in agriculture and other viable rural operations, and would assist private sub-
projects that are operating in the rural areas that are economically, technically and commercially sound
but under financial stress induced by the current crisis.
4.    The main arrangements under the CLF III would be as follows: (i) to ensure that only
economically and technically viable sub-projects would be assisted under this program, a rapid but
thorough feasibility study on the likely recovery/rehabilitation program would be carried out by
accredited consultants/the PFIs or the LBP; (ii) the credit risk would be borne by the PFIs; (iii)
maturity of these loans would be determined on the basis of sub-borrowers' cash-flow but would not
exceed 15 years; (iv) interest rates on these loans would be market, with an on-lending rate to prime
PFIs averaging about TBills + 1% for variable rate loans; (v) such sub-loans would be fully secured;
and (vi) a certain portion of the CLF III (US$15 million equivalent) would be made available to assist
LBP' s own clients. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the Government for small and
medium sized sub-borrowers in exchange for a market related fee payable by LBP. The foreign.
exchange risk for US$ sub-loans would be borne by the sub-borrowers and their PFIs. The CLF III
would be operated on the basis of an agreed Policy Manual.



- 29 -
5.    Single Currency and Peso Sub-Loans. Under the project, sub-borrowers would be able to
select sub-loans denominated in US dollars or Pesos under the SCL expanded program offered by the
Bank. A survey of potential and existing sub-borrowers under the existing Countryside Loan Funds
(CLFs) operations has shown that a number of them are well situated to bear the foreign exchange risks
of a single currency loan because they generate foreign exchange revenue through direct and indirect
export of their products. The survey further indicated that the US dollar would be the most appropriate
currency for serving the needs of potential sub-borrowers.
6.    The demand for medium and long term funds is currently running at a level substantially
above their availability. Future needs for term lending resources, and hence the rate of drawdown of
the loan, would be dependent on the overall performance of the economy, interest rate relative to other
rediscounting sources, and the level of investment and reinvestment in the rural sector. It is estimated
that the total investment requirement to maintain existing agricultural facilities and provide for planned
sectoral economic growth of about P400 billion per annum over five years. On this basis, LBP's
available medium and long term resources would provide about 2% of total agricultural investment.
Under a more modest scenario of lower 1% annual growth, investment needs would be reduced to
about P200 billion over five years, mostly for reinvestment. In this case the combined CLFs (CLF I, II,
and III) resources, which would amount to about P15 billion would provide about 8% of total
agricultural investment. This should be readily attainable, provided the fund is well administered and
its cost is in line with wholesale market interest rates. As another indicator of loan demand, the total
loan portfolio of commercial and rural banks in the Philippines is in the order of P2 trillion. Total CLF
resources would be the equivalent of about 0.7% of that. Assuming half of total borrowing is in the
eligible Geographical area, and a quarter of that is for investment or other purposes applicable to CLF
I, II or III, CLF only needs to capture a total market share of some 5-6% of its target market to be used
up.
7.    The records of the CLF III operations would be kept separately within LBP's accounts. As
LBP would operate the CLF III on a commercial basis, it should make profits. Such net profits would
be reflected in LBP's Profit and Loss Account, and would remain within the CLF III as LBP's
contribution.
8.    MLF. The Micro-finance Loan Fund (MLF) would be a wholesale lending operation which
would channel its resources through accredited microfinance institutions comprised of rural banks,
cooperative banks, cooperatives, credit unions and credit-granting non-governmental organizations
(NGOs). The MLF would finance sub-projects that would create positive socio-economic impact in the
countryside. The MLF would provide short and medium term loans (one to three years) to finance
private microenterprise investments that would boost productivity, generate employment and raise
countryside incomes, thus, contributing to growth and poverty alleviation in the rural areas.
9.    The MLF operation would be determined by market forces and would serve microenterprises
in the rural areas. PCFC would channel the funds through accredited microfinance institutions for a
variety of microenterprise activities operated by small scale, countryside-based entrepreneurs. MLF
would support the private MFIs' role in providing the entrepreneurial poor's access to formal credit
and basic banking services.
10.   The main arrangements under MLF would be as follow: (i) to ensure that the funds will be
used efficiently, a two stage screening process will be employed by PCFC in accrediting MFIs; (ii)
MLF would finance up to 75% of sub-project cost, thereby making the MFIs share part of the credit
risk; (iii) interest rate on MLF loans would be market-determined based on the cost of the subsidiary



- 30-
loan from LBP plus a spread sufficient to cover PCFC's operating costs and risk for microenterprise
loans; (iv) maturity of MLF loans would be determined on the basis of sub-borrowers' cash-flow but
would not exceed three years.
11.   MLF will assist microenterprises operating in the Philippine. Sub-borrowers are engaged in a
variety of microenterprise activities such as handicraft, small scale manufacture of garments, toys and
bags, backyard animal fattening, etc. It is estimated that some 3,800 sub-borrowers would immediately
benefit from the MLF window at PCFC through access to credit for incremental working capital and
fixed assets investments. Within a year from implementation, MLF would assist some 17,250 sub-
borrowers in the rural areas5. MLF addresses an important gap in microcredit markets. At present,
microenterprises could neither be served by the traditional banks that cater to bigger borrowers nor by
the NGOs that provide very small loans to petty and subsistence type of activities, e.g., the average
Grameen type of loans of about US$30 to less than US$ 100. Thus, MLF would complement the
PCFC's current lending program for microenterprises (HIRAM or Helping Individuals Reach their
Aspirations for Microcredit) where PCFC reports loan repayment rates of MFI conduits to be on
average about 98%. MFI conduits loan collection rates ranges from 90% to almost 100%.
The Institutional Strengthening Component 2 - (LBP US$2 million PCFC US$0.3 million)
12.    Strengthening of LBP To guarantee LBP's continued strong perfornance in the rural areas and
to allow for sustainable expansion, LBP has prepared an Institutional Development Plan (IDP) agreed
with the Bank which would be implemented as part of the proposed project. The approval of the agreed
IDP by LBP's Board would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
13.   The IDP focuses on ensuring the long term sustainability of LBP whilst it continues to expand
its rural lending outreach. Main elements include:
(i)  steps to be taken to improve the quality of LBP's loan portfolio including (a) reducing
concentration, (b) improving commercial loans collections in the short term though a series of
specified actions, thereby reducing the level of gross past dues in LBP's commercial lending
portfolio, and (c) setting overall provisioning targets for conimercial loans similar to those for
agrarian loans so as to objectively relate provisions to past dues - this will result in the
necessity to increase provisioning in the short term and so reduce the present net past dues
percentage;
(ii) reducing the heavy unit losses which continue to occur on agrarian lending through improved
operating efficiency including manpower reduction, expansion of the use of RFIs as conduits,
better loan collection rates and the adoption of higher interest rates, if possible;
(iii) in parallel with (ii) expanding total lending to thle agrarian/small farmer sector;
(iv) continuing the policy of automation of systems and management information flow;
(v) upgrading staff of LBP (and co-operating PFI) through appropriate training - main areas for
training include (a) credit analysis; (b) remedial management including foreclosure
procedures, legal processes and loan work-outs; (c) familiarisation of treasury personnel with
new and emerging financial instruments; (d) various skills training for staff whose
5   PCFC survey of potential conduits for MLF, May 21-23, 1998.



- 31 -
responsibilities have changed as a result of the recent reorganization; (e) environmental issues
- including PFI staff; (f) upgrading the knowledge and skills of LBP's CLF unit staff for
reviewing and appraising sub-project feasibility studies and, in particular, supervising PFIs and
their sub-projects, and developing PFI staff skills, especially among the RFIs, in the preparation
and presentation of sub-project financing requests;
(vi) continuing to emphasize the mobilization of private deposits and focusing efforts on
extending the average term of resources through mobilization of medium and long term Peso
resources once the markets become suitable; and
(vii) making adequate arrangements for a build up of capital, so as to ensure LBP's ability to
expand its lending and outreach to countryside farmers and entrepreneurs. This includes both
increasing LBP's authorised share capital and ensuring that dividends are paid only from real
profits, after allowing for deduction of all provisions for loan losses (specific and general) and
the effect of within year inflation on the real value of net financial assets.
14.    PCFC's IDP would center on ensuring the sustainability of PCFC as it continues to expand its
outreach to the country micro-entrepreneurs. The main elements of the IDP are detailed in the Matrix,
Appendix 1 and summarised as follows:
(i) build up of PCFC equity through capital infusion by the LBP and the Government, and offer
of preferred shares to institutional and private investors;
(ii) generation of profits in real terms through the adoption of market-determined interest rates,
appropriate accreditation of MFI conduits; increasing lending volume, thus, increasing staff
efficiency;
(iii) recruitment of necessary personnel and upgrading of existing staff through appropriate
training and incentive system; and
(iv) improvement of its operating efficiency through the strengthening of its operations group,
expansion of the network of MFI conduits, better loan collection rates and better screening of
MFI conduits.
To generate the volume of loans that would meet the credit demand of micro-enterprises, PCFC needs
to widen its network of MFIs conduits. This would require an effective marketing of MLF to the MFIs
conduits.



- 32 -
Annex 2a
Philippines
Third Rural Finance Project
Appendix A: Institutional Strengthening Matrix for PCFC
Goals                   Current Status                Strengthening Needs                 Action Plan/Steps
T        to be Undertaken
Frnandal Goals
Strengthening of       Capital - equity is 45.9 percent of   *   Need to increase profitability   X   Capital infusion by government
Financial Condition    total risk assets.                   in real terms. To do this--need  or private investors.
Risk asset ratio is 2.2.            to increase interest spread to    *   Timely payments by PCFC's
Real profits - negative.             cover for inflation erosion.     institutional partners on their
Liquidity - high at 3.13:1.      *   Need to increase volume of       loans for relending.
Debt to equity ratio is 2.49:1.     loan portfolio but to do this--   *   Use of market-determined
28.7 percent of total assets is      need to increase capital base so  interest rate spreads on lending.
provided by capital from             as to maintain a reasonable  *  Increase its lending volume.
stockholders.                       risk asset ratio. This is
important because
microfinance has higher risks
compared to regular loans.
Strengthening Lending   There are only two lending      *  Need to improve portfolio     *   Improved portfolio management
Operation              programs: HIRAM and the ADB-         management.                      will be done by encouraging
IFAD term loan. The former is a    *   Need to come up with more      equity participation by the MFI
revolving credit facility while the  loans with shorter maturities.   and the sub-borrowers. This will
latter is a 7-year term loan.    *   Need to share credit and         enable the MFI and the sub-
Collection rate is 99.06 percent.    market risks with the MFI and    borrower to share credit and
A two percent loan loss provision   the sub-borrowers.                market risks.
is applied on all loans outstanding.  *   Need to reduce lending costs   *   Loans with shorter maturities
At present, interest rates are       to institution partners.        than the ADB-IFAD loans will be
determined by the PCFC board. It  *   Need to institute sound and     extended. The proposed Bank
charges 14 percent interest rate on  efficient MIS that would        loan will address this.
both of its program.                 reduce costs of loan evaluation  *   Installation of an MIS that allows
PCFC incurs institution building     and supervision by account       tracking of loans and efficient
and social preparation costs for     officers.                        evaluation of MFIs' financial
institutional partners.                                               condition. This includes the
timely generation of
management and operations
report.
*   Automation of loan transactions
and pertinent reports to facilitate
identification of defaulting
borrowers and non-performing
accounts.
*   Facilitating tie-ups with
concerned government agencies,
bilateral and multilateral agencies
to address the support services
. _____________   ___________________________                                           needed  by  the  M Fls.



- 33 -
Goals                 Current Status                Strengthening Needs               Action Plan/Steps
to be Undertaken
Institutional Strengthening Goals
Widening the resource   There is a severe shortage of funds  *  Need for additional capital.    *  Offer preferred equity shares to
base                  which is a major impediment for                                    LBP by converting its bills
institution building and expansion                                 payable to LBP.
of programs and services.                                      *  Additional capitalization from
This also resulted in cost controls                               the government.
that inhibit PCFC to invest in                                 *  Tapping private investors
capital equipment needed for                                       (privatization plan is currently
efficient operations.                                              being drafted).
Capacity building of  Most of the MFI clients of PCFC    *  Need for technical assistance   *  The UNDP Microfinance Support
the microfinance sector  lack a good information system  for the MFIs especially in the  Program is currently being
that improve cost efficiency in    areas of information systems,   negotiated. This program will
their operations. This would also  risk management and financial   address the capability building
aid them in evaluating the end-    management.                     needs of the MFIs.
borrowers.                                                     *  The PDTF in the recently enacted
Social Reform and Poverty
Alleviation Act will also be used
for capability building of MFIs.
Training of PCFC staff  A recently conducted training  *  Need for a staff development   *  PCFC has earmarked PI.2
needs assessment among PCFC        training courses.               million for a staff development
staff showed that they need                                        program which is comprised of
training on the following:                                         the following courses.
communicating skills, auditing
skills and financial statement
analysis skills.
Establishment of a    PCFC incurs very high costs for    *  Need for reorganization to  *  Establish collaboration /
structurally sound and    monitoring its clients.         effectively and efficiently    complementation with LBP.
dynamic organization    It has a very small staff         service its clients.       *  Establish service area teams in
complement, hence most of the                                      account management.
staff have multi-functions.                                    *  Set-up account services unit.
Institutionalization of    PCFC has just completed its  *  Need to come up with manual  *  Manualize existing operations.
management and        manual of operations for the       for PCFC's management and   *  Formulate an incentive plan for
operational systems   HIRAM and ADB-IFAD programs         operations.                    staff of PCFC to improve their
There is yet no institutionalized  *  Need to come up and          productivity.
system for performance appraisal   implement an incentive plan
of account officers that is tied up  which is tied up with the staff
to improving their productivity.   productivity for PCFC
There is also inadequate MIS.      employees.
* need to install and use a
customized database
management system for loan
tracking, monitoring program
partner performance. The
database should provide
sufficient information to
support management in its
decisions and operations.
* need to review staff
compensation benefits to
approximate current market
conditions.



-34 -
Annex 2b
Philippines
Third Rural Finance Project
Credit Implementation Arrangements
Countryside Loan Fund (CLF) III
1.    The credit operation would be carried out by the Wholesale Lending Department (WLD). The
Countryside Loan Fund III (CLF III or the Fund) unit would handle day-to-day implementation of the
CLF III operations. While overall responsibility of the credit component would rest with LBP, the
responsibility to implement the CLF III would rest with LBP's Program Lending Department.
2.    The WLD would onlend project funds to the PFIs and provide them, as necessary, with
technical assistance on CLF III operation. It would process sub-loan applications from PFIs; provide
guidelines to PFIs on sub-project selection and appraisal; carry out selective end-use verification of
sub-projects funded by CLF HI; monitor sub-project performance; conduct training with PFIs; and
manage the overall CLF III relationship with the PFIs.
3.    Credit Operating Policies and Procedures. Under the proposed project LBP would continue to
enhance its capabilities as a second tier bank. The credit operation would be carried out on the basis of
policies and procedures established in a Policy Manual (PM) for the Fund, to be approved by LBP' s
Board, and satisfactory to the Bank. The PM would be periodically updated to reflect necessary policy
changes. Policies to be incorporated under this loan are outlined below and will be incorporated in the
respective PM. The adoption and implementation of the PM, satisfactory to the Bank would be
condition of loan effectiveness. Key policy issues discussed below include: eligibility criteria for Fund
resources; interest rate structure and foreign exchange coverage fee; PFIs accreditation criteria; sub-
projects appraisal sub-project review and disbursements; sub-loan rescheduling; sub-loan maturities;
environmental protection; and supervision of CLF III sub-]loans; accounting and audit arrangements.
The PMs would not be revised without prior consultation with and approval of the Bank.
Eligibility Criteria
4.    Sub-borrowers under CLF III will be limited to private sector individuals or enterprises,
provided that CLFs' total exposure under sub-loans to any single borrower shall not exceed 5% of
LBP's equity. Eligible investment would be short, medium, and long term private investment financed
for the establishment of new enterprises, expansion of existing enterprises, or reinvestment in existing
enterprises. All agricultural and rural industries based projects would be eligible, including fisheries,
agro-industries, and agricultural service enterprises. To qualify, proposed sub-projects would have to
be appraised by the PFIs and/or LBP as technically feasible, financially viable, environmentally sound,
and in the case of larger investment sub-projects exceeding US$1 million equivalent, economically
justified.
5.    Project financing is extended to basically support private small and medium-sized firms in the
rural sector, which do not presently have easy access to funds over one year's duration for their own
operation and real new investments. Peso sub-loans would be offered to small and medium sized sub-



- 35 -
borrowers. Project funds would finance investments in fixed assets such as new buildings and
machinery and working capital. Land, existing buildings, or other assets previously used within the
rural sector (except breeding livestock) would be ineligible. Under the CLF III the PFIs would be
required to provide, for each sub- project, at least 10% of the financing package from their own funds.
The minimum equity contribution by the sub-borrower would be determined by the PFIs and LBP on
the basis of its sub-project appraisal, but should not be less than 15%. Bank financing of any single
sub-project, under the CLF III would not exceed, in any case, 75% of sub-project costs.
6.     US$ Lending. In addition to the above eligibility criteria, appraisals of sub-projects for a US$
loans must include an assessment of sub-borrowers' foreign exchange revenues and a demonstration
that projected revenues are adequate to service the US$ sub-loan. For indirect exporters, revenues may
be in pesos, provided that the appraisal establishes a clear linkage between sub-borrowers revenues and
foreign exchange.
Interest Rates
7.     Under the proposed project interest rates would be as follows: for the US$ lending program
interest rate would be variable market rate based on the Bank's prevailing rate for this type of loans
plus an adequate spread to cover cost of (GOP guarantee, operating costs, and associated risk of LBP
and PFIs. The foreign exchange risks associated with these sub-loans would be fully borne by the sub-
borrowers. Interest rates on PFIs' and LBP's financial peso participation would be freely set by the
PFIs and LBP. For Peso sub-loans interest rates would: be market as required by GOP policy and in
line with interest rate arrangements under the latest and on going Bank credit loans to LBP and DBP.
It is not likely that the smaller borrowers who are not direct or indirect exporters would be in a position
to bear the foreign exchange risks and therefore, the foreign exchange risk, in the case of Peso sub-
loans, would be borne by the Government. In both cases (SCL and Peso sub-loans) the system would
allow free negotiations between LBP and PFIs, on the one hand, and between PFIs and the final
borrowers on the other, to set rates which reflect market forces and risks involved.
8.     The onlending interest rates charged by LBP to the PFIs for the proposed peso sub-loan
operation would be variable and adjustable every quarter. It would be based on the Weighted Average
Interest Rate (WAIR) for 91 day Treasury Bill (TBills). The possibility of using the WAIR of time
deposits, rather than Thills, and then adjusting for the net cost of reserve and liquidity requirements
was considered, but rejected because (a) the calculation is relatively complex and (b) Thill data is more
readily available, reliable and transparent., Thills of 91 day maturity, rather than longer instruments,
are proposed because they are the local bellweather and secondly the practice for variable rate lending
is quarterly repricing. To mitigate the lag problem, the interest rates for an interest period would be
based on the average WAIR of Thills for the first three weeks of the month prior to the period. This
would be redone on a monthly basis, to allow close to market pricing of new loans, although once loans
are established, interest rates would normnally be reset quarterly.
9.     As stated above, the interest rate on these Peso loans would be market, with an on-lending rate
to prime PFIs averaging at about 1% over the WAIR for 91 days TBills rates (the reference rate). The
cost of Bank funds to LBP would, therefore, be determined by the reference rate less the 'agreed'
(among LBP, DOF and the Bank) spread to LBP (1.5% to 2%). LBP, however, would be free to charge
a particular PFI a higher or a lower rate than the reference rate, based on market conditions and the
associated credit risk. In such cases the LBP's actual spread will be accordingly higher or lower than
the 'agreed' one.



-36-
10.    Sub-borrowers would be given a choice of a fixed rate (the prevailing variable rate plus a
premium) for several years or a variable interest rate periodically adjusted. There is not a well
developed secondary market in Government Securities of varying maturities which would allow fixed
interest conversion premia to be predetermined by a formula linked to the market. Consequently, fixed
rates would be reset in an ad hoc way, acceptable to the Bank. To mitigate DOF's risk, it is anticipated
that the rates would be determined on the basis of the highest level of the following: (i) the rates
resulting from the current formula for variable rates plus/minus the change in expected inflation rate
for the lending period concerned; or (ii) long term market rate equivalents (e.g. lending rates of
insurance companies to end borrowers for long term mortgage loans minus the respective PFI spread
established under the sub-loan).
11.   Fee for Coverage of Foreign Exchange Risks. Under the CLF III operation, the difference
between the WAIR +1 of 91 day T-Bill rate and the World Bank loan costs, minus LBP's spread of
1.5% to 2% (to cover LBP's wholesale operating costs) would be passed on to DOF. This amount is
intended to cover the foreign exchange risks, the GRT, and the guarantee fee. It should be noted,
however, that given that the T-Bill rate is market-determined, there cannot be a guarantee that the fees
passed on to the DOF would always be sufficient to cover the foreign exchange risks involved,
especially in times when there is excess liquidity. Nevertheless, given that the T-Bill rate reflects an
active market and there do not seem to be major distortions, it is expected that over longer periods of
time-provided that monetary policy is balanced-this formuLla would provide an adequate fee to the
Government for undertaking the foreign exchange risk. Analysis of Peso and US$ short term interest
rates and inflation rates over the past seven years has been undertaken. In the past, the interest rate
differential has been more than adequate to cover the Philippine:USA inflation differential. It is
projected that similar differentials remain in future. This means that if purchasing power parity is
maintained, through future devaluation (the base case in our analysis), the payments to Government
would be adequate to compensate for FX risk, provided interest income on the guarantee fee pool is
taken into account (for more detailed analysis see Annex 4).
PFI Accreditation Criteria
12.   Accreditation criteria of Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) would ensure that four
fundamental aspects are complied with: solvency, liquidity, profitability, and quality of ownership and
management. Criteria would be credible, transparent, unequivocal, and compatible with sound and
generally accepted financial principles and with the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) regulations.
While accessory factors could be taken into account for fine tuning purposes (e.g. reviewing LBP's
credit ceiling limits), care would be exercised to avoid deviation from the main criteria. The following
types of Financial Institutions (FIs) would be allowed to participate in the CLF III program, provided
that they meet the financial and administrative criteria: Universal, Commercial, Rural, Thrift, and
Cooperative Rural Banks, including non-bank financial institutions such as Investment and Trust
Corporations, Investment Houses, Finance & Leasing Companies, and Rural Credit Unions.
(a)    BSP Banking Regulations. Eligible FIs would comply with all BSP regulations,
particularly those related to the review of loan portfolio and other risk assets, definition of past
due loan accounts, loan classifications, and adequate provision for expected loan losses.
(b)    Solvency Requirements. Eligible FIs would comply with a minimum net equity base of
at least 10% of their risk assets. The net equity base would be computed applying the criteria
established by BSP, at the time of accreditation. Also, eligible FIs would maintain a net past due
over equity of not more than 25%. Taking into account the impact of the financial crisis, this



- 37 -
target may be gradually obtained as follows: 35% by December 31, 1998; 30% by July 31, 1999;
and 25% by December 31, 1999.
(c)    Liquidity. Eligible Fl would comply with minimum of liquidity ratio (liquid assets over
short-term deposits and bills payable) of 30%.
(d)    Profitabilitv Requirements. Eligible FIs would demonstrate their profitability in real
terms during the life of the sub-loans. If their adjusted6 profit obtained is positive, then it would
be considered that the real profitability criteria has been met A financial intermediary complying
with all other requirements except real profitability would be qualified provided that concurrence
would be obtained in advance from the Bank. While such an exception may be required, it would
need to be qualified for exceptional cases such as when a PFI has taken write-offs accruing to
several past years or when the negative real profitability has been an exception and financial
projections clearly demonstrate that in the future the PFI would make real profits.
(e)    Ownership and Management Ouality Requirement. Ownership and management quality
should be satisfactory to LBP. This would include qualified management team of good
reputation, presence of adequate and qualified staff, sound operation policies and procedures,
compliance with all relevant laws, decrees and regulations.
13.   In the event that a PFI loses its accreditation status (having failed to meet one or more of the
accreditation criteria), then LBP would: (i) cancel the uncommitted portion of the line of credit granted to
the PFI; (ii) take the necessary actions to safeguard the committed portion extended to the said PFI; and
(iii) notify the Bank on actions taken.
14.    Sub-project Appraisals. Sub-loan appraisals would be the responsibility of the PFIs, whose
capability would be determined by LBP according to CLF m qualifying criteria. Appraisals of medium-
and long-term sub-loans would be based upon the technical and financial features of the sub-projects. For
each medium- and long-term sub-loan, the PFI and LBP would prepare a financial plan including the sub-
project's cash flow. The PFI shall estimate a financial rate of return (FRR) for all sub-projects with sub-
loans of more than 18 million (US$200,000) equivalent. For the sub-projects to be acceptable, the real
FRR shall be greater than the real interest rate of the sub-loan. LBP would ensure that an estimation of an
economic rate of return (ERR) would also be carried out for all sub-projects with sub-loans of more than
US$1 million equivalent. These sub-projects should yield an ERR of not less than 12% in real terms or
any other rate established from time to time by NEDA. The appraisals of sub-projects under the SCL
program would have to ensure that this type of sub-loans would be offered only to those sub-borrowers,
regardless of their size, who: (a) are direct or indirect exporters and have a need for a single currency loan
to match revenues earned in or tied to foreign exchange; and (b) have the capability to manage the risks
associated with the foreign currency compositions of their assets and liabilities.
15.    Sub-project's Review and Disbursements. As under the previous operations, LBP would receive
the sub-project credit evaluation carried out by the PFI in all cases. On an ex-ante basis-before
disbursing-LBP would review a summary of the appraisal work prepared by the PFI, so as to ascertain that
the sub-projects are consistent with project guidelines, in which case it would authorize the respective
disbursements. LBP would grant up to 60 days to PFIs to submit sub-loan documentation and evidence of
6   The adjustments proposed to the nominal profits would simply be two: (i) the initial equity, multiplied by the
inflation between the beginning and ending accounting period dates would be deducted from the nominal profits;
and (ii) the initial fixed assets multiplied by the inflation between the same dates would be added to the nominal
profits. If the resulting number is positive then it would be accepted that the real profitability has been positive.



-38 -
payments and procurement. LBP would declare the sub-loans due and demandable and charge a penalty
fee if PFIs do not submit the required documentation within the 60 day period after LBP's disbursements
or if the submitted documentation does not satisfactorily support sub-projects that are eligible under the
project. In any case, LBP would maintain rights to visit sub-projects after the sub-loan disbursements
have been made. Bank concurrence would be required for all sub-loans above US$5 million equivalent.
Disbursements to the PFIs would be subject to compliance with both pre-release and post-release
documentation required. Proceeds would be credited to an account opened with LBP for this purpose. If
a PFI advances a sub-loan release to a sub-borrower, the PFI can apply for rediscounting from CLF II
within 120 days after the date of advance. On the other hand, the PFIs must release the full proceeds to
the sub-borrowers within 15 working days of the receipt from LBP.
16.   Sub-loan Maturities. The repayment period for CLF mT medium- and long-term sub-loans will be
based upon the sub-project's cash flow and the sub-borrower's overall repayment capability. Repayment
of most sub-loans would be within five to ten years, but would not exceed fifteen years or the pay-back
period of the sub-project, whichever is shorter. Reasonable grace periods may be granted by LBP for the
repayment of the principal based upon the sub-project's cash flow projections and the sub-borrower's
repayment capability. Maturity of subsidiary loans to PFI under CLF Im would conform the maturity of
the related sub-loan. Short term sub-loans shall be payable within a period of 12 months.
Environment
17.   LBP will specify that sub-borrowers for CLF UT funded projects should comply with all laws and
regulations of the Philippines related to environmental protection, consistent with environmental
guidelines of the Bank. LBP would be in charge of supervising compliance. To reduce the risk that sub-
projects with undesirable environmental or social impacts would be financed by CLF, the following
measures would be taken. The existing procedures and guidelines agreed under the Second Rural Finance
Project among LBP, the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR), and the
Environmental Management Bureau (EMB) would prevail and be applied under the proposed project. All
sub-projects would comply with the Presidential Decree 1586 and its 1992 regulations, which describes
the Philippine environmental legal requirements for new investments. For the following generic sub-
projects: poultry and piggery, agro-processing, land clearing, and fish and pond development, and any
other sub-project as the Bank may require, an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS), as required by the
above Presidential Decree and in line with the guidelines established under the Second Rural Finance
Project, would be prepared. The Environmental Unit (EU) of LBP would provide LBP, PFIs, and related
sub-projects with environmental technical assistance and coordination services. The EU is staffed by a
core of professional and administrative assistants, supported by qualified consultants which are providing
periodic short term services. In addition, the EU would be responsible for the implementation of the
training program for the project related staff in LBP and the PFIs. This program would include courses on
environmental issues to increase CLF HI related staff capacity to review and monitor environmental
aspects of sub-projects. Also, and in light of EMB's and DENR's manpower difficulties, the EU with the
support of the Bank, would accredit consultancy firms to review and provide EIS and recommendations
with regard to sub-projects. These consultants would extend the following services: (i) provide
environmental scoping; (ii) review project descriptions and EIS prepared by sub borrowers; (iii) prepare
descriptions and EIS for sub-borrowers which do not posses the technical capability to undertake them;
and (iv) follow up and accelerate processing of applications within the clearing and permitting system of
DENR and EMB.



- 39 -
Project Supervision
18.    Supervision of Sub-projects. The supervision of the sub-loans would be the responsibility of the
PFIs and LBP with the requirements that specific officers would be designated for this purpose. PFIs and
LBP would ensure through supervision that sub-borrowers use the CLF Im resources only for the
approved purposes. This would be achieved through direct payments to suppliers of inputs and materials,
as practicable, and through a careful follow up of funds application. In fact, as LBP would receive
documentation and evidence of procurement after disbursements, LBP would have an adequate basis for
determining whether or not the CLF Im have been used for approved purposes. Furthermore, sub-project
visit would be a normal part of the supervision process. PFIs and LBP would also obtain periodic
operating and financial reports from sub-borrowers and LBP would conduct selective end-use verification
of funded sub-projects. In this manner, LBP would issue an annual assessment of the overall financial
condition of the PFIs and shall use such findings in the annual renewal of PFI accreditation. Thus, the
PFIs would be required to submit such reports as prescribed by LBP (WLD) from time to time that allow
LBP to properly monitor the PFI's sub-loan appraisal, disbursement and supervision processes and
capabilities.
19.    LBP Supervision of PFIs would be a permanent effort. A monitoring system to enable LBP to
take corrective measures as soon as possible has been established under the previous CLF. This system
would be used to monitor PFIs' performance under the proposed project. LBP's supervision will focus on
sub-loan promotion, appraisal, disbursements, and recovery, as well as sub-project supervision by the
PFIs. The overall financial conditions of PFHs would be assessed and findings and recommendations
included in comprehensive annual supervision reports to be prepared by LBP on each of the PFIs. Also,
LBP would prepare an annual report on PFIs, summarizing their overall conditions and main issues
affecting the principal categories of PEIs (CBs, TBs, and RBs). This annual report would also include
technical assistance as well as remedial action recommendations to enhance the financial, technical,
administrative and developmental conditions of PFIs.
20.    Accounting and Audit Arrangements for Project-Related Disbursements. The PFIs would be
required to maintain adequate records and accounting of CLF III sub-loans that are satisfactory to WDL
within LBP, especially to accurately reflect balances and movements in the CLF Em. PFIs would also be
required to furnish their audited financial statements, at least annually. The external auditors and the
forrnat of the report should both be satisfactory to LBP. LBP would communicate its requirements on
external audits of PFIs in a timely manner, so as to allow the external auditors know in advance about
LBP needs, especially those related to PFI accreditation requirements under the project.
MLF
21.    The credit operation would be carried out by the Operations Group of PCFC that is headed by
a Vice President who reports directly to the PCFC President. Day to day implementation would be
carried out by the Group. Overall responsibility of the credit operation would rest with the PCFC
President.
22.    The Operations Group would onlend project funds to the MFIs and provide, as necessary, with
technical assistance on MLF operations. It would process sub-loan applications from MFIs; provide
guidelines to MFIs on sub-project selection and appraisal; conduct selective end-use verification of
sub-projects funded by MLF; monitor sub-project performance; conduct training with MFIs on MLF
operations and manage the overall MLF relationship with the MFIs.



-40 -
Credit Operating Policies and Procedures
23.   Under the proposed project PCFC would operate as wholesale lending institution to MFI
conduits. The credit operation would be carried out on the basis of policies and procedures established
in a Policy Manual for the MLF to be approved by PCFC's Board of Directors and satisfactory to the
Bank. The Policy Manual would be periodically updated to reflect necessary policy changes. Policies
to be incorporated under the MLF are outlined below and will be incorporated in the Policy Manual.
The adoption and implementation of the Policy Manual (PM) satisfactory to the Bank would be a
condition for disbursement. Key policy issues discussed below include: eligibility criteria for MLF
resources; interest rate structure; MFI's accreditation criteria; sub-projects appraisal, review and
disbursements; sub-project loan rescheduling; sub-loan maturities; supervision of MLF sub-loans; and
accounting and audit arrangements. The PM would not be revised without prior consultation with and
approval of the Bank.



- 41 -
Eligibility Criteria
24.   Sub-borrowers under MLF will be limited to microenterprises operating in the country.
Eligible sub-projects would be small scale and microenterprise activities such as trading,
handicraft/small manufacturing, backyard animal production, food processing and production of
vegetables and fruits, excluding production of rice and corn. To qualify, proposed sub-projects would
have to be appraised by the MFIs and/or PCFC as technically feasible, financially viable, and
environmentally sound.
25.   Project financing is extended to support private microenterprises that do not have easy access
to formal credit facilities. These microenterprises could neither be served by traditional bank lending
programs that cater to bigger enterprises/borrowers, nor by the NGO microcredit facilities that provide
only very small individual loans. Peso sub-loans would be provided to microenterprise sub-borrowers.
Project funds would finance investments in fixed assets such as simple machinery or equipment and
working capital. Land acquisition would be ineligible. The MFIs would be required to provide for
each sub-project at least 25% of the finaiicing package from their own funds. The minimum equity
contribution by the sub-borrower would be negotiated with the MFI concerned. Bank financing of any
single sub-project would not exceed in any case 75% of sub-project costs.
Interest Rates
26.   Under the proposed MLF, interest rates would be in line with market rates as required by GOP
policy. MLF would allow free negotiation between PCFC and MFIs on the one hand, and between the
MFIs and the sub-borrowers on the other, to set the rates which reflect market forces and the risks
involved. The onlending interest rates charged by PCFC to MFIs would be based on the cost of funds
from LBP plus reasonable spread sufficient to cover operating costs and associated risks.
MFI Accreditation Criteria
27.   The accreditation criteria ensure that the participating MFIs pass the tests of solvency,
profitability and quality of ownership, lending performance, management and monitoring system. It
has two steps: (a) the MFI would meet certain minimum requirements before a thorough evaluation of
its financial performance and operations is made and (b) the credit evaluation process upon satisfaction
of the pre-qualifying criteria.
28.   The following institutions would be allowed to participate in the MLF: rural banks,
cooperative banks, cooperatives, credit unions and credit-granting NGOs. To the extent that they have
or would be ready to implement microfinance programs, thrift banks, private development banks and
commercial banks would also be allowed to participate.
29.   BSP Banking Regulation. In the case of banks, compliance with BSP's minimum capital
requirements is a necessary condition for accreditation. In the case of cooperatives, credit unions and
credit NGOs, submission of a capital build-up program ready for implementation that will be reviewed
and approved by PCFC in addition to the following would be required: (i) meet other MLF criteria; and
(ii) fully cover their MLF availment or line with acceptable collaterals.
30.   Solvency Requirement. Eligible MFIs will comply with minimum net equity base of 10
percent of their risk assets or as may be required by BSP, whichever is higher. At the time of
accreditation, the net equity base shall be computed applying the criteria established by BSP. Eligible
MFIs would also maintain a net past due over equity of not more than 20%. The eligible cooperatives,



- 42 -
credit unions and credit NGOs will maintain a net capital (or fund balance for NGOs) ratio of at least
12 %. of their risk assets.
31.   Liquidity. Eligible MFIs would comply with a minimum liquidity ratio (liquid assets over
short-term liabilities, e.g., deposits and bills payables) of 30%.
32.   Profitability Requirements. Eligible MFIs would demonstrate their profitability in real terms
during the life of the sub-loan. An MFI complying with all other requirements except real profitability
would be qualified provided that concurrence would be obtained in advance from the Bank. Such an
exception may be allowed in justifiable cases, e.g., when a MFI has write-offs accruing to several past
years or when the negative real profitability has been more of an exception and financial projections
clearly demonstrate that in the future, the MFI would make real profits.
33.   To calculate profitability in real terms, the adjustments to the nominal profits would simply
be two: (i) the initial equity, multiplied by the inflation between the beginning and ending
accounting period dates would be deducted from the nominal profits; and (ii) the initial fixed
assets multiplied by the inflation between the same dates would be added to the nominal profits.
If the resulting number is positive then it would be accepted that the real profitability has been
positive.
34.   Ownership and Management Quality Requirement. There should be no material adverse
feedback on the reputation and competence of owners and management of the MFI. For this purpose,
the following shall be the bases for feedback: checking with the banks and the courts; credit
investigation and audit reports; newspapers, subscription, and other publications; BSP and government
financial institutions.
35.   In the event that an accredited MFI loses its accreditation status (having failed to meet one or
more of the accreditation criteria), PCFC would: (a) cancel the uncommitted portion of the line of
credit granted or suspend the subsequent drawdowns to the MFI; (b) take the necessary actions to
safeguard the committed portion extended to said MFI; and (c)) notify IBRD on actions taken.
Sub-projects Appraisals
36.   Sub-loan evaluation and approval will be the respcnsibility of the MFIs, whose capability to
undertake these activities will be determined by PCFC according to the MLF qualifying criteria.
Evaluation of short and medium term loans shall be based on the technical and financial characteristics
of the sub-project. For each short and medium term sub-project, the MFI shall prepare a financial plan
including sub-project cash flow.
Sub-projects Review and Disbursement
37.   PCFC shall receive the list of sub-borrowers with corresponding sub-projects together with the
required report from the MFIs, as a general rule, on an ex-ante basis. It will review on an ex-ante basis
the said documentary requirements and check whether these are consistent with MLF guidelines to
authorize disbursements. PCFC may, at its option, allow post-ante review for MFIs with good track
record.



- 43 -
38.   PCFC will grant up to 30-day for the MFIs to submit post-release sub-loan documentation.
Appropriate sanctions and penalties will be applied against the MFIs should they fail to meet the said
30-day period, following loan release to the MFIs.
39.   PCFC, on a selective basis, will conduct selective end-use visitation or verification of funded
sub-projects after loan release to ensure that the funds are properly used.
40.   Disbursements to the MFIs will be subject to compliance with both pre-release and post release
documentation. Proceeds will be credited to a deposit account opened with LBP for this purpose. If
the MFI advances the loan release to clients, the MFI can apply for rediscounting within 90 calendar
days from date of initial advances. In this case, the computation of the loan amount to be provided to
the MFI is computed based on outstanding balance before the loan release (i.e. 75% of the outstanding
balance).
Sub-loan Maturities
41.   The repayment period for MLF short and medium term sub-loans will be based on the sub-
project's cash flow and the sub-borrower's overall repayment capacity. Repayment of sub-loans would
be within one to three years. Reasonable grace period for repayment of the principal could be given
based on the sub-project's cash flow projections and the sub-borrower's repayment capability.
Sub-project Loan Rescheduling
42.   Loan restructuring may be effected by reason of force majeure directly affecting specific
projects of the sub-borrowers resulting in the inability of the sub-borrower to pay its loan to the MFI
which in turn affects the MFI's capability to repay its loan to PCFC. The loan restructuring will
provide a recovery/rehabilitation period that will strengthen the paying capability of the MFIs sub-
borrowers.
43.   The MFI must submit a specific proposal at least 30 days after the occurrence of the fortuitous
event. Such restructuring will consist of a revision in the repayment terms of the outstanding sub-loan.
Supervision of Sub-loans and Sub-borrowers
44.   Supervision of sub-loans will be the responsibility of MFIs which will designate specific
officers for this purpose. MFIs will ensure that sub-borrowers use project funds only for approved
purposes. MFIs will also obtain periodic operating and financial reports from sub-borrowers.
Supervision of MFIs
45.   PCFC shall conduct an annual review of the overall financial condition and performance of the
MFI and shall use the findings thereon as basis in the yearly renewal of the MFIs' accreditation under
the MLF.
46.   PCFC shall supervise on a selective basis sub-borrowers to determine if the sub-loans had been
used for the intended purposes.



- 44 -
Reporting Requirements
47.   The MFI shall be required to submit the following regular reports in a format prescribed by the
PCFC and such other reports as may be required by PCFC: (i) annual audited accounts; (ii) quarterly
un-audited financial statements; (iii) quarterly status report; (iv) annual detailed status report; and other
reports as may be required by PCFC.
48.    MFI shall maintain separate books of accounts and separate identifiable subsidiary ledgers for
full accounting of the subsidiary loan and its utilization by the sub-borrowers .
Accounting and Audit
49.    The MFIs will submit to PCFC their audited financial statements at least annually. PCFC will
ensure that the accreditation criteria are satisfactorily met. PCFC may also conduct surprise audit as
may be deemed appropriate by the PCFC management. MFIs are enjoined to provide their cooperation
in complying with these control measures to protect the Fund.



- 45 -
Annex 2c
Philippines
Third Rural Finance Project
LBP' s Operations, Financial Performance and Projections
Mandate & Ownership.
1.    The Land Bank of the Philippines (LBP) was established under the Land Reform Code Act
(RA3844) in 1963 as the agency responsible for financing agrarian reform. It had an authorized
ordinary share capital of P1.8 billion which by the early 1990s had been fully subscribed by the
Government. Under the Land Bank Act of 1995, (RA7907) LBP's authorized ordinary share capital
was increased to P7.5 billion, (of which P7.4 billion has now been paid up through allocation from
reserves). At the end of 1996 and in early 1997, LBP's capitalization was further strengthened by SSS
(the social security fund) taking up P1.2 billion of preference shares (yielding 14%). Now that LBP's
ordinary share capital is almost fully paid up, LBP's board has submitted an application for the
authorized capital to be increased further to P25 billion. Since 1973, LBP has had full banking powers,
allowing it to receive demand, savings and time deposits without limitation, and to engage in
underwriting activities. It has expanded rapidly over the past decade, and is now one of the five largest
banks in the Philippines.
Organizational Structure.
2.    In line with normal commercial bank practice, LBP is controlled by a Board of Directors,
which comprises nine members. These include the Secretary of Finance, who is Chairman; the
President and CEO of Land Bank, who is Vice-Chairman; the Secretaries of Agrarian Reform;
Agriculture and Labor, all of whom are ex-officio members. Another four Board members are
appointed by the President of the Philippines to represent the Agrarian Reform beneficiaries, the
landowners and the private sector.
3.    LBP is now divided into three main sectors, (i) the Agrarian7 and Domestic Banking Sector
(ADBS), (ii) the Institutional Banking Sector (IBS), and (iii) the Operations and Support Sector (OSS).
This is a relatively new structure. Previously LBP had operated its commercial banking completely
separately from its agrarian operations even to the extent of having separate channels within the
countryside (branches for commercial banking and field offices for agrarian). The new structure has
amalgamated the old branches and field offices, under the Agrarian and Domestic Banking Sector and
separated out the largely head office based Institutional Banking Sector. LBP's 298 branches (up from
32 in 1990 and 161 in 1994) now give it nation wide cover and the relative importance of branch
banking is growing. Within the branches, LBP still services its two types of client (agrarian and
commercial) which continue to have substantially different needs. However the fact that agrarian
borrowers now deal with branches rather than specialized agrarian offices has the marketing advantage
that LBP is able to offer them other services, such as savings and checking which previously were not
available from the 'field offices' which dealt only with loans to small farmers. LBP's Institutional
Banking Sector is still large compared to branch banking in terms of lending, and generates about 65%
of loan business (down from over 80% in 1994), mainly through Head Office. The Operations and
7   See definition in Footnote 2 page 8 of the PAD.



- 46 -
Support Sector, as its name suggests, provides facilities and back up for the earning parts of the bank.
Among others, it includes manpower services, facilities management, controllership, treasury, and
market research. It is head office based.
Resources and Assets.
4.     LBP has substantially expanded its available resources over recent years to a total of P160
billion (US$4.0 billion) as of December 31, 1997. About P14.7 billion of these resources are equity
(over P11 billion of which result from retained earnings). The main source of funds at December 1997
was government deposits of P74 billion or 46% of total resources. Private deposits, which have grown
rapidly amounted to 24% of total resources and bills payable (including loans from WB, ADB, OECF,
IFAD and foreign CDs) to 11 %. On the assets side, cash and investment in Government securities
together totaled P50 billion or 31 % of its total assets, and net loans amounted to P94 billion, 59%. The
balance was made up of investments in non government securities (4%), bank premises and other fixed
assets (2%), and other assets (4%).
Impact of Devaluation.
5.     Although LBP has foreign exchange borrowings and deposits amounting to about US$900
million, these are fully hedged; either the funds are reinvested or relent in matching currencies, or else,
as in the case of multilateral and bilateral borrowings (about US$500 million), the foreign exchange
risk is borne by Government. Indeed as at mid February 1998, LBP's unhedged foreign exchange risk
amounted to only US$4.2 million, or about 0.1 % of total assets. The main impact of the recent Peso
devaluation on LBP therefore was to increase the size of both total assets and total liabilities by
roughly the same amount, therefore slightly weakening its Risk Assets:Equity ratio.
Lending Operations.
6.     LBP substantially expanded its total lending portfolio during the last four years (1993 - 1997) at
an annual nominal rate of 30% resulting in LBP's total gross loan portfolio increasing from P32.3 billion
in December 1993 to P93.7 billion in December 1997 (US$2.4 billion). Included within this figure is
wholesale term lending under ALF and CLF, which uses Bank resources. This wholesaling activity has
been both profitable and successful. Repayments have been excellent, and the end of 1997, there were no
past dues from Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs). Over seven years, LBP had only one bad debt
under this program, for a negligible amount of P0.5 million or less than one hundredth of one percent of
the present outstanding balance.
Portfolio Qualitv.
7.     Analysis of LBPs balance sheets indicates that the proportion of net loans either past due or in
litigation improved from 2.8% in 1995 to 2.3% in 1996 but declined slightly to 2.7% in 1997. This latter
figure is in line with the average for Philippine commercial banks at the same date (2.53%). If agrarian
loans are ornitted from the analysis, LBP has fractionally less net past dues than those for the Philippine
Banking sector as a whole (2.49%) of net portfolio in 1997. This represents a decline in portfolio quality
since 1995 and 1996 when net past due rates were 0.6% and 1.4% respectively. The apparent decline
between 1996 and 1997 results partly from a definitions change introduced by BSP in November 1997 in
8 As at December 31, 1997, some P 1.9 billion of commercial loans (2.2% of the portfolio and about half of all commercial past
dues) were less than 90 days overdue - many of these loans would not have been classified as past due under the pre
November 1997 rules.



- 47 -
response to the financial crisis. Since 1995, the quality of the net agrarian loan portfolio has improved, as
collections have got better and LBP has provisioned adequately in line with the Institutional Strengthening
Action Plan (ISAP) agreement. This is reflected in the table below which shows net non performing loans
declining as a percentage of net loans from 17.2% in 1995 to 5.3% in 1997.
Summary of LBP Gross Loans and Net Non Performing (NP) Loans (P Million)
1995          1996          1997
Gross Agrarian Loans                          9,201         10,673        11,288
Net NP Agrarian Loans as % Net                 17.2           9.6           5.3
Gross Commercial Loans                       51,025         72,984        87,212
Net NP Commercial Loans as % Net               0.6            1.4           2.5
Gross Total Loans                            60,226         83,657        98,500
Total Net NP Loans as % Total Net              2.8            2.3           2.7
Profitability. Liquidity and Solvency.
8.     Profitability. LBP has made profits in each of the past ten years and nominal profits have
averaged about P1.7 billion p.a. (US$ 60 million) between 1994 -1997. Real returns to equity have
averaged about 7% for the same four year period. In 1997, LBP's net profit before tax of P1.7 billion
was just under 1.1% of total year end assets, below the commercial bank average for 1997 of 1.64%.
This is because part of LBP's profit, which comes entirely from its commercial banking operations, is
9
used to subsidize its agrarian lending9.
9.     Over the five years 1993-1997, since Agrarian Reform Fund (ARE) support was withdrawn, and
LBP has borne the full cost of agrarian lending, the operating costs of Agrarian Reform Loans (ARLs)
have averaged about 12% of the outstanding net portfolio and necessary provisions a further 8%. This
compares with net collections of interest which have averaged under 9%. The net 'losses' as a result of
agrarian lending, calculated using SDI methodology (see below), which take account of the 'economic
price' of funds used have averaged P1.9 billion (about US$70 million) per year.
10.    One means of evaluating LBP's overall operational performance and its self sustainability is to
review its Subsidy Dependence Index (SDI)'0. LBP's SDI worsened up between 1990 and 1992 (from
5% to 32%) as the volume of agrarian loans was increased, but has improved up until 1996 as the size
of the banking operations expanded relative to loans to small farmers. In 1995 and 1996, the SDI was
numerically negative, indicating that LBP would have been sustainable without the implicit subsidies of
9   As defined in Footnote 2, page 8 of the PAD.
10 The definition of the SDI is the percentage by which the average annual lending interest rate would need to be raised, over the
interest rate actually collected, in order to fully cover the cost of both explicit and implicit subsidies. For these estimates, it is
assumed that LBP was always responsible for loans to small farmers but that its operations in land purchase and Agrarian
Reform Mortgages (ARMs) prior to 1994 were as an agent of Government/ARF who provided the necessary funding and
fully covered LBP's related operating costs. LBP's technical support for cooperative development is considered an integral
part of LBP's small farmer lending operations, and therefore, its own responsibility.



- 48 -
not paying dividends at Thill rates and receiving below market government deposits. In 1997, the SDI
changed sign, to indicate subsidy dependency again. This was largely because of the historically high
level of provisions charged on commercial lending as a result of the financial crisis. The SDI is now
0.5%, indicating that in 1997 LBP needed an effective subsidy of roughly 0.5% of its gross interest
earnings in order to be sustainable.
Summary of LBP's Profit and SDI 1990 - 1997
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997
Net Profit per accounts Excluding  855    967    859    900   1,220  1,314   1,601   1,700
Capital Gains
ADJUSTED NET PROFIT (after taking   -96   -724  -1,173  -246  -1,182   468    644    -71
account of underprovisioning and use of
interest free capital)
Net interest income                2,073   2,982   3,640  6,110  7,676   8,190  11,64   15,04
5      1
SDI - proportion by which overall  4.6%   24.3%   32.2%   4.0%   15.4%  -5.7%   -5.5%   0.5%
interest rate would need to increase to
cover costs & eliminate subsidies
11.   Liquidity. LBP's liquid assets as a percent of short term deposits has declined from a very high
level, of over 100% in the early 1990s to 53% in 1996 and 55% in 1997. Both figures are well above the
45% covenanted under the Second Rural Finance Project. Compared with the Philippine commercial
bank sector as a whole, LBP has above average liquidity.
12.   Solvency. LBP's equity as a share of total assets has dropped slightly from 10.1% in December
1995 to 8.9% in 1997. Because a significant proportion of LBP's assets are held as cash or government
securities, which are not considered to be 'Risk Assets' it remains in a reasonably strong position with
respect to capital adequacy. LBP's Risk Assets to Equity Ratio was 7.6:1 at the end of 1997, which is
substantially better than the 10:1 required by BSP, although worse than the Philippine commercial bank
average, reported as 6.3:1. LBP has significant property assets which have not been revalued in recent
years and in addition holds investments in tradable securities for which the market value is substantially
above the balance sheet figures. This provides some comfort against the possibility that LBP's loan
portfolio quality may deteriorate. LBP is adequately solvent at the present time, and assuming that the
effects of the financial crisis are not catastrophic, it is expected to remain so (see Projections below).
However in the interest of prudence, it will be important to ensure that the dividend policy imposed upon
it by Government (it has paid dividends of P1.4 billion or about US$50 million in the past four years)
would not weaken its financial position. During negotiations agreement was reached that dividends would
only be paid out of real after tax profits, and after equity build up to support increased agrarian and CLF
lending is provided for.
13.   Projections. Appendices A, B, and C summarize LBP's performance for the recent past and make
projections for the future. These were made by the mission, based on discussions with the corporate
planning staff of LBP, but may need some amendments once LBP finalizes its IDP. Details of the
assumptions and results and the EXCEL model used are on the project file. In summary, the projections
stem from the 1997 balance sheet and are based on a growth target of 10% p.a. in real terms for agrarian
lending, but only a 2% growth in the real commercial loan portfolio. For agrarian lending, necessary



- 49 -
provisioning and interest collection are projected to progress roughly in line with the key indicators, so
that by 2002, interest on agrarian loans is 12% and necessary annual provisions are down to 5% of the
opening net portfolio. Inflation is projected to fall from 9% in 1998 to 5% in 2002 and interest rates are
related to Thill rates, which in turn are projected at 4.5% above inflation (the average for the past 5 years
was 4.7%). In response to the financial crisis, annual provisions on commercial loans are projected to be
about 3% of the outstanding net opening balance in 1998, before falling to 1.5% in 1999 and 2000 and a
normal 0.75% thereafter. Gross receipts tax is projected to average 4.5% on interest income, in line with
the recent LBP average. Tax on profits has been projected on the assumption that GFIs do not get special
treatment under the new Tax system, and that gross income from Tbills is treated , in the same way as
other income.
14.    Profit is expected to fall sharply in 1998, but to just remain positive in nominal terms (about P200
million before tax, P135 million after tax), although showing a negative real return on equity (-6%). The
nominal profit, at that level would be insufficient to meet the year's preference share dividend, without
drawing from reserves. LBP should recover significantly in 1999, (to about a nominal profit of P1.5
billion before tax, P1.0 billion after tax) which represents a 2% real return on total equity. With
preference dividends to meet, and agrarian growth to provide for, this profit level would not justify
payment of dividends on ordinary shares. By 2001, when provisioning levels have been normalized, LBP
is projected to be back on a growth track with profits of P3.3 billion, before tax, (P2.2 billion after tax).
At this stage, the ordinary share dividend, at 50% of the surplus after providing for equity maintenance
and supporting agrarian growth would be P0.6 billion.
15.    At the projected level of performance, LBP would continue to be able to meet its liquidity and
equity covenants. In practice, it may chose to cash in some of its open profits on securities, and so be able
to make provisions out of these, rather than solely at the expense of the bottom line, as has been
conservatively projected here.
16.    Outstanding Issues. Since SRFP LBP has solved the issues which it had in relation to Land
Reform Bonds and its relationship with ARF. The main issues which it will face over the years to come
are (i) increasing its equity; (ii) ensuring that the quality and profitability of the conmnercial loan portfolio
improves; (iii) reducing the unit cost of agrarian lending and increasing outreach to small farmers and
rural entrepreneurs; and (iv) resource mobilization, particularly medium and long term. These issues are
addressed under the project through LBP's .IDP.
*  Equity Build Up. So as to ensure LBP's ability to expand its lending and outreach to countryside
farmers and entrepreneurs. it will need to make adequate arrangements for a build up of capital.
This will require both new capital to be issued and a more conservative approach to the retention of
real profits and consequently a dividend policy which reflects this.
*  Commercial portfolio quality and profitability. LBP needs to focus explicitly on reducing the level
of gross past dues in its commercial lending portfolio, and, if necessary increasing provisioning so
as to reduce the net past dues percentage. To provide a framework for maintaining the quality of
the net loan portfolio, provisions should cover 100% of past dues more than one year old, 50% of
Prior to 1998 'final tax' of 20% was paid on Thill income. The whole of that income was then excluded
from the taxable profit of the Bank. With tax rates at 35% in the past, there was a tax arbitrage gain of 15%
at the margin. In LBP's case, because it had so much Thill interest income, removal of that from the P&L
account left it making a 'loss' and so LBP has not paid tax on profits. Since January 1, 1998 the new
legislation provides for there to be no tax arbitrage gain on Thills.



-50 -
other past dues plus 25% of performing restructured loans. As a control, the net past dues should
not exceed an 25% of equity. Improved profitability of commercial lending should result from a
positive effort to reduce portfolio risk concentration and increase the proportion of commercial
lending to medium sized clients, and away from the very large low margin loans.
Agrarian Lending. LBP's outreach to agrarian beneficiaries, other small farmers and entrepreneurs is
modest. To fulfill its mandate this needs to be increased, but only to the extent that it is affordable.
To do this, LBP needs to focus on reducing its unit losses from its 'agrarian' lending. This will
require improved operating efficiency including manpower reduction, expansion of the use of CFIs
as conduits, better loan collection rates and the adoption of higher interest rates as possible.
* Resource Mobilization. Over the past three years, LBP has successfully attracted private deposits, but
these are mostly short term. For term resources, which are required to prudently match its term
lending, LBP has relied on the issuance of preference shares and foreign exchange borrowings, both
from private and ODA sources. An important aim in the medium term should be to develop new
instruments, such as medium term peso bonds, or longer dated savings products in order to replace the
foreign denominated debt which will need to be repaid over time.



- 51 -
Annex 2c Appendix A
LBP Profit & Loss Account
Projections (Millions Pesos)
1996          1997          1998             1999       2000        2001        2002
(actual)      (actual)    (projected)     (projected)  (projected)  (projected)  (projected)
EARNINGS
Interest on Loans &, Advances                      7,924          10,717        15,154          15,585      15,540      16,071     16,743
Interest on Deposits with Banks                     1,108          1,201         1,369           1,846       1,633       1,560      1,529
Eamings on Funds and Securities                    2,876          3,561         5,448            5,611      5,344        5,342      5,423
Other Income                                        1,282           886           983            1,081       1,173       1,264      1,356
TOTAL Operating Income                             13.190         16.365        22.955          24123       23.691      24237      25051
EXPENSES
Cost of Funds                                       5,776          6,768        14,020          14,676      13,429      12,989     12,758
Compensation & Benefits                             2,033          2,186         2,405           2,620       2,816       3,006      3,194
Other Administrative Expenses                       1,691          2,075         2,283           2,487       2,673       2,853      3,031
Gross Receipts Tax etc.                              557            647           963            1,012        990        1,010      1,043
Provision for Probable Losses                       1,532          2,989         3,174           2,037       2,174       1,493      1,683
TOTAL EXPENSES                                     11589          14fi65        22.844          22 831      22081       21 352     21.709
NETINCOMEPRETAX                                     1.601          1.700          111            1.292       1.610       2.885      3.343
Provision for Tax                                      0              0            38             439         547         981       1,136
PROFIT AFTER TAX                                                    LI                                                             Q 73  L
Inflation Adjustment                                 481            718           971             573         383         394         420
Real Profit after Tax and Inflation                L12Q                                                                     . X68,5
adjustment
REAL RETURN ON EQUITY Before Tax                   10.4%           7.5%         -6.3%            2.0%        4.6%        9.7%/      10.6%
Annex 2c
Appendix B
Actual and Projected Balance Sheets
(Million Pesos)
1996          1997           1998            1999       2000         2001       2002
ASSETS                                            (actual)       (actual)    (projected)     (projectd)  (projected)   (projected)  (projected)
Cash & Deposits With Banks                         18,367         19,953        22,184          24,211      26,177      28,169     30,169
Loans and Advances incinterbank                    80,076         93,660       104,012         115,372     126,849     138,297    149,270
Investments                                        29,398         36,122        49,602          53,751      57,764      61,857     66,007
Fixed Assets                                        1,618          3,425         5,925           8,425       8,425       8,425      8,425
Other Assets                                        4,497          6,989         7,618           8,151       8,640       9,116      9,571
TOTAL ASSETS                                      133,956        160,149       189,341         209,910     227,856     245,864    263,442
LIABILITIES & SHAREHOLDERS
FUNDS
Deposits                                           91,125        113,187       129,718         144,002     158,710     174,481    191,338
Borrrowings                                        15,817         18,363        29,826          34,331      35,779      35,796     34,128
Other Liabilities                                  14,051         14,385        15,679          16,777      17,784      18,762     19,700
Shareholders Equity(after providing for            12,963         14,214        14,117          14,800      15,584      16,825     18,276
tax & divs)
TOTAL LIABILITIES & NET WORTH                     133,956        160,149       189,341         209,910     227,856     245,864    263,442



Annex 2c Appendix C
LBP Summary of Key Financial Indicators (Million Pesos)
1995       1996           1997           1998          1999           2000          2001        2002
(actual)    (actual)      (actual)    (projected)    (projected)    (projected)    (projected)  (projected)
Wihin Year Inflaon                                     11.1%        5.1%           6.3%           9.0%          7.0%           6.0%          5.5%        5.0%
Operating Income                                        9,727      13,190         16,365         22,955        24,123         23,691        24,237      25,051
Cost of Funds                                           3,849       5,776          6,768         14,020        14,676         13,429        12,989      12,758
Income net of Interest Cost                             5,878       7,414          9,597          8,935         9,447         10,263        11,248      12,293
Total Acknin Costs (excl GRT & Provisions)              2,677       3,724          4,261          4,687         5,107          5,489         5,859       6,225
N4thncoma BeoreTax                                      1,314       1,601          1,700           111          1,292          1,610         2,885       3,343
Net Income AfterTax                                     1,314       1,601          1,700            73           853           1,063         1,904       2,206
Equity(yearendafterprovfordbidend&tax)                 10,818      12,963         14,214         14,117        14,800         15,584        16,825      18,276
Total Assets (P billion)                                106.9       134.0          160.1          189.3         209.9          227.9         245.9       263.4
Capital toTotW Assets                                  10.1%        9.7%           8.9%           7.5%          7.1%           6.8%          6.8%        6.9%
Risk Assets to Equity                                     6.2         6.9            7.6            8.6           9.2            9.6           9.6         9.5
Liquid Assets/Dposits                                    50%        46%             46%            52%           51%            50%           49%         47%
Average Yield on Loans (before GRT)                     10.1%      11.9%           12.3%         15.3%         142%           12.8%         12.1%       11.6%
Average Cost of Borrowings                              5.0%        5.8%           5.6Yo          9.6%          8.7%/          7.2%o         6.4%        5.9%
Net Ircome after Tax to Average Assets                  1.29%      1.33%          1.16%          0.04%         0.43%          0.49%         0.80%       0.87%
Net Income after Tax to Opening Equity (nominal)       13.3%       14.8%          13.0%           0.5%          6.0%           7.2Ye        12.2%0      j 13.1%
Net Income after Tax to Opening Equity (real)           3.7%       10.4%           7.6%          -6.3%          2.0%           4.6%          9.7%       10.6%
Admin Expenses'Income Net of Interest Cost               46%        50%             44%            52%           54%            53%           52%         51%



- 53 -
Annex 2d
Philippines
Third Rural Finance Project
PCFC Operations, Financial Performance and Projections
I.    Institutional Background
A.    Leaal Structure. The People's Credit and Finance Corporation (PCFC) is a government owned and
controlled corporation which is registered as a finance company with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. PCFC was created on February 9, 1995 to provide financial services to the poor by virtue of
Executive Order No. 148 and Administrative Order No. 261. This mandate was strengthened under Republic
Act No. 8425, which identifies PCFC as the vehicle for the delivery of microfinance services for the
exclusive use of the poor.
B.    Ownership. PCFC is initially capitalized by funds coming from the National Livelihood Support
Fund (NLSF). NLSF is a fund that has its own juridical personality and is supervised and controlled by the
Land Bank of the Philippines. Under EO No. 148, PCFC will eventually be privatized. At present, the PCFC
is preparing its privatization plan."2
C.    Board of Directors. The Board of Directors acts as the governing body of the PCFC. It is composed
of nine representatives from both the government and the non-government sector. The government is
represented by six representatives from the Land Bank of the Philippines, the Presidential Commission to
Fight Poverty and the Department of Finance. The non-government sector has three representatives who
were appointed by the President of the LBP. The President of Land Bank is the Chairman of the Board
while the President of PCFC acts as Vice-Chairman.
D.    Leadership and Organizational Structure. The President who also sits as vice-chairman of the Board
manages the PCFC. Two vice presidents, one for operations and another for finance and administrative
support him. The organizational chart is shown as attachment 1. At present, PCFC has 26 employees, 10 of
them are account officers while the remaining are support staff and management.
II.    Operations
A.    Geographical Coverage. With its meager resources, PCFC is tasked to provide wholesale funds to
MFIs in all the provinces of the country. At present, it provides loans to MFIs in 51 out of the 79 provinces
in the country. Of the 51, PCFC has served 10 of the 20 identified poor provinces. It is not able to serve the
remaining 10 in view of the lack of qualified MFIs in the area based on the PCFC's accreditation criteria.
B.    Source of Funds. Aside from the P100 million capital funds from the NLSF, PCFC has funds coming
from the ADB-IFAD Rural Microenterprise Finance Project. This amounts to $33.7 million of which $7.4
million is for institutional capability building of MFIs. It will be provided to the MFIs as a loan to finance
their start-up costs in establishing new branches, training of branch managers, field and office staff and the
costs associated with institutional preparation and formation of Self-Help Groups.
12 The privatization plan is currently being prepared in compliance with the commitments under the ADB-IFAD Rural
Microenterprise Loan.



- 54 -
C.    Financial Services. PCFC provides a revolving credit facility and term loan to its MS clients. The
former is financed from the NLSF money while the latter is funded from the ADB-IFAD loan. The revolving
credit facility is called the HIRAM (Helping Individuals Reach their Aspirations through Microcredit)
Lending program. Under this program, funds are made available for eligible conduits using any type of
credit methodology. It is priced at market rates and has at the least six-month maturity period. As of March
31,1998, total accumulated releases under HIRAM was P 754.8 million reaching some 70,175 end-borrowers.
Total loans outstanding, as of the same date is P 212.6 million. The term loan on the other hand, can
currently only be availed by Grameen Replicators. It is priced at 14 percent per annum and has a seven-year
maturity with a three-year grace period on principal amortization. Total approved credit line as of March 31,
1998 is P 136 million for 9 conduits. Of this line, only P 8.5 million has been released benefiting some 8,500
end borrowers. Total institutional loans released was P 7.6 million.
D.    Clientele. Micro-finance institutions are the main clientele of PCFC. These include the rural banks,
cooperative rural banks, credit NGOs, credit cooperatives and some private development banks providing
loans to microenterprises. As of March 1998, it has 87 MFI clients.
IH.   Vision and Mission
The following are the vision and mission of the PCFC:
A.    Vision
al PCFC's central role in poverty alleviation shall give emphasis on giving the entrepreneurial poor
nationwide the opportunity to start, maintain or expand their microenterprises.
* PCFC shall be a profitable and financially viable organization, offering strength and stability to its
clients.
* PCFC shall drive the growth of the Philippine Microfinance Industry, offering new products,
technologies, concepts, and support services. It shall be the model microfinance apex company,
encouraging parallel efforts from the private sector.
B.    Mission
* PCFC will provide financial services to the poor through viable micro-finance institutions.
* PCFC shall offer loans and technical assistance to microfinance institutions and shall explore other
financial products and services to complement what it already offers.
PCFC's competitive edge shall remain distinctive. It will be the major wholesaler of micro-credit
funds. Its monitoring activities shall be enhanced by close coordination with banking and non-banking
microfinance institutions.
rv.   Financial Performance
A.    Financial Condition
Table 1 shows the balance sheet and income statement of PCFC. It uses the cash method. Barely in
its second year of operations, it has registered very minimal nominal profits. When inflation is accounted
for, real profits become negative.



- 55 -
The balance sheet distribution shows that most of PCFCs assets are in loans receivable. Its
liabilities on the other hand are mostly in the form of bills payable. As a finance company, it cannot mobilize
savings from the public. It can only source funds from creditors. Hence, aside from the NLSF money, the
ADB-IFAD loan is used to augment its resources. Its main source of income is the interest income on loans
and some minimal income from its investments in treasury bills.
B.    Profitability
PCFC registered very minimal profits for the period ending March 1997 and 1998. An improvement
in nominal net income was, however posted from 1997 to 1998. In real terms, however, negative profits were
posted. Real return on equity for both periods were also negative (- 3.41 percent and -6.6 percent for March
1997 and March 1998 respectively). The negative profitability is attributed to the fact that PCFC lending
volume is still too small.
V.    Cost Efficiency
In terms of cost efficiency, PCFC spent 8 percent and almost 10 percent of its average net portfolio
for the period ending March 1997 and March 1998. This may still be brought down as PCFC deepens its
financial operation through the extension of bigger sized loans at shorter maturities to its MFI clients. It
seems that the 7-year term maturity of the ADB-IFAD loan is too stringent and costly for PCFC.
A.    Loan Portfolio Ouality
PCFC maintains a high quality of loan portfolio to date. It has a very high collection rate and
maintains a past due ratio of only 0.5% of its loan portfolio. It also allots 2 percent provisioning for loan
losses.
B.    Liquidity
PCFC maintains a very high liquidity position. Current ratio is posted at 3.13:1. This provides room
for PCFC to further deepen its financial services and increase its operational income.
C.    Capital Adequacy
Capital cushion to absorb loan losses is high. Capital to risk asset ratio declined from 66 percent in
1997 to 46 percent in 1998. This is due to the increase in PCFC's loan portfolio during the period. The
current ratio is higher than the BSP's minimum standard for banks which is only 10 percent. Current
operations show a risk asset ratio of only 2.2:1 which is also way below the BSP standards. PCFC, however
is inclined to maintain a low risk asset ratio considering that microfinance loans are deemed more risky than
regular loans.
PCFC's current capital position is deemed inadequate for the institution to operate efficiently and
profitably. At present, it is only operating using the P100 million NLSF money and the ADB-IFAD money
that has very stringent requirements. 28.7 percent of its total assets is provided for by its stockholders.
VI. Financial Projections
Tables 1-3 show the financial projections for PCFC for the next five years. These projections use the
following assumption: start of the use of the proposed WB money by the fourth quarter of 1998, drawdown
of $500 million from the ADB-IFAD money during the five year period, an interest spread of 7 per cent for
the period, a 9 percent cost of money, an inflation rate of 7 percent. Preferred shares (worth P200 million)
will also be declared during the period with 10 percent dividends.



-56 -
Table 1. PCFC Balance Sheet Projections (P Million)
MARCH 31 FISCAL YEAR
1998       1999       2000        2001        2002       2003
ASSETS:
a  Deposits In Bank                                     58.00       45.50      73.80      101.40     128.20      154.30
Receivables/Loans, net
b    Current                                           215.40      449.00     730.00    1,001.50    1,264.00    1,518.50
c   Net Past Due                                         1.60        6.00       8.00       12.50      18.00       24.50
217.00     455.00      738.00    1,014.00    1,282.00    1,543.00
d   Investments in Bonds & Other Debt Instruments       70.00      207.93     220.14      285.82     354.63      429.75
e   Furnitures, Fixtures & Equipment, net                2.00        3.50       5.50        7.70       10.78      15.09
f   Other Assets                                         2.00        3.00       4.00        5.00       6.00        7.00
Total Assets                                           349.00      714.93    1,041.44    1,413.92    1,781.61    2,149.15
Liabilities and Capital Funds:
g   Bills Payable                                           -           -          -           -           -          -
h   Long Term                                          149.00      350.35     568.26      780.78     987.14    1,188.11
i   Short Term                                          93.00      150.15     243.54      334.62     423.06      509.19
Total                                              242.00      500.50     811.80    1,115.40    1,410.20    1,697.30
j   Accrued Expenses Payable                             5.00       10.01       16.24      22.31       28.20      33.95
k   Other Liabilities                                     1.00       2.00       3.00        4.00       6.00        7.00
I Capital Stocks
m    Common                                            100.00      150.00     150.00      150.00      150.00     200.00
n    Preferred                                              -       50.00      50.00      100.00      150.00     150.00
Total                                              100.00      200.00     200.00      250.00     300.00      350.00
o   Retained Earnings, Beginning                            -        1.00       2.42       10.40      22.21       37.21
p   Add: Net Income                                       1.00       6.42      12.98       21.81       30.00      38.69
q   Less: Preferred Dividends                                        5.00       5.00       10.00       15.00      15.00
r   Retained Earnings, Ending                             1.00       2.42      10.40       22.21      37.21       60.90
Total Liabilities and Capital Funds                    349.00      714.93    1,041.44    1,413.92    1,781.61    2,149.15
a This represents 10% of net receivables financed
b   projected/estimated amount
c Related to capital - grows by 1% per annum, reaching 6% of share capital by 2003.
d balancing figure
e projected/estimated amount
f The amount is estimated to grow by I M per annum.
i   This represents 110% of net receivables financed
j This represents 2% of bills payable.
k projected/estimated amount
I projected/estimated amount



- 57 -
Table 2. PCFC Profit and Loss Projections (P Million)
MARCH 31 FISCAL YEAR
1998       1999      2000       2001       2002       2003
a  Financing Income                                  20.00      49.83      88.43     129.86      169.91    20S.69
b Interest Income
c    Investments                                      6.00       18.07     27.82      32.89      41.63      50.99
d    Deposits                                         2.00       5.18       5.97       8.76       11.48      14.13
Gross Income                                      28.00      73.07     122.21     171.51     223.02     273.80
e  Interest Expense                                   10.00      29.70      52.49     77.09      101.02     124.30
f  Provision for Probable Losses                      3.00       4.81       10.56      11.70      13.12      17.45
g  Taxes                                                 -       7.14       11.18      14.82      19.12     23.46
h  Manpower Costs                                     7.00       12.00      18.00     23.00       29.00      34.00
i  Operating Costs                                    7.00       12.00      18.00     23.00      29.00      34.00
Total Expenses                                    27.00      66.65     109.23     149.61     192.26     233.21
Net Income before Income Tax                       1.00       6.42      12.98      21.90      30.76      40.59
Provision for Income Tax                              -          -          -       0.09       0.76       1.90
Net Income                                         1.00       6.42      12.98      21.81      30.00      38.69
-       0.00       0.00     (0.00)       0.00       0.00
a Average net current receivables times relending rate
b Average balance times estimated/projected rate
e Average bills payable times cost of fund
f estimated/projected amount
g This represents final tax for interest income and percentage tax for financing income
h estimated/projected amount
i estimated/projected amount



-58 -
Table 3. PCFC's Financial Indicators and Ratios
1998       1999       2000       2001       2002       2003
Inflation Protection - Total Equity (P million)       7,50       6.93       13.92      14.34      18.52     22.85
Real Profit after tax - Total (P million)            (6.50)     (0.50)     (0.94)       7.47      11.48      15.84
Risk Asset to Equity                                  2,19        2.29       3.71       4.08      4.29        4.43
Liquid Asset to Short Term Liability                   1.29       1.56       1.12       1.07       1.06       1.06
Net Past Due to Equity                                0.02       0.03        0.04       0.05       0.05       0.06
ASSUMPTIONS:
Inflation                             7.00%
Interest on Investment               13.00%
Cost of Funds                         8.00%
Interest                             15.00%
Interest on Preferred Shares         10.00%
Interest on H-Yield Deposits         10.00%



- 59 -
Annex 2e
Philippines
Third Rural Finance Project
Environmental Technical Services
1.    The objectives of the environmental technical services are to: (i) ensure that projects financed under
the Third Rural Finance Project (TRFP) are environmentally sound; (ii) assure compliance of projects with
Government's environmental laws and regulations; and (iii) accelerate the processing of official
environmental clearances and permits. The environmental protection process under the proposed project
would be governed by modified procedures of the existing CLF II operation, that are based on prevailing
GOP regulations.
Environmental Unit (EU)
2.    Environmental technical services would be provided by the EU that was established under the
Second Rural Finance project (SRFP). The scope of its activities are detailed in Appendix A. The EU
provides services to the PLG (for the CLF II and RCF credit programs), Account Management Group
(AMG), and Domestic Banking groups of LBP, as well as any present and future Bank's environmental
projects for which the LBP acts as the main financial intermediary. The EU is staffed by 4 professionals plus
administrative assistants, and supported by qualified consultants which would be providing environmental
services to sub-projects and the EU, when required. To assure quality and conformity of consulting services,
a pool of pre-selected consulting firms was established, out of which consulting services would be provided
on a competitive basis. Recommended criteria for consultants selection are detailed in Appendix B. So far,
20 consulting firms have been accredited by LBP. Services that may be provided by the consultants are
specified in Appendix A.
3.    Sub-borrowers under the project may choose to seek the assistance of LBP's accredited consultants,
or any other consultant accredited by DENR, in the preparation of Initial Environmental Examination (IEE)
or the Environmental Impact Statement (EIS). The cost associated with this assistance would be borne by the
sub-borrowers. LBP would bear the cost of all other services detailed in Appendix A.
4.    Technical Support to the Environmental Management Bureau (EMB) would be provided by the EU
when required. The main points of the technical support would mainly include environmental scoping,
preparation of Conditionalities attached to environmental clearances, construction permits or operating
permits. Conditionalities imposed by EMB or DENR may include emission limits, mitigation measures,
environmental management plans, and monitoring plans, consistent with GOP regulations.
5.    The officials of the EMB have confirmed already, during the SRFP, their acceptance and welcomed
the initiative taken by LBP. On June 1996, DENR signed an MOA with the LBP that formalizes the
contribution of the EU to environmental quality in projects financed by it. The MOA confirms that LBP
shall, for all project financed by it: (i) ensure that all projects which require environmental clearances, are
environmentally sound; (ii)provide technical training to clients and participating financial institutions (PFIs)
on the concepts of integrating environmental considerations into project planning; (iii)conduct pre-screening,
checking the consistency of documentation required for Initial Environmental Examination (IEE) and EIS;
(iv) coordinate with DENR on the expeditious processing of official environmental clearances and permits in
coordination with LGUs, EMB and other DENR agencies; (v) support DENR and EMB in environmental



- 60 -
scooping and conduct public hearings and provide assistance in the clearance process; and (vi) designate a
permanent technical representative to the EIA Review Committee for LBP financed projects. The DENR, on
its part would: (i) provide training to the EU; (ii)expedite processing of clearances, or submission of EIA
requirements; and (iii) provide LBP with all relevant guidelines, procedures and regulations required under
the EIA System. The same agreement would prevail under the Third Rural Finance Project.
Training
6.    The existing ongoing training program under the SRFP, for loan and executive officers would be
continued by LBP as part of the institutional strengthening program. This will be a continuous program
aimed at basic initial training followed by annual or semi annual updating and recap. Trainees would be
assigned from PLG, AMG loan centers, the branch supervision unit, other related head office units and PFIs.
Altogether, more than 150 participants are expected annually, out of which about 100 would be nominated by
the PFIs.
7.    A thematic outline of the training program was prepared by LBP and is attached as Appendix D. The
duration of the training program was estimated as follows: (i) one week for the basic training; and (ii) two
days every year for updating and recap. Subdivision of each of the above components may be considered to
avoid disruption of routine work. The estimated cost of this environmental training program, including the
related technical assistance is US $200,000 throughout project duration.



- 61 -
Annex 2e
Philippines
Third Rural Finance Project
Appendix A: List of Services to be Provided by the EU and the Consultants
Objective
The Environmental Unit (EU) was setup to render environmental technical services to LBP, PFIs and
sub-borrowers. To carry out these opjectives the EU, the PFIs and sub-borrowers would be assisted by
private consultants which the scope of their services as well as those of the EU are specified below.
Scope of Services
1.    Independent environmental scoping, environmental auditing and monitoring.
2.    Review Initial Environmental Examination (IEE) and Environmental Impact Statement (EIS)
prepared directly by sub-borrowers.
3.    Prepare IEE and EIS, at full cost recovery, on behalf of the project sub-borrowers.
4.    Follow-up and accelerate processing of applications for clearances and permits within the
administrative system of DENR and EMB.
5.    Support EMB or DENR branch offices in preparation of environmental scoping and technical
Conditionalities requires at various junctions of the permitting process (making sure, however, that
their clearance capacity remains intact). These may include emissions and effluent levels,
mitigation measures, environmental management plans, monitoring plans.
6.    Contract services of accredited consultants.
7.    Supervise and update the environmental training program of LBP.
8.    Participation in public consultation.
9.    Participate as public representative in EIS review panels.
10.   Review with the related sub-projects the ECC stipulations, upon its receipt, make sure they are
understood and encourage him to contract the services of accredited environmental consultants if
required.



- 62 -
Annex 2e
Philippines
Third Rural Finance Project
Appendix B: Recommended Criteria for Consulting Firms Selection
1.    Firms operating for at least 5 years in the Philippines. Past experience may be considered in
special cases, when the 5 year condition can not be fulfilled.
2.    Experience in environmental aspects of industry, agro-industry, agriculture and infrastructure.
3.    Familiarity with environmental regulations and permitting process in the Philippines.
4.    Demonstrated working experience with EMB and DENR regional offices.
5.    Experience in preparation and processing for clearance of IEE and EIS.
6.    Preferred, although not mandatory, affiliation with experienced environmental overseas consulting
firms.
7.    Experience in organizing environmental workshops and training seminars.
8.    DENR accreditation



- 63 -
Annex 2e
Philippines
Third Rural Finance Project
Appendix C: Outline for Land Bank Environmental Training Program
The aims of the proposed training program would be to:
1.    Familiarize both LBP and the PFIs with the administrative structure of DENR/EMB and other
government offices responsible for environmental affairs (e.g. LGUs, HLURB, LLDA), NGOs,
environmental affiliations of various economic sectors in the country and international
organizations and related environmental activities.
2.    Provide regular communication and dialogue with DENR/EMB regarding the processing of
environmental clearances and permits in the Philippines.
3.    Familiarize both LBP and PFIs on the basic steps of environmental scoping and impact assessment
systems.
4.    Stress the importance of basic natural resources and its impact on the quality of life and the
economic prosperity of the Philippines.
5.    Help ensure compliance with environmental laws and regulations, basic emissions and effluent
standards; as well as air and water quality standards.
6.    Environmental management and monitoring programs.
7.    Environmental auditing.
8.    ISO 14000 use in enforcing environmental compliance.
9.    Environmental risks and liability in the banking system.



- 64 -
Annex 3
Philippines
Third Rural Finance Project
Estimated Project Costs and Financing Plan
Project Component                                            Local           Foreign        Total
-----------------------US $ million--------------------
Credit Components 13
Line of Credit for CLFIII                                   124.0            83.1         207.1
Line of Credit for MLF                                        4.7             2.0           6.7
Sub-Total          128.7            85.1          213.8
Institutional Development
Institutional Strengthening LBP (Training Element)            1.8             0.2           2.0
Institutional Strengthening PCFC (Training Element)           0.2             0.1           0.3
Sub-Total            2.0             0.3            2.3
Total Pronect Cost                                             130.7            85.4          216.1
Financing Plan
IBRD                                                         64.9            85.1         150.0
LBP/PFIs                                                     22.5             0.2          22.7
PCFC                                                          0.2             0.1           0.3
MFIs                                                          0.7             -             0.7
Sub-borrowers                                                42.4             -            42.4
Total Financing                                                130.7            85.4          216.1
13  Tentative estimates, including buildings, machinery and equipment and working capital items as well as taxes,
duties and contingencies. Final estimates would depend on individual sub-project cost estimates and financing
plans which would be prepared at the time of sub-project appraisal.



- 65 -
Annex 4
Philippines
Third Rural Finance Project
Financial and Fiscal Impact
Financial Impact on Participants
1.    Sub-borrowers: The project would provide credit assistance to sub-borrowers in supporting
their investment which in turn would contribute to improvement of their business activities and/or
welfare. The main financial impact of the project results from the support of about $210 million of
investment under the first round use of credit by small and medium sized rural based private
businesses. Part of the loan is likely to be used for new investment and part in support of existing
investments through the provision of longer-term finance. Sub-projects will all be assessed as
financially viable prior to investment and the ongoing interest rate to them will be market based
(likely to be of the order of 7-10% in real terms). Consequently, only projects which show sound ex
ante financial rates of return will be supported. Under the similar CLF I and CLF II programs, ex
ante financial rates of return have typically been in the 15% to 30% range, and similar results for
SME investment would be expected under this project. Micro finance sub-borrowers would receive
credit which would otherwise have been unavailable. Investments under this component would
normally be in fast turnover items.
2.    PFIs: The project would have a positive impact on the profitability of PFIs because they are
free to set their own spreads, and therefore, provided their managements' judgment is good, they
would only participate in the project if they perceived it as profitable. As it would be a repeater
project, for most PFIs they would have a reliable basis for this. Under CLF I and CLF II PFIs
typically set spreads of 4%, after GRT, their interest margins averaged just over 3%. Taking account
of incremental operating costs, they might be expected to show incremental margins of about 2% on
incremental loan volume resulting from the project, provided they are careful in sub-project
selection. Participating in the project would also help to improve the liability side of PFI's balance
sheets, in that it would increase the average maturity of their resources.
3.    LBP & PCFC. The project would contribute towards the profitability of both these
institutions. In LBP's case, based on performance under CLF I and II, the incremental contribution
to profitability is likely to be of the order of P 60 million per year (US$ 1.5 million). Projections for
PCFC indicate that on-lending these funds will contribute about P4 million (US$100,000) annually
to its profit at full development.



- 66 -
Fiscal Impact
4.    The Bank loan for the project would be guaranteed by Government but made to Land Bank, a
self financing Government owned entity. Therefore it would not require any Government
counterpart funding.
5.    The actual cash flow to Government resulting from the project will depend on future inflation
and interest rates, and on the extent to which the project comprises new finance, rather than replacing
the financing source for loans which (in aggregate) would have been made anyway. Inflows to
Government include:
a.    1% p.a. guarantee fee, calculated on the outstanding balance of the loan.
b.    A Foreign Exchange Risk Cover (FXRC) fee, which is calculated as the onlending
rate to LBP, minus the Guarantee fee, minus the gross receipts tax, minus the rate
paid to the Bank. Under the base case assumptions (see below) the FXRC fee would
be 3.35%.
C.    Gross receipts tax on the loan from LBP to the PFI. In the base case, with LBP
making an average spread of 2%, this would amount to 0.65% p.a. of the outstanding
loan balance.
d.    Gross receipts tax on the larger loan from PFI to sub-borrower; (this loan also
combines some of the PFIs own resources). Assuming a 10% contribution to sub-
project cost by the PFI, and a 4% average gross spread over the cost of funds from
LBP, this tax amounts to the equivalent of about a further 1% p.a. on that part of the
outstanding Bank loan balance which supports incremental lending.
e.   In addition to these revenues, which are automatically from the loan, Government
would also benefit from incremental taxes (currently at 34%) on the incremental
profits of LBP, PCFC, the PFIs and the sub-borrowers. These taxable profits are
estimated to increase as follows: (i) LBP is assumed to earn an incremental profit of
1% (half of the spread) on the whole loan; (ii) PFIs are assumed to make incremental
profits of 2% (also half of the spread), but only on incremental lending, i.e. lending
for new investment; and (iii) sub-borrovvers are assumed to make an incremental
25% nominal return (before finance charges) on their incremental investment, lagged
one year, - resulting in incremental taxable profit, after deducting finance charges of
about 1 1% on incremental investment.
6.    Base case assumptions are set out below. These assume a 12% Tbill rate, 7% inflation and a
nominal 6% cost of Bank finance. These figures are fairly close to the average of the past five years.
If the whole loan were used for incremental investment, the net cash flow to Government is
estimated to rise from about P50 million (US$1.1 million) in year one to about P720 million p.a.
(US$14 million) by year five. A cumulative net inflow of some US$41 million (US$ 28 million
excluding the activities of the FXRC). Assuming only a part of the loan is for investment,
Government income resulting from second round GRT (D above) and income tax revenue from PFIs



- 67 -
(E (ii) above) and sub-borrowers (E(iii) above) would fall pro rata. This would result in a
cumulative net inflow, other things being equal, as follows:
Summary of Government Revenues - Years 1-5 US$ Million
Proportion of Loan for new          100%          75%          50%           25%          Zero
Investment
Cumulative Government                 41           36            31           26           22
Revenues by Year 5 (Total)
Cumulative Govt. revenues             28           23            18           13            9
excluding FXRC
7.      On the basis of historical real interest rate spreads between the Philippines and the Bank US$
variable rate, the FXRC fee will be adequate to compensate for currency depreciation in line with
changes in purchasing power parity. This model implicitly assumes a real Tbill rate 1.76% above the
real Bank onlending rate. This is in line with the average 1993-1997 of 1.75% (only in one year of
the past seven was the spread less than this). In this case, sufficient fees and income from
reinvesting them would have accrued to the FXRC fund to cover exchange losses, and if the loan
were repaid at the end of year five, the FXRC fund would show a small after meeting currency losses
of P15 million.
8.      Overall, this project has a positive impact on Government finances, and there is virtually no
risk that the overall fiscal effect will be negative. If it is eventually decided to allow the Apex
insitutions a spread of 1.5%, rather than 2% as in the base case, the projected surplus on the FXRC
fund would rise from about US$0.3 million by the end of year 5 to about US$3.2 million.
Conversely, there would be a reduction over the five years in taxes collected, as LBP's incremental
income would fall. Total non FXRC revenues over the five years would then be about US$27
million.
Assumptions                                                            Derived
Bank Rate (US$ variable)                                 6.0%
91 day Thill interest rate                              12.0%          Av FXRC Fee              3.35%
Rate from DOF to LBP (91 day Thill rate - 1.0%)         11.0%          GRT on loan LBP to PFI   0.65%
Average rate from LBP to PFI (2.0% spread)              13.0%          GRT on loan PFI to Sub-b  0.97%
Average Rate PFI - sub-borrower (4% spread)             17.0%          (as a percent of LBP loan to PFI - figure
GRT (percentage of interest income)                      5.0%          Takes account of larger loan & higher
PFI's contribution (percent project cost)               10.0%          Interest rate)
Sub-borrower's contribution (percent of project cost)   20.0%          Incremental av. % return  11.4%
to sub-b. after finance cgs
Incremental Profit Margin to LBP                         1.0%
Incremental profit margin to PFI                        2.0%
Av. Nominal FRR to sub-b. (I year lag) - pre finance cgs  25%                                 Base case   Average
Tax Rate                                                 34%                                Assumption  Av. 93-97
Philippine annual inflation rate                        7.0%           Real 91 day Tbill rate   4.67%     4.73%
US annual inflation rate                                3.0%           Real US$ rate ex WB      2.91%     2.98%
Guarantee Fee to DOF                                      1%           Differential              1.76%    1.75%



-68 -
Table 1. Estimated Cash Flow to Government (P Million unless otherwise stated)
1999      2000       2001       2002       2003
FX Rate - year average14                  45.06      46.81      48.63      50.52      52.48
Loan Disbursement
Amount in US$ Million                        30         50         50         19          1
Amount in Pesos (Million)                 1,352      2,340      2,431       960         52
Cumulative - Outstanding Loan (PM)        1,230      3,692      6,124      7,083     7,136
Inflows to Government
A. Guarantee Fee                              7         25         49         66        71
B. FXRC Fee                                  23         84        164       221        238
C.;, GRT LBP-PFI                              4         16         32         43        46
D. GRT PFI - Sub-borrower                     7         24         48         64        69
E, Incremental Income Tax
(i) LBP                                       2          9         17         22        24
(ii) PFIs                                     5         20         38         51        55
(iii) Sub-borrowers                                     27        101        196       264
Total Incremental Income Tax                  8         55        156        270       343
Total Gross Cash Flow to Govt.               48        206        449        664       768
Paid Out for FX cover on interest                        2         10         25        44
Net Cash Flow to Govt.                       48        204        439        639       724
Net Cash Flow to Govt. (US$ M)              1.1        4.4        9.0       12.7       13.8
Cum Net C. Flow to Govt. (US$ M)            1.1        5.4       14.4       27.1       40.9
Cumulative Net Cash Flow to Govt.           0.6        3.2        9.0       17.8       27.9
excluding FXRC (US$ Million)
ADEQUACY OF FXRC FEES (PM)
FXRC Fee                                     23         84        164        221       238
Paid Out for FX cover on interest                        2         10         25        44
Net FXRC Cumulative - yr end                 23        105        260        456       650
FXRC Pool including accumulated              24        114        292        535       805
interest at year end 15
O_n Loss on Capital at yr end'6              26        121        305       544        790
NeFXRC Position at yr end17                 (2)        (7)       (13)        (9)         15
Note: These base calculations are made considering 100% of the loan being usedforfinancing new investment. In the likely event that the
proportion is lower, A, B, C and E (i) would remain the same, but income from D. E(ii) and E(iii) would fall pro rata.
14  Assumes an exchange rate of US$1 = P44 at the start of the period and purchasing power parity is maintained.
15  Fund value at year end assuming interest at Thill rate accumulates on FXRC pool.
6  FX loss assuming loan were repaid at year end - exchange rate at end of end year t is average of the rate for year t
and that for year (t+l ).
7  Net profit assuming currency loss on fully repaying loan at year end were covered by currency pool fund.



- 69 -
Annex 5
Philippines
Third Rural Finance Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement Methods (Table A):
1.    Procurement procedures for goods, works, and serviced financed with loan funds would comply with
those customary for industrial development finance operations. LBP and PFIs will satisfy themselves that the
goods, works, and services to be purchased are for the investment subprojects and are reasonably priced, by
ensuring that the subborrowers have canvassed the main sources of supply and purchased from the most
advantageous source. Contracts above US$5 million equivalent will normally be procured by International
Competitive Bidding(ICB) in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines ("Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" of January 1995 revised in January and August 1996 and September
1997), including the use of Bank's standard bidding documetns. In evaluating ICB tenders, a margin of 15%
of the c.i.f. or c.i.p bid price or actual custom duties, whichever is less, would be allowed for preferenc.to
domestic manufacturers. All ICB packages will be subject to Bank prior approval. Exception to ICB in
contracts costing more than US$5million equivalent will be allowed in the following cases: (a) Direct
contracting will be used in modernization or expansion projects if standardized equipment or proprietary
parts are needed for compatibility with existing equipment; (b) Limited Intemational Bidding (LIB) will be
used for machinery that is available only from a limited number of suppliers worldwide; and (c) where the
procedures are otherwise justified for technical reasons. These cases would be subject to Bank prior
approval.
2.    Other procurement would follow established commercial practices which are satisfactory to the
Bank. Contracts below US$5 million equivalent would be procured following established private sector or
commercial practices which are acceptable to the Bank. Acceptable practices will be defined in the Project
Implementation Document.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
1.    The proposed loan of US$150 million would be disbursed over a period of 5.5 years (1999 to mid
2005). The project would be completed on December 31, 2004 and the expected loan closing date would be
June 30, 2005. The projected disbursement schedule is based on experience under the Philippine last three
projects of this type. The Bank would disburse against 100% of expenditures for the subloans financed by
LBP to PFIs up to the financing share made up by eligible expenditures and requested for the respective
subproject. Retroactive financing of up to US$15 million is also proposed for eligible credit sub-loans made
after July 1, 1998. These sub-loans were made under the pressure of the heavy demand for CLF resources
resulted from the financial crisis, which lead LBP.and PFIs, in anticipating of additional financing, to use
short-term and/or unrelated resources to support eligible rural sub-projects.



- 70 -
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
2.    Disbursements would be made on the basis of statements of expenditures for subloan valued at less
than US$5 million equivalent. LBP would retain documents supporting the statement of expenditures and
would make these statements available for inspection and review by Bank supervision missions and for
regular audit by auditors acceptable to the Bank. All other disbursements will be made against fully
documented expenditures.
Special account.'
To facilitate efficient disbursement, LBP may open a Special Account in dollars with an authorized
allocation of $10 million (based on four months of estimated average disbursement) with an initial
withdrawal of US$7 million and the balance to be withdrawn when the amounts disbursed and committed
total US$30 million. Applications to replenishe the Special Account, supported by appropriate
documentations, would be submitted regularly (preferably monthly, but not less than quarterly) or when the
amounts withdrawn equal 50% of the initial deposit.
Financial Management Requirements
The Land Bank of the Philippines(LBP) has been the borrower for two projects. The First Rural
]Finance (Loan 3356-PH) and for the Second Rural Finance (Loans 3938, 3939 and 3940-PH) projects. The
first project was completed in 1993 and the loan has been closed. the other three loans are being successfully
implemented and likely to be closed in the first half of 1999. The sub-loan accounting systems of the LBP
and the financial statements are prepared in accordance with accepted accounting principles and has been
acceptable to the Bank. The Commission on Audit (COA) is responsible, under the Philippines constitution,
to carry out an external audit. COA has carried out audits on the Bank financed projects and the financial
statements of the LBP and has expressed satisfactory opinions. Based on the above assessment, the LBP
financial management system is considered capable of producing timely and accurate information on the
status of sub-loan disbursements financed by the project.
One of the main project objectives is to improve overall financial management of LBP operations
vvhich goes far beyond ensuring adequate project related financial management. In order to achieve this
objective, the Bank, the Government and LBP have agreed to require COA to carry out expanded financial
statement audits and submit long-form audit reports commencing the Financial Statements to be prepared for
the year ending December 1998. Agreement of COA and LBP to carry out an expanded audit based on terms
of reference acceptable to the Bank and with the assistance of an internationally acceptable audit firm was a
condition of negotiation which was fully met. The audit shall be conducted in accordance with the
Intemational Auditing Standards issued by the International Federation of Accountants. The auditors should
also be guided by the latest guidelines on Audit and Accounting for Banks and Savings Institutions issued by
the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. The audit will assess, inter alia, the adequacy of
systems of internal control, quality of the loan portfolio including the adequacy of loan loss provisioning,
exposure risks on key projects, borrowing groups, connected parties or major economic sectors and the
quality of liquidity, asset and solvency management. The auditors are also required to make
recommendations on capital fund adequacy based on the above review. Detailed terms of reference for COA
and the assisting auditors agreed are given in the Project implementation File. The agreements would ensure
that the international consultants will actively participate in the expanded audit and the services of the
international consultants will be contracted as long as considered necessary by the Bank and the Government.
It is expected that the quality of the COA audits and the resulting recommendations to LBP
management will enhance the financial viability of the LBP. The Bank will follow up on the implementation
of the recommendations through its supervision of project implementation.



- 71 -
Annex 5
Philippines
Third Rural Finance Project
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements18
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                     Procurement Method                 Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB        NCB         Other       N.B.F
1. Works                                               63.8                      63.8
(0.00)                   (0.00)
2. Goods                                              150.00                    150.00
(150.00)                 (150.00)
3. Services                                             2.3                       2.3
(0.00)                   (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous
Total                                               216.5                    216.5
(150.0)                  (150.0)
Note: (a) N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing
procedures, consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other
miscellaneous items.
(b) Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
(c) Other includes procurement under limited international bidding, direct contracting,
and international shopping.
(d) Miscellaneous items include taxes, duties and freight, etc.
18  For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to OD 11.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment
Operations." Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format (additional to Table
A, where applicable).



- 72 -
Annex 5
Philippines
Third Rural Finance Project
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'9
Expenditure          Contract Value          Procurement         Contracts Subject to
Category             (Threshold)              Method             Prior Review /
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior
Review
US $ millions                                US $ millions
1. Works                                             ICB                      0
2. Goods                    $5 million                ICB                     $10 million
3. Services                     none
4. Miscellaneous                none
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:     $10 milliom
'9  Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation"
and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



- 73 -
Annex 5
Philippines
Third Rural Finance Project
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                 Amount in      Financing Percentage
US$million
Credit -CLF III                                       145.0     100% of amount
disbursed
Micro-finance - MLF                                     5.0     100% of amount
disbursed
Total           150.0      100% of amount
disbursed



- 74 -
Annex 6
Philippines
Third Rural Finance Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$180,000)                   Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)     140,000 1/
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  3 months             3 months
First Bank mission (identification)             02/22/1998           02/22/1998
Appraisal mission departure                     06/11/1998           07/01/1998
Negotiations                                    08/24/1998           08/31/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   01/15/1999
Prepared by: The Land Bank of the Philippines
Preparation assistance: none
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Arie Chupak                                Task Team Leader/Financial Analyst
Brenda Phillips                           Task Assistant
Hoi-Chan Nguyen                            Legal Counsel
Vimala Abraham                             Disbursement Officer
Khalid Siraj                              Peer Reviewer
Jacob Yaron                                Peer Reviewer
McDonald Benjamin                          Peer Reviewer
Cecilia Vales                              Oper. Off. - Procurement/Disbursement
Wijaya Wickerma                            Accounting and Audit
Consultants:
Paul Harrison                     Agriculture Economist & Bank Specialist
Gilberto Lllanto                   Financial Economist & Micro-Finance Specialist
Piedad Geron                       Economist & Micro-Finance Specialist
Yaacov Ziv                         Environmental Specialist
1/ About US$43,000 of this was charged to the strategic compact.



- 75 -
Annex 7
Philippines
Third Rural Finance Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. CLF III Policy Manual
2. MLF Policy Manual
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Project Supervision Plan
2. Working Paper - LBP's Financial Performance
C. Other
1. PCFC's IDP
2. LBP's IDP
3. Project Implementation Document



Annex 8
Philippines
THIRD RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
Status of Bank Group Operations in Philippines
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                     and actual
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                                                                               disbursements a/
Project ID      Credit      Year                 Borrower                         Purpose
No.                                                                                   IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed          Orig   Frn Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 190
Active Loans
PH-PE-4566    IBRD43010    1998   REP OF PHILS                           EARLY CHILD DEV.                   19.00        0.00             0.00         19.00         0.00        0.00
PH-PE-4576      IBRD42270    1998   GOP                                  WATER DISTRICT DEV.                 2.30        0.00             0.00          2.30         3.44        0.00
PH-PE-4576      IBRD42280    1998   GOP                                  WATER DISTRICT DEV.                54.50        0.00             0.00         54.50         3.44        0.00
PH-PE-4595     IBRD42990    1998   GOP                                   COMMUNITY BASED RESO               50.00        0.00             0.00         50.00         2.32        0.00
PH-PE-51386    IBRD43000    1998   GOP                                   SZOPAD SOCIAL FUND                 10.00        0.00             0.00         10.00         1.50        0.00
PH-PE-37079   IBRD41090    1997   GOP                                    AGRARIAN REFORM COMB               50.00        0,00             0,00         46.72         2.52        0.00
PH-PE-40981    IBRD41110    1997   SUBIC BAY METRO. AUTH.                SECOND SUBIC BAY                   60.00        0.00             0.00         58.92        36.92        0.00
PH-PE-4602     IBRD41080    1997   REP OF PHILS.                         THIRD ELEM EDUCATION              113.40        0.00             0.00        110,40        33.30        0.00
PH-PE-4613      IBRD41100    1997   GOP                                  WATER RESOURCES DEVE               58.00        0,00             0.00         56.39        17.40        0.00
PH-PE-4571      IBRD3996A    1996   GOP                                  TRANS GRID REINFORCE               66.10        0.00             0.00         63.24       -48.04        0.00
PH-PE-4571     IBRD39970    1996   GOP                                   TRANS GRID REINFORCE              150.00        0.00             0.00         89.36       -48.04        0.00
PH-PE-4611      IBRD40190    1996   GOP                                  MNLA 2ND SEWERAGE PR               57.00        0.00             9.00         48.00        30.66         .67
PH-PE-4614      IBRD3938A    1996   LBP                                  RURAL FINANCE II                   25.93        0.00             0.00         25.93       -20.67        0.00
PH-PE-4614    IBRD39390    1996   LBP                                    RURAL FINANCE II                   50.00        0.00             0.00           5.06      -20.67        0.00
PH-PE-4614      IBRD39400    1996   LBP                                  RURAL FINANCE II                   50.00        0.00             0.00         12.33       -20.67        0.00
PH-PE-4567      IBRD3852A    1995   GOVT OF THE PHILS                    WOMENS HEALTH & SAFE               16.70        0.00             0.00         16.33         3.97        0.00
PH-PE-4584      IBRD3700A    1994   NPC AND PNOC                         LEYTE CEBU GEOTHERMA               19.65        0.00             0.00         18.91        31.85        0.00
PH-PE-4607      IBRD3746A    1994   GOV OF PHILIPPINES                   LEYTE LUZON GEOTHERM               24.15        0.00             0.00         23.64        79.05        0.00
PH-PE-4607      IBRD37470    1994   GOV OF PHILIPPINES                   LEYTE LUZON GEOTHERM              114.00        0.00             0.00         65.33        79.05        0.00
PH-PE-4609      IBRD37450    1994   SBMA                                 SUBIC BAY FREEPORT                 40.00        0.00             0.00           3.18        1.85        0.00
PH-PE-4568     IDA25060       1993   GOP                                 URB HEALTH & NUTRITI                0.00       70.00             0.00         49.86        30.56        0.00
PH-PE-4589      IBRD3607A    1993   GOP                                  IRRIG OPER SUPP II                 22.94        0.00             0.00         21.14        17.86        0.00
PH-PE-4599      IBRD3603A    1993   GOVT. OF PHILIPPINES                 TAX COMPUTERIZATION                25.46        0,00             0.00         24.87        24.90        0.00
PH-PE-4538     IDA23920       1992   GOP                                 SECOND VOCATIONAL TR                0.00       36.00             0.00          9.86         9.06        0.00
PH-PE-4592      IBRD3455A    1992   GOP                                  MUNICIPAL DEV III                  33.25        0.00             0.00         31.29        26.83        6.63
PH-PE-4597      IBRD3430A    1992   GOP                                  HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT P               59.21        0.00             0.00         47.87        43.24      -2.59
PH-PE-4558     IBRD3360A    1991   GOVT. OF PHILS.                       ENV. & NAT. RES. MGT               18.56        0.00             0.00         17.76        14.47        0.00
PH-PE-4572      IBRD3261A    1991   ROP                                  COMMUNAL IRRIG. II                 18.63        0.00             3,34         15.29        18.64         .78
PH-PE-4552     IBRD3204A    1990   R.P.                                  COCONUT FARMS DEVT.                40.88        0.00             0.00         35.76        36.62      14.89
Total                                                                                                   1,249.66       106.00            12.34      1,033,24       391.36      20.38



Active Loans         Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 306.54            7,659.13           7,965.67
of which has been repaid:                  0.00            3,663.55            3,663.55
Total now held by IBRD and IDA;               1,343.30            4,046.29           5,389.59
Amount sold                                       0.00               31.35               31.35
Of which repaid              :                 0.00              31.35               31.35
Total Undisbursed               :             1,033.24               54.37           1,087.61
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance
(ARPP) , a letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory) : see proposed
Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note;
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
IJ



- 78 -
Philippines at a glance                                                              418/98
Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            East  middle-
Philippines    Asia  Income       Development diamond
Population mid-1996 (millions)                       70.0    1,726    1,125
GNP percapita 1996 (US$)                             1,190     890    1,750                  Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions USS)                              83.3    1,542    1,967
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                        2.2       1.3      1.4
Labor force (%)                                       2.7       1.3      1.8     GNP                              Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                          per  Iprimary
;  C   ;  capita  \  /      enrollment
Povery: headcount index (% of population)              54
Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                54       31        56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       66       68        67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               39       40       41
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             30        ..       *-                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (- ofpopulation)                  85       77
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    5       17
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)  111      117       104              Philippines
Male                                                110      120       105   :           Lower-middle-ncomegroup
Female                                              111      116       101.             Lower-m_d_le_income_group
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     19t5     1995      1996
Economic ratios
GDP (billions US$)                          15.0     30.7      74.2     83.8
Gross domestic investment/GOP               30.9     15.3      22.2     24.2
Exports of goods and services/GDP           21.0     24.0     36.4      42.0              Openness of economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  24.8     17A       14.4     14.4
Gross national savings/GDP                  26.6     15.9      17.8     19.7
Current account balance/GDP                  -6.2    -0.1      -4.4     -4.7
Interest payments/GDP                        0.8      3.1       2.6      2.1     Savings                     Investment
Total debVGDP                               27.8     86.6      53.2     49.2
Total debt service/exports                  14.4     31.6      16.5     14.4
Present value of debt/GDP
Present value of debotexports                 ..
Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96     1995     1996  1997-05
(average annual growth,
GDP                                 3.0      3.1      4.8       5.7       h..           Philippines
GNP per capita                      0.3      1.5     i2.6       4.7       ..               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       7.6      8.8      12.0     20.3       ..
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985     1995      1996     Growth rates of output and Investment (lY)
(% of GDP)                                                                       2
Agriculture                                 30.3     24.6      21.6     21.4       I
Industry                                    34.6     35.1      32.1     31.7      10
Manufacturing                              25.7     25.2     23.0      22.6o
Services                                    35.0     40.4      46.3     46.9    -10                      94   9    96
Private consumption                         64.5     75.0      74.2     73.9     20.     V
General govemment consumption               10.7      7.6      11.4     11.7
Imports of goods and services               27.1     21.9      44.2     51.7            -     DI        GDP
1975-85  1986-96     1995     1996      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual gro wth;
Agriculture                                  2.2       1.8      0.8      3.0    25
Industry                                     2.6      3.2       7.0      6.3    20
Manufacturing                               1.8      3.1      6.8       5.6    16s
Services                                     3.8      3.8       5.0      6.5    104
Private consumption                          3.3      3.9       8.5      5.3     s
General govemment consumption                0.4      4.2       5.4      5.2      0   \ f
Gross domestic investment                   -0.4      6.7       3.0     15.6    -s           92   93   94   95   96
Imports of goods and services                3.9     12.0      16.0     21.1
Gross national product                       2.7      3.8       5.0      6.9           -Expos   -mports
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
- the aiamonds show tour Key indicators in the country in bold) compared with its income-group average. It data are missing, the diamond wil
be incomplete.



- 79 -
Philippines
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                              1975      1985     1995      1996       Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                         20
Consumer prices                               6.8      23.1       8.1       8.4    15
Implicit GDP deflator                         9.3      17.6       7.5      9.0    10
Government finance                                                                  5
(% of GDP)                                                                          o
Current revenue                                 ..     12.1      18.9      18.7            91   92   93   94   95   96
Current budget balance                          ..      2.4       3.8                        -     GDP det.  -0-oPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..      -2.0       0.6       0.3    1
TRADE
1975     1985      1995      1996      Export and import levels (mill. US$)
(mjJlions US$)
Total exports (fob)                             ..   4,629    17,447    20,543      3s,000
Coconut oil                                   ..      347       826      571      so.ooo
Sugar                                         ..      185        66       136     25,000
Manufactures                                  ..    2,539    13,868    17,106     20000
Total imports (cif)                             ..   5,111    26,391    31,885      1s0ooo ...                     r
Food                                          ..      256     1,204     1,578     10frIIIj
Fuel and energy                                      1,452    2,461     3,008     5s0 00O                   r
Capital goods                                 ..      769     8,029    10,472         o
Export prce index (1987=100)                    ..      81       124       124             s    91  92  ss  94  ss  96
Import price index (1987=100)                   ..       63      124       126                  OExports      Jlimports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                       ..      127       100       99
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1995      1996      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(millions US$)
Exports of goods and services               3,000     6,864    21,978    27,627     r  -
Imports of goods andservices                4,116     5,961    33,329    41,371         90              9    94    9    96
Resourcebalance                             -1,116      903   -11,351   -13,744     n
Net income                                   -126    -1,317     7,172    9,241      -2
Net current transfers                         318       379      882       589             El
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers          -923       -35    -3,297    -3,914                        |
Financing items (net)                         912       867     3,928    8,021      sU
Changes in net reserves                        11      -832     -631    -4,107    -6
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)         1 ,458    1,098     7,762    11,745
Conversion rate (locaL/USS$)                  7.2      18.6      25.7      26.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995      1996                                               1
(millions USS)                                                                    | Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        4,171    26,637    39,446    41,214
IBRD                                        238     2,420     5,002    4,666
IDA                                          17       84       183       193                          A: 4666
G: 7969        B~: 193
Total debt service                            457     2,534     5,337     5,778            G7969                C: 405
IBRD                                         26      285       789       766
IDA                                           0         1        3         3                                   0D: 3079
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              72       139      276       246
Official creditors                          185       360     -626      -310
Private creditors                           348       796     1,141    1,859                                   E: 12085
Foreign direct investment                    98        12     1,478     1,408        F: 12817
Portfolio equity                              0         0     1,961     1,333
World Bank program
Commitments                                 114       104       168      528      A- IBRD                      E- Bilateral
Disbursements                                94       276      402       457      B - IDA   D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                         12       110      415       426      C - IMF                      G- Short-term
Netflows                                     82       166       -13       31    1                                          1
Interest payments                            14       176      377       343
Net transfers                                68       -10     -390      -312
Development Economics



MAP SECTION



IBRD 27553
116'                                 t~~~~~~~~~~~~~1o.'                                   124'                                                128'
CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES
BY ADMINISTRATIVE REGIONS
0  ILOCOS                VI  WESTERN VISAYAS                                          I         o                         PHILIPPINES
-20-      1 locos Norte              38 Aldr.n                                                                                                                               20'
2 Ilocos Sur               39 Coplo
3 La Union                 40 Antique                                    BATANES
4  irngosinon              41 pailo                                                                                   NATIONAL CTAL
CORDILLERA ADMINISTRATIVE   42  Negras Occidental
REGION (CAR)                 43  Guimoras                                                                               PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
5 Abro             VIl  CENTRAL VASAYAS
6 Kolingo-Apayoo           44 Cebu
7 Mountain P-rinnce        45 Negros Oriental                                                                         REGION BOUNDAIES
8 ffgao                    46  BoIrol
9 Benguet                  47 Squijor                                                                                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
CAGAYAN VALLEY      VlII  EASTERN VISAYAS
10 Eotones                  48 Northern Samor                                                                * NOTE: The number of Regions and Provinces shown on this map
11 Cogoryan                 49 WesSernoSm,r                                                                  ore fe,er than the actual total, Hovever, data on these boundary
1 2 Is.belo                 50  Esteem Somor                                -CAR           -                 chongesoodditions was unanoilable at the time of printing.
13 Nueo Vizcoyo             51  Leyh                                                     II
14 Quirino                  5 2 Soutem  LI - 
CENTRAL LUZON                53  Biliran
15 Nueno Eciio        X  WESTERN MINDANAO
16 Torlc                    54 Zamboonga del Norte
17 Zambolrles               55 Zomboango del Sur
18 Pmtsponga                56 Basilion
19BSulacOn            X   NORTHERN MINDANAO                                                                OJLOMTUM  0           lEO          20          300
20  Satoon                   57 Surigoo del Norte                                                                     I    I           I           '    ' I16'
16'     NATIONAL CAPITAL             58 Camiguin                           -,
IV REGION (NCRI                5 9 Agusan del Norte                                                               0dR             0         O         ISO      200
IVSOUTHERN TAGALOG             60  MSarnie Orierttal
21 Aur.r.                    6 1  aiesmi. Ocidental 
22 tue                       62  Skidnon                                    _         L U  Z  0   N
23  Rzoo                63 Aguon del Sur
24 Coite              Xi  SOUTHERN MINDANAO
25 Loguna                    64 Sungoo del Sur                                                                            PHILIPPINE  SEA
26 Batangos                  65  Dvoo Oriental                   2N NC
27 Morinduque                66  Drvoodel Norlte                                                               V
28 Mindoro Oriental          67 DOao del Sur                                                        -
29 Mndoro Occidental         68 South Cobato 
30  Rombion                  69 Sarangani                                                                           3/ )    ATANDtJAtES
V~    Polosnan       XII  CENTRAL MINDANAO                  /
32 CoL                       70 Lonoo del Norte
32Coamorne Norte          7 1  Sultan Kuda,tt
33  Comorines Sur                                                                                            3 L
34  Contoones              AUTONOMOUS REGION OF-
35 Alboy                   MUSUM MINDANAO (ARMM)                  IV       2
36 Sorogon                   72  LonoodelSur
37  Masatog                  73  Maguindanoo                 MIN9D7O
74  N,"h Cotoboto                                                              :r              4Il ,_
75  Sulu.                                                        0-                  -       -      2,R- - Vl j
*2-                                  76  To-iamij                                                                  ,9                                                        12-
/10'.    /                     }       ~ 4W'50'
SOUTH CHINA                                                         /V   .,                        c51
S EA
SEA     )PANAY                                         LEVT
PALAWAI4                                       VISA   w                       EOHOL
Th~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ s b-..,.,d,--
IdGRO                                                VVtl -    h
3,"  =                                                           .-k C-A     , 0,7 , ,  S e 6',
7hEtt'alagol Stat-an OY tem/tat                                                                              \ o/                 58,s0
on, m  onament Gncn-ptne -of.h                                                                                                              X       3
toldsi.                        '-                                                               /                     ,7 
ix      -6 2B                            o          ,
CHINA  I- MtN DA-N
ARMM
HONG
KONG          PACIFtC                                                                                                   73         /
U.K.        ODCEAN                                                                                                                      Xi 
SaU>TH   6~/'6
SEA   fpwLPOINES                                                                                                                 - UUCe~~
'2                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~69
MALAYSIA                                                     \
_ ,   KE r \,,   --  ':  12lrr                                           1?4*                                                    1?89



