Report No. PID6763
Project Name                     Philippines-Third Rural Finance (@+)
Region                           East Asia & Pacific
Sector                           Rural Development & Natural Resources
Project ID                       PHPE57598
Borrower                         Land Bank of the Philippines (LBP)
Implementing Agency              (1) Land Bank of the Philippines
313 Sen. Gil Puyat Ave.
Makati City, Metro Manila
Philippines
Tel:    632-814-0154
Fax:    632-817-4619
(2) People's Credit & Finance Corporation
(PCFC)
4/f Hanston Bldg. Emerald Ave.
Ortigas Center, Pasig City
Metro Manila Philippines
Tel: 632-633-3456
Fax: 632-633-3439
Date PID Prepared                December 1, 1998
Appraisal                        July 1, 1998
Board Date                       December 3, 1998
Background Country and Sector Background
1.      The Philippine economy has recovered and has been on the growth path in
the last 4 years.    However, the recent East Asian financial crisis has
impacted negatively on Philippine economic growth and the stability of the
banking sector. Real GNP growth is estimated to have decelerated from 6.9w in
1996 to 5.8w in 1997, with a projection of a further decline to 3t in 1998.
Several Philippine banks are over exposed to the property sector and to
unhedged foreign currency loans to domestic borrowers. The financial crisis
brought a deep depreciation of the peso against the US dollar. Thus, there is
concern about the quality of banking assets and unhedged dollar denominated
loans.
The net results of the financial crisis were (a) an improvement in the
trade account in 1997; (b) a softening of the fiscal position as revenue
collection slowed down; (c) a deep credit squeeze in the corporate and banking
sectors which drastically cut private consumption and investment; (d)
weakening of the banking sector's balance sheet and operations; and (e) an
overall decline in economic growth.
Following a reduction in economic growth to about 3t in 1998, a recovery
to 5t is projected to take place in the year 2000. Recovery will depend
primarily on (a) the adoption of sound economic policies by the new Philippine
government (to be installed after the national election in May 1998); (b) the
recovery of growth in the corporate and banking sectors that have been



battered both by the credit squeeze and the currency depreciation; and (c) the
immediate return of investor confidence in the regional markets. The country
would need substantial financial support from both the Bank and the IMF to
recover and resume a sustained growth path in the near term.
While the financial crisis will weed out or hasten the demise of weak
firms, including possibly banks, it is not certain that the weeding out
process will be confined to such firms. The banks in their desire to protect
their balance sheets from exposure to failing firms, especially those with
unhedged dollar denominated loans, might not care or exert effort to
distinguish between good and bad firms. A general credit squeeze is much
easier to implement than a discriminating credit policy. Staying liquid while
exploiting high yielding TBills, or taking a position in the foreign exchange
market is a survival strategy that several banks have adopted, leading to a
degree of failure in the credit market. Indeed, there are strong evidence
that the financial crisis has hit good borrowers, especially the small and
medium scale enterprises, who have suddenly been faced with escalating and
volatile interest rate costs, and credit rationing by banks, particularly, a
reduction of the availability of working capital loans. Clearly, a reduction
in credit availability may cause many viable (economically and technically)
business and production entities to go out of business, mainly because of
financial distress, causing a great loss to the economy, increasing
unemployment and poverty, particularly in the rural areas.
Clear evidence of strong demand for medium and long term credit for rural
investment has been shown by the fact that funds under CLF I and II which were
set up to meet this demand at market rates have been drawn down substantially
ahead of target. There continues to be an absence of medium and long term
Peso denominated financial instruments within the banking system, and given
the financial crisis, this is unlikely to change in the near future. This is
a market failure; without such resources, either banks have to finance
investments using short term resources, leading to maturity mismatches in the
banking sector, or else investors are exposed to the financial risk of not
having their short term loans rolled over.
There is a considerable unsatisfied demand for micro-enterprise loans in
the rural sector. The micro-enterprise clients demand loans ranging from P
25,000 (US$625) to P 100,000 (US$2,500) for working capital and small capital
investments. Commercial banks do not cater to micro-enterprise clients
despite the latter's proven profitability. The Micro-Finance Institutions
(MFIs), i.e., Rural Banks (RBs), Cooperative Rural Banks (CRBs), credit NGOs
and credit cooperatives serve this market niche. The typical moneylender
provides small consumption and very short-term production credit while traders
provide larger short-term production loans. Some RBs and CRBs can now obtain
lines of credit for micro-enterprise loans from PCFC, a newly formed
government owned corporation wholesaling loans to micro-finance institutions
The credit NGOs rely on donations/grants, limited volume of commercial loans
from the Bankers' Association of the Philippines (BAP) Credit and Guaranty
Corporation   and lately, on PCFC's wholesale funds to provide retail loans to
micro-enterprise clients. Overall, however, RBs, CRBs, and NGOs reported a
severe shortage of available financial resources to meet the current demand.
The government has recognized the role of micro-enterprise loans in poverty
alleviation and PCFC has been tasked to be the lead agency for micro-finance.
So far, it has accredited as retail conduits 86 MFIs of which 46 are either
rural banks or cooperative rural banks.
2.      Objectives
Building on the achievements of the Second Rural Finance Project (Loans
-2 -



3938, 3939, and 3940-PH), the proposed project would: (a) provide financial
support, through the establishment of the Countryside Loan Fund (CLF III), to
the rural economy to overcome the difficulties created by the regional
financial crisis, and the devaluation of the Peso; (b) providing additional
medium and long term financial resources for viable investments in the rural
areas; (c) assist the government in its efforts to alleviate rural poverty
through the provision of financial and institutional support to the country's
micro-finance system; and (d) strengthen LBP as the main financial institution
serving the rural areas and PCFC as the wholesale micro-finance operation in
the country.
3.      Description
It is estimated that the necessary financial resources to carry out the
above stated project objectives over a period of five years would be in the
order of US$216 million. The project would include the following four
components: (a) Countryside Loan Fund III (CLF III) about US$207 million; (b)
Micro-finance Loan Fund (MLF) about US$6.7 million; (c) Strengthening LBP's
institutional capability (only training US$20 million); and (d) Strengthening
PCFC (training US$0.3 million)
4.      Financing
Following is a tentative financial plan for the project: At least US$42
million equivalent (15t of total sub-projects costs) would be provided by the
investors as their equity participation. At least US$22 million equivalent
(109) would be provided by the Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs),
and US$150 million (no more than 759) would be provided by IBRD.    The
institutional strengthening component would be carried out and financed by the
Land Bank of the Philippines (LBP, about US$2 million), and PCFC for its own
training program about US$0.3 million.
5.      Implementation
The project would be implemented over a period of five years. LBP would be
responsible for overall project implementation while PCFC will be responsible
for the implementation of the micro-finance component (its credit program and
its institutional development plan). The Program Lending Group of LBP would
handle day to day implementation of the credit component (CLF) and the
Corporate Planning unit within LBP would be responsible for the implementation
of LBP's institutional strengthening component.
6.      Sustainability
Sustainability of this project is based on the benefits to its
participants. The project would benefit the sub-borrowers/investors by
providing term financing which is currently very limited in the countryside
and would contribute to the profitability of the PFIs and LBP. The credit
component whether under the CLF III or the micro-finance is a demand driven
operation. This would ensure that all participants would have interest to
sustain this operation.
7.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The board lessons that emerge from the review of the previous
agricultural and rural credit projects are: (i) directed credit by crop or
type of investment, at subsidized interest rates, did not sustain economic
growth, improve credit delivery mechanism in the rural areas, or increase
- 3 -



access of rural borrowers to formal credit facilities: (ii) heavy arrears and
poor financial conditions of the apex financial institution or the selected
PFIs severely constrained sub-projects' sustainability; (iii) private
financial resource mobilization is extremely important for institutional
sustainability; (iv) strong financial institutions along with qualified and
experienced management and staff at headquarters, branches and field offices,
are crucial to project success. When interest rates either fell significantly
below or move well above prevailing market rates, serious implementation
problem emerged: above market-rates resulted in slow disbursement, while
below-market rates led to concentration of credit to relatively wealthier and
large clients. These lessons would be incorporated in the design of the
proposed project.
8.      Poverty Category
The project would contribute directly and indirectly to poverty
alleviation. Indirectly, through the CLF III which would provide term
financing for viable investments in the rural areas. Thus providing more
employment opportunities and increase the economic activities in these areas.
The micro-finance component would directly contribute to poverty reduction
through the financing of viable economic activities of the rural poor.
9.      Environmental Aspects
Environmental assessment category B. The main issue is how to address
environmental impact from a large number of sub-projects whose size and
character are unknown at this stage. LBP has already established (under the
2nd Rural Finance Project) an Environmental Unit (EU) that is operating well.
The EU would be responsible for ensuring that sub-borrowers comply with the
Philippine environmental law and regulations. The training program under the
institutional strengthening component would enhance LBP's capacity to ensure
that sub-loans are adequately screened for environmental impact, EAs are
carried out according to Bank guidelines if required. No indigenous peoples
plan or resettlement plan will possibly take place.
10.     Contact Point
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
The World Bank
23rd Floor, The Taipan Place Building
Emerald Avenue, Ortigas Center
Pasig City
Manila, Philippines
Telephone:   (63-2) 637 5855-64
Fax:   (63 2) 917 3050
Task Team Leader: Arie Chupak, EASRD
Tel:   (202) 458-1889
Fax:   (202) 477 2733
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
- 4 -



components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending December 4, 1998.
11.     This information is based on an evolving project.     Certain
components and details are subject to change and may not be necessarily
included in the final report.
- 5 -



Annex
Adequate arrangements and procedures would be maintained to ensure that
sub-projects with adverse environmental impact will not be financed under the
project. LBP will specify that sub-borrowers for CLF III funded projects
would comply with all laws and regulations of the Philippines related to
environmental protection, consistent with environmental guidelines of the
Bank. LBP would be in charge of supervising compliance. To reduce the risk
that sub-projects with undesirable environmental or social impacts would be
financed by CLF, the following measures would be taken. The existing
procedures and guidelines agreed under SRFP among LBP, the Department of
Environment and Natural Resources (DENR), and the Environmental Management
Bureau (EMB) would prevail and be applied under the proposed project. All
sub-projects would comply with the Presidential Decree 1586 and its related
regulations, which describes the Philippine environmental legal requirements
for new investments. For the following generic sub-projects: poultry and
piggery, agro-processing, land clearing, and fish and pond development, and
any other sub-project as the Bank may require, an Environmental Impact
Statement (EIS), as required by the above Presidential Decree and in line with
the guidelines established under SRFP, would be prepared. The Environmental
Unit (EU) of LBP would provide LBP, PFIs, and related sub-projects with
environmental technical assistance and coordination services. To enable
performance evaluation in respect to environment, the EU will conduct, on a
spot check basis, environmental audits of the projects endorsed. These should
be done in the presence and assistance, to the extent possible, of the PFIs.
The higher of 10% of the approved sub-projects which require environmental
clearance, or 50 sub-projects would be audited and the level of compliance is
expected to be no less than 80%.
1/   Various official government and Bank documents provide a good
discussion of the recent Philippine experience.
2/   PCFC was incorporated and registered with the Securities and
Exchange Commission in 1996 and supervise by LBP.
3/   The BAP Credit and Guaranty Corporation has a lending rate for
the credit NGOs based on the 91 day Treasury bill rate plus 1%-. During
this period of financial crisis, the lending rate has been increased to
the 91 day Treasury bill rate plus 4%.
- 6-



