                              Documentof
                            The World Bank




                                                 ReportNo.: 48761




              PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

       PHILIPPINES THIRD RURAL FINANCE PROJECT (LN4413-PH)

                              June 26,2009




Sector Evaluation Division
Independent Evaluation Group

Currency Equivalents(February2009)
Currency Unit = Peso (PhP)

Exchange Rate US$1.OO = PhPS1.92 (weighted average project period)


Abbreviationsand Acronyms

BSP            Bangko SentralngPilipinas (The CentralBank ofthe Philippines)
CAR            Capital Adequacy Ratio
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CLF            CountrysideLoan Fund
DBP            DevelopmentBank ofthe Philippines
DFID           Department for International Development(UK)
DOF            Department of Finance
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
FRR            Financial Rate of Return
GTZ            GermanTechnical Assistance Agency
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IDP            Institutional DevelopmentPlan
IDA            International DevelopmentAssociation
IEG            IndependentEvaluation Group (earlier OED)
IEGWB          IndependentEvaluation Group (World Bank)
JBIC           Japan Bank for International Cooperation(now amalgamated with JICA)
KPI            Key PerformanceIndicator
LBP            Land Bank ofthe Philippines
LGU            Local GovernmentUnit (include District and other government departments)
M&E            Monitoring andEvaluation
MFI            Micro-Finance Institution
MLF            Micro-Finance Loan Fund
MTR            MidtermReview
NGO            Non-governmentalOrganization
NPA            Nonperforming Asset
NPL            Nonperforming Loan
PAD            Project Appraisal Document
PAR            Portfolio at Risk
PCFC           PeoplesCredit andFinanceCorporation
PFI            Participating Financial Institution
PPAR           Project PerformanceAssessment Report
QAG            Quality Assurance Group (of the World Bank)
RCF            Retail CountrysideFund
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SDI            Subsidy Dependency Index
SME            Small and MediumEnterprise



FiscalYear

Government of:                   July 1to June 30


Director-General, Evaluation                              : Mr.Vinod Thomas
Director, Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)       : Ms.Cheryl Gray
Manager, IEGSG                                            : Ms.MonikaHuppi
Task Manager                                              : Mr.JohnR.Heath

                                                                 i


      IEGWB Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.


About this Report
     The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes: first, to
ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank'swork is producing the expected
results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the dissemination of lessons
drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEGWB annually assesses about 25 percent of the Bank's lending operations
through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that are innovative, large, or
complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which Executive Directors or Bank
management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate important lessons.
     To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEGWB staff examine project files and other
documents, interview operational staff, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other
in-country stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as
appropriate.
     Each PPAR is subject to internal IEGWB peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. IEGWB incorporates the comments as relevant.
The completed PPAR is then sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is
sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report hasbeen sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the
public.

About the IEGWB Rating System
     IEGWB's use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending
instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEGWB evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project
ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional information is available on
the IEGWB website: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
     Outcome: The extent to which the operation's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes relevance of
objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with
the country's current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which the project's design is consistent with the stated objectives.
Efficacy is the extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account
their relative importance. Efficiency is the extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher
than the opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is
not applied to adjustment operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately
Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Riskto Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or expected
outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High Significant,
Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the operation and
supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of supported activities after loankredit closing, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The
rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision. Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing agency or
agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government performance and implementing
agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately
Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                                iii


Contents

PRINCIPALRATINGS                .................................................................................................................................             V


KEY STAFF RESPONSIBLE                     .......................................................................................................................              V


PREFACE      ..................................................................................................................................................               vi1


SUMMARY      ..................................................................................................................................................               IX


1.       INTRODUCTION               ..............................................................................................................................             1


2.      THE PROJECT               ................................................................................................................................             3

        Objectives        .......................................................................................................................................              3
        Project Design            ................................................................................................................................             4
        Appraisal and Quality at Entry                       ......................................................................................................            5


3.      PERFORMANCERATINGS                            ............................................................................................................             5

                                                                                         ...........................                                   ....................... 5
                                                                                            ........................................           ..............................
             Efficacy....................................................                                                                                                      5
                                                                                          ..........................................                   ....................... 9
             Efficiency .......................................................             ........................................                   .....................  12
             Risk To Development Outcome..............................................................................................................                        14
             Bank Performance..................................................................................................................................               15
             Borrower Performance ...........................................................................................................................                 17
             Monitoring and Evaluation......................................................................................................................                  17


4.      FINDINGSAND LESSONS                          ...........................................................................................................              18


REFERENCES         ............................................................................................................................................               21


ANNEX A    .BASIC       DATA SHEET               ...............................................................................................................              23


ANNEX B BACKGROUND.ENABLING ENVIRONMENTAND INSTITUTIONS
           .                                                                                                                        ...................................       25


ANNEX C PEOPLE MET
           .                         ..........................................................................................................................               33


ANNEX D BORROWER COMMENTS
           .                                               .....................................................................................................              35

This report was preparedby RidleyNelson(Consultant).with guidance fromJohn R HeathandNalini Kumar(Task
Team Leaders) RidleyNelsonassessedthe project inFebruaryandMarch2009 Marie Charlesprovided
               .                                                                                                        .      .
administrative sumort.


                                                             V



PrincipalRatings

PHILIPPINES THIRD RURAL FINANCE PROJECT(TRFP)
                                                      ICR *                   ICR Review*                  PPAR
Outcome                                       Satisfactory              Satisfactory              Satisfactory

Institutional Development Impact      **
Riskto Development Outcome                    Negligible                Moderate                  Moderate
Sustainability   ***
Bank Performance                              Satisfactory              Satisfactory              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                          Moderately                Moderately                Moderately
                                              Satisfactory              Satisfactory              Satisfactory
*The Implementation CompletionReport(ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsibleoperationaldivision of the Bank. The
EvaluationSummary (ES) is an intermediateIEGWB product that seeks to independentlyverify the findings of the ICR.
** As of
***      July 1, 2006, InstitutionalDevelopmentimpact is assessedas part of the Outcomerating.
    As of July 1, 2006, Sustainability has beenreplacedby Risk to DevelopmentOutcome.As the scales are different, the ratings
are not directly comparable.



Key StaffResponsible

PHILIPPINES THIRD RURAL FINANCE PROJECT(TRFP)



Project                   Task ManagedLeader                   Division Chief/                Country Director
                                                               Sector Director
Appraisal                       Arie Chupak                     Geoffrey Fox                  Vinay Bhargava
Completion                       Iain Shuker                     Rahul Raturi                   BertHofman


                                                   vii


Preface

        This report is the Project Performance Assessment Reports (PPAR) for the Philippines
ThirdRural Finance Project (TRFP), which was supported by an IBRDloan ofUS$150 million
to the LandBank o f the Philippines, guaranteed by government. The loan was approvedon 3
December, 1998 and closed on 30 September, 2007. There was an extension o f 27 months with a
US$2.5 million cancellation.

        The PPAR was prepared by the Independent Evaluation Group (IEG). It was based on the
project completion and appraisal reports, the Development Credit Agreements, a reviewo f Bank
files, and discussions with beneficiaries, Bank staff, government officials, non-governmental
organizations, institutions, banks, donors, and private sector managers. The cooperation and
assistance o f all stakeholders, particularly the Land Bank o f the Philippines and government
officials, is gratefully acknowledged as i s the support o f the World Bank Country Office inthe
Philippines.

        Following standard IEGprocedure, copies o f the draft PPAR were sent to the government
for their review and comments. Comments are located at Annex D.


                                                  ix



Summary

        This report assesses the performance o fthe Philippines ThirdRural Finance Project
(TRFP). The project became effective at the height o fthe Asian financial crisis, a difficult
time for the Philippines financial sector.

        The Bangko Sentral ngPilipinas (BSP), the Central Bank ofthe Philippines, manages
the bankregulatory environment. Over recent years national accounting standards havebeen
raised. However, at a lower level, the regulation o f cooperatives and microfinance
intermediaries i s still evolving and regulatory capacity i s weaker. Outside the bankingsector,
but significantly impacting on it, the State-Owned Enterprises continue to face major
profitability problems and many still have opaque accounting practices.

        The two key institutions inthe project were the LandBanko fthe Philippines (LBP),
which served as the borrower and wholesale lender; and the People's Credit and Finance
Corporation (PCFC), a non-bank, wholesale corporation for the microfinance component.

         The objectives o fthe project were: (i) provide financial support to the rural
                                                  to
economy to overcome the difficulties created by the regional financial crisis; (ii) assist the
                                                                                       to
government inits efforts to alleviate rural poverty through the provision o f financial and
institutional support to the country's micro-finance system; (iii) strengthenLBP, the main
                                                                      to
financial institution serving the rural areas and PCFC as the country's main conduit for
micro-finance; and (iv) to helpto enforce financial discipline on participating financial
institutions (PFIs).

         Project components were: (i)   a line o f credit to provide short, medium, and long-term
credit channeled through LBP and, for the microfinance component, passed on to PCFC
(plannedcost, US$213.8 million; actual cost, US$232.3 million); and (ii)       institutional
strengthening for LBP and PCFC (planned cost, US$2.3 million; actual cost, US$2.7
million).

         Project outcome i s rated satisfactory. The objectives to provide financial support and
to strengthenLBP and PCFC were fully achieved. These two are given the highestweighting,
given the financial crisis at the time. No impact assessmentwas carried out to directly
measure the project's poverty reduction effects, butthere are intermediate indicators which
point to a positive impact on low income groups, such as the creation o f about 47,000 jobs in
sub-sectors typically employing the poor and micro-financing reaching about 110,000 small
households, far exceeding appraisal targets. The objective o f enforcing financial discipline
on PFIs was modestly achieved by the project; it was probablyunrealistic to expect
otherwise, giventhat the project funded a very small part of the PFIportfolio. The accredited
PFIs exhibited wide variation inquality of reporting, but generally performed adequately
with respect to profitability, solvency, and liquidity ratios. Although it is impossible to assess
the project's impact on agricultural growth, IEG found field evidence that loans for input
manufacture and processing had created significant rural employment for both women and
men.

                                                    X




         Bank performance i s rated satisfactory. The weaknesses inquality at entry were
more than offset by strong supervision. Despite the project's poverty alleviation objective,
there was no attempt to rigorously evaluate the project's impact on poverty reduction. Also,
relative to the scale o f the project, there was insufficient support to enhance PFI capacity.

         Borrower performance i s rated moderately satisfactory. LBP performance was more
than satisfactory but the government (throughthe Department o f Finance) failed to
adequately control subsidized wholesale lendingthrough DBP,contradicting GOP Executive
Order 138. This immediately undercut the lendingrates defined inthe Bank's loan agreement
that had required funds to be on-lent at a weighted average interest rate o f 91 day treasury
bills.

         This was a line-of-credit project channeledthrough a government owned wholesale
bank; not the type o f finance project generally designed today. Inthe absence o fthe Asian
financial crisis, it would have been difficult to justify the line o f credit focus. However,
injecting medium and longer-term capital into the rural sector, even on a relatively modest
scale, was clearly very important at the time, not simply for the provision of longer-term
resources, but for overall confidence. LBP was a proven intermediary, well placedto respond
to the challenges. Over the longer term, capacity building o f intermediary and microfinance
institutions will be a biggerpriority.

         This assessmentidentifies four major lessons:

          A government-owned bank within a generally sound enabling environment can
          reach out effectively and efficiently to rural areas throughwholesale operations
          when other private players are still reluctant to take such risks ina challenging
          sector, and particularly at a challenging economic time. Notwithstanding
          government ownership, they can be independent enough to counterbalance political
          pressure to introduce unsustainable credit policies.

      0   Itis important inarural finance project involving a government owned bank,to
          analyze explicit and implicit subsidiesfor both the institution inquestion and the
          sector as a whole to ascertain the levelness o fthe playing field for non-government
          entrants. Inthis case, it is still not clear what advantages (or perhaps even net
          handicaps) LBP holds, and what this might mean for the optimal evolution o f a
          competitive sector over the coming decade.

          Whenpoverty alleviation is stated as a micro-finance objective, it is difficult to
          assess achievement without some form of beneficiary impact assessment even
          though, with rural finance, demonstrating causation from such assessmentsi s
          difficult. Such assessments can also contribute evidence for the design of subsequent
          phases.

                                       x i




There i s a need for better coordination betweenthe Bank and IFC, and resolution o f
disputedareas o fturfbefore preparation work on a potentialproject. The guidelines
may need tightening, particularly with respect to mode and timing o f coordination,
andrespective policy roles, andperhaps even some arbitration process. The
Guidelines still seem to leave considerable discretion to staff.




                                                               Vinod Thomas
                                                             Director-General
                                                                Evaluation


                                                          1


1.       Introduction

1.1      The EnablingEnvironment.The Philippinesfinancial system is heavily dominated by
banks, particularly commercial banks (Milo 2007) andthis has not changed much over recent
decades (see Annex A). Banks are relatively unrestricted inthe types o f activities they may
engage incompared to other Asian countries. The banking sector i s regulated by BSP, the
securities market by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and the insurance sector
by the Insurance Commission (IC). A Financial Sector Forumwas formed in2004 to coordinate
these bodies but it i s not a formal organization. The Philippines economy i s heavily dominated
by a powerful andwealthy political elite flourishing partly due to weak governance. Some
observers point to this as the reason why, notwithstandinggenerally adequate policies and
institutions (Rodrik 2003), the Philippines economy has performed relatively poorly. Patronage
politics i s reported to be widespread. However, observers also note (de Dios and Hutchcroft
2003) that years o f deregulatipn and liberalization have given a more diversified economy and
more participants inpolicy decisions and that, while powerful family conglomerates still exist,
their power has beenreducedby this increasedopenness. World Bank governance indicators for
1996 to 2005 (Kaufmann 2006) surprisinglyplace Philippines and Vietnam at a similar level but
with the Philippines showing a significant decline over that periodwhile Vietnam's rating was
relatively flat. The priority need inPhilippines i s seenby a number o f observers as beingthe
needto improve the overall performance o f government (de Dios andHutchcroft 2003) and to
reduce institutional uncertainty allowing players to better anticipate the rules o fthe game
(Pritchett 2003).
1.2      Within the broader constraints o fthe environment outlined briefly above, the enabling
environment for rural finance i s generally adequate with no control on interest rates or imposed
lendingtargets other than some requirementson banks for certainpercentages o frural lending.
However, there i s more to be done inthe regulation o f microfinance although a consultant for
one o f the donors found it to be, "one o f the betterpolicy environments for microfinance."
1.3      At the time o fappraisal in 1998 there were anumber of emergingeconomic problems
dictating quick action. GNP growth was decelerating, inflation was above 10 percent,
unemployment was over 13 percent, and the fiscal deficit was escalating. The liberalization of
capital account transactions that took place in 1992 with a stable nominal exchange rate ledto an
appreciation o f the peso alongside often unhedgeddollar-denominated borrowings, causing
problems for borrower's following the depreciation inmid-1997.
1.4      The LandBankof the Philippines(LBP).' As indicatedinthe ICRand LBP
documents, LBP has had 45 years o f experience in lending to the rural sector. It i s the fourth
largest commercial bank inthe Philippines interms o f assets. It has the most extensive branch

1 Fitch Ratings find that LBP's net interestmargins are above industryaverage due to a substantial low-costdeposit
base. Dueto its rural branchnetwork it has a relativelyhigh cost structure. It is burdenedwith the costs of financial
intermediationfor the AgrarianReformProgram. LBP has a highNonPerformingLoansreservelevel. The bulk of
its NPLs arose from the Asian financial crisis. Following the Asian crisis, LBP shiftedsomewhataway from rural
lendingtowards manufacturing and property developmentbut it was from this that the majority oftheir
nonperformingloans emerged. LBP therefore revertedback towards rural lending.FitchRatings ofLBP for 2009
give LBP an AA long-termnationallevelratingnotingstable core profitability and moderatecapitalization.They
note that downsiderisk is mitigatedby moderate support from the Government ofthe Philippines. Althoughthey
also note that while the government'spropensity to support LBP is likely to be high, its ability to do so may be
limited. They anticipate some asset deterioration due to the current crisis but note satisfactory levels ofreserves.

                                                            2


network, havingbranches inall but one of the 81 provinces. LBP i s a government-ownedpolicy
bank with a universalbankinglicense established in 1963 as part ofthe Agricultural Land
Reform Code.2 It i s involved inboth wholesaling and retailing rural credit, a fact that presents
some potential conflicts o f interest and i s o f some concern to private banks. LBP was selected as
the borrower andthe wholesale lendinginstitution ofthe project. Annex ByTable 1 gives a
selection o f key indicators; there are more inthe ICR.
1.5       LBP's success has been attributed (USAID 2007) to: the sound enabling environment,
including a requirement for adequate capital and the mandating o f a market orientation in
financial policy that reduced political pressure to subsidize lending; the ability to capitalize on its
strong performance by persuading Congress to increase its financial capitalization; a huge
deposit base as the only government depository bank with a large networkgiving it a virtual
monopoly over the depositso f Local Government Units (LGUS);~                     strong risk management
(arising partly from the technical assistance from donors such as the World Bank); portfolio
diversification, capacity building assistance to strengthen client businesses including marketing
capacity; and good deposit mobilization (about US$3.2 billion in2005). Challenges ahead noted
by USAIDinclude the tension between wholesale and retail lendingandthe risk o f "adverse
selection" with loan officers giving excessive preference to a limitednumber o f regular "easy"
clients.

1.6       LBP i s involved ina wide array o f services including collection and tax management
services to government, commercial banking,trust banking, corporate lending, investment
banking, deposit products, consumer finance, remittance services (inUSA and Italy), insurance,
brokerage, leasing, real estate development, and marketing assistance. The net implicit subsidy
effect, especially o fthe captive LGUdeposits, warranted better analysis at appraisal. LBP's
dividendto government is imposedupon it. This has beenan area o f uncertainty because,
although the law requires a payment o f 50 percent of the previous year's net income, inpractice it
has been a matter for annual negotiation4
1.7       The People's CreditandFinanceCorporation(PCFC).PCFC was the project's
conduit for on-lendingLBP funds to participating MFIs. It is a government owned and controlled
corporation whose vision i s to be the leader inthe provision o f microfinance products and
services, was selected as the microfinance wholesaler under the project. PCFC i s not a bank and
cannot take deposits. It i s a finance corporation registered with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. It was established in 1995, only two years before the project, to provide financial
services to the poor and later was given the mandate for the delivery o f micro-finance services
for the poor. PCFC's performance ratios are given inAnnex ByTable 2.
1.8       Over the periodo f the project, PCFC has been strengthened inmany respects, although
there remain concerns about the longer term sustainability o f an institutionplaying this role that
cannot take deposits.

2 It is important to understandthat the staff o f LBP are civil servants and subjectto the same incentivesand rules as
other civil servants including the same level ofjob security, pensionrights, rights of appeal and similar pay scales.
3 These include District and Provincial government departments.
4 As part of the Borrower responseto the draft report, LBP commented: "LBP, being a government financial
institution is requiredby law to declare 50 percentof its income from the previousyear as dividend to the National
Government.LBP always managesto negotiate for a lower dividend rate with the Departmentof Finance. For the
last five years (2004 to 2008), the cash dividend rate averaged25 percentof its net income and atotal of P 1.1
billionstock dividends have been declared".

                                                        3


1.9      Microfinance. The government initiated an improvedpolicy environment for
microfinance through the National Strategy for Microfinance, the General bankingLaw o f 2000,
the Agriculture andFisheries ModernizationAct (market orientation of credit), andExecutive
Order 138 (phased out subsidized directed credit inthe non-agriculture sector).' However, over
the period ofthe project there were, and still remain, anumber ofregulatory issueswith respect
to land and microfinance (Llanto 2004 and 2007). These include: (i) prohibition against
                                                                                the
mortgaging/selling landwithin 10 years o f its award; (ii)        a 5 ha ceiling on ownership; (iii)      the
designation o f government as the sole buyer o f awarded lands under the land redistribution
program; (iv) a prohibition against tenancy arrangements; (v) the general demise o f land markets
due to agrarian reform; (vi) lack of an efficient mechanism to resolve landdisputes; (vii) lack o f
informationneeded by courts to hear land cases. With respect to risk, crop insurance exists on a
small scale but, as inso many other countries, has suffered from covariant risks due to lack o f
diversity.
1.10     RFIIIfollowed immediately after RFII.BothRFIand RFIIhadbeenrated Satisfactory by
IEGalthoughInstitutional Development was rated only Modest due mainly to LBP's inability to
cut losses inthe agrarian reform loan portfolio, the ad hoc basis o f the dividendpayable to GOP,
and the application o f GOP own funds to targeted lending at below market interest rates when
political pressures were great enough. (These are all concerns that have remainedto a greater or
lesser extent under RFIII; however, pressures for below market rates may now be reduced.) At
the time of appraisal, there were two other projects relevant to the financial sector, the Banking
System Reform Loan and the Private EnterpriseCredit Support Project.
1.11     There are a number o f other donors who have supported rural finance over the last 10
years including particularlyJICA (through DBP), KfW, ADB, and USAID.The majority have
focused on microfinance.
1.12     Donor coordination i s considered adequate by most respondents consulted by IEG.There
i s a Philippines Development Forum that includes government and meets regularly and has a
numberofthematic or sectoral subcommittees. However, indiscussion, one donor staffer
mentionedthat insufficient action emerged from such meetings.



2. The Project

0bjectives

2.1      The objectives o fthe project as stated inthe Project Appraisal Document (PAD) were to:




5 BSP Circulars on microfinance include: Circular 272 (2001) Guidelines on GeneralBanking Law; Secular 273
                                                            -
(2001) to Allow Entry of Microfinance OrientedBanks; Circular 282 (2001) Guidelines on RediscountingFacility;
                                                                          -
Circular 324 (2002) Expansionof RediscountingFacility; Circular 340 (2002) Regulationsfor the Establishmentof
Branches; Circular 364 (2003) Reductionof Risk Weight for SMEs; Circular 365 and 369 (2003) Amendment of
340; Circular 374 (2003) Regulationsfor BarangayMicrobusinessEnterprisesAct; Circular 409 (2003) Regulations
for Micro-financing Operations of Banks; Circular 501 (2005) Rules on the Writing off of Loans; Circular 547
(2006) Amendmentson GovernmentBorrowings; Circular 549 (2006) Amendment to the Manual of Regulationsfor
Banks.

                                                        4


     (a) provide financial support to the rural economy to overcome the difficulties created by the
         regional financial crisis;

     (b) assist the government inits efforts to alleviate ruralpoverty throughthe provision of
         financial and institutional support to the country's micro-finance system;

     (c) strengthen the Land Bank o f the Philippines (LDP) as the main financial institution
         serving the rural areas andthe People's Credit and Finance Corporation (PCFC) as the
         country's main conduit for micro-finance; and,

     (d) helpto enforce financial discipline on Participating FinancialInstitutions (PFIs).

2.2      These objectives were not changed over the life o fthe project. The Key Project
Indicators (KPI) did not fully reflect all aspects o f the objectives. While objectives (a), (c) and
(d) were largely reflectedinthe KPI, there were no indicatorsrelatedto rural povertyimpact and
some lack o f indicators demonstrating institutional capacity changes o f the type that might be
observed by clients or managers, for example, days for loan approval or loans handledper loan
officer.

Project Design

2.3      Total Project Costs were US$216 million o f which the Bank loan was US$l50 million
(69%). There were two components:

         Line o fCredit Component (Planned Total Costs US$213.8 million; actual US$232.3
         million).6This was a line ofcredit to provide short, medium, and long-term credit
         channeled through LBP and, for the microfinance sub-component, passedon to PCFC.
         The micro-finance component had a plannedproject cost o f US$6.7 million but an actual
         o f U S $18.0 million (increased duringimplementation).
     (b) Institutional StrengtheningComponent (Planned Total Costs US$2.3 million; actual
         US$2.7 million). This component was for strengthening both LBP and PCFC but it was
         fully financed by the two institutions themselves.

 2.4     The project had no direct policy component. Policies were considered generally sound
 includingfreely negotiated lending rates. As indicated inthe ICR, there were some revisions to
 the balance o fthese components duringimplementationmainly due to increases in
 microfinance and also for the convenience o ftracking. The micro-finance element o f the Line
 o f Credit Component was increased by US$15 million and the LBP retail lendingfacility to its
 own clients, the Retail Countryside Fund(RCF 11)that did more restructuring and expansiono f
 existing, small-scale businesses, and had a stronger agricultural focus than the wholesale
 Countryside Loan FundI11(CLFIII), was greatly increased, by US$20 million. This was agreed
 by the Bank to adjust for the cautious lendingby PFIs to Small and MediumEnterprises. Thus,
 by 2006, the wholesale lendingsubcomponent was downto US$97.5 millionequivalent.



6 Dueto some interchange inthe contentbetweencomponents (but with no overall objectives shift) it has not been
possibleto exactly reconcile the componentcosts as indicated inthe Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) with the cost
tables inthe Implementation Completion Report.

                                                    5


2.5     Extensions.The project closed 27 months behindthe original schedule partly due to the
slow startup which, inturn, was caused partly by the surprise under-cutting by the Development
Bank ofthe Philippines (DBP) donor-supported project (see later discussion underBorrower
Performance).

1.      Implementationand Challenges.Annex Bbriefly provides additional backgroundand
detail on the situation at the time and the structure o fthe financial system.The project faced
difficult challenges with the Asian crisis. As noted inthe Introduction, at the time of appraisal
GNP growth was decelerating, inflation and unemployment were high, andthe fiscal deficit was
escalating. There hadbeenan appreciation o fthe peso alongside often unhedgeddollar-
denominated borrowings, causing problems for borrower's following the depreciationinmid-
1997. Inorder to protect their balance sheets, banks were inclined to pursue a general credit
squeeze rather thanpro-actively seek out good borrowers. Re-establishing confidence was an
important element o f the project's and LBP's role. With strugglinginstitutions the first years o f
project implementation were particularly challenging and supervision input at that time from the
Bank was very important.

Appraisal and Quality at Entry

2.6     The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) reviewed Quality at Entry (QAE) and rated it
Satisfactory. As discussed later under Bank Performance, this i s downgraded inthis assessment
to Moderately Satisfactory due to lack o f an Impact Study, need for a wider analysis o f LBP's
place inthe sector, limitedsupport for training, and somewhat narrow indicators.

2.7     As required, the PAD discussed the project alternatives but essentially only one, the
option to lend to several retail financial institutions rather than a single wholesale institution.It
would have beenuseful for Bank management to have been offered, inaddition to this, more
argument on the broader issue o f a very dominant government-owned bank, possibly at least
implicitly subsidized, within an expanding population o f quite promising private banks and non-
bank institutions.

2.8     While this assessment largely accepts the relevance o f the design at the time o f appraisal,
there are some questions about the resilience o fthat design up to the end o f the project. This i s
taken up again more fully under the heading Relevance.

3. Performance Ratings

OUTCOME
3.1     As with IEG's ratings of RFIand 11, Outcome is rated, on balance, Satisfactorydue to
Substantial Relevance, Efficacy and Efficiency but, as inthose cases, not without some areas o f
reservation.

RELEVANCE
3.2     Out o f the main three evaluationratings o f Relevance, Efficacy and Efficiency, the most
questions arise over Relevance, mainly relevance o f design. However, on balance, and after
consideration o f counterfactuals, Relevance i s rated Substantial.

                                                           6


3.3      Relevance of Objectives. It i s recalledthat the objectives had four parts (summarized):
to provide financial support to the rural economy to overcome the regional financial crisis; to
assist the government to alleviate rural poverty; to strengthen the LandBank andthe People's
Credit and Finance Corporation (PCFC); and to help enforce financial discipline on PFIs. These
were broadly consistent with the relevant CASs at the time. The 1996 CAS (pre-theAsian
financial crisis), under the Rural Development category, proposed "improved access to credit and
increase employmentamong poor upland and lowland farmers" and "improvement o f rural
financial intermediation." However, the CAS mentioned inthe assistance strategy matrix the
Second Rural Finance Project but not a third, suggestingthat the third was at least partly a
response to the crisis that followed while also, as noted inthe ICR, continuing the institutional
strengthening o f LBP against a new financial challenge. The 1999 CAS (post the crisis but only
just after the approval date), set as priorities: to address the crisis, to enable expansion ofthe
private sector, and, to pursue sustainable rural development.

3 -4     Relevance of Design. The relevance o fproject design i sjudged inthis section against
the backgroundofthe Asian financial crisis at the time ofappraisal andthe importance ofBank
presence and skills inthe sector at that time. Deducing a theory-based evaluation logic, the first
objective suggeststhat the solution to the problems within the rural finance sector that arose
from the financial crisis was seen as the provision o f a line of credit that would enable a recovery
o f lending to the rural sector particularly through longer-term lendingand restructuring o f loans
to still viable enterprises under temporary stress. The mission found evidence infield visits that
the line ofcredit, particularly due to the longer terms thancompetitors andthe availability for
restructured loans, enabled clients to borrow when other banks were, as one LBP client put it,
"nowhere to be seen". However, at the core o f the problem lay the fact that there were firms and
banks infinancial trouble partly related to un-hedged foreign currency loans andbanks with
already insufficient loan loss provisioning were de-leveraging, reducingrisk, and opting for safer
T bills.' The Lineo f Credit (LOC) was, at the time, a palliative but could not alone resolve the
underlyingissues. However, the objectives to strengthenLBP andPCFC and to help enforce
financial discipline on Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) did start to address one modest
piece o f the underlyingvulnerability o f financial institutions to future shocks. Obviously, the
current global crisis represents a renewed test o f how far this overall financial reform and
strengtheningwas achieved but it i s still too early to assess that although there are expectations
o f bank mergers.

3.5      While the project design, with its microfinance component, was not inconsistent with the
later Bank's 2003 Rural Financial Services Strategy, particularly giventhe exigencies o fthe
Asian financial crisis, the support to MFIs was relatively more limitedas a proportion o f the
whole than that strategy would suggest. But that strategy, a product o f the prior "Reaching the
Rural Poor" Bank strategy, came five years after the project was approved.

3.6      While relevance of design was found to be generally sound, this assessmentfinds four
areas o f weakness and expands on some o fthem inthe subsequentparagraphs. First, and by far
the most significant, the designshouldhave includedan impact study to assess poverty impact
since poverty alleviation was both an explicit objective o f one o f the components and a broader


7 There are, o f course, echoes of such strategies inU S and European bank behavior under the current global
financial crisis.

                                                              7


   objective o fthe CAS. Second, a wider analysis o f LBP's place inthe sector and advantages (or
   penalty) from its public ownershipwould have helpedto better set the lead institution insectoral
   context and mightpossibly have altered project design or policy focus. This i s a study still worth
   doing. Third, the project design gave limitedtraining support for the strengthening o f PFIs or
   NGOs and groups; the main focus was on LBP and PCFC, yet much o f the rural finance
   constraint inrural areas, both then and now, lies with institutional capacity and skills. It was too
   optimistic to expect that the pressures o f accreditation along with the existing training capacity o f
   LBP and PCFC, inany case o f uncertainadditionality since these were partly on-going
   programs, would address skills development sufficiently. Fourth, the indicators were somewhat
   narrowly focused on the two wholesale institutions. Some indicators tracking the sector as a
   whole and on the performance o f PFIs would have aided decision-making. While some o f this
   data was available from LBP accounts and MIS, placing such criteria into the KPIs would have
   given higher profile. Inthe light o f these weaknesses, and since this was a third project,
   notwithstanding many strong elements inproject design, Quality at Entry i s rated, on balance,
   Moderately Satisfactory.

   3.7      The following paragraphslook at each sub-objective withrespect to the relevance o f
   designto that objective.

   3.8      Onthe stated objective to provide financial support to overcome the crisis, channeling the
   line o f credit through a government owned wholesale lending organization was almost certainly
   the most effective approach for quick action. Itwas clearly important to inject funds into the
   rural sector quickly to stemthe impact o f the crisis. Longer-term lendingincluding some
   businessrestructuringwas needed. Itwas, and remainedthrough the life o fthe project,
   important to provide a source o f stable longer term financing to the rural sector since there was a
   shortage o f long term deposits. Evenwhenthe economy improved, while short term financing
   picked up, longer term financing was still short and instrong demand. However, as mentioned
   later under Borrower Performance, the objective o f longer term lendingwas initially undercut by
   the lower cost lendingunder a DBP loan. We do not fault design or Bank Performance for this,
   we have faulted GOP. Ifthis subsequent competitive project had beenknownabout at the time o f
   appraisal the designwould, no doubt, have been adjusted. Subsequent adjustments by the
   borrower and the Bank eventually mitigated this competition problem.

   3.9      However, there i s another aspect o f the relevance o fthe financial support objective. The
   size o f loans inthis project covered a very wide range as discussed later.' While the crisis gave
   somejustification to support large as well as smaller firms for growth and employment reasons
   at a time o f contracting lending, especially for longer-term loans, this did leadto lendingto large
   firms that, at least later, should have had access to other sources. The Bank would normally seek
  to be a lender o f last resort.

   3.10     The objective o f relieving povertywas arguably relevant and certainly consistent with the
   government's stated strategy althoughinthis case it was never assessed with an impact study.
   However, inthe RFIand RFIIproject IEGPPAR, IEGquestioned whether such an objective was
   realistic for a demand-driven credit project. This assessment finds that, while the objective itself
' was relevant, the original designfocused on poverty to a fairly modest scale. However, this was

   8 There were 90 loans to the largest firm asset category that were above an asset size excluding land of about
   US$1.9 million.

                                                        8


partly due to the Asiancrisis and the needto get rapid resumption o f growth and employment
through medium to large enterprises. Duringimplementation, as the crisis came under control
and circumstances changed, funds were shiftedsignificantly towards smaller scale lending.

3.11    The designto meet the objective of strengtheningLBP and PCFC was relevant.
However, the fact that these are bothgovernment owned banks calls for assessment about
whether, inthis case and at this time, this strengthening exacerbated a tilt inthe playing field
sufficient to constitute an unduebrake on competing private bank development and whether
there was too much focus on LBP and PCFC relative to the strengthening o f PFIs. Inthis respect,
we note that the vision statements of both institutions suggest an aim to dominate. For example,
the LBP Vision Statement includes the language,             ... Landbankshall bethe dominant financial
institutionincountryside development ., While this would be an entirely appropriate vision
                                               .          "

                                                "
for a private bank, it presents something o f a moral hazard for a publicly owned institution unless
the evidence shows that, inall respects, LBP competes on entirely eventerms. It i s probable
that, over the period of the project insome areas o f its activities, LBP heldsome competitive
advantages, although this has beenchanging over time and, infact, LBP also claim significant
imposed obligation^.^ The Vision Statement o f PCFC i s somewhat more modest but inthe same
vein, calling for PCFC to be "theviable and sustainable leader (our italics) inthe provision o f
microfinance products and services ..."

3.12    More broadly, by the time the project closed, the development o f the financial sector and
rural finance within it (with some credit to the project support) hadreached a depth and coverage
of services that has almost certainly now reduced the social necessity o f supporting rural
financial services through a publicly owned institution. The question i s increasingly now how to
enable private banks and other non-bank financial institutions to gain a wider foothold. The
project as designedfocused somewhat too heavily for the good o f the sector on LBP and PCFC
relative to potential and actual PFIs so that, with changing circumstances and increased non
government ownedbanking, the design for this particular objective was somewhat less relevant
at closing than at appraisal.

3.13    With respect to the relevance of design for the fourth objective o f enforcing discipline on
PFIs, this was highly relevant, particularly given the emerging financial crisis at the time.
However, it carried with it the incentives problem that those PFIs that most needed financial
discipline were unlikely to qualify, those who least needed it were likely to qualify, and only
those that lay somewhat below the level o f the accreditation criteria were likely to be enticed to
lifttheir performance inorder to do so. Projectdesign didnotoffer enoughto support skills
capacity o f PFIs and MFIs.Capacity inrisk management i s particularly acknowledged as a
weakness by PFIs and, to a limited extent, was supported by on-going PCFC training with own
funds. Inmicrofinance, the need for skills i s identifiedas a key weakness and area o f focus o f the
USAIDAccess to Banking Services Program (associated withthe Rural Bankers Association of
the Philippines). This limited training fundingmay have beendue partly to the fact that this was
a loan to the LBP guaranteed by government and therefore a less easy vehicle for channeling
training grant funds to other banks including non-PFIs, some competing with LBP.

9 It wouldtake a substantial studyto weighthe benefits and costs of the many government imposedroles but for
example, untilrecently, LBP hada captive deposit source inLocal GovernmentUnits (LGUs), and an insurance arm
that hadcaptive government clientele. On the other hand, they do not, or have not inthe past, receivedsufficient
payment for certain imposedservices, such as processingtax payments.

                                                       9


EFFICACY
3.14    Efficacy i s rated Substantial based on Substantial ratings on three objectives with a high
weight givento the financial support objectives but a modest rating on the objective o fenforcing
discipline on PFIs. With respect to the objective o fproviding financial support to the rural
economy, this was clearly achieved and i s rated Substantial. The project almost fully disbursed
(with a cancellationofUS$2.5 million) and the financial support was givento a level of 131
percent o f the target for the predominant CLF I11and RCF I1lendingand to 112 percent o f the
target for the microfinance MLF element. Based on ICR data, about 90 percent o f the total
lending amount went to mediumto large enterprises with the remainder going to small and micro
enterprises. Briefly, the following were the mainportfolio characteristics (LBP Progress Report
2007) as at the project closing date o f September 30, 2007.''

3.15    For the CLFIII component:

     e  PFI Type: 48 percent o f accounts through Commercial Banks; 41 percent through Thrift
        Banks; 6 percent through non-bank financial institutions; and, 5 percent through Rural
        Banks.

     e  Loan Size: by amount released: 42 percent small (below PhP 5 million, about
        US$96,000), 5 1percent medium(PhP5 millionto PhP5Omillion about US$97,000 to
        US$960,000), and 7 percent large (above PhP5Omillion (US$960,000). Interms of total
        amount, 65 percent went to the large asset size group.

     e  Subloan Maturity: 15 percent short-term, 68 percent mediumterm, 17 percent long-term.

     e  Subloan Purpose: 37 percent for fixed assets, 54 percent for working capital, 9 percent a
        combination.

     e  Nature o f Project: 84 percent businessexpansionary, 9 percent start-up, 7 percent
        restructuring.

3.16    For the RCFII Component: l1

     e  75 sub-projects were for loan restructuring, 100 for small business expansion, and 28 new
        start-up projects.

3.17    For the MLF channeled through 72 MFIs (actual project cost US$18 million):                  ,


     e  Lendingwas entirely for working capital for both farmandnon-farm purposes including
        both production (crop and livestock, etc.) and services (e.g. retail shops), average loan
        was US$296 and 92 percent was to women.




10Actualprojectcost of CLFIII andRCFIIcombinedwas US$214.3million,approximately75 percentCLFIII/25
percentRCFII.
11At appraisalthis was treatedas part o f the CLFIII componentbut later, with increasedfunding, it beganto be
treatedas a separate component.

                                                        10


3.18    Underthe MLFcovering microfinance, average loan size was about US$250. Thus the
majority o f lendingby amount lent (82 percent) was above the microfinance level but the largest
number of loans was for microfinance.

3.19    We give substantial weight to the achievement o f this particular financial support
objective becauseboth the documents and the designo fthe project as well as the facts o f the
financial crisis suggest that this was a major and urgentpreoccupationat the time.

3.20    While there were no explicit indicators set for types o f capital to be provided, the project
was expected to contribute more to fixed asset lending than working capital on the argument that
fixed asset investment would have a greater impact on growth thansimply annual re-cycling o f
working capital. Approximately 37% o f CLFIII went for fixed assets.

3.21    There i s very limitedaggregate data on the sector, butto putthe scale ofthe microfinance
component insome perspective, there are approximately 4.9 million farmers inthe Philippines. It
was estimated by USAID in2008 that rural banks and other microfinance institutions were
reaching about a third of the households engagedinmicro-business activities. A 2002 study by
USAIDfound apotential demand for microfinanceofPhP26 billionagainst a supply o fabout
PhP 9 billion, suggesting that about one third o f the demandwas being met at that time.
AssumingMLFlending of about PhPl.5 billionover say 6 fully effective years this would put
the MLF component at about 3 percent o f lending and about 1percent o ftotal demand.

3.22    On the objective o f alleviating poverty, the evidence i s predominantlyoutput level
evidence rather than outcome evidence. It should be noted (Ledgenvood, J 1999) that defensible
outcome evidence on poverty i s notoriously problematic with credit programs due to the
fungibility issue. Inthis case, the output evidence for poverty impact such as it i s includes the
following. The amount o f microfinance lendingmore than doubled over the target and the
numbero fmicrofinance loans reachedapproximately 110,000 small household level loans, far
beyond the target. However, this was due partly to reflows measured cumulatively over a
considerably extended project period. The scale o f the LBP retail component RCFII (aimed at
smaller-scale businesses with employment impacts, a focus on agricultural production and
reaching more remote areas) was more than doubled. Employment creationbased on sub-
borrower loan documents reachedthe target and is reported as 16,960 jobs created under the
CLFIII and RCFIII components.'2 There were no separate estimates ofjob creation from the
microfinance component. However, PCFC estimates across all its lendingindicate approximately
onejob created for every two clients. The mission observed employment gains o f approximately
this order ofmagnitude duringfield visits with generally expandingbusinesses (as found in
USAIDstudies) andcalculated costs perjob created at aroundUS$800.'3This is somewhat
higher inreal terms than anestimate by ADB over tenyears ago. Basedon these estimates,jobs
created under the microfinance component would probably lie between about 20,000 and 50,000.
It is concluded that the total microfinance employment was o fthe order of 30,000 and
employment impact o fthe project as a whole would therefore have been about 47,000. The


12 Missionassessment in the field found that the estimates ofjobs createdreflected the reality quite well although
incrementality is always difficult to assess.
13 ADB's second microcredit loanhad found by 1996an average cost of about US$200perjob created. While by
2009 this would be higher due to inflation and economic growth it seems low basedon mission findings. Field visits
by the mission confirmed that the estimationoftruly incrementaljob creation was not a simple task.

priority sector enterprises,   l4 that constituted about two thirds o f the total, are generally indicative
o f relatively poor rural people. Mission field visits found microfinance borrowers to be poor and
the majority ofthose incremental wage earners employedby the larger CLFIII borrowing
enterprises to be poor also and inone case, a poultry enterprise, nearly all those employed were
women. (The evidence on lendingto agriculture, a sector supporting many o fthe poor, is given
inBox 1.)

3.23     However, there was no beneficiary assessment or impact study to assess the poverty
levels o f beneficiaries. Other things being equal, the lack o f data inthis case would have
allowed only a modest rating to the achievement o f this poverty objective. However, the greatly
increased scale o f micro and small business lendingachieved, the very highrepayment rate, the
predominant lending to women, and the employment evidence based on loan application and
loan supervision evidence i sjust sufficient to support a Substantial poverty impact rating based
on output evidence. Inmaking this assessmentthe difficulty o fproving causation inrural credit
evenwith beneficiary surveyshas beentaken into account.

3.24     With respect to the third objective o f strengtheningthe LBP as the main financial
institution servingthe rural areas and the PCFC as the country's main conduit for micro-finance,
the achievement was Substantial although there are still concerns about PCFC's strengthand
sustainability since, as a non-bank institution, it cannot take deposits. Inthis rating more weight
i s given to the larger institution, LBP. The performance ratios of the two institutions are given in
Annex A, Tables 1and 2. Bothinstitutions had Institutional Development Plans (IDPs) at the
outset o fthe project. LBP has made substantial progress. Most o f the strengthening,including
internal training programs, inthese two institutions was carried out with own funds. As noted
underRelevance, while it was not an objective, the project shouldhave supported these two
institutions to do more training for PFIs since a main constraint inthe expansion o f rural
financial services is capacity at the lower levels o f the system.

3.25     With respect to the fourth objective which was to help to enforce financial discipline on
Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs), the ICR found limitedimpact and this assessment
concurs, rating achievement Modest. The number of PFIs, originally expected to be close to 100,
was far less, at 32 but with only 20 active at project closing. This was partly a reflection o f the
competition from DBP's competitive lower rate lendingdiscussed further under Borrower
Performance, and partly the continuing impact of the crisis. However, this fourth objective i s
somewhat discounted inthe assessment since it was plainly excessively optimistic that a project
designoffering very small funding compared to PFItotal portfolios at the time could
significantly influence PFImanagement and systems on any scale. Simply meetingthe
accreditation criteria was probably only a significant incentive for a relatively narrow bando f
PFIs who were withinreach and were complying with their action plans. Those comfortably
above the criteria did not face any strong incentive to reach higher and those well below would
have had little incentive to strive for something plainly out o f reach. Nevertheless, the accredited
PFIs, while exhibiting wide variation inquality o f reporting, did generally perform adequately
with respect to ratios such as profitability, solvency and liquidity. Only one failed to meet
paymentsto LBP. Beyondthe pressuresthat came through accreditation, there was no direct


14 Farmers and fisherfolk, micro enterprises and SMEs, agribusiness, agri-infrastructure, other agri-related projects,
and environment related projects, with a smaller percentage o f livelihood loans.

                                                      12


provision under the project for enhancing financial discipline. This has been mentionedas a
design weakness. Inthis respect, the wider BSP pressurestowards performance due to the
regulatory requirements (supported over the years by the Bank) were more significant than the
project itself.

UnanticipatedOutputsand Outcomes
3.26     AgriculturalProductivity.Therewas no stated objective to increase agricultural
productivity, however, CASs have consistently discussed the importance of agriculture. There i s
some evidence that the project contributed to agricultural growth although the relative scale o f
the project was certainly insufficient to expect to pick this up innational agricultural growth
statistics which have been disappointing relative to a number of other countries inthe region. It
should be emphasized that, although this was labeled a rural finance project, a substantial share
of lending went to sub-borrowers with no immediate connectionto agriculture, such as
investmentsinhospitals, transport, hotels, printing, and medium-sizedmanufacturers, although,
as required, they were located outside the metropolitanareas. Infact, mission analysis showed
that inthe category o f the larger loans over US$200,000, such loans with no direct agriculture
connection constituted over 50 percent by number. However, inmany rural provincesthe share
o f household income i s now more than 50 percent from non-farm sources. The project was
essentially targeted at non-city growth and income not necessarily agriculture although such
things as fisheries, poultry, piggeries, aquaculture, grain milling, input manufacture, and
agricultural produce transport benefited substantially as confirmed by mission visits.

3.27     PolicyRole. While not an explicit objective, notwithstanding its ownership by
government, LBP has, over the years, been a not unimportant source o f financial sector policy
pressure on government particularly inthe area o f counteracting behest lendingand interest rate
policy. While Bank support seems to have provided some backing to some o f the on-going
policy debate, this project was not a significant vehicle for national level financial policy
dialogue. It focused more at the wholesale institution change.

3.28    Environment.While also not an explicit objective, the project made very substantial
strides inthe incorporation o f environmental criteria into rural lending. This was associated with
both the strengthening o f government regulations and the strengthening o f capacity within LBP.
The missionwas impressedwith the extent to which the mitigation ofenvironmental impacts had
been internalizedwithin the lendingprocedures, for all LBP lending not simply the project line
o f credit. It i s very unlikely that this level o f environmental focus and subsequent mainstreaming
would have emerged from a wholesale bank that was not government owned. Moreover, LBP's
performance inthis area seems to have impacted on the way other bankshandle environmental
regulations. This i s a significant unintendedimpact.

EFFICIENCY
3.29    Efficiency i s rated Substantial on balance, although, as with most credit projects,
evidence is limited. There are three elements to efficiency. First, what the financial and
economic returns are for the sub-project loans that were analyzed. Second, what evidence i s
there, either quantitative or qualitative, for those below the size individually analyzed? Third,
how efficient were the participating banks? Fourth, was there additionality?

                                                          13


3.30     N o overall project ex ante or ex post economic analysis was done by the PAD or ICR.
FRRswere carried out ex ante for all sub-loans over US$200,000 andERRs over US$1 million.
A small sample of23 FRRsand ERRswas analyzed by LBPex post based on follow-up visits by
LBP staff to b 0 r r o ~ e r s .Although a small sample, it i s not clear why this was not usedinthe
                                l ~
ICR. The data show that FRRsfell from the ex ante to the ex post. However, they fell from very
highaverage levels to still mostly highlevels butthere was a wide range.For the 13 CLFIII
loans inthe sample the arithmetic average16FRR fell from 42 percent to 29 percent, but with 4 o f
the 13 falling below a 10percent FRR.For the 10 RCF loans the average fell from 32 percent to
25 percent, with 4 out o f 10 falling below a 10 percent FRR. With a somewhat larger sample it
could be informative to correlate FRRswith repayment performance but inthis case, with high
repayment rates, it would be of little value.

3.3 1    The mission found the value o fdoing sub-project ERRsex ante was somewhat
questionable from an operational efficiency perspective. LBP staff could not recall any case
where an ERR on top o f an FRRhad changedthe lendingdecision. Inany case, nowadays, with
fewer distortion adjustments, the FRR and ERR are often very similar.

3.32      Efficiencyof the Micro-financeComponent.With respect to the smaller and micro
lendingthat was not subject to any FRRanalysis, a few qualitative points canbe made.Based on
discussion with PFIs and observations from mission visits; most clients' businesses seemed to be
growing, suggestingthat the loan hadtriggered small business growth. While not from the same
sample (although there may be some overlap o f borrowers) USAID (USAID 2005) came to a
similar conclusion intheir study oftheir 2005 Micro-enterprise (MABS)Program, that
borrowers have been steadily gaining groundindiversifying their businessactivities. They have
also been steadily increasing their savings. That study concludedthat, since repayments were
highat 95 percent to the MFIsand savings have beenincreasing, the loanfunds hadprobably
been used efficiently.17

3.33     InRFIII, the repayment rate from MFIsto PCFC was close to 100%butthis would not
necessarily be indicative o f the health o f the sub loans. The repayment rate to the MFIs was
reported as 95 percent" which, backed by some field verification, i s more indicative o fthe
probable efficient use o f the loans.

3.34     Another measure o f efficiency would be the unit costs o f employment creation. Field
visits and some data from LBP and PCFC suggest average costs perjob created betweenabout
$800 and $13,000 from smaller to larger enterprises. These are approximately inline with
industry experience inthe Philippines and the levels the PAD had projected. (The higher costs in



15 The mission was able to rather superficially review the methodology adoptedfor the FRRs and ERRSand found
it broadly sound.
16 Note that the arithmetic average calculatedhere is not a true representationofthe average of all the net benefit.
streams since it is invalidto average FRRs from different streams. The steams themselves would needto be added
together and scale and phasingdifferences would have an impact. But inthe absence of the resourcesto aggregate
the original streams and recalculateatrue average this is the next best option. It shouldbe interpretedwith care.
17 Inthat study, sub-borrower lending rates rangedfrom 18 percentto 48 percentwith an avgrage of 28 percent.
18 Project monitoring data shows that about half the microfinance lending was channeledthrough Rural and Thrift
Banks and the rest through Cooperatives,CooperativeBanks, andNGOs. NGOs constitutedabout25% ofthe MLF
lending.

                                                        14


the larger enterprises are partly due to substitution o f machinery for labor.) The Bankand
borrower could have exploited more the data on costs perjob created."

3.35      Efficiencyof Institutions.With respect to the efficiency of institutions, LBP is a
generally efficient institution. Its performance i s shown inthe key indicators inTable 1. These
indicators have generally improvedover the period o f the project and since. Return on Equity
rose from 9.3 percent in2003 to 15.2 percent by August 2008 and Nonperforming Loans (NPL)
fell from 14.7 percent in 2003 to 3.6 percent by August 2008. As noted by USAID, LBP's
performance i s considered to be remarkable considering that it has survived for 45 years without
requiringbailouts to avoid bankruptcy as was required by two other government owned banks in
the Philippineswith less demanding missions. LBP has also performedparticularly well inthe
implementationo f environmental requirements2'

3.36     PCFC is a moderately efficient institutionbutthe data are not readily comparable with
LBP because o f the different nature and remit o fthe institution. Ithas beenable to act as an
important guiding wholesale lender over a period when wholesale funding for microfinance was
far below demand and microfinance was still inits infancy. The more difficult question,
addressedbelow, i s with respect to sustainability.

3.37     Additionality.The mission found no convincing evidence ineither direction onthis
question. At the individual borrower level, the majority o f those spoken to appeared to have a
number o f alternative lenders. This i s not surprisingsince they were all expected to be eligible
borrowers who would have been eligible inthe eyes o fmost lenders. However, after the Asian
financial crisis, many found the project to be the only source o f longer-term and restructuring
funds andfoundthat other lenders were "nowhere to be seen", suggesting additionality. Looking
at the question from a sector perspective to find an incremental spike inlending that might
suggest additionality is not usefulbecausethe volume o f lendingthrough the project was too
smal121to find significance.

RISKTO DEVELOPMENT            OUTCOME
3.38     Riskto Development Outcome has several dimensions: the riskthat the financial support
to the rural sector will not be sustained; the risk that the strengtheningo f the two wholesale
institutions will not be sustained; the risk that the micro-finance elements will neither be
sustained nor achieve the intendedpoverty alleviation; the risk o f beneficiaries falling back into
poverty ifthe benefits are not sustained; and the risk that what limitedenhancement to financial
discipline that was instilled inPFIs will not be sustained. Overall, Riskto Development Outcome
i s rated Moderate.

19 While one would not expect employment analysisto influence lendingdecisions, given the ready availability of
employmentdata for the larger loans and the relative ease of gettingapproximations for the smaller loans, the
available employmentdata with a wide rangeof costsperjob createdcouldhave beeninformativefor hturerural
development interventions and at low marginalcost.
20 In2008, they receivedrecognitionfor environmental due diligencefrom the Association of Development
FinancingInstitutionsinAsia andthe Pacific.
21 In2005 the Agricultural CreditPolicy Councilestimatedtotal loans grantedby bothgovernment andprivate
banks for agricultureat P52.5billion(about US$10 billion) with about P190billion(aboutUS$4 billion) for
agriculturalproduction.At that time about 60 percentcame from privatebanks. Thus the lendingunderthe project
was less than 1percentofthe total lendinginthe sector. However, althoughthe total data by year is not available it
would have been a muchhigher percentageofthe mediumto longterm lending.

                                                    15


3.39      Financial support to the rural sector continues to grow through anever widening rangeo f
intermediaries. Competition inthe rural areas i s quite intense. The mission heard a number o f
complaints from different players that a particular bank or NGO had"stolen a client". This
assessment expresses some concerns elsewhere about the impact of the dominant position o f
LBP on the growth o f private banking and nonbanking institutions but the fact remains that LBP
has beena strong organizationproviding wholesale financial services.

3.40       With respect to the strengthening o f LBP and PCFC, LBP's performanceratios including
returnon equity, loan loss provisioning, and expanding lendingand deposit volumes suggests
only a modest risk for the future unless the current global financial turmoil not only impacts on
their revenuebuttriggers areturnto greater government pressures for behest loans and
subsidized rates.

3.41     As noted inthe ICR, the longer term sustainability situation for PCFC is o f greater
concern. The privatizing o f PCFC mentioned inthe RFIIIPAD never eventuated although it
appears to be widely acknowledged that it mustbe, and will be, done indue course. PCFC has no
low-cost deposits sources and depends substantially on donors. It has been profitable with the
helpof ahighshare of equity inits total resources and below marketinterest rates from donors.
As indicatedby the SubsidyDependency Index it has been subsidized inmost years. It is
difficult to see a sustainable future without it beingconverted into a bank or beingabsorbed into
one o f the existingbanks. This scenario has already been quite widely discussed and anticipated
and seems likely to be the course government would take at the appropriate time. As PCFC i s
constituted now, the Riskto Development as an institution would be ratedHighbut with the
expectation o f change inthe future, arguably the risk i s only Moderate, particularly giventhe
relative ease with which a change instatus would be possible. Finally, the Riskto the
achievement inenhancing financial discipline inPFIs i s Highbut o f low weight inthe aggregate
rating since the achievement was, inany case, modest.

3.42     With respect to the risk o f beneficiaries falling back into poverty, lack o f data makes
assessmentdifficult. However, the limitednumber o f small borrowers visited by the mission
were mostly impressiveinboththeir ambition and achievement to date ingrowing their small
businesses.

3.43      While, as noted, the proposed fourth project inthe series did not materialize, this makes
little difference to the rating o f Risk to Development since LBP i s now such a strong bank. In
any case, future development will needto gradually shift focus towards an increasing share o f
non-government banks inthe sector and the building o f capacity at lower levels inthe system.

BANKPERFORMANCE
3.44     Bank Performance i s rated Satisfactory overall with some weaknesses indesignalong
with significant strengths butwith very strong supervision. Inmany respects, as inthe previous
two Rural Finance Projects, Bank staff did an excellent and sustainedjob o f shepherding
Philippines rural finance towards a generally stronger and more competitive institutional
structure and enabling environment. There was enormous praise for the Bank Task Team Leader
from the borrower side.

                                                    16


3.45     Quality at Entry.As notedearlier, the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) rating of
Quality at Entry was Satisfactory. Inproject design, Bank staff made a thorough assessmento f
the apex institutions, drew appropriately fromthe lessons of global andregionalexperience and
the lessonsofthe previous two projects. Bank staff brought strong skills inthis area. Project
objectives were, by and large, realistic with the exceptions noted. Loan conditions were
appropriately designed. However, there was a lack o f a baseline survey that would have enabled
assessment o f poverty impact. Environmental elements were particularly strong.

3.46     Quality of Supervision.Insupervision, Bank performancewas strong. Itcould be
argued that the major impact o f this project was the technical support provided to the two
wholesaling institutions as the project unfolded. Some LBP staff membersattribute their
perceived relatively strong current position inloan provisioning, that is helping them to combat
the impacts o fthe current global crisis, on the Bank support and advice, against some LBP
doubts at the time. Over the series o fprojects, the borrower observed some differences inthe
strictness with which agreed standards were applied by the Bank in supervision but no
inconsistencies o f a serious nature. The Bank practiceddue diligence with the apex institutions
and PFIs although monitoring ofperformance evidence from PFIs was weaker. The Bankmade a
determined effort to sort out with the Department o f Finance the interest rate problem with the
JBIC loan to DBP.

3.47    However, it i s questionable whether the Bank should have acceded to raisingthe sub-loan
ceiling size and firm asset size to accommodate large companies who should have beenable to
access other sources rather than scarce World Bank funds. This response may have beenmore
related to the slow start due to the DBP competition than to the priorities o f the sector. But, on
balance, supervision i s rated Satisfactory.

3.48    Beyond the period o f the RFIIIthere was a further performance issue that falls outside
this ratingbutneeds to be described. Needless to say, there was unhappiness inLBP over the
way the proposed RFIV follow-on project was dropped at such a late stage after the raising o f
expectations and also over the.tardiness o f the formal written communication about this. This
issue of coordination with IFC appears not to have beenwell handled by either Bank Group
party. Muchofthe preparatory work was completedfor this proposed RFIV project, LBP was
expecting it, a PHRD grant had been disbursedfor technical assistance, and appraisal was
anticipated. Bank staff had discussed with IFC staffthe possibility o f IFC TA support for PFIs
as part o f the project through a trust fund. IFC working level staff were interested. However, IFC
unexpectedly argued from the senior management level that support such as this type o f project
inthe financial sector was IFC's responsibility. There were exchanges at the senior management
level of bothparties and it was finally agreed that this was IFC's "turf". The Bank guidance on
which o f the two parties heldresponsibility revolves partly around the extent to which there i s a
need for sector dialogue, this beingseen as lying outside IFC's remit. Inthis case, looking at the
language o f the guidance, it i s not entirely clear whether the proposedproject fell within IFC's
remitor not and under those circumstances the presumption should have beento stay withthe
status quo set by the precedingproject particularly giventhe extent o fpreparation work already
completed. But, inany case, the collective decision over this "turf battle" seems ill-advised since
IFC did not, infact, proceed to occupy this particular disputedturf. At a minimum,better
coordination was needed at an earlier stage. Bank staff report that there i s now better
coordination with IFC including coordination on the CAS.

                                                   17


BORROWER      PERFORMANCE
3.49    Borrower performance i s rated, as inthe ICR, Moderately Satisfactory overall.

3.50    Governmentperformance i s ratedUnsatisfactory due to the failure to initially prevent, or
subsequentlyresolve, the subsidized wholesale lendingthroughDBP by JBIC,contradicting
GOP Executive Order 138. This immediately undercut the lending rates definedinthe Bank's
Loan Agreement that had requiredfunds, as per EO 138, to be on-lent at a weighted average
interest rate o f 91 day Treasury Bills. Inaddition, the government did not resolve the
inconsistency between the floor on the currency swap rate for the Peso derived from US dollar
loans and the floor on the swap rate for the Peso derived from Yen-based loans. Thus, when
interest rates dropped, Yen-derivedloans were cheaper thanUS$-derived loans. Department o f
Finance (DOF) should have ensured that all wholesale lending floor prices were at the same level
regardless o f currency borrowed. These two problems resultedina significant handicap in
implementingthe project against the DBP competition. Hadthese two things beingknownin
advance, the project would have been designedina different way.

3.5 1   Following mission discussion with DOF, it i s still not entirely clear how this situation
came about. It seems possible that it was simply an inadvertent error by DOF that occurred partly
as a result of the very fast (three to four week) appraisal process o f JBIC (now JICA after the
amalgamation) calling for quick decisions and little time to inform other players. The Bank
somehow needs to devise ways o f picking up such events earlier.

3.52    Overall, the implementing agencies 'performance was Satisfactory (defining the agencies
as LBP and PCFC). Inthe case o f LBP, performance was exemplary. Other country's institutions
(e.g. Vietnam) sent significant numberso f staff to LBP on training visits which were much
appreciated. LBP, as the borrower, carried out its assigned task efficiently over a period o f
difficult challenges and over that period still was able to gain incapacity and efficiency as shown
by most ofthe performance ratios. PCFC performedadequately with the microfinance
component and became stronger over the project period. However, as noted inthe ICR, their
overall operating costs remain quite highfor a wholesale operation and sustainability awaits
resolution.

MONITORINGEVALUATION
                AND
3.53    Performance o f M&E i s rated Substantial. Monitoring and Evaluation within a financial
sector project takes a somewhat different form to M&E o f a traditional investment project since
much of the monitoring element i s related to the quality of the financial institutions' accounts
that are the subject o f internal control and audit. LBP because o f its maturity has strong, long-
standing, monitoring capacity. However, inboth design and implementation there were
weaknesses inpoverty monitoring since there was no Impact Study although some PCFC data
and some USAID evidence from similar micro-finance interventionsgive some indirect
indications o fpoverty impact.

3.54    M&E Design. The Land Bank, havinghad two earlier projects, had an established M&E
systemsince 1991 whenthe first Rural Finance Project was approved. However, we have noted
above some lack o f breadthinthe KPIs agreed with the Bank and this seems to have partly
contributed to the lack o f a beneficiary impact assessment. For both the participating wholesale

                                                          18


banks, LBP and PCFC, M&E design i s rated Substantial mainly due to very thorough data
management by LBP.

3.55     M&E Implementation.M&E implementation is rated Substantial, indeedfor LBP close to
High.LBP's reporting is thorough andwell presented.22The agreed quarterly andsemiannual
progress reports were submittedpromptly and the quality o f the reports seen was good. However,
there was some weakness inthe quality o f reporting by PFIs. Inevitably, there was quite wide
variation intheir skills.

3.56     M&E Utilization. As noted by the ICR, the findings o fM&Ewere used inthe
adjustments o fthe funding allocations andto make some adjustments at mid-terminthe
indicators. These were usedby both the wholesale banks and, as i s evident from supervision files
and reports, by World Bank missions that drew on them. Utilization i s rated Substantial.

4. Findingsand Lessons

4.1      This was a traditional line o fcredit project channeled through a government owned
wholesale bank, not the type o f finance project generally designedtoday. However, it i s a case
o f an efficient publicly owned banking institution satisfactorily wholesaling credit to the rural
sector. Inthe absence o f the Asian financial crisis, it would have been difficult to justify the
predominant line o f credit focus. One would have expected more focus on capacity building o f
intermediaryandmicrofinance institutions, onbuildingabsorptive capacity and demand, and
arguably more attention to further leveling o f the playing field for competitors. However,
injecting moderate amounts o f medium and longer-term capital into the rural sector was clearly
very important at the time and LBP was a strong, available and proven vehicle.

4.2       Itwould havehelped strategic decisions ifthe Bank hadbetter understood several issues
including: the place o f LBP within the sector with respect to the levelness o f the playing field
and the probable implicit net LBP subsidies and competitive advantages through their captive
deposits and various other government programs; and, more broadly, the role o f other
government and nongovernment bankingand microfinance institutions inchanneling different
types o f fundingto the sector. 23

4.3      Itwould also have helped, particularly given the current circumstances andthe need for
employment creation, to better understand data related to the efficiency o f employment
generation from different types o f enterprise and the growth and equity impacts o f that
employment. The apparent wide rangeso f costs perjob created and financial returns offer fertile
ground for analysis. This i s particularly so inan only moderately targeted project design that
seems to exhibit some ambivalence about whether to lendto the poor or the less poor, where to
place the boundaries o f "non-rural", and whether to lendfor large or small enterprises.

22 Their website is indicative oftheir reporting and information sharingcapacity.
23 The Bank Regionpoints out that the SubsidyDependencyIndex for LBP was closely monitored and improved
over time and now shows anegativesubsidy. This is correct. However, IEG's concernlay more inthe possible
implicit advantagesthat LBP held over the project period with its captive government services. Suchadvantages do
not show up inSDIs. They also argue that the combination of wholesaleandretail lending worked well to both
encourage private sector bank expansionand to reachremoteareas. IEG has concerns, as do some other players and
academics, about the conflict of interest inbeing awholesaler and aretailer competitor to those receiving wholesale
funds, an issue referred to inthe World Bank's operationalpolicy.

                                                              19


4.4        The utilization o f LBP as the wholesale bank was sound at the time. However, as the
rural financial sector has beenevolving rapidly over the period o f the project, circumstances
have changed. Ifthe Bank were to support a further rural finance project, the role o f LBP inthe
sector would warrant re-examination although it would remain a serious contender for support
because o f its exceptional capacity and ongoing attentionto enhancing efficiency and
modernization. But deeper analysis may show it to have significant net benefits24over
competitors conferredby its government-owned status. This may be less healthy inthe future for
growth inthe rural finance sector as a whole. On the other hand, the judgment should not be one
o f principle but of the effectiveness and efficiency facts, not all o f which were sufficiently
understood at appraisal.

  4.5      The main lessons are the following:25

       (9   A government-owned bank within a generally sound enabling environment canreach
            out effectively and efficiently to rural areas through wholesale operations when other
            private players are still reluctant to take such risks ina challenging sector and
            particularly at a challenging economic time. Notwithstanding government ownership,
            they can be independent enough to also serve as a useful counterbalance to government
            and political pressures towards unsustainable credit policies.

       (ii) Itis importantina rural finance project involving a government owned bank, to analyze
            explicit and implicit subsidies for both the institution inquestion andthe sector as a
            whole to ascertain the levelness o f the playing field for non-government entrants. Inthis
            case, it i s still not clear what advantages (or perhaps even net handicaps) LBP holds and
            what this might meanfor the optimal evolution o f a competitive sector over the coming
            decade.

       (iii)When poverty alleviation i s stated as a micro-finance objective it i s difficult to assess
            achievement without some form o f beneficiary impact assessment eventhough, with

24 We use the term "net benefits" advisedly since it i s clear that LBP's governmentownership status conferson it
significant costs as well as significant benefits. Without substantial study is not clear how balancedor unbalanced
these costs and benefitsmay be.
25 It is worth recalling the main lessons of the IEG assessment of Rural FinanceIand 11. Summarized, these were
(inparenthesis comments ofthis current assessment are added): (i) focus shouldbe as narrow as possibleto
                                                                       Project
achieve the objectivesbut broad enoughto includeelements important to long-run sustainability. The narrowing of
focus that took place betweenRFI and RFII was good inthat it was more realistic about what could be
accomplished.However, it was badto the extent that it avoided dealingwith policies potentially important for
project success. (Still a dilemma with trade-offs, but RFIIIprobably erred somewhaton beingtoo narrow in
microfinance/capacitybuilding.) (ii)    Financial liberalization is more thanjust the controlling of interestrates. This
refers to the lack of a level playing field with subsidizedinterest rates for certain classes of borrowersand the BSP
continuedintervention inbranching decisionsby banks that satisfiedregulatory requirements.(Branching decisions
now less constrainedbut this assessment still urges better analysis ofthe levelnessofthe playing field with respect
to LBP role.) (iii) sustainability of credit operationsrequires ongoing access to hnding and credit projects
                   The
shouldincludeincentivesand monitor and promotethis. This refers to the needfor more attentionto rewarding
depositmobilization by PFIs. (Still arguably an area for greater attentioninrural areas but electronic banking is
rapidly moving inthis direction to ease deposit making.) (iv) Poverty alleviation and environmentalobjectives may
exceed the reachof aproject designed to meet market based demand driven credit needs. (The evidence suggests
that environmentalobjectives were quite well achievedunder RFIIIsuggestingthat such an objective did not exceed
the reachofthe project. Poverty alleviation to amodest level probably also didnot exceedthe reachofthe project
and probably occurred but was inadequatelymeasured.)

                                                      20


          rural finance, demonstrating causation from such assessmentsi s difficult. Such
          assessmentscan also contribute evidence for the designo f subsequent phases.

     (iv)There is a need for better coordination betweenthe Bank and IFC and resolution of
          disputedareas ofturfbefore preparation work on a potential project. The Guidelines
          may need tightening particularly with respect to mode andtiming o f coordination and
          respective policy roles and perhaps even some arbitration process. The Guidelinesstill
          seem to leave considerable discretion to staff.26




26 This lessonwas inspired by an event after RFIIIclosed(see paragraph3.48 above).

                                                   21


References

BDOUnibankInc. Reports on SelectedBorrowers.2009
CGAP.MicrofinanceFunder Survey.EastAsia andthe Pacific. 2008 (also a number of other CGAP
website papers, blogs, andtabulations)
Chua, R., ThePerformance and Sustainability of TwoPhilippineMicrofinance Institutions. Bwtp.org.
1998
D e DiosandHutchcroft(2003) Political Economy inThe PhilippineEconomy:Development, Policies
and Challenges.QuezonCity Ateneo UniversityPress
Favis-Villafuerte,N.MicrofinanceHandbookPhilippines.Apples of Gold(Publisher), 2007
FitchRatings.PhilippinesCreditAnalysis. Landbankofthe Philippines.January 2009
Fukui, R., andLlanto, G.Rural Finance andMicrofinance Developmentin Transition Countries in
Southeast and EastAsia. PhilippineInstitutefor Development Studies. 2003
IEG, WorldBank. FinancialSector Assessment ProgramEvaluation.2006
Landbank documents (various unpublishedandwebsite reports) includingOutlines of Performance,2009
Kaufmann,D. (2006)GovernmentsMattersV. Aggregate and individualgovernance indicatorsfo 1996
to 2005, WorldBankPolicyResearchWorkingPaper No. 4012, Washington, DC
Landbank.Analysis of Sub-borrowerERRBRR, 2007
Landbank. AnnualReports 2005 onwards
Landbank. InstitutionalDevelopment Plan. 1998 to 2003.
Landbank.KnownPortfolioQualityReport.RiskManagementDecember2008
Landbank.ThirdRuralFinanceProject ProgressReport. Wholesale LendingDepartment. Septerr 3er
2007
Ledgerwood,J., (1999) SustainableBankingwith the Poor, MicrofinanceHandbook, World Bank
Llanto, G., (2003)A Microfinance Promise: ToProvide the Poor Access to Finance Services.PolicyNote
2003-06 PhilippineInstitutefor DevelopmentStudies, 2003
Llanto, G., (2007) Overcoming ObstaclestoAgricultural Microfinance. PhilippineInstitutefor
DevelopmentStudies. 2007.
PeoplesCreditandFinanceCorporation.AnnualReport 2007
Pritchett,L.,(2003) A Toy Collection, a Socialist Star and aDemocratic Dud? InRoderik,D. ed."In
Searchof Prosperity: AnalyticalNarratives on EconomicGowth". PrincetonUniversity
Taytay sa KauswaganInc.Reporton SelectedBorrowers.2009
Roderik,D., (2003)In Searchof Prosperity: AnalyticNarratives on Economic Growth.,Princeton
University
USAID.Assessing the Impact of Microfinance on the Clients Enterprises in the Philippines: Report on
the ThirdSurvey of Borrowers. ExecutiveSummary.USAID, 2005
USAID.Micro-enterpriseAccess to BankingServicesProgram.USAID, October 2008
USAlD.TheCase of Land Bank in Philippines. Preparedby SalahGossbasedon reportby Vogel and
Llanto..Micro-note32. June 2007
WorldBank.OP 8.30. OperationalManual. Policyon FinancialIntermediaryLending

Note: This reference list does not includeall the WorldBank CASs, PADS,ICRs, and PPARsreferredto
for the lendingprograms and agricultureprojects.


                                       23                              Annex A


Annex A, Basic Data Sheet

PHILIPPINES: Third RuralFinanceProject(IBRD-44130)

Key ProjectData (amounts in US$million)
                                    Appraisal        Actual or      Actual as % of
                                    estimate      current estimate appraisal estimate
Loan/Credit amount                     150             147.5               98
PFls/MFIs                             21.4              31.7               148
SBs                                   42.4              53.1               125
PCFC                                   0.3               0.5               167
LBP                                    2.0               2.2               110
Total project costs                   216.1            235.0               109



ProjectDates
                                          Original                   Actual
Concept Review                           04/16/1998                04/16/1998
Begin Appraisal                          07/01/ I998               07/01/1998
Board approval                           12/03/1998                12/03/1998
Signing                                  12111/1998                12/11/1998
Effectiveness                            05/06/1999                05/06/1999
Restructuring                                _ _
Mid-term Review                              --                        ____
Closing date                             06/30/2005                09/30/2007


MissionData

BankLendingandImplementationSupport/SupervisionProcesses

Task TeamMembers

                                        24                         Annex A


                                                Spec.
Gilbert Llanto    Consultant                    Fin. Econ. And Micro-Fin.
                                                Spec.
Yaacov Ziv        Consultant                    Env. Spec.

Supervision/ICR
Arie Chupak        Sr. Financial Analyst  EASRE Task Team Leader
LisaValenzuela    Micro-Finance Spec.     EASRE Task Team LeadedMicro-
                                                Finance
Xiaolan Wang      Operation Officer       EASRE Micro Finance
Guzman Garcia-    Operations Officer      EAPRE Advisor
Rivero
Steven Oliver      Sr. Agric. Economist   EASRE ICR Preparation
Iain Shuker       Agric. Economist        EASE  Task Team LeadedAgric.
                                                Economist
Sameer Goyal       Sr. Financial Sector   EASPF Financial Sector
                  Spec.
Preselyn Abella   Fin. Mgmt. Spec.        EAPCO Fin.Management Spec.
Yaacov Ziv        Consultant                    Environmental Spec.
Paul Harrison     Consultant                    Agric. Econ. and Banking




               i

                                                  25                                      Annex B



Annex B. Background, EnablingEnvironmentand Institutions

1,      Agriculture. Agriculture, including Fisheries and Forestry, constitutes about 20 percent
o f GDP and about 35 percent o f employment. Agricultural growth has beenrelatively modest
over the last two decades averaging 1.7 percent over the period 1981to 2003 compared to a GDP
growth over that period o f 2.6 percent. However, from about 1998 there was some improvement.
The productivity o f labor is low partly due to highlevels o funderemployment(Mudlak, Larson,
andButzer 2002).

2.      The EnablingEnvironment.The Philippines financial system is heavily dominated by
banks, particularly commercial banks (Milo 2007) and this has not changed much over recent
decades. Banks are relatively unrestricted inthe types o f activities they may engage incompared
to other Asian countries. The bankingsector i s regulatedby BSP, the securities market by the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and the insurance sector by the Insurance
Commission (IC). A Financial Sector Forum was formed in2004 to coordinate these bodies but
it is not a formal organization. The Philippines economy is heavily dominatedby a powerful and
wealthy political elite flourishing partly due to weak governance. Some observers point to this as
the reasonwhy, notwithstanding generally adequatepolicies and institutions (Rodrik 2003), the
Philippines economy has performedrelatively poorly, for example compared to Vietnam.
Patronage politics i s reportedto be widespread. However, observers also note (de Dios and
Hutchcroft 2003) that years o f deregulation and liberalization have given a more diversified
economy and more participants inpolicy decisions and that, while powerful family
conglomerates still exist, their power has beenreduced by this increased openness. World Bank
governance indicators for 1996 to 2005 (Kaufmann 2006) surprisingly place Philippines and
Vietnam at a similar level butwiththe Philippines showing a significant decline over that period
while Vietnam's rating was relatively flat. The priority need inPhilippines is seenby a number
o f observers as beingthe need to improve the overall performance o f government (de Dios and
Hutchcroft 2003) and to reduce institutional uncertainty allowing players to better anticipate the
rules o f the game (Pritchett 2003).

3.      Within the broader constraints o fthe environment outlined briefly above, the enabling
environment for rural finance i s generally adequate with no control on interest rates or imposed
lending targets other than some requirements on banks for certainpercentages o f rural lending.
However, there i s more to be done particularly inmicrofinance although a consultant for one o f
the donors found itto be, "one o fthe betterpolicy environments for microfinance."

4.      However, at the time o f appraisal there were a number of emerging economic problems
dictating quick action. GNP growth was decelerating, inflation was above 10 percent,
unemployment was over 13 percent, and the fiscal deficit was escalating. The liberalization o f
capital account transactions that took place in 1992 with a stable nominal exchange rate ledto an
appreciation o f the peso alongside often unhedgeddollar-denominated borrowings, causing
problems for borrower's following the depreciation inmid-1997.

5.      Compared to the 1980s, by the time o f appraisal, there had been nearly a tripling o f the
numberofbanks operating inthe country. Following the Asiancrisis in 1997, there was an
increase innonperforming loans contributing to a credit squeeze inthe rural economy. Inorder to

                                                           26                                           Annex B



protect their balance sheets, banks were inclined to pursue a general credit squeeze rather than
seek out the good firms from the bad.

6.       There are three regulators inthe system. Banks are regulated by BSP, cooperatives are
regulated by the Cooperative Development Authority, andNGOs are regulated by the SEC. BSP
regulations are generally sound and implemented. These include regulations for the review o f
portfolios and other risk assets, RiskAssets to Equity Ratio, minimumcapital requirements,the
definition o f past due loan accounts, loan classifications, minimumnet equity base, and
provisioning for loan losses. However, the other two regulatory institutions are still quite weak.
A Credit BureadRegistry has beenapproved and is expected to be operational by next year
although, for larger borrowers, there are already private credit agencies.

7.       The banking systeminthe Philippines has changed substantially over the last two
decades. At the start of the Rural Finance I11Project there would were 54 commercial banks
operating inthe country including 14 foreign banks against only 27 commercial banksin 1980.
At the start ofthe project, universal and commercial banks accounted for approximately 80
percent o fthe assets o f the banking system while thrift and rural banks accounted for the
remaining20 percent. The profitability o f commercial banks hadimprovedby 1996 at
approximately 18 percent on equity and 2 percent on assets but with the crisis this declined the
following year to about 15 percent and 1.6 percent respectively.

8.       Interest rates are largely based on prevailing market rates but there i s intermittent
political pressure to reduce rates. The agrarian loans for land acquisition are handledunder a
separate program and, for example, in2008, under the Rice Productivity Program, concessional
interest rates were adopted for farmer's organizations (8.5 percent) and SMEs conduits (7
percent). At various times within the last 5 years there have beeninterest free or subsidized loans
through the Department o f Agriculture, for example, through the Agricultural Competitiveness
Enhancement Fund.Last year, interest rates to cooperatives were lowered for social policy
reasons. Within LBP's portfolio there are a number o f different windows o f directed credit aimed
at particular purposes, for example the lending to Local Government Units (LGUs).

9.       Inmost areasthere is no landtitle andthe only options for a lender for some degree o f
security are vicinity maps, locationplans, tax declarations, realty tax evidence, or affidavits o f
neighbors.

10.      Outside the banking sector, but significantly impacting on it, the State-Owned Enterprises
still face major profitability problems and typically have opaque accounting practices.

11.      The LandBankof the Philippines(LBP).27LBP is a government-owned policy bank
with auniversal bankinglicense established in 1963 as part o fthe Agricultural LandReform

27 Fitch Ratings find that LBP provides financing at sub-commercialrates butthat its net interest margins are above
industry average due to a substantial low-cost deposit base. Dueto its ruralbranchnetwork it has arelatively high
cost`structure. It is burdenedwith the costs of financial intermediation for the CARP. LBP has ahighNon
Performing Loansreservelevel. The bulk of its NPLs arose from the Asian financial crisis. Following the Asian
crisis, LBP shifted somewhat away from rural lending towards manufacturing andproperty developmentbut it was
from this that the majority oftheir nonperforming loans emerged. LBP therefore revertedback towards rural
lending. Fitch Ratings of LBP for 2009 give LBP anAA long-term national level rating noting stable core

                                                           27                                              Annex B



Code. It i s involved inboth wholesaling and retailingrural credit, a fact that presents some
potential conflicts o f interest and i s o f some concern to private banks. LBP was selected as the
borrower and the wholesale lending institution o fthe project. In 1988, the Comprehensive
Agrarian Reform Law was signed and became the legal basis for the Comprehensive Agrarian
Reform Program (CARP) for which LBP i s the financial intermediary. In 1995 it became an
official government depository thereby giving it access to deposit funds from the government
and government linkedbodies.

12.       By December 1997 LBP's available resources had reached approximately US$4.0 billion.
The main source o f funds was government deposits which constituted at that time 46% o ftotal
resources. Private deposits amounted to 24% o ftotal resources and bills payable including loans
from WB, ADB, OECF and IFAD, represented 11%. O nthe asset side, cash and investment in
government securities totaled 31% o f assets and net loans amounted to 59%. There was 4% in
non-government securities. LBP premises and other fixed assets represented 2% and other assets
4%.

13.       As indicatedinthe ICR andLBP documents, LBP has had45 years o fexperience in
lendingto the rural sector. It is the fourth largest commercial bank inthe Philippines interms o f
assets. It has the most extensivebranch network, having branches inall but one o f the 81
provinces. Deposits have risen steadily to P334 billion by end of 2008 with deposits from
government increasing somewhat more than deposits from private depositors. Assets reached
P434 billion by the end o f 2008 and total loan portfolio about P185 billion. Returnon Equity
rose from 9.3 percent in2003 to 15.6 percent by end o f 2008. Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR)
held fairly steady from 2003 to 2008 at 14-15 percent, well above the BSP's requirement o f 10
percent and the Basle 2 requiremento f 8 percent. LBP's Liquidity Ratio had been healthy even
prior to the project. In 1999, it was about 58 percent. By the time o fproject closing it had
reached about 79 percent. Nonperforming Loans (NPL) fell from 14.7 percent in2003 to 2.9
percent by end o f 2008 thus improving to the pre-1997 Asian crisis level after a difficult period.
As of September 2007, the past due loans level stood at 1.58 percent. By 2007,72 percent of
loans by amount went to the designated priority sectors, i.e. to farmers, fisherfolk, micro and
SMEs, agribusiness, agri-infrastructure (to Local Government Units), agri-projects (to
government owned corporations), environment-related projects, and livelihood loans.

14.       LBP's success has beenattributed (USAID2007) to a number o fthings including:
generally sound enabling environment including a requirementfor adequate capital and the
mandating o f a market orientation infinancial policy that reduced political pressure to subsidize
lending; the ability to capitalize on its strong performance by persuading Congress to increase its
financial capitalization; a huge deposit base as the only government depository bank with a large
network giving it a virtual monopoly o f LGU deposits; strong risk management (arising partly
from the knowledge support from donors such as the World Bank); portfolio diversification,
capacity buildingassistanceto strengthen clients including marketing capacity; and good deposit
mobilization (about US$3.2 billion in2005). Challenges ahead notedby USAID include the

profitability and moderate capitalization. They note that downside risk i s mitigatedby moderatesupport from the
Governmentofthe Philippines. Although they also note that while the government'spropensity to support LBP is
likely to be high, its ability to do so may be limited. They anticipatesome asset deterioration due to the current
crisis but note satisfactory levels of reserves.

                                                          28                                             Annex B



tension betweenwholesale and retail lendingand the risk o f "adverse selection" with loan
officers giving excessive preference to a limitednumber o f regular "easy" clients.

15.       As documented inLBP's Annual Reports, LBP is involved ina wide array of services
including collection and tax management services to government, commercial banking, trust
banking, corporate lending, investmentbanking, deposit products, consumer finance, remittance
services (inUSA and Italy),insurance, brokerage, leasing, real estate development, and
marketingassistance. The net implicit subsidy effect, especially o fthe captive LGUdeposits
warranted better analysis at appraisal.

16.       LBP's performance improved over the project period inmost respects. By project closing
in2007, RealReturnonEquityhadreached 12percent, RealGrowth inEquity 14percent, the
SubsidyDependency Indexreachednegative 12% (however the Agrarian Reform SDIwas still
significantly positive at 23 percent), the proportion o f loans to priority sectors had steadily
increased to 69 percent (in2000 it was 36 percent), Non-Performing Asset Provisions Coverage
hadreached 74 percent, on the Countryside Loan Fundthe past-due ratio was 1.58 percent.

17.       LBP's dividendto government i s imposedupon it. This has been an area o f uncertainty
because, althoughthe law requires a payment o f 50 ercent o fthe previous year's net income, in
practice it has beena matter for annual negotiation?' As indicated inthe PAD, at the time o f
appraisal, there remained a need for civil service reform, more prompt audit submission insome
projects, deepening o fthe capital market, contractual savings reform, strengthening o f banking
regulations in some areas, and enhancement of the regulatory environment for private sector
participation in infrastructure. With respect to risk but subsequent to project appraisal, Philippine
national regulators had developed the Internal Credit Risk Rating System, a scale system. This
was adopted by LBP.

18.       The government created a favorable policy environment for microfinance through the
National Strategy for Microfinance, the General banking Law o f 2000, the Agriculture and
Fisheries Modernization Act (market orientation o f credit), and Executive Order 138 (phased out
subsidized directed credit inthe non-agriculture sector).29However, over the period o fthe
project there were, and still remain, a number o f regulatory issues with respect to microfinance
(Llanto 2004). These include (Llanto 2007): (i)            the prohibition against mortgaginghelling land
within 10 years of its award; (ii)5 ha ceiling on ownership; (iii) designation of government
                                         a                                     the


28 As part of the Borrower responseto the draft report, LBP commented: "LBP, being a government financial
institution is required by law to declare50 percentof its incomefrom the previousyear as dividend to the National
Government.LBP always managesto negotiate for a lower dividend rate with the Departmentof Finance. For the
last five years (2004 to 2008), the cash dividend rate averaged25 percentof its net income and atotal of P 1.1
billionstock dividends have been declared".
29 BSP Circulars on microfinance include: Circular 272 (2001)
(2001) to Allow Entry of Microfinance Oriented Banks; Circular 282 (2001) Guidelines on RediscountingFacility;
                                                                - Guidelines -
                                                                            on General Banking Law; Secular 273

Circular 324 (2002) Expansionof RediscountingFacility; Circular 340 (2002) Regulations for the Establishmentof
Branches; Circular 364 (2003) Reduction of Risk Weight for SMEs; Circular 365 and 369 (2003) Amendment of
340; Circular 374 (2003) Regulationsfor BarangayMicrobusinessEnterprisesAct; Circular 409 (2003) Regulations
for Micro-financing Operations of Banks; Circular 501 (2005) Rules on the Writing off of Loans; Circular 547
(2006) Amendmentson GovernmentBorrowings; Circular 549 (2006) Amendment to the Manual of Regulationsfor
Banks.

                                                   29                                          Annex B



as the sole buyer o f awarded lands under the land redistributionprogram; (iv) a prohibition
against tenancy arrangements; (v) the general demise o f landmarkets due to agrarian reform; (vi)
lack o f an efficient mechanismto resolve landdisputes; (vii) lack o f information needed by
courts to hear landcases. With respect to risk, crop insurance exists on a small scale but, as inso
manyother countries, has suffered from covariant risks due to lack ofdiversity.

19.      While there i s now no usurylaw, there are still intermittent political threats to subsidize
credit programs and cap interest rates, particularly at election times. So far these seem to have
been resisted but the threats remain. However, there are a number o f programs including the
Agrarian Reformprogramo f landredistributionwith subsidized lendingand other programs
through the Department o f Social Welfare, some at zero percent interest, insupport o f 47 o f the
neediest provinces. There are also a number o f grant plus cost recovery social welfare programs
incertainsectors that provide the equivalent ofsubsidized interest rates andthere are also a
number o f subsidiesto Local Government Units (LGUs). There has been no aggregate analysis
o f what the net effect of all these market distortions i s on the levelness o f the playing fiefd for the
entry o f other players.

20.      The People's Credit andFinanceCorporation(PCFC). PCFC, a government owned
and controlled corporation whose vision i s to be the leader inthe provision o f microfinance
products and services, was selected as the microfinance wholesaler under the project. PCFC i s
not a bank and cannot take deposits. It i s a finance company registeredwith the Securities and
Exchange Commission. It was established in 1995, only two years before the project, to provide
financial services to the poor and later was given the mandate for the delivery o f micro-finance
services for the poor. It was initially capitalizedby funds from the National Livelihood Support
Fund. PCFC is LBP's main conduit for the delivery o fmicrofinance services andwas so under
FWIII.It is expected that eventually PCFC will beprivatized and there is apparently an executive
order to that effect. PCFC has the remit to provide wholesale funds to micro-finance institutions
inall provinces. Ithashadfunds from anumberof sources including anADB/IFADRural
Micro-enterprise Finance Project (US$33.7 million o f which US$7.4 million was for institutional
capacity buildingo f micro-finance institutions).

21.     PCFC's performance ratios indicated inthe PAD at the time o f appraisal showed that it
had so far maintained a high-quality o f loan portfolio with a past-due ratio o f only 0.5% o f its
loan portfolio. It was, at that time, allotting 2 percent to provisioning. It had highliquidity.
Capital to risk asset ratio declined from 66 percent in 1997 to 46 percent in 1998 due to the
increase inthe loan portfolio. Financial projections prepared for PCFC at about the time o f
appraisal showed expectations o f increasing Real Profit after tax and improved Risk Asset to
Equityratio.

22.     Over the period of the project, PCFC has been strengthened inmany respects, although
there remain concerns about the longer term sustainability o f an institutionplaying this role that
cannot take deposits. It has become a stronger financial institution than it was in2002. Equity
has increased somewhat, all from retained earnings. Total resources more than doubled.
Lending increased threefold. Operating costs have been reduced significantly from 12% in2000
to about 3% in2006 but, as noted inthe ICR, this i s still highfor a wholesale operation. Table 2
shows a selection of the main ratios.

                                                    30                                        Annex B



23.     BSP have, over recent years, issued a number o f Circulqs to ensure the safety and
soundness of microfinance institutions but BSP recognizes that it will take systematic training to
develop the capacity to adequately supervise microfinance institutions. Donors have been
supporting this effort. The regulation o f credit cooperatives and credit unions has beenweak
through the Cooperative Development Authority. The National Cooperative Council developed
performance indicators that have now been tested and adapted. The main microfinance need now
i s for MFI skills to make sound lendingjudgments while substantially expanding operations to
both smaller and larger clients.

24.     Targeted Lendinginthe RuralSector. While the targetingo flendingunder the project
was relatively loose, simply excluding metropolitan areas, over the period o f the project there
was substantial targetedlendinginthe agriculture sector under various Department o f
Agriculture schemes. Targeting was by both agricultural enterprise (even separating InbredRice
from HybridRice) and by region. LBP was the conduit for some o f this lendingbut private banks
had a larger share. The Agri-Agra Law (PD7 17) requiredcertainmandatory percentages o f all
bank's credit to go to Agrarian Reform Credit and Agricultural Credit programs. However, since
1999, alternative compliance was permittedthrough such means as investment inLBP
agricultural bonds, other bonds, low-cost housing, and special-purpose treasury bonds for
agriculture.

25.     Bank-fundedProjects. RFIIIfollowed immediately after RFII.BothRFIand RFIIhad
been rated Satisfactory by IEGalthough Institutional Development was rated only Modest due
mainly to LBP's inability to cut losses inthe agrarianreform loanportfolio, the ad hoc basis o f
the dividendpayable to GOP, and the application of GOP own funds to targeted lending at below
market interest rates when political pressures were great enough. (These are all concerns that
have remainedto a greater or lesser extent under RFIII, inparticular pressures for below market
rates may now be reduced.)

26.     At the time of appraisal, there were two other projects relevantto the financial sector, the
Banking SystemReform Loan and the Private Enterprise Credit Support Project. Currently, there
are a number o f projects with links to the rural sector either recently closed or still active. These
include: the Community Based Resources Management Project, the Local Government Units
Finance and Development Project, Mindanao Rural DevelopmentProject (First and Second
Phase), the Diversified FarmIncome and Market Development Project, the National Program
Support for Environment andNRMP, and the Second Agrarian Reform Communities
Development Project. There are three projects with some funding channeled through LBP, a new
project supporting investment for LGUs and the private sector for local services,30Manila Third
Sewerage Project, and a National Fluorocarbon Phase out Grant.

27.     DonorCoordination.Thereare a number ofother donors who have supported rural
finance over the last 10 years including particularly JICA (through DBP), KfW, ADB, and
USAID. The majority have focused on microfinance. USAIDhas had success with their Micro-
enterprise Access to Banking Services Program (MABS).This has helpedmany rural banks to
become major players inthe microfinance sector. It offers a step-by-stepapproach to


30 This projecttook the Boardslot of what would havebeen RFIV.

                                                           31                                                 Annex B



 microfinance taking into account the multiplicity o f income from various sources, the ability o f
 farmers to make rational decisions, the borrower's character and capacity to repay. The program
 has also supported participating rural banks inoffering mobile phone bankingservices.

 28.     Donor coordination i s considered adequate by most respondents. There i s a Philippines
 Development Forum that includes government and meets regularly and has a number o f thematic
 or sectoral subcommittees. However, indiscussion, a few Bank and other donor staff appeared to
 suggest that not enough concrete progress on the important issues was made at such meetings.


 Table 1.LBP's Financial Ratios and Figures

I                                  11999          I2000          I2005             I2006           I2007       I2008    I
 Loan Portfolio (Peso bill.) 106.7                   108.8        121.5              120.8          134.6       184.7
 Net NPA/Equity %                    109.4           138.3        33.2               19.9           12.5        10.6
 RealReturnon Equity YO -1                           0.4          8.64               9.24           10.19       6.47
 CAR Yo                              10.1            10.6         14.4               13.5           14.0        14.4
 SDI Yo                              2.0             20.8         -47.0              -32.6          -35.9       NA



 Table 2. PCFC Financial Ratios and Figures

                                   I 1999         I2000          I2005            I2006            I2007      I2008     I
 Net'Ln.Balance (P. mill.)                           1,027        2,972              3,102          2,849       3,237
 Net Past Duemquity (YO)                             (2.5)        (8.0)              (10.9)         (4.3)       (0.6)
 Real Profit    (%)31                                (6.1)        (0.3)              2.8            2.9         3.9
 Portfolio at Risk (YO)                              17.8         7.1                6.0            8.5         10.3
 CAR(%)                                              91.4         42.5               41.9           44.0        34.9
 SDI                                                 72           2.83               (20.6)         2.6         NA




 3 1 RealProfit = Nominal profit -((equity start o f year -net fixed assets at start o f year)*inflation rate)


                                                33                                 Annex C



Annex C. People Met32

World Bank
Iain Shuker
Arie Chupak
Carolina Figueroa-Geron
Mark Woodward
Hoonae Kim

LandBank
Cecelia Borromeo, Exec. Vice President, InstitutionalBankingand Subsidiaries Sector
Julio Climaco, First Vice President, Strategic Planning Group
Noemi DelaPaz, Vice President, Program Lending Group
Gabriel Jayme, Vice President, Wholesale LendingDepartment
Antonio Hugo, Vice President, Corporate Planning and Central MIS Department
Vivian-Manuel Canonero, Dept.Manager, Iloilo LendingCenter
Margarita Cabrera, Head PMIS Unit,WLD
Briccio Creag, Team Head, PLEMUnit, WLD
ErwinAlmacen, Bank Executive Officer, Corporate Planning
Blesilda Coroza, Accounts Officer, WLD
Prudencio Calado, Acting Head, Environmental Program and Management Department
MariaVeronica Tuala, Accounts Officer, WLD

PCFC
Edgar Generoso, Presidentand CEO
Atty. Noel Poso, Vice PresidentAccount Management Group

BangkoSentralngPilipinas(CentralBank)
Mr.Botardo, MicroSMEUnit
Z. Rho, MicroSMEUnit

Government
CharissaHipolito, Director 111, Corporate Affairs Group, Department of Finance
RenaCuarez, HeadDept, Corporate Operations

Other PFIs
Sheryl Luy, Banco D e Oro, Manila
RolandDillague, Vice President Special Lending, Banco De Oro
Nanette Biason, Senior Manager, Bank of the Philippine Islands, Iloilo
Adonis Liang, Manager Account Officer, Bank of the PhilippineIslands, Iloilo
Ana Kwan, Senior Vice President, Credit Supervision and Services Group Head, Planters
Development Bank
Staff of Taytay sa Kauswagan, MFINGO


32 Ina few cases interactionwas by phone.

                                              34                                 Annex C




Donors
TeresitaEspenilla, Project ManagementSpecialist, USAID
Flerida Chan, Senior Program Officer, JICA (now amalgamatedwith JBIC)

Clients
William How, President, Universal Harvester Inc.
Milagros Ong-How, Executive Vice President, Universal Harvester Inc.
J. Bautista, Manager, Armour Milling, Batangas
Davy Barlin,General Manager, A1 New Creations, Iloilo
Rowena Barte-Zulueta, Executive Director, Illonggo ProducersAssociation, marketshandicrafts
Manager, Retcom Aquafarm, Iloilo
Andy Sibayanand Dennis, Agri Poultry Dressing Plant, Sta Barbara, Iloilo
Noreimi, small business client inIloilo baranguy and chair of group
Madelaine, small business, client inIloilo

Others
Staff of SouthEast Asia FisheriesDev. Center
Gilbert Llanto, Vice Chairman CARD (NGO and commercial bank) and academic researcher

                                                       35                               Annex D




Annex D, Borrower Comments




          lune 25, 2009

          ms. MONIKA HVPPI
          Manager
          %or    Evaluation Divishn
          LndepeMent EvatuationGroup
          me WorldBank

          Dear Ms. HUM:

          Tiis refers to the draR Project Performme Assessment Reprrrt on the Third
          Rural Finance Projeil (JARn 44130j.
                                      -
          Generally, we find the assessment repwtacceptable,However, we are endosing
          our comrnenps to some observations and we have updated some data on the
          repxt for your consi.ieration.

          Thank you and be$tregards.


          very t d y yours,
          ,,&Ae&+#
         'GiLDA E. PlCO
          Presidentand CEO

                                                   36                                       Annex D




LBPs Comments on the draft World eank                      - LEG Prolei3 Performance
Assessment Report


    1. Pagexi -5"' paragraph,

       * line 4, please put"0" in micro-financesystem
           line 5, please correct the acronym of Land Bank of the Philippinesas LBP
           instead of U P .
       4   line 7, to delete the word"to" betweenthe wards helpand enforce)

    2. Page 2, Para. 1.6 the last M o setltences stake that:
                           -
       "LBP's dividend to government is Imposed upon it. This has been an area of
       uncertainv because, although the law requires a payment of 50 percent of the
       previous year's net Income, in practice Is has been a matter for annual
       negotiation."

           We suggest the followingrevisions:

            "LBP, being a government financialin&?ution is requiredby law lo declare 50
           percent of its fncome f i the previcrus year as divfdend to the National
           Government.LBPalwaysmanages to negatlatefor a lower dividendrate with
           the Depament of Finance. For the last five years (low to 2008), the cash
           dividend rate averaged 25 percent of its net income and d total of P 1.1
           Bilionstock Giifeds have been dedared.         'I


           Thjs revisionshould also apply to para. 18 of page 28 underAnnex 9.

    3. Page 2, para. 1.7, grid line
       corporation" instead of " , , government-owned bank". This will also correct
                                       -.Pleaserevise as "government owned and controlled

       controlledcorporation" insteadof "government-ownedabank, ,"
       page 29, para. 22 which should read as 'PCFC,              government-owned and


    4. Page 2, footnote no, 2 and Page 27, footnote no, 26 we suggest delettonof
                                                                 -
       both footnotes vhl& state that 'Zis irnpmnr t~understand &at the staff of
       LBP are civilsewants and subjecl to the same incentives and rules as uther dW
       servants including the same level ofjob securiij!, pension rights, rightsof appeal
       andslmihrpay sw/es,"

    5. Page 6, Para. 3.6    -  "While relevanceof designwas found to be generally sound
       and is rated Substantial, this assessment finds four areas of weakness and
       expands on some of #em in the subsequent paragraphs.          ..
                                                                       IThird, the project
       design gave limited support for the strengtheningof PFIs or NGOs and groups;
       We main focus was on LBP and PCFC, yet much of the ruralfinance constraint in
       rural areas, both then and now, lies with instltutionalcapacity and skills. It was
       too optimistic to expect that the pressures of accreditation along with the
       exlstingtraining capacity of LBP and PCFC, in any caw of uncettain additionality
       since these were partly on-going programs, would address skills development
       sufficiently."


LBP commonls on PPAR.doc Pzgm 1of 2 I June2008




                          \

                                           37                                            Annex D




EBPs Comments on Ehe draft World Bank                   - IEG Project Performance
Assessment Repon




  6.

  7. Page 11, para 3.24   -to  con& "LDP" as" LBP."

  8. Page i4, para. 3,35, line 7 - We suggest that "over 40 years" be repiaced with
      "45years".
  9. Page 24, Annex A
      On page32, to rewse therdect
                         -To           as "Els. Lisa Valenzuela" irstead of "Cafcnruela".
                                  folowing listedon Annex C:
              Ms, Carolina Rguerog- Geron
              Ms. Vivian Manuel - Caiioaero
              Mr. PrudencigCalado
              Ma. Vera-     Tuala
              Margarb Cabrera, Head, PMISUnit,WQ
              Mr. BriccioCrag, Team Head, PLEM Unit,llys,,E
   10. Page 27, para. 14  -We suggest the following rwislons to update data under
      Annex 3:
      I                           --
      1 Deposits .. ."P 290
                        From                                         To
                           Dillion in 206%      1 "P 334 billionby endof 2008"             1




                                 NPL) .  .                                               -11
                                          , 3.6 Nanperformmg Loans (NPL) ratio
                                                '
                                   * .            2.9 percentbyendof 2008          ...   ...1
                                                                                            I


   11.Page 31, Annex 6, Table 1 Revision of 2006 taan Portfolio from '120.4" to
                                      -
      "320.8".

   12. Page 31, Tabre2   -PCFCreqiiestedthe update       of finanrial ratios and figures as
      follows (computatlonattached):




LBPcommentson PPARW PPge 2 of 2 / June2009

                                     38    Annex D




k0Pl.E'S CRCDm& FINANCE    CORP~RAT~ON
A Micro-Ftrmnce C o m p j

                                                      39                                              Annex D




 Las:Allow-       focm.LWS   (48,950,311.33)  (195,711,334.931 (226,767,23331) (268,977,7M).52)  (241,265.3ss.Wl
                           1,028,~70,W.19 2,971,M8,357.26     3.402,8(1,298.32 2,W.754,521.51 3237,527m.03



Mams inL d l p h n             3,525.8 19.36     6,035,459.36   56,474.786.09     49,066.137.45    49.W6,137.46
 Less!AllcwmefwPrrrb. toss   (48,%50.311.33)  (195,711,334.93) (228.36?,23331)  (208,977.750.62) (241.285,355 50)
N dPutoue                    I25.500.810.46)  (1OS,Jso42733)   (I4t3,000830933)  {M,*sic,3?82s)    &683,383,17)

w l t y                    1.039992908.73    f,280.841,872.25 1334,273,793.83 1.2&a,OW.f.a8.f5 1,152,445,042.84

Rauo                                   4 5%             -8.0%           -10.9%            -4.3%            -0.6%




                                       8.1%             4.3%             2.8%             2 9%             3 9%

if7lwcm*(per     U P 1              6 70000           6.WW             4.13410          1.01819         0,00673

d)CAR
Capital                    1,039,992,908.73 1,290,041,672.25 1,334,273,793.83 1384,063,148-15   I,152,445,042,&4
RiskAss&                   1,137,@11,009.55 3,0W8,404,00S.35 3,185,406,728.18  2,917,884,95406  3,302,012,888.96

                                      91.4%            42.596           413%             14.0%            34.MI


