Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8192-TU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TURKEY
SEC*Nfl AGRICULT-RAL. EXTENSION MA)D APLIED RESSEARC  PRvJECT
FEBRUARY 22, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a resdticted dtrbutdon and may be tisad by redpients only In the performanc of 
their officml duies ib content may not otherwise be dhdosed wihout World Dbnk autborbaion.



CkUJRECYOUTVALENT
Turkish Lira  TL) I - US$0.0005 ia
TL 2,100 - US$1.00
FISCALXK
January 1 to December 31
VEIGHTS AND MEASUESS
Metric Unit System
Metric Unit                                British/US Equivalent
1 milimeter (mm)                  -       0.039 inch
1 meter (m)                       -        39.37 inch
1 kilometer (km)                  -       0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)                    -       2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km&)          -       0.386 square mile
1 liter (1)                       -       0.264 gallon (USA)
1 kilogram (kg)                   -       2.2046 pounds
1 metric ton (m ton)              -       2,205 pounds
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AE    -  Agricultural Engineer (Agricultural graduate)
AEARP    -  Agricultural Extension and Applied Research Project
AES    -  County Agricultural .-tension Superv. or
CAYKUR    -  Government Tea Agency
CCC    -  Central Coordinating Comnittee
CD    -  County Agricultural Director
CEC    -  Central Executive Committee
EIC    -  Extension Information Coordinator
FTE    -  Farmer Training and Extension Section
GDOS    -  General Directorate of Organization and Support
GDPC    -  General Directorate of Protection and Control
GDPI    -  Genera:. Directorate of Project Implementation
GDRS    -  General Directorate of Rural Services
GOT    -  Government of Turkey
MAFRA    -  Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs
PDA    -  Provincial Director of Agriculture
RC    -  Research Coordinator
RCC    -  Regional Coordination Committee
SEE    -  State Economic Enterprise
SEKER    -  Government Sugar Factories
SMS    -  Subject Matter Specialist
TCZB    -  Agricultural Bank of Turkey
TEKEL    -  Government Tobacco Agency
TKV    -  Development Foundation of Turkey
VGT    -  Village Group Technician
VGTC    -  Village Group Technician Center
i_ Exchange rate prevailing at time of appraisal (May 1989).



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ECON4D AGRICULTURAL EXTENS3ON AND APPLIED RESEARCH PRiOJig
Table of Contents
page No.
Loan and Project Summary          ..........................iii
I.  PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROU4D .................................1
A.  Introduction ...........................................      1
B. Agricultural Sector .1
C.  Bank Group Lending ........................................ 5
II.  AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION IN TURKEY ............................... 8
A. General ........... 8
B. Project Area ........... .. 9
C. Rationale for Bank Involvement ............................ 11
III. THE PROJECT ....                 ....... 12
A.  Project Objectives ...........  12
B.  Summary Description ...........  12
C. Project Details ........... 13
D. Crlt- FVatt1tes ............................................ 21
E.  Procurement .................................,,,,.. 23
F. Disbursements .                                               25
G. Accounts and Audits .                                         26
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .                                      27
A. Central Level .                                               27
B. Provincial Level .                                            28
C.  Project Assessment, Reporting and Mid-term Review .28
V.   BENEFITS. JUSTIEICATIONS AND RISKS      ..29
A. Benefits and Justification .29
B. Environmental Effects .30
C. Risks .31
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .31
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Turkey in May/June, 1989. Mission members included Messrs. Henry P. Gassner,
Michael G. Saddington. Willem Zijp (IBRD), Sam R. Freiberg and Ms. Gulten
Cakir (Consultants). Ms. Haeyoung Lee processed the project cost estimates,
and Ms. Gonul Moray typed and produced the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(il)
Table of Contgnta (cont'd)
1. Financial Data
Table 1: Detailed Cost Estimates
Table 2: Estimated Annual Expenditures
Table 3: Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table 4: Proposed Allocation of Loan Funds
2.  Agricultural Extension Organization
3.  Agricultural Research Component
4.   Additional Resources
Table 1: Incremental Staff
Table 2: Vehicles
Table 3: Extension Equipment
Table 4: VOT and SMS Team Distribution by Provivce
5.   Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
*HARTS
1.   ImplementatLon Schedule
2.   MAFRA Organization Structuie
3.   Provincial Extension Service Organization
IBRD No. 22041 - Project Area



(iii)
TM
83COND "AGRICLTURAL RITIN=ION AND APPLIED RESRARCE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Government of Turkey.
Beneficlaries: Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs.
Av.gm=:         US$63.0 million equivalent.
Terma:          Seventeen years, with a five-year grace period, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
kroQeit         The project would be the second phase in the Government of
Descri1tlon:    Turkey's (GOT) program to strengthen provincial extension
services. It would upgrade extension services in an
additional 19 provinces in a program GOT commenced in 1984
under the Agricultural Extension and Applied Research Project
(La. 2405-TU). The project would improve the implementation
and management of provincial extension systems through
diagnosing farmers' problems, subsequently formulating
improved appropriate technical recoeusudations to solve these
problems, decentralizing and mobilizing project staff and
providing training and strong technical support of field
staff. To improve extension staff's contact with farmers, the
project would provide housing in the villages, vehicles and
equipment. It would provide additional specialist staff and
training to widen the range of technical support given to
field staff, and assist them in their work. The project would
support research institutes, which would backstop the project
area extension services, by providing additional training
facilities, vehicles, equipment, research staff and training.
The project would develop strong linkages between extension,
research and farmers through diagnostic surveys, establishing
Research Extension Liaison Departments in research institutes,
and bimonthly training workshops. The project would formulate
responses to the needs of homogenous categories of farmers,
monitor farmers' uptake and reactions to extension
recommendations, and transfer research-based recommendations
to reduce the degradation of Turkey's environment and
agricultural resources. It would initiate a pilot program to
train women engaged in agriculture, and a pilot program of
mobile veterinary units to supply improved livestock health
services in the villages. Finally, it would provide technical
assistance to help implement the project, and funds to prepare
a follow-up project.



(iv)
bnefits         The project would upgrade and strengthen the provincial
sad Risks:      extension services' capabilities to diagnose farmers'
productivity problems and to extend improved, appropriate
technology to solve them. This would translate into increased
farm production, improved quality of agricultural commodities
and animal health, expanded exports and higher farm income.
The project would also help to renew and preserve Turkey's
agricultural resource base, and reduce pollution and
contamination of water and food. Main risks include farmers
possibly not adopting improved technology, budgetary
shortfalls, inadequate training, slow vehicle procurement and
civil works construction, and ineffective project management.
Diagnostic studies should result in a better appreciation of
farmers' needs and problems so that the research/extension
recommendations are more readily acceptable to them. Funding
constraints would be lessened by limiting new staff
recruitment and, through detailed extension planning,
promoting a more efficient utilization of available staff.
A skillgap analysis should result in the designing of more
suitable training programs; early preparation of bidding
docuw,ents should speed procurement; while training,
comnrlemented by technical assistance, would help strengthen
project management, and coordination committees would assist
resolve project implementation problems.
Estimated Costs:
Local        Forein           Total
-==------- (US$ million) ----------
Extension                               47.9           48.7            96.6
Research                                 I              1Q             10.8
Total Baseline Costs                  51.7           55.7           107.4
Physical Contingencies                   6.7            6.7            13.4
Price Contingencies                     11.12.                         24
Total Project Cost                    10.3                          145.4 Li
LA Includes US$3.1 million taxes and duties.



(v)
Pintacndn Plan:
Local        Foreig            Total
------ (US$ million) ----------
GOT                                       70-3           12.1             82.4
IBRD                                                     63.0             63.0
70.3           75.1           145.4
tmated Disbursooments:
IBRD Fiscal Year
90     91     92      93     94      95     96     97
------------------ (US$ million) ------------------
Annual               4.0   2.0    6.0   10.0   14.0   13.0    8.5    5.5
Cumulative          4.0   6.0   12.0   22.0   36.0   49.0   57.5   63.0



DRAFT SITF     rMIALIRUiPOR
TU
SECOND A'iRICULTUR U MMTERSION AND APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
I. PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Introductign
1.01      The Government of Turkey (GOT) has requested the World Bank to
assist in financing a project to strengthen its agricultural extension
services. The project is the second phase of the Government's program for
upgrading provincial extension services and would extend to 19 additional
provinces (out of the 71 provinces of Turkey) the improvements in extension
practices introduced in 181/ provinces under Loan 2405-TU (Agricultural
Extension and Applied Research). The project would assist GOT in
strengthening the field testing, demonstration and transmission of improved
crop and livestock production practices to farmers, the establishment of
priority extension goals and the planning activities to achieve them, and
expanding the use of feedback from farmers and field agents in the setting of
applied research priorities and programs.
1.02      GOT identified and prepared the project with some technical
assistance provided by consultants employed under the first extension project
and by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO)/IBRD Cooperative Programme.
This report is based on GOT's feasibility report (Agricultural Extension and
Applied Research Project TYUAP Phase II, MAKRA, April 1989), and the findings
of an appraisal mission which visited Turkey during May/June 1989.
B. Agricultural Sector
1.03      Struc=e. Agriculture is an important sector in the Turkish
economy. Although declining in relative importance, it still generates 17X of
GDP and over 201 of export earn1nr-, while providing about 501 of civilian
employment. The rate of growth of agricultural production is below that of
the rest of the economy, but agriculture will continue to be important in
meeting domestic food and industrial raw material requirements, and in
providing foreign exchange earnings and employment.
1.04      Turkey has 41.6 million ha of agricultural land and present land use
is as follows:
1,   Loan 2405-TU initially covered 16 provinces.  Two of the project
provinces were subsequently split to become four provinces.



- 2 -
Present Land Use
Area        Percent of
(million ha)     8rich   Lnnd
(X)
Field crops                           18.1             44
Fallow                                  5.8            14
Orchards/vineyards/vegetables           35
Total crop land                  27.4             66
Pastures and meadows                  JA.2             34
Total agricultural land          41.6            100
About 3.2 million acres are irrigated (18X of the cropped area) with a
substantial increase planned for the 1990s as a result of ongoing works on the
Euphrates River. Irrigation presently receives some 651 of the pubic sector
agricult'kral investments, and generates 401 of the crop output and 251 of
agricultural exports. Turkey's western provinces, with generally favorable
climatic conditions, are agriculturally the most developed. Central Anatolia
is the main cereal growing area while mountainous eastern Anatolia has sparse
cereal production in the valleys and livestock which graze the mountain
pastures in summer and are housed in winter. The distribution of farms is
characterized by a large number of small holdings and a few large holdings.
The average farm size is 6.4 ha; 611 of all holdings are under 5 ha, 821 under
10 ha aad 921 under 20 ha. k : Turkish farmers engage in mixed crop and
livestock production; 861 of all farms produce both crops and livestock, and
90% of all agricultural area is devoted to mixed farming.
1.05      Cereals dominate field crop production (75X of sown area), with
wheat and barley constituting nearly 701 of sown area. The next major crops
by area are pulses, followed by industrial crops (cotton, sugar beet,
tobacco), and horticultural crops. By value of production there is not so
much difference between the major crop groups, however, wheat is still the
most important intiividual crop, followed by cotton, barley and grapes. Crop
production contributes lout 671 of total agricultural Gross Domestic Product,
while livestock contributes 33X.
1.06      Turkey has a large livestock resource, with over 12 million cattle,
40 million sheep and 13 million goats. Commercial poultry production is
important, while apiculture and sericulture are valuable sources of income for
landless rural people. Low income areas, predominantly in the eastern
provinces, support the major part of the country's livestock herd under low
input/low output conditions. Because severe winters restrict the growing
season, and the degraded nature of much pasture and rangeland, many animals
suffer a considerable feed deficit for four to six months each year, which is
only partially offset by crop residues and conserved forages.
1.07      Development Objectives.  GOT's main agricultural sector development
objectives a&e to: (a) modernize production techniques to raise productivity,
yield and farmer income; (b) maintain food requirements of a growing
population; and (c) promote agricultural exportL.



- 3 -
1.08      Strategies.  Since 1980, GOT has adopted a wide-ranging program of
structural reforms throughout the economy, representing a sharp break from the
past policies emphasizing central controls and an import substitution
development strategy. Overall, the new policies were designed to promote
increased efficiency and growth through greater rellance on market forces and
the private sector, and to promote a more outward o-ientation of the economy.
While key changes were introduced in macroeconomic and '.ndustrial policy, the
progress on agricultural policy was more limited, although still significant.
Input subsidies were reduced, regulatory restrictions were relaxed and the
private sector encouraged to take a larger role in input distribution and
product marketing. In line with its sectoral objectives, GOT strategies have
emphasized improving agricultural productivity through strengthening research
and extension services, expanding the irrigated area and improving irrigation
efficiency, and encouraging the use of improved seeds and agricultural inputs.
1.09      Major macroeconomic disturbances in 1979/80 and the shift in
agricultural strategy reported in para 1.08 led to an initial sharp decline in
agricultural growth rates in 1980 and 1981. Thereafter, however, growth
resumed to an average 3.91 per year from 1983 through 1987 against GOT's
planned growth of 3.5X per year for 1983-1989. Overall, based on reported
data, agriculture's sectoral performance since 1980 has been satisfactory,
keeping pace with Turkey's aggregate economic output and income growth which
has been excellent. Nevertheless, there are underlying signs of a weakening
in the sector's performance including a lessening in the rate of agricultural
commodity yield increases.
1.10      Issues. Although Turkey has a comparative advantage in the
production of many crops (for example, wheat, barley, cotton, tobacco.
sunflower seeds, olive oil, melons), it is behind many of its competitors in
crop yields and also in crop yield growth rates. Without accelerated progress
in adopting improved technology, Turkey is in danger of losing its
competitiveness in terms of being able to profitably export these crops or
compete successfully against imports. In cotton production, for example,
Turkey's cotton yields are substantially above Pakistan's. Nevertheless,
between 1975 and 1985, Pakistan's average cotton yield increased from 401 to
701 of Turkey's, thus drastically reducing Turkey's competitiveness with
Pakistan. Insufficient research, weak extension services, inappropriate
irrigated farming techniques, and agricultural resource degradation all
contribute to this reduction in productivity growth.
1.11      Extension Services.  While GOT has introduced improved extension
services to 211/ of Turkey's 71 provinces, the remaining provinces are still
operating ineffective extension services. Extension staff are located away
from farmers, are not mobile, are not fully in touch with farmers' needs or
with research findings and thus have often given inappropriate technical
advice. While research services have done excellent work in developing new
technology, in several instances insufficient on-farm research has been done
S    Eighteen ?rovinces financed unGer Loan 2405-TU and three under rural
developmtnt loans 1130-TU and 2094-TU. Extension services have also been
strengthened in portions of additional provinces (for example, under IAEE
Irrigation, Loan 2433-TU).



- 4 -
to adapt improved methods for local areas. Additionally, research services
have run down during MtA lIs reorganization (1984-88) and require rebuilding.
1.12      Irrigated FarEing. Except for the more developed western provinces,
farmers in many irrigated areas are unfamiliar with proper irrigation
practices and techniques. Excessive water use with subsequent drainage and
water-logging problems, insufficient maintenance, and poor agronomic practices
have all led to below potential production and deterioration of the overall
irrigation systems. Extension is needed to train farmers in good sustainable
irrigation procedures and to assist them realize crop and incoma potential.
Recent beneficiaries of irrigation projects in particular require assistance
in adjusting cropping patterns and irrigation practices. As Turkey has
increased irrigated area by about 240,000 ha over the past five years, and
proposes to irrigate about an additional 675,000 ha over the next five to
eight years, improved extension services are critical to ensuring that this
investment produces maximum returns.
1.13     Livestock. Turkey's milk yield per cow and beef carcass weights are
almilar to those in Central Asia grazing-based regions and far below those of
East European countries of similar income levAs. Beef carcass weights appear
to have declined over the last five years. On-fam research with subsequent
extension is essential to test opportunities for herd upgrading, increased
forage and pasture production, and improved livestock management.
1.14     Degradation of Agrcultural Resource Base. Increasing population
densities and intensity of land use ha  considarably iegraded Tu-key' s
agricultural resource base. Cropping of steep, fragile slopes, excessive
grazing of natural pastures, and overcutting of forested areas have greatly
damaged soil resources and led to massive erosion. Excessive and improper use
of fertilizers and pesticides has polluted streams, lakes, and groundwater and
contaminated food production. While economic and social factors will play a
large part in solving these problems, agricultural research and extension will
be essential in formulating and implementing sustainable solutions,
particularly in watershed and rangeland rehabilitation, and introducing
integrated pest management practices.
1.15     Bank's Airicultural Strategy. The Bank has aimed its agricultural
lending at increasing output productivity, exports and rural employment, and
supporting and promoting the necessary policy and institutional reforms in the
sector. The Bank's strategy has included:
(a)  supporting institutional reform, particularly developing improved
research and extension services, establishing a sectoral planning
capability, reforming government enterprises involved in
agricultural marketing and input supply, and improving irrigation
agencies' implementation capabilities;
(b) rationalizing the public sector investment program, particularly in
irrigation, with greater emphasis on quick gestating projects;
(c) expanding the credit supply, particularly for medium and small scale
farmers, together with increasing the efficiency of credit



institutions and improving financial sector policles to encourage
greater private investment ln the sector;
(d)  promoting a greater use of market forces through reducing subsidies
and price supports, interest rate reform and increas.ad involvement
of the private sector in marketing agricultural inputs and products;
and
(e) liberalization the foreign trade regime, including deregulating
exports and imports.
1.16      To meet its agricultural sector objectLves, Turkey must expand and
accelerate ongoLng programs to: (a) lmprove agricultural extension, research
and technical servlces; (b) develop a stronger and more effective network of
financlal intermedlation services and institutions; (c) increase funds
available for agricultural credit; (d) speed up completion of economically
justifled irrigation projects which are currently stretched over 10 to 15
years because of budgetary limitations; and (e) increase the efficiency of
agricultural marketing systems. At the same time GOT should continue the
deregulation of the agricultural sector, particularly by removlng export
levies, phasing out input subsidies, and reducing costly purchase and storage
price support operations.
C. Iank Group lendini
i.i7      Ariculturai Projects.  As of December 31, i989, the Bank Group has
supported 25 agricultural projects in Turkey, of whlch 18 are closed and 7
being implemented. During the 1980s the Bank has financed the following
projects all which support GOTs and the Banks' development objectives and
strategies: projects in livestock, fruit and vegetables, and rural
development which support increased production and institutional development
[Livestock V Project (Loan 1862-TU), Second Fruit and Vegetable Project (Loan
1967-TU), Erzurum Rural Development Project (Loan 2094-TU)I; two agrlcultural
credit projects which support the strengthening of credit institutions and
expansion of agricultural credit [Agricultural Credit II Project (Loan 2318);
Third Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 3090-TU)]; two irrigation/drainage
projects whlch focus on a core program for completing essential drainage and
on-farm development works, strengthening of the invectment planning/
implementation processes, expansion of cost recovery, and strengthening of
technical and managerial capabilities of agency staff [Igdir-Aksu-Eregli-Ercis
Irrigation Project (Loan 2433-TU), Drainage and On-farm Development Project
(Loan 2663-TU)]; an agricultural extension and applied research project aimed
at upgrading and strengthening national agricultural extension systems. and
developing and disseminating appropriate improved technology to lift farmers'
productivity and incomes [Agricultural Extension and Applied Research Project
(Loan 2405-TU)]; an agricultural structural adjustment loan which emphasized
sectoral plannlng and analysis in MAFRA, rationalization of public expenditure
(especially irrigation), liberalization of the trade regime, seed and
fertilizer pricing and distribution, and managerial strengthening of
fertilizer distribution and State Economic Enterprises (SEEs) involved in seed
production and distribution [Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 2585-
TUO,; and an agroindustry project which supports the processing of
agricultural produce, focusses on restructuring existing enterprises, and



- 6 -
developing and/or strengthening technical, financial and marketing
institutions in the private sector [Agroindustry Project (Loan 3077-TU)]. The
proposed project would be a second stage in the strengthening of extension
systems throughout Turkey, and would be a major component in the Bank's
strategy to raise agricultural incomes and long-term agricultural growth.
1.18     Extension Projects.  Extension components were included in a number
of early Bank-assisted projects in Turkey as support to specific investments
in infrastructure or farm development. The component was usually implemented
by establishing a special project extension unit independent of the existing
provincial extension services beginning with the Seyhan Irrigation Project
Stage I (Credit 34-TU) followed by the Seyhan Irrigation Project Stage II
(Loan 587/Credit 143-TU). It was under the Stage II project that the training
and visit system (T&V, of extension was first introduced, prior to its
inclusion in many Bank-supported projects in other countries. Similar project
extension units were created in subsequent Bank-assisted projects in Turkey,
such as Fruit and Vegetables Export Project Loan (Loan 762/Credit 257-TU),
Irrigation Runabilitation and Completion Project (Credit 281-TU),
Ceyhan-Aslantas Multipurpose Project (Loan 883/Credit 360-TU), Corum-Cankiri
Rural Development Project (Loan 1130-TU), and the Fruit and Vegetable II
Project (Loan 1967-TU). In the early projects, the project extension units
were disbanded upon project completion and their methodology ignored by the
general extension service. However, the contribution of the improved
extension service, especially in dryland farming, to farmers' income in the
Corum-Cankiri project through stressing fallow reduction and introducing
winter vetches and food legumes convinced GOT officials of the desirability to
introduce improved extension services progressively to all its provinces. As
a first step, agreement was reached in 1981 between GOT and the Bank to merge
the two parallel services of the Corum-Cankiri extension unit with the
provincial services to assure continuity of improved extension methodology.
Beginning with the Erzurum Rural Development Project (Loan 2094-TU), the focus
was in strengthening the existing provincial extension organization..
1.19     The first Agricultural Extension project (Agricultural Extension and
Applied Research Project 'AEARPI - Loan 2405-TU) was approved in 1984.
However, following a Government change, a major reorganization occurred
merging the Miaistry of Village Affairs into an enlarged Ministry of
Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs (MA2FRA). Furthermore, major steps
were taken to decentralize control of technical services and to improve
coordination at the provincial level. The provincial services merged the
Directorates of Extension, Veterinary and Plant Protection Services under one
Provincial Director of Agriculture (PDA) in each province reporting directly
to the Undersecretary of MAFRA. Also, at the national level in Ankara, the
General Directorate of Agriculture Affairs with line authority for most crop
research and extension services, was abolished and three new General
Directorates established providing only advisory authority in extension
(General Directorate of Organization and Support Services - GDOS), veterinary
and plant protection (General Directorate of Protection and Control - GDPC)
and implementation (General Directorate of Project and Implementation - GDPI).
The new organization of NAFRA did not become fully operative until late 1986
and delayed implementation of AEARP by at least two years. Additional time
was also required to train PDAs to carry out their new responsibilities under
the decentralized system and to replace directors Who did not carry out their



- 7 -
now responsibilities adequately. Implementation was further delayed by the
slow process within NAFRA in determining how to organize its agricultural
research activities, and only in late 1988 was an operational scheme put in
place with GDPI having prime responsibility for about 80X of all agricultural
research in MAFRA.. These delays have seriously affected AEARP implementation,
especially for the agricultural research component. Nevertheless, extension
services in the project area have improved, particularly with regard to
management of extension at the provincial level, and the forging of stronger
linkages between research and extension. Successful implementation has
particularly occurred in those provinces with effective uanagement thrrolgh its
PDA and/or familiarity with the Corum-Cankiri Rural Development Project.  A
number of PDAs or Directors of Farmer Training and Extension received their
experience in Corum or Cankiri province and were transferred to one of the 18
provinces of AEARP to provide institutional guidance. Project implementation
continues to improve and despite the hindrances and delays, the project
already is having a major impact in improving production methods and farmer
knowledge of improved technology.    The better managed provinces have
considerably improved their extension planning and dissemination of
appropriate technology to farmers, while all project provinces are providing
better extension services than those in neighboring non-project provinces.
1.20      Research comonents. Linkages between extension and research have
traditionally been weak. While funds were provided under the Fruit and
Vegetable II Project for strengthening citrus research oriented to solving
farmers' problems, significant Bank efforts to assist in improving
extension-research linkages did not occur until AEARP. AEARP included
measures to strengthen agricultural research entities' ability to solve
farmers' problems on a regional basis through participating with provincial
extension services in training of Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs), and
receiving feedback on farmers' concerns from the extension servic. through
monthly workshops and other provincial or regional meetings. This aspect of
the project has been most successful with the research institutes backstopping
the project area extension services providing effective training sessions for
SMSs and some VGTs, developing appropriate technology for project area
farmers, and bringing research and extension staff into closer communications.
However, there is a clear need to strengthen MAFRA's agricultural research
organization to better provide for present and future demands of farmers,
especially since some 801 of the staff have only a Bachelor's degree
equivalent with little training in research methodology. Through the
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (2585-TU), a review was recently completed
of priority needs for strengthening MAFRA's agricultural research system,
which could be the basis of future Bank assistance through a separate
Agricultural Research Project.
1.21      Project Performance Audit Reports.  The Bank's Operations Evaluation
Department has produced four project performance audit reports (PPARs) and one
impact evaluation report concerning Bank-assisted projects in Turkey which
established agricultural extension units. These are: PPAR No. 2747, Seyhan
Irrigation Project Stage II (Loan 587/Credit 143-TU); PPAR No. 3515, Turkey
Irrigation Rehabilitation and Completion Project (Credit 281-TU); PPAR No.
4265, Turkey Fruit and Vegetable Export Project (Loan 762/Credit 257-TU);
Impact Evaluation Report No. 5745, Seyhan Irrigation Project Stage II (Loan
587/Credit 143-TU); and PPAR No. 6756, Ceyhan-Aslantas Multipurpose Project



- a -
(Loan 883/Credit 360-TU) and Corum-Cankiri Rural Development Project (Loan
1130-TU). The two major lessons w'..ich these reports identify regarding
efforts to strengthen and upgrade extension services are firstly, improved
extension systems must be part of or incorporated into the national extension
system if they are to be sustainable. Secondly, long-term planning of
extension activities and better extension/research linkages are vital to an
efficient, effective extension service. Despite several of the extension
units established being highly successful during project implementation, since
they were outside the national system, when the project was completed staff
were gradually moved out of the units, operating funds reduced, and vorn-out
equipment not replaced. It was also found in these situations that although
farmers had accepted higher technology, they still required extension advice,
contrary to GOT's expectations. The experience with these units further
reinforced the Bank's worldwide experience that extension services must have
strong linkages to research to be effective, and there must be adequate
extension planning to ensure extension services adapt to farmers' changing
extension requirements over time. As noted in para 1.18, beginning with the
Erzurum Rural Development Project the Bank's assistance now focuses on
strengthening the existing provincial extension organizations. Additionally
the proposed project is designed to improve extension/research linkages (para
3.24-27) and foster good extension planning through diagnostic surveys (para
3.18) and monitoring of farmer uptake of recommended technology (para 3.36).
II. AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION IN T     ! AIM THE PROJECT AM
A. General
2.01      The reorganization of NAFRA during 1984 to 1986 resulted in each PDA
having six technical sections or departments in addition to administrative and
finance sections (see Chart 3). The six technical sections include Projects
and Statistics, Plant Protection, Livestock Health, Farmers' Training and
Extension, Control, and Support Services. Each Farmers' Training and
Extension (FTE) section handles extension operations in the province and is
staffed with agricultural engineers and technicians and a small number of
SNSs. Within each province HAFRA has county offices headed by a County
Director (CD) and usually staffed with an agricultural engineer, veterinary
specialist, several agricultural technicians, and on occasion village group
technicians (VGT).
2.02      At present MAFRA's agricultural staffing in Turkey's 71 provinces
and 631 counties includes approximately 2,950 agricultural engineers assisted
by 9,300 agricultural technicians; 1,300 veterinarians supported b) 2,450
animal health technicians; and 600 plant protection specialists backstopped by
800 plant protection technicians. Prime responsibility for contact with
farmers in extending new technology now rests with VGTs supported by their FTE
Sections, SMSs, and county staff. VGTs are meant to be in the forefront for
daily contact with farmers. However, so far VGTs, who are operating from the
villages, are mainly based in AEARP project provinces or other provinces which
have had Bank-assisted extension projects. In most provinces, county-based
staff (agricultural engineers and technicians) are responsible for contacting



-9-
farmers. A priority goal of the Bank-assisted extension projects has been
providing the housing, transportation, training, and other support services so
that VGTs can be moved into the villages and supported, thus fostering
increased and more effective contacts with farmers and facilitating the
transfer of improved technology for increasing farm income. This has included
provision of adequate backstopping by qualified SKSs, effective linkages with
agricultural research, living quarters in the village,improved extension
planning based on the existing agroecological and social conditions, improved
information systems, vehicles, and, above all, effective management. As
observed in AEARP, establishing a viable provincial extension system greatly
depends on having an effective PDA as its manager.
2.03      In the past, extension staff have been responsible for extensive
gathering of statistical data and estimating input requirements as well as for
administrative and regulatory functions to comply with central and
bureaucratic procedures. With reorganization at the provincial level, a
number of these functions have been compartmentalized in the sections dealing
with project and statistics, administration, control and support services. It
permits the FTE section to focus primarily on transferring information to and
from farmers, working closely with the agricultural research centers,
preparing provincial extension programs, including on-farm trials and
demonstrations, and preparing and implementing home economics programs.
Nevertheless, VGTs have a range of responsibilities beyond systematic contact
with farmers in the villages under their jurisdiction. In particular they are
the main source for obtaining statistical data on crop areas and yields,
livestock, land utilization, and other items, and conveying this to the county
to be transmitted to the Project and Statistics (P&S) Section of the Province.
These duties of VGTs, apart from extending improved technology to farmers, are
essential for the proper functioning of Government support services but reduce
the time spent by VGTs with farmers for imparting new information important
for long-term benefits. Nevertheless, VGTs should be able to devote some 80X
of their time to extension duties.
2.04      Linkages with Research.  Formal linkages between research and
extension were first developed unoer AEARP. Six research institutes have
provided backstopping services to the extension services of the project's 18
provinces. This has included supplying improved technology developed at the
institutions, conducting monthly workshops for training SMSs, and appointing
extension, information and research coordinators.
B. Pro1ect Are
2.05      The project area covers 19 provinces which are contiguous with
provinces strengthened under AEARP, Erzurum Rural Development Project and
Corum-Cankiri Rural Development Project and were selected based upon their
potential for increasing productivity through currently known technology.
Particular emphasis was placed on opportunities for increasing effectiveness
of irrigation infrastructure. The 19 project provinces (see MAP) are as
follows:
(a) Central Region (Kirsehir, Yozgat, Nigde, Aksaray, Nevsehir,
Kayseri);
(b) Central North Region (Amasya, Tokat, Sivas, Erzincan);



- 10 -
(c) Central Southeastern Region (Gaziantep, Kahramanmaras, Adiyaman,
Nalatya, Siirt);
(d) Mediterranean Region (Antalya, Icel, Adana, Hatay).
2.06      Agriculture is more developed and commercialized in the coastal
Mediterranean provinces but would still benefit substantially by a revitalized
extension network extending into the villages. The inland and mountainous
areas of these same provinces are far less developed than the coastal areas,
and the remaining provinces in the project area are also at a much lower level
of development. Generally, the provinces vary greatly in their agricultural
systems and potentials, and hence in their informational needs.  The 19                 !
provinces are subdivided into 156 counties, and contain 9,494 villages and
approximately 1.1 million farm families. The project areas' agricultural
aspects as contrasted to Turkey as a whole are as follows:
Trkey Li         Proiect &Ara La
Number of villages                     36,126               9,494
Number of farm families (million)           3.1                 1.1
Cultivated Area (million ha)               23.2                 9.0
of which:  rainfed                         20.7                 7.2
irrigated                       3.2                  1.8
field crop                     18.1                  5.1
fallow                          5.8                  2.1
fruits                          1.5                  0.4
vegetables                      0.6                  0.2
vineyards & other crops         1.4                  1.3
Pasture and Meadow (million ha.)           14.2                 5.0
Forest Land (million ha.)                  20.2
Sheep (million head)                       40.4                10.2
Goats (million head)                       13.1                 4.2
Cattle (million head)                      12.4                 2.8
Li Turkey, Statistic Yearbook, State Institute of Statistics, 1987.
LI 1987 MAFRA Statistics.
2.07      At present MAFRA employs 646 agricultural engineers and 2,390
agricultural technicians in the project area provinces of whom 130 (201) and
1,444 (60X), respectively, are at county level (NAFRA survey June, 1989). The
provinces have stationed approximately 100 agricultural technicians in
villages as VGTs, and MAFRA currently owns 90 houses (77 one-family and 13
two-family) at village level to accommodate the VGTs.
2.08      Constraints to Extension.  Extension services in the project area
are hampered by problems of undertrained, underequipped and underutilized
fieldstaff who mainly are located physically away from farmers in the county
centers, with insufficient transport to reach them, with insufficient training
and motivation to find out the needs and expectations of the different groups
of farmers, and with insufficient support from their supervisors and
agricultural engineers concerning the appropriate recommendations to convey.



- 11 -
The result is a fairly unresponsive extension service which does not Involve
farmers in problem identification, which has inadequate planning and
targeting, and which has not sufficiently developed monitoring of farmers'
feedback, or research linkages.
2.09     Lessons Learned from A1ARP. AEARP addressed most of these issues by
moving field staff closer to the client population, by making staff mobile, by
ensuring the relevance of recommendations and by managing the system better.
As already noted in para 1.17, AEARP has considerably improved extension
services in its project area. Nevertheless, implementing AEARP has taught
several lessons which the project would incorporate.
2.10     Organization of SMS Teams. Under AEARP eight-member provincial SMS
teams are located at the provincial capital, while in the larger provinces
additional four-member county-group SMS teams are located in a county to
service a group of counties. The provincial SMS team supervises the county
level teams. Several problems have surfaced including: (a) shortage of
qualified staff; (b) insufficient expertise in planning, economics and
extension; (c) muddled task delineation between the provincial and county
level teams; (d) insufficient support to VGTs; and (e) limited involvement of
provincial SMSs in farmers' problems and extension planning. To correct these
deficiencies, the project would: (a) establish all SNS teams to work at the
county-group level; (b) provide initial training for agricultural engineers
selected to become SNSs; (c) allow SMS team composition to be flexible in
numbers and disciplines so that it can be situation-specific; and
(d) emphasize SMS team's major role in VGT training and technical support (see
paras 3.13-3.15).
2.11     Unclear Line of Command.  Under AEARP the double layer of SIS teams
at both provincial and county-group levels has also blurred the line of
command between FTE Director and the county-group SMS teams. All SMS teams
report to the PTE Director. However, with county-group teams located at one
particular county office, the CD has on occasion assumed the team reported to
him, and has attempted to limit their work to the physical boundaries of his
county. Under the project, while SMS teams would be working and located at
the county level, the PDAs would clearly establish with county officials that
the FTE Director would support and supervise all SKS teams, and they would be
responsible for working in a group of counties, not only the one where they
live (para 3.15).
2.12      Project Phasing. Correct phasing and synchronizing of project
activities are essential to successfully upgrade extension services. Under
the prc.ject, provinces would only commence providing improved extension
services once staff have been trained, and provided with hcusing, transport,
audio-visual aids, and ready to participate in the initial diagnostic survey
(para 3.36).
C. Rationale for Sank Imolvement
2.13     The project forms an integral part of the Bank's agricultural sector
development strategy and expands the ongoing program of assistance to
agricultural extension and other technical support services. In the Bank's
experience upgrading extension services takes considerable time, and up to 15



- 12 -
years of financial, technical and supervisory support may be required.'
While the Bank has assisted to finance several projects in Turkey with
improved extension services, these services were confined to relatively small
areas or specific products and were (until the early 1980s) outside the
national extension system. It was only under AEARP that GOT decided to
upgrade its national extension service based upon a model developed with Bank
assistance. Continued Bank assistance is essential to support and help bring
to fruition the institutional changes required to provide effective support to
farmers in upgrading their technology. As noted in paras 2.08-2.10, GOT needs
to further refine some of these organizational changes introduced beginning in
1984. Besides supporting this, the project would also introduce other ideas
to further upgrade the extension service such as diagnostic studies to improve
extension planning (para 3.16), and initial training of SMSs to improve the
quality of support that SHSs give VGTs.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.01      Ob ectI es.  The project's objectives are to:
(a) foster increased productivity and agricultural incomes in the
project area through improving the flow of information concerning
their needs and problems from farmers to MAFRA's extension/research
services, and the transmission of improved, appropriate technology
which is economically and environmentally sustainable through the
extension services to farmers;
(b) contribute to institution building and strengthening of MAFRA's
extension/research services, including, on a pilot basis, hiring
extension workers to meet the needs of women engaged in agriculture;
and
(c) a pilot program to improve animal health services to complement
successful extension services.
B. Summarv Description
3.02      The project's main thrusts are to:  improve the implementation and
mar.,gement of extension services in the project area provinces, i4cluding
formulating responses to the needs of homogeneous groups of farmers and
monitoring farmers' uptake and reactions to extension recommendations; develop
strong linkages between extension, research and farmers; support the research
institutes which would backstop the project area extension services; and
provide training and technical assistance. The project also includes pilot
programs to improve availability of animal health services in the villages and
to provide extension services to women farmers, and funds to prepare the next
M    "Strengthening Agricultural Research and Extension - The World Bank
Experience", OED Report No. 4684, Sep. 1983.



- 13 -
phase of GOT's program to upgrade provincial extension servlces. The project
would include the following components:V1
(a) upgrading provincial agricultural extension servicer by undertaking
diagnostic surveys to develop a basis for extension planning and
research, moving extension staff closer to the farming community
through constructing staff housing in the villages and county
capitals, procuring vehicles, equipment and scientific books and
journals to mobWlize staff and assist them in disseminating
technology to farmers, recruiting additional staff to provide
expertise in agricultural economics and extension methodology/
training, to provide improved extension services to women farmers
and to drive the additional vehicles, providing on a pilot basis
mobile veterinary clinics to improve livestock health services in
the villages, and funds for vehicle and equipment operating and
maintenance costs and new construction upkeep;
(b) strengthening extension/research linkages and supporting 14 research
institutes, which would backstop the project area extension services
by establishing research extension liaison departments, providing
bimonthtly workshops for SMS training, constructing additional
training facilities, recruiting additional staff, providing
vehicles, equipment and scientific books and journals, and funds for
vehicle and equipment operating and maintenance costs and new
construction upkeep;
(c) providing training and technical assistance to assist MAFRA
Implement the project, strengthen staff capabilities, and prepare
the next phase of GOT's program to upgrade provincial extension
services; and
(d) improving monitoring and evaluation of the provinces' agricultural
extension service activities.
C. Proiect Details
Improved Extension Services
3.03     Villagg Level. Under the project MAFRA would construct
approximately 860 village group technician centers (VGTC), consisting of a
two-storey building, including an apartment for the VGT, an office/farmer
meeting room and small storage area, in selected villages throughout the
project area. These, plus the 90 existing houses and offices MAFRA already
owns in villages, would allow the 19 provinces to locate some 950 VGTs in
project area villages (Annex 4, Table 4 gives VGT numbers per province). In
accordance with NAFRA policy, these houses would include a second office/
apartment for such other staff (in addition to the VOTs) as MAFRA may wish to
post in the villages. PDAs and FTE Section Directors would select VGTs from
the reservoir of existing agricultural technicians at provincial and county
level, choosing the better technicians with above average communication
I    Annex 1, Appendix 1 summarizes project activities.



- 14 -
skills. This should allow a budget-neutral transfer (in terms of numbers) of
technicians from provincial and county level to the village level. VGT to
farmer ratios would be roughly 1 to 850 in irrigated areas, and 1 to 1,900 in
dryland areas. While GOT plans to irrigate approximately an additional
675,000 ha of the project area during the project's life, the timing of this
new irrigation is too uncertain to be considered when planning VGT
distribution under the project. This area could require approximately an
additional 50 VGTs. Depending upon timing, the necessary investments could be
accommodated within the allowance for contingencies or be provided by GOT
outside the project when necessary.
3.04      Besides the VGTC, the project would provide each VGT a motorcycle,
office furniture and supplies, demonstration materials and simple equipment
(for example, jortable blackboard, weighing scales, and pest surveillance
equipment such as a magnifying glass and insect traps), and audio-visual
equipment including a slide projector per six VGTs, suitable slides, and video
tapes for playing in village coffee houses. This last equipment would be
stored at the county agricultural supervisor's (AES) office. In areas where
weather or wild dogs makes the riding of motorcycles impossible, two VGTs
would share a pick-up which would also be stationed at AES's office.
3.05      VGTs would work with selected farmer groups.  Each group would be as
homogenous as possible, consisting of farmers with similar agricultural and
financial resources, farming systems and socio-economic circumstances, so that
they could accept the same recommended technology. VGTs and their supervisors
would set the criteria for categorizing farmers (or formulating recommendation
domains) on the basis of the diagnostic study (para 3.16).
3.06      VGTs would spend about 801 of their time in the fields with farmer
groups. They would be responsible for: (a) assisting farmers to articulate
their main problems and pass these onto higher extension and research levels;
(b) giving appropriate technical advice to homogenous groups of farmers to
lift productivity and farm income, (c) with farmers' consent, giving credit
agencies technical advice on farmers' credit needs; and (d) report on farmers'
uptake of suggested new technology and, if farmers reject technology, the
reasons why. Upon their initial arrival in a village, VGTs would undertake a
situation analysis of their project area villages to: (a) enumerate the basic
agricultural data and farming systems; and (b) familiarize themselves with the
area. They would then assist their AESs, SMSs and research staff undertake a
diagnostic survey of the area.
3.07      The county AESs would directly supervise VGTs, and county-group SMSs
teams would support them on technical matters, and train them regularly. SNSs
would not supervise VGTs. Besides this regular fortnightly or monthly
training, VGTs would receive initial training in the project's conceot, their
responsibilities, undertaking the situation analysis and diagnostic study, and
other technical training from research staff.
3.08      Pilot Women Farmers' Extension.  At present extension services do
not train female farmers (except in handicrafts, nutrition and home
economicn). In many areas social practices preclude having male extension
staff working directly with females. The project would establish a pilot
program to train women in improved methods of agricultural production. The



- 15 -
program would evaluate the following methods: (a) training and stationing
female full-time VGTs in villages to train homogeneous groups of women engaged
in agriculture in a similar manner as followed by male VGTs; (b) training
wives of VGTs who are interested in part-time work opportunities (and who are
literate and have other needed skills and who would carry out functions
similar to (a) but on a part-time basis); and (c) developing video cassettes
and other training materials specifically aimed at enhancing the role of women
in the farm community.
3.09      Female VGTs would be placed in villages of selected counties in
Tokat, Er.zincan and Icel provinces, and would cover some 25X of the total
farming families in these three provinces. As women are little involved in
cereal production (mainly mechanized), the counties selected would have
predominantly multicropping farming systems such as fruit, vegetables and
livestock production where women play an important role. Female full-time
VGTs would be selected from agricultural engineers and from existing home
economists. Home economists would be given technical agricultural training
before being placed in villages. Existing VGT training institutes would be
available during the summer for training of home economists and wives of
current VGTs. Project staff would monitor and evaluate the results of the
pilot operations to determine which approaches are most effective and worth
replicating.
3.10      Instead of motorcycles, the project would provide a station wagon
and driver for every two female VGTs. The second apartment/office in selected
VGTCs in Tokat, Erzincan and Icel provinces would be used for female full-time
VGTs. VGT wives serving as part-time VGTs would share office and meeting
space with their husbands. To assist in implementing the program, the project
would also provide six months of locally recruited technical assistance.
3.11      CogansvLryr1.  At county level the project would provide each of the
156 CDs a station wagon, and corresponding AES a house, pick-up, plus office
and audio-visual equipment for training VGTs and farmers.
3.12      While CDs are responsible for all government county agricultural
services and activities, provincial authorities would select an agricultural
engineer or technician for each county to be the county agricultural
extension supervisor. He would work under CD's direction, and would be
responsible for organizing, planning, training and monitoring of county
agricultural extension activities. AESs would be selected from staff
currently at the provincial and county levels and would be chosen according to
the agricultural needs of the region, but also with emphasis on their training
and experience which would help them effectively supervise VGTs. AESs would
supervise VGTs (maximum 10), visiting them in the field; organize VGTs'
regular training; coordinate information gathered and generated in the county;
and coordinate, with the Director FTE, CD and other provincial technical
services, the support SMSs would give the county extension activities.
3.13      County-xroug  Level.  At the county-group level the project would
establish 32 SMS teams, one for not more than every 40 VGTs. On average the
tesms would contain six agricultural specialists, and while they would be
located in either the provincial capital or a county main town, their work
area would cover some Zour to six counties. The project would provide housing



- 16 -
for teams located in county towns (13 teams, so some 78 apartments), vehicles
(one station wagon and one double-cab pick-up per team). audlo-visual
equipment (video camera, recorder/player and monitor) and pest surveillance
equipment. The project would also construct an additional 13 VGT training
halls to be attached to county offices where the teams would train VGTs, and
which presently do not have a suitable training room. SMS teams would train
VGTs in about 60 training rooms or halls, and the project vould provide
audio-visual equipment for 45 of these (see Annex 4, Table 3).
3.14      The teams' composltion and size would depend on the farming systems
in the team's work area. However, all teams would include expertise in
agricultural economics, extension methodology/training, and erosion control.
The FTE Director would select team members from the existing provincial and
county agricultural engineers, however as few of these staff have expertise in
agricultural economics or extension methodology, some 64 additional
agricultural engineers would be recruited. To enable agricultural engineers
to become successful SMSs, all staff selected for SMS positions would receive
six months' initial training (see para 3.28).
3.15      SMS teams' main responsibilities would be to:  (a) regularly train
VGTs in technical matters (groups of about 20); (b) technically support VGTs
in the field; (c) assist AESs plan extension activities in the country; and
(d) liaise with research staff and institutions inside and outside the
province. All sMS teams would work at the county-group level and would report
directly to the FTE Director regarding their work program and its execution.
However, those SMS teams residing in a county would administratively
coordinate through their team leader with the county's CD. All provinces
would administratively locate an SNS team in the provincial capital, while
those with more than one team would locate the additional teams in an
appropriate county capital.
3.16      Diagnostic Surveys.  To develop a basis for extension planning, and
improve feedback to research concerning farmers' productivity problems, the
project would provide for a diagnostic study of each county-group, including
technical assistance to help the provinces undertake the studies (para 3.31).
Multidisciplinary teams, with expertise covering the areas's farming systems,
agricultural economics, rural sociology and women's issues, would undertake
the surveys. The teams would consist of some VGTs, AESs, SMSs from the
appropriate county-group teams, and researchers from the relevant research
institutions. Consultants would train the team members in diagnostic survey
techniques (including training 'trainers" to continue the program in MAFRA)
and assist the teams undertake their work. The surveys would be partially
based on VGT's situation analyses, and would include reviewing these, relevant
secondary data sources, and an exploratcry survey of the county meeting with
farmers, local rural leaders, government staff, input suppliers and other key
informants. The diagnostic survey team would produce a report listing, among
other things, descriptions of county farmers' main farming systems, their most
pressing productivity problems split between those for which appropriate
tested solutions are available and those for which research still needs to
find appropriate technological answers, and ldentlfying different homogeneous
categories of farmers who could accept and use the same technological
intervention. County-group diagnostic studies would be aggregated at the
provincial level, and would be the basis for describing the provincial farming



- 17 -
systems, prioritizing the problems of the different farmer categories, and
planning research and extension activities to assist and support the various
farmer categories.
3.17      Pest Surveiilance. The project would support the introduction of
integrated pest management procedures to reduce the spraying of pesticides on
crops. In particular it would supply pest surveillance equipment for SMS
teams and VGTs (see paras 3.04 and 3.13) to monitor the density of insect
populations and ensure farmers only spray when it is economically worthwhile
to do so. Cotton, fruits and vegetables would be the main crops involved.
SMS teams would determine for individual crops when and at what population
densities farmers should spray (that is, determine economic thresholds for
spraying), while VGTs would monitor the pest densities.
3.18     Provincial Level. At the provincial level the project would provide
vehicles and a small personal computer and appropriate software for PDA and
FTE section. Vehicles would include station wagons for PDA and FTE Director,
two double-cab pickups for FIE Director's assistants, and one midi-bus and 10
ton truck for the FTE section to transport staff, farmers, materials and
equipment.
3.19     FTE Director would be responsible for planning, programming,
budgeting and coordinating all extension activities in the province, and the
project would provide from one to three staff, depending on the province's
size, to assist him. These staff would be selected from existing provincial
agricultural engineers, with particular emphasis given to expertise in
economics and farm machinery.
3.20     Animal Heltah. The project would provide four vans, animal health
equipment and supplies, additional drivers and operating costs for a pilot
program to test the effectiveness of mobile animal health units. These would
be located in provinces selected based on their need for government animal
health services. The provinces would man them with their existing
veterinarians and animal health technicians, and would deploy them in
particular to undertake early diagnoses of animal diseases, preventive
vaccination campaigns and action against outbreaks of contagious diseases.
3.21     National Level. To enable them to supervise and support provincial
staff, the project would provide headquarter's staff vehicles and equipment.
Annex 2 gives more details on the improved extension services, and Annex 4 on
additional staff, vehicles and equipment.
Extension-Research Linkages
3.22     The project would assist in developing effective working
relationships between the extension services in the 19 provinces disseminating
improved appropriate technology with those research entities generating such
technology. To this end, and to ensure the research institutes could
effectively train extension staff, join in the diagnostic surveys, and
undertake on-farm trials testing new technology for project area farmers, the
project would strengthen and support seven research institutes through
constructing additional training facilities, and providing vehicles,
equipment, scientific books, training, additional staff, and funds for on-farm



- 18 -
research and other operating costs. Annex 3 describes this assistance in more
detail. The institutes would include:
(a) Cukurova Agricultural Research Institute, Adana;
(b) Animal Diseases Research Institute, Adana;
(c) Plant Protection Research Institute, Ankara;
(d) Horticultural Research Institute, Erzincan;
(e) Livestock Central Research Institute, Konya;
(f) Fruit Research Institute, Malatya;
(g) Cotton Research Institute, Nagilli/Aydin.
3.23      These research institutes would be backstopped by seven other
research institutes to providp additional trainirg as well as providing
appropriate technology pertinent to the project area. The project would
support these institutes to a lesser extent through minor renovations to
buildings, vehicles, training, additional drivers, and some operating funds.
The institutes include:
(a) Ataturk Central Research Institute for Horticulture, Yalova;
(b) Animal Diseases Research Institute, Etlik/Ankara;
(c) Field Crops Centra. Research Institute, Ankara;
(d) Southeastern Anatolia Agricultural Research Institute, Diyarbakir;
(e) Plant Protection Research Institute, Adana;
(f) Soil and Water Research Institute, Ankara; and
(g) Rural Services Research Institute, Sanliurfa.
3.24      Incremental Staff and Coordination.  The seven main research
institutes would recruit an additional 31 technical staff to allow them
provide more assistance to the extension services. Additionally, they would
hire another 14 staff (two per institute) to establish a Research Extension
Liaison Department in each institute. This would consist of a Research
Coordinator (RC) and an Extension Information Coordinator (EIC) who would be
responsible for: (a) training facilities, developing appropriate training
programs and materials, and initiating and running training programs;
(b) field work in the provinces, including institute's input to diagnostic
studies, planning of necessary research for the involved provinces, and on-
farm trials; and (c) integrating research findings into appropriate
recommendations for different categories of farmers. The project would also
provide audio-visual equipment for the Research Extension Liaison Departmexits,
which would bb administratively under the Director of the relevant research
institute.
3.25      Bimonthly Workshops. Under the project, the main research
institutes would provide bimonthly workshops to train all SMSs, and on
occasions some VGTs. To improve the research institutes' training facilities,
the project would construct a dormitory to sleep 50, meeting room, dining
room, kitchen, laundry and recreation room at the Livestock Central Research
Institute, Konya; Fruit Groeing Research Institute, Malatya; and Animal
Disease Research Institute, Adana. It would also renovate or make minor
additions to the existing facilities at all 14 research institutes involved in
training extension staff.



- 19 -
3.26      The two-day workshop sessions would be organized by RCs in
collaboration with EICs based at the same research institutes. The Research
Director would ensure that most professional staff would participate irs these
workshops and when approptiate, specialists from other research institutes
would also be invited to participate. Training staff would utilize
audiovisual aids and include a field trip in the program. The workshop
objectives would include: (a) inform SMSs on agricultural conditions;
(b) inform SNSs on the stacus of research, particularly on research seeking
answers to identified farmer problems; (c) discuss technical matters; and
(d) support the planned training and extension programs, including
demonstrations.
Training. Technical Assistance and Project Prenaration
3.27      Initial Training.  Before project commencement, GDOS staff would
undertake a skill-gap analysis to determine the knowledge, skills and
attitudes all project staff would require; the skills and knowledge existing
staff have; and the training required to equip project staff with the
necessary skills and knowledge. The skillgap analysis would also provide an
agreed set of job descriptions, profiles and minimum requirements, and a
proposed, transparent incentive structure for staff. AEARP would provide GDOS
six months of technical assistance to help with the skillgap analysis.
3.28      Notwithstanding the results of the skillgap analysis, under the
project, all staff including PDAs, Research Institute Directors, and other
pertinent Provincial Section Directors, would be given orientation training on
the project's strategy and organization. VGTs and their supervisors would
also receive training in extension methods, group work, and diagnostic
surveys. GDOS would provide all SHSs and SMS candidates six months initial
training consisting of four months technical training in the relevant
disciplines in which they would work, one month practical training seconded
and working alongside experienced, selected SMSs in the most successful AEARP
provinces, and one month training in extension methods. The relevant research
institutes or agricultural universities would provide the technical training.
SHSs and a limited number of researchers would be trained in diagnostic survey
techniques. The project would provide project staff technical assistance for
formulating and supervising the necessary training programs (para 3.31).
3.29      In-service Training.  SMSs would regularly train VGTs every two or
four weeks depending on the relative needs of the particular farming systems.
VOTs would be trained in the impact points for the various crops and
operations identified during or resulting from the diagnostic studies. VGTs
would be thoroughly trained in a crop's impact points before the season
commenced so training sessions could respond to immediate feedback from the
field. Staff would review and discuss impact points after each season to
ensure they were still relevant. SMSs would receive regular bimonthly
training at their relevant research institutes (see para 3.25). VGTs on
occasion would join these SMS workshops.
3.30      training Abroad.  Training abroad under the project would include
long-term MSc degree training, and short-term observation tours, attendance at
seminars, conferences and workshops. The MSc degree program would train about
61 extension staff and 24 research staff. Extension staff would be selected



- 20 -
from FTE teams (19), SMS teams (32), and headquarter GDPI and GDOS staff (10),
while research staff would come from those working on problems vital to
farmers in the project area. The project would provide funds for language
training prior to MSc students commencing their studies. Under short-term
training the project would provide: (a) 400 months for provincial and 50
months for headquarters extension staff to undertake observations tours or
attend international conferences, seminars or workshops; (b) 336 months for
research staff from the participating research institutes to undertake short
courses (one to six months) or attend international research conferences; and
(d) about 370 farmers from the 37 AEARP and project area provinces (10 per
province) 25-day study tours of relevant, active, operational farmers
organizations outside Turkey. MAFRA would internationally recruit a firm to
assist with the training program (see para 3.31).
3.31      Technical Assistance.  The project would provide MAFRA about 65
staff months (sm) of technical assistance for implementing the project.  KAFRA
would internationally recruit consultant firms to assist: (a) supervise and
support overall training programs (24 sn); (b) train staff in extension
methodology including training of Turkish trainers to take over the program (8
sm); (c) strengthen monitoring of project activities (4 sm); (d) present
topical workshops or seminars (10 sm); (e) train staff in diagnostic survey
techniques (13 sm); (f) implement the pilot women farmers extension program (6
sm); and (g) place and administer MSc and short-term trainees in suitable
foreign country universities and programs. This technical assistance would be
split into two contracts, one to cover the training of staff in extension
methodology (which would be combined with the skillgap analysis to be financed
under AEARP), the other to include all other items mentioned above, including
the providing of training services. The firm selected for the major contract
should have local expertise and experience on women farmers' extension
activities and the proposed t'pical workshops. The signing of contracts
between MAFRA and internationilly recruited firms of consultants. with
aualifications and under conditions acceptable to tho Bank. to assist in
=mnlementing the project. including placing and administering MSc and short-
term trainees in suitable foreign country universitites and programs.  ould be
a condition of disbursement exceeding USS5.0 million equivalent for vehicles.
equipment and civil works (including USS4.0 million from the Special Account).
3.32      The project would also provide MAFRA about five staff months of
internationally recruited consultants, plus funds for feasibility report
preparation and printing, to assist it to prepare the next phase in GOT's
program of upgrading provincial extension services. MAFRA would engage this
technical assistance at a suitable time during the latter part of project
implementation. An Assurance was obtained from GOT that MAFRA would engage
internationally recruited consultants with aualifirations and under conditions
acceptable to the Bank to assist in urenaring the next phase in GOT's orograM
of upgrading provinciai extension services.
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.33      The Monitoring and Evaluation Divisions of GDPI's Coordination and
Evaluation Department, in conjunction with provincial FTE and P&S Sections,
would organize and implement monitoring and analysis of project activities.
To strengthen GDPI's Monitoring and Evaluation Divisions, the project would



- 21 -
provide one station wagon and one minibus, appropriate computer software, 12
months overseas short-term training; four months technical assistance, four
additional graduate staff, funds for hiring local economic institutes or
agricultural universities to undertake agricultural case studies, and vehicle
and staff operating funds.
3.34      Monitoring under the project would be "management oriented", that
is, designed to provide information to assist internal project management
decisions. Project activities would be monitored and analyzed at four levels,
that is, starting at the lowest level, project inputs (for example, number of
extension staff, transport, field offices), project outputs (selection of
farmer groups, training of extension staff and so on), project effects
(improved husbandry practices, use of new varieties), and project long-term
objective or impact (increased productivity and rural incomes). Under AEARP
monitoring of project inputs and outputs was well developed, but monitoring of
the project's effects and long term objectives was not. The Monitoring
Division would now concentrate on developing the monitoring and analysis of
the project's effects through measuring farmers' adoption rates of improved
technology. As concerns the project's long-term objectives or impact, the
Monitoring Division would use farm management case studies to measure
productivity or income changes. It would not become involved in project
area-wide baseline and completion studies to measure changes in production and
income lvels because: (a) for dryland production nine to ten years of
observation are required to ascertain a trend; (b) the difficulty of ascribing
production changes or some percentage of them to extension services; and
(c) such work is extremely time consuming and would overload the Monitoring
Division's resources. An assurance was obtained from GOT that HAFRA would
engage local consultants. economic institutes or agricultural universities.
with qualifications and under contract conditions acceptable to the Bank. to
undertake farm manaaement case studies to evaluate the proiect's long-term
Lmact.
3.35      Internationally recruited consultants would assist the Monitoring
Division to initiate and implement the technolcgy adoption rate surveys, and
hold a workshop at the project's start where management would decide the
project objectives to be monitored, the indicators to be measured, the annual
targets to be met, whe would measure the indicators and analyze the results,
and to whom would the findings be distributed.
3.36      Project Phaslng. GOT would implement the project during the
approximately seven years from March 1990 to December 1996. Appropriate
phasing of implementation activities is essential to the project's success.
VGTs should not commence regular visits to farmer groups until the results of
the diagnostic survey are known, they are housed in the villages and have
received their initial training and transport. To assist the coordination of
project activities, staff would implement the project in blocks of SMS
country-group areas, thus making all staff in a county-group area operational
at the same time. Chart 1 shows the project implementation schedule.
D. Cost Estimates
3.37      The total estimated project cost is US$145.4 million, of which
US$75.1 million (52X) is the foreign exchange component. Project costs are



- 22 -
expressed in June 1990 prices, and include duties and taxes estimated at
US$3.1 million. Base cost estimates were derived from recent HQPRA
agricultural extension operations, training programs, construction contracts
and vehicle and equipment purchases. Contract quantities for building
construction are based on standard GOT designs. Consultant services are based
on recent contracts for similar services ln Turkey. The cost estimates
include allowances for physical contingencles of 15X for clvil works aAd 10l
for vehicles, machinery, equipment, training and technlcal assistance.
Additionally, they include allowances for forelgn and domestLc prlce
escalations during implementatlon (20X of base cost plus physical
contlngencies) based on Bank projectLons for the Manufacturing Unit Value
Index for Turkey's maln trading partners of 3.6X in 1990 (half year), and 4.41
annually from 1991 to 1996. Changes ln Turkish exchange rates are expected to
compensate for the differentials between Turkey's domestic inflatlon rate and
those of lts maln trading partners.
3.38      Table 3.1 summarLzes project costs wille Annex 1, Tables 1 to 2 give
the details of these costs.
TbLe 31: PROJECT COST S1IORY
(IL rAUi1n)                     s '000)
I otal                         S Tota
Z Foiu  Im                     I Fouim am
Lal  Fouia  Totl Ehmo Costs  La   Fden  Tol Exhiw  cuts
-            -  -   m m  mm miu
A. EB8IN          100504.47 102t37642 20290.79    50  90 47.59.27 408750.63 9640.90    so  90
-, Kum. Os85 14H677.49 22,704.3    65  10 352.3 69M.29 10811.59    45  10
Totl AE COSS        108,=.32 117053.81 225e.,2    52  100 So15 MM,7391 107421.49    52  100
vucal CoAntucis    13,9569 14.02,97 27,M.90    50  12 6.6415 6,692.37 13i..  50  12
Price Ctumelas    25.019,65 26.687,13 519706.78    52  23 111442 12708.16 24t2.8    TX  23
Toa PJECT oSS       147507.U8 157sM391 305,28179    52  15 70,241.S 75,110.43 145.3M2I    52  US
3.39      Table 3.2 shows the proposed project financing plan. The proposed
IRD loan of US$63.0 million would finance 431 of project costs, including 841
of foreign exchange costs (1001 of the foreign exchange cost excluding the
additional apartments/offices in the VGTCs for non-extension staff, as
described in para 3.03). GOT would provide the balance of project funds,
TL 172,982 million (US$82.4 million equivalent) to project implementing
agencies out of anual budget appropriations. Excluding duties and taxes,
IBRD would finance 441 of project costs.



- 23 -
Table 3n2: PROJECT FINANCING PAN
(US$ million)
Category                                                1 Dgtal
Civil Works                              65.6            21.9           87.5
Vehicles                                  1.0             9.5           10.5
Machinery, Equipment & Books              0.8             5.3            6.1
Furniture                                 1.2             -              1.2
Overseas Training                         -              14.5           14.5
Local Training                            0.8             -              C.8
Technical Assistance                      -               1.3            1.3
Incremental Salaries & Allowances         3.9            4.0             7.9
Incremental Operating Costs               9.1             6.5           15.6
Total                                  4              SA          1454 Za
ig Includes US$3.1 million estimated taxes and duties.
3.40      Funds have been allocated in the 1990 budget for financing the
investments and operations planned for that year of project implementation.
E. Procurement
3.41      Table 3.3 summarizes the project's procurement arrangements, while
the following paragraphs describe them in more detail.



- 24 -
Table 3.3: PROCUREHENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million) LA
Procurement Method
Total
OEetther     iCost,
Civil Works                   -         87.5        -          -         87.5
(21.9)                           (21.9)
Vehicles                     10.5        -          -          -         10.5
(9.5)                                       (9.5)
Machinery, Equipment,         3.8        -          2.3        -          6.1
& Books                    (3.4)                 (1.9)                 (5.3)
Purniture                                -          1.2        -          1.2
Overseas Training             -          -         14.5        -         14.5
(14.5)                (14.5)
Local Training                           -          0.8        -          0.8
Technical Assistance          -                     1.3        -          1.3
(1.3)                 (1.3)
Incremental Salaries          -          -          -          7.9        7.9
& Allowances                                                (4.0)      (4.0)
Incremental Operating         -          -         15.6        -         15.6
Costs  c                                         (6.5)                 (6.5)
Total                        14.3       87.5       35.7        7.9      145.4
(12.9)     (21.9)     (24.2)      (4.0)     (63.0)
L&  Includes taxes, duties and contingencies.  Figures in parentheses are the
respective amounts the Bank loan would finance.
Ak Procurement procedures are not applicable.
c Bank financing would be limited to expenditures on field-trials, farmer
demonstrations, and operation and maintenance of vehicles procured under
tbe project.
3.42      Civil Works (US$87.5 million).  Project buildings would be small and
dispersed geographically throughout Turkey. They would consist mainly of
standard design housing with office, apartments and meeting rooms, and are
unlikely to interest foreign contractors. These works would be undertaken
following local competitive bidding procedures (LCB). Turkish LCB procedures
are generally consistent with the need for economy and efficiency in the
execution of the project. There are, however, a few procedures which are
inconsistent with Bank procurement guidelines and others which require
clarification. During negotiations, agreement was reached regarding the



- 25 -
adoption of procedures acceptable to the Bank. Works would be packaged into
contracts of either US$150,000 equivalent value or more, or at least the
minimum value to require the General Directorate of Rural Services (GDRS) to
supervise them from its Ankara office, whichever is the larger (para 4.02).
3.43      Goods.  Vehicles, motorcycles, agricultural equipment and machinery,
audio-visual, pest surveillance and office equipment (US$14.3 million) would
be bulked into contracts of US$250,000 or more, and procured following IBRD
international competitive bidding (ICB) guidelines. A preference limited to
15X of the c.i.f. bid price or the actual customs duty applicable to non-
exempt importers, whichever is lower, would be extended to qualified local
manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Machinery, other goods and equipment
needed at different places and in small quantities costing less than US$50,000
for each contract, could be locally or internationally procured through
shopping involving at least three price quotations. Additionally laboratory
equipment (US$0.6 million), required in small amounts and at sites scattered
throughout the project area, would also be procured through local or
international shopping. The total value of such items procured through
shopping would be limited to an aggregate US$1.3 million. In addition,
scientific books and journals (US$1.0 million) may be purchased directly from
suppliers.
3.44      Consultant services and local studies (US$1.3 million) would be
procured according to 'BRD guidelines, and overseas training arrangements
(US$14.5 million) would be subject to IBRD approval. Project expenditures on
incremental extension operating costs (US$23.5 million, which includes
salaries and allowances, vehicle operating and maintenance costs, and
materials and labor costs of field trials and farmer demonstrations) would be
procured following normal GOT procedures.
3.45      Contracts for US$500,000 equivalent or more for both civil works and
goods would require IBRD review of documentation before tendering and award,
and this would cover some 601 of the value of works, and 75X of goods. Other
contracts would be subject to selective post-award review.
P. Disbursementg
3.46      The loan would be disbursed over approximately seven and a half
years, and would be completed by June 30, 1997. The proposed disbursement
schedule (Annex 1, Table 3) is based on the actual disbursement profiles for
AEARP, the Erzurum Rural Development Project, and the Corum-Cankiri Rural
Development Project, which were disbursed over approximately similar periods.
The proposed disbursement profile is two years shorter than the standard
disbursement profile for all Turkish agricultural projects. This is justified
because recent experience from the above project shows agriculture extension
and rural development projects disbursing at a faster rate than the average
for all agricultural projects.
3.47      IBRD would disburse loan funds at the following rates for these
items:



- 26 -
Categori                           Percent to be Financed
(a)  Civil works                          25X of expenditures.
(b)  Vehicles, machinery,                 1001 of foreign expenditures,
equipment & books                    1001 of ex-factory prices of
locally manufactured items,
and 801 of local costs of
imported items purchased locally.
(c)  Overseas training and                1001 of expenditures.
Technical Assistance
(d)  Selected incremental operating       661 until US$4.7 million
costs including salaries and         equivalent has been disbursed;
allowances                           501 until US$8.2 million has been
disbursed; and 33X thereafter.
Bank financing for incremental operating costs would be limited to a
percentage of salaries and allowances for incremental staff and incremental
operating costs for field trials, farmer demonstrations, and operation and
maintenance of vehicles procured under the project.
3.48      Divibursements would be made against statements of expenditures for
civil works contracts below US$500,000 equivalent, goods procured through
direct purchases or prudent shopping, and local and overseas training costs.
Implementing agencies would retain supporting documentation for these items
for review by IBRD and external auditors. Disbursement applications for all
other items would be fully documented. Annex 1, Table 4 shows the allocation
of Loan Funds to the different disbursement categories.
G. Accounts and Audits
3.49      GDPI would maintain separate sccounts for the project and would
prepare a detailed statement of expenditure on a semiannual basis for each six
months. Such statements of project expenditures would be submitted within two
months of each semiannual report or by March 1 and September 1 of each year.
In addition, an annual audit would be carried out by the Treasuly inspectors,
including specific reference to, and comments on, SOEs and supportir.g
documents and disbursements from the special account (para 3.50), and
submitted to the Bank within nine months of the end of each fiscal year.
Assurances were obtained from GOT that imnlementing agencies would follow
these auditing practices.
3.50      To facilitate implementation, MAFRA would establish a special
account at the Central Bank and would deposit US$4.0 million loan funds in it.
This account would be opened according to arrangements for existing Bank-
assisted projects, and would be used for most disbursements except those in
excess of US$2.0 million.



- 27 -
IV. QRGM==^IO  AND MANGE11ENT
A. $entlal Level
4.01      At the central level the Ministry's GDPI, in associationi with GDOS
and GDPC, would be the project implementing agency. GDF!'s Externally
Financed Projects Department (EPPD) plus other departments, would be
responsible for coordinating MAHRA's various General Directorates and
agencies' input to the project, procuring vehicles and equipment, monitoring
and evaluating project activities, and supervising the Provincial Agricultural
Directorates management and execution of the project. GDPI would also be
responsible for the supply and distribution of agricultural inputs within the
project area through government agencies, and for implementing the research
component. GDPC (for veterinary and plant protection research) and GDRS (for
soils and water research) would also implement this component. EFPD's Project
Implementation Unit would appoint a project coordinator to liaise with all
concerned agencies.
4.02      GDOS's Extension Department would be responsible for programming,
coordinating and executing extension training, while GDPC would implement the
mobile animal health unit component. GDRS and the Ministry of Public Works
and Resettlement (NPIR), in collaboration with GDPI, would be responsible for
contracting and supervising the civil works. GDRS would handle the bulk of
the work, and would construct VGTCs, training halls, AES houses and SMS
apartments in all areas except provincial capitals where legally only MPWR can
contract and supervise the proposed works. Both GDRS and MPWR would be able
to handle their proposed work loads under the project with existing resources.
However to ensure that GDRS manages this construction from the central level,
which is essential, an assutance was obtained from GOT that GDRS would:
(a) by October 31. 1990. anuoint a full-time architect-engineer to review
progress and regularly visit a reoresentative selection of project sites
throughout the construction season each year to ensure aualitX control: and
(b) supervise all building sites at least twice per month from its regional
offices. and at least three times during the construction season each year
from its Ankara office. with reports pregared on the findings of such visEits.
4.03      A Central Coordination Committee (CCC) was established under AEARP
to ensure coordination at the central level between HMFRA's many units
implementing the project, adequate training of SMSs by the designated research
institutes, and SMS's participation in extension and research activities as
required. The Undersecretary of MAFRA chairs the committee, which meets once
a year or more often if needed. CCC includes permanent and temporary members,
with the General Directors of MAFRA's main General Directorates, Chairman of
the Research Planning and Coordination Council, and Directors of EFPD and
Department of Publication being permanent members. The General Directors of
most agricultural SEEs are temporary members. The Committee would also
coordinate this project's activities.
4.04      CCC has a Central Executive Committee (CEC) chaired by the General
Director of GDPI, which meets monthly to review progress and bring issues
needing resolution to CCC's notice as required. CEC's members include GDPI



- 28 -
managers directly involved in project implementation plus representatives of
GDOS, GDPC, GDRS and the Research Institute Directors invited as required.
B. Proincial Level
4.05      The Provincial Agricultural Directorates in each of the 19 project
provinces would be responsible for implementing and managing extension
activities at the field level. The PDA would be the project manager at the
provincial level and the Directorate's six technical sections would assist him
(see Chart 3). The FTE Section would plan, program and coordinate all
extension activities in the province, and would direct and supervise the
County-Group SMS teams (para 3.20). These teams in turn would regularly train
and technically support VGTs who would be in direct contact with the farmers.
VGTs would be supervised by AES at the county level, and through CDs would
have a direct line of control back to the PDA. The designated research
institutes would regularly train SMSs, coordinate on-farm research trials and
solve farmers' productivity problems as identified from diagnostic studies and
feedback from extension. P&S section would assist monitor project and
extension activities while Plant Protection and Livestock Health would assist
extension staff in their area of expertise.
4.06      MAFRA would establish Regional Coordination Committees (RCCs) in
each broad agroecological region of the project to coordinate project
activities. MAFRA has grouped project area provinces in the following way:
(1) Central Region - Kirsehir, Yozgat, Nevsehir, Nigde, Aksaray,
Kayseri;
(2) Central North Region - Amasya, Tokat, Sivas, Erzincan;
(3) Central Southeastern Region - Malatya, Gaziantep, Kahramanmaras,
Adiyaman, Siirt; and
(4) Mediterranean Region - Antalya, Icel, Adana and Hatay.
The General Director of GDPI or his deputy would chair each RCC, and RCC
members would include PDAs, and Directors of FTE, P&S, and all regional
research institutes, plus appropriate Directors from NAPRA's central level.
Each RCC would meet at least once a year for two to three days to discuss
technical issues and policy matters. Meeting objectives would be to review
project implementation, remove constraints, increase coordination among
,relevant agencies and to outline and approve an implementation program for the
coming year for the provinces involved. An assurance was obtained that MAFRA
would establish RCCs to coordinate project activities in all urolect area
provinces by October 31. 1990.
C. 2rolect Assessment. Renorting and lid-Term Revi-ew
4.07      Project Assessment. Because of the project's intricate nature, and
the number of groups within MAPRA involved in project execution, MAFRA and the
Bank would jointly assess project implementation towards the end of the first
two implementation years (this is expected to be around June, 1991 and 1992,
respectively). The assessment would be done during a supervision mission, and



- 29 -
MAFRA would prepare a short report before the supervision listing
implementation constraints and shortfalls,. Following field visits, GOT and
Bank mission members would discuss their findings, and issue a short report
reviewing project progress and any needed changes in implementation or design.
Assgrsnces were obtained from GOT that NAFRA jointly with the Bank would
assess proiect imolementation towards the end of the groject's first two
lmlementation years_ that is. by June 30. 1991 and 1992. respectively, and
would produce a report reviewing project progres# and listingjany needed
changes in iLmlementation or design.
4.08      Project Reporting.  GDPI would submit to the Bank semiannual
progress reports which would update and assess implementation of project
components during the previous six months. The reports would list key
implementation indicators and give details concerning extension and research
programs. GDPI and the Bank would agree on the report format by end-June,
1990, and GDPI would forward the reports to the Bank within two months from
the end of each six-month period, beginning with the semester ending
December 31, 1990. Within six months of the loan closing date, GOT would
prepare and forward to the Bank its input for a project completion report
which would summarize project performance and evaluate the project's successes
and problems.
4.09      About 3-1/2 years after the start of project implementation a
mid-term review would be conducted jointly by the government and the Bank in
accordance with agreed terms of reference. It would focus on: (a)
modifications in project implementation; (b) serving as a guide for a possible
third agricultural extension project; (c) staffing patterns; (d) county and
village civil works construction; (d) effectiveness of extension system; (f)
training assessments and especially monthly workshops; (g) impact of project
on farmers' husbandry and agronomic practices; (h) procurement; (i)
extension-research linkages; (j) central and provincial level linkages; and
(k) coordination meetings. An assurance was obtained from GOT that MAFRA.
iointly vith the Bank. would undertake a mid-term revlew of the project not
later than December 31. 1993 in accordance with terms of reference which would
be accentable to the Bank.
V. BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATIONS AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Justification
5.01     The project would considerably strengthen the management and
capability of the extension and research services in the 19 project provinces
to diagnose farmers' production problems, and to develop and disseminate
appropriate technology which would lead to increased productivity and farm
income. It would develop the extension services from a system which mainly
transmitted messages to one which could react to farmers' needs and
constraints, and through the research services assist farmers to find
solutions to them. It would evaluate methods of training women engaged in
agriculture which would eventually lead to much larger programs in this
important area and source of potential productivity increases. It would also
evaluate the use of mobile veterinary clinics to improve farmers' access to



* 30 -
veterinary services, give faster disease diagnosis, and carry out preventive
vaccination campaigns more efficiently. The project would emphasize
economically and environmentally sustainable technology which would help to
renew and preserve Turkey's agricultural resources, and reduce pollution and
contamination from agricultural enterprises, particularly of water and food.
The project would have major institution building benetits by developing much
closer and more effective linkages between research and extension which would
allow both these services to better serve farmers.
5.02      No attempt has been made to quantify expected benefits from the
project since adoption rates for various recommended practices would be
difficult to assess. Furthermore, other factors in addition to institutional
strengthening of extension, loom large in affecting productivity, such as
access and pricing of inputs, farm labor, and credit and availability of
irrigation. However, effective extension services will serve as the impetus
for increased and more efficient utilization of these above-mentioned inputs.
5.03      Economic benefits in the project area are expected from:
(a) increased crop and livestock production and improved utilization of
irrigation investments; (b) improved quality and health of crops and
livestock; (c) expanded agricultural exports, especially from the
Mediterranean provinces; and (d) reduced spraying costs in cotton and
horticultural crops.  Additionally, these benefits would flow to some 400,000
farmers with holdings of less than 4.0 ha.
S. Enmironmental Effects
5.04      Project activities would contribute substantially to improving and
safeguarding the agro-ecosystems. The project would assist to introduce
integrated pest management approaches and programs,particularly in cotton and
horticultural producing areas. Here the project's main impact would be in
reducing pesticide spraying of these crops. Cotton, fruit and vegetables
receive some 80X of all pesticide spraying, and experience from pilot
operations in several provinces show that spraying can be reduced from 50X to
80X through the measures included under the project. Thus, the project would
be expected to considerably reduce the use of pesticides, and pesticide
contamination and pollution of food and water resources. Project staff would
be using and transferring known technology (spraying only when pest numbers
reach economic threshold densities, planting crops earlier or later to miss
maximum pest build-ups and so on) including on-farm demonstrations of such
techniques. While the project would not finance basic or applied research on
integrated pest management, it is expected to stimulate work in this field.
Nevertheless, the project does contain funds for on-farm research (adaptive
research) which could be used in this area. Meanwhile, the proposed
agricultural research project, which is under preparation, would be expected
to cover such research. The project would also train farmers in existing
methods of erosion control and should stimulate research in further erosion
control measures, including use of vegetative erosion control barriers, and
investigating the possibilities for changing present farming activities which
cause considerable erosion. The project would help train farmers in the
correct application of water to crops in irrigated areas. This would help to
alleviate waterlogging in some Mediterranean province irrigation areas. In
some more agriculturally developed provinces under AEARP, farmers were shown



X 31 -
to be using more fertilizer than required, and extension advice was to reduce
the use of fertilizer. Similar results are expected under this project. With
regard to agro-forestry, while no forestry research institutes are involved in
the project, extension staff would follow up possibilities of farmers
integrating agro-forestry into their existing farm enterprises, for example
growing poplars for matches or other suitable species for poles. The
diagnostic studies could possibly indicate opportunities for agro-forestry.
C. Risks
5.05      The main project risks include new technology being inadequately
adapted for different categories of farmers and not being adopted, budgetary
shortfalls, inadequate training of project staff, slow procurement of vehicles
and construction of civil works, and ineffective provincial level management
and poor central level coordination. To minimize these risks the project
would firstly introduce diagnostic studies and improved research/extension
linkages to ensure the relevance of recommendations for different categories
of farmers. Secondly, it would recruit a minimum of new staff and would
provide for detailed annual planning of provincial research programs to
minimize annual recurrent budgetary demands resulting from the project and
thus enable the provision of adequate funds to the extension and research
organizations. Thirdly, a skillgap analysis would be used to design training
programs, and the project would provide technical assistance to assist
implement and supervise them. To speed vehicle procurement and civil works
construction, staff would prepare procurement documents before project
commencement, and a sole agency (GDRS) within MAFRA would construct most civil
works. The Bank would request assurances from GOT concerning adequate
construction supervision. Lastly, project orientation training would
sensitize managers and staff to their roles and duties under the project,
while central level supervision and the committees at central and regional
level would help resolve any issues or problems concerning project
implementation and coordination.
VI.  AGRMETS AND ROMMNDATIOM
6.01      During negotiations agreement was reached with GOT on the following
points:
(a) MAFRA would engage internationally recruited consultants with
qualifications and under conditions acceptable to the Bank to assist
prepare the next phase in GOT's program of upgrading provincial
extension services (para 3.32);
(b) MAFRA would engage local consultants, economic institutes or
agricultural universities with qualifications, and under contract
conditions acceptable to the Bank, to undertake farm management case
studies to evaluate the project's long-term impact (para 3.34);
(c) GDPI would maintain separate accounts for the project and would
prepare a detailed statement of expenditure on a semi-annual basis
for each six months. Such statements of project expenditures would
be submitted within two months of each semi-annual report or by



- 32 -
March 1 and September 1 of each year. In addition, an annual audit
would be carried out by the Treasury inspectors, including specific
references to, and comments on, SOEs and supporting documents, and
the Special Account, and submitted to the Bank within nine months of
the end of each fiscal year (par 3.49);
(d) GDRS would: (i) by October 31, 1990, appoint a full-time architect-
engineer to review progress and regularly visit a representative
selectlon of project sites throughout the construction season each
year to ensure quality control; and (ii) supervise all building
sites at least twice per month from its regional offices, and at
least three times during the construction season each year from its
Ankara office, with reports prepared on the findings of such visits
(para 4.02);
(e) MAFRA would establish RCCs to coordinate project activities in all
project area provinces by October 31, 1990 (para 4.06);
(f) MAFRA jointly with the Bank would assess project implementation
towards the end of the project's first two implementation years,
that is, by June 30, 1991 and 1992, respectively, and would produce
a report reviewing project progress and listing any needed changes
in implementation or design (para 4.07); and
(g) MAFRA, jointly with the Bank, would undertake a mid-term review of
the project not later than December 31, 1993 in accordance with
terms of reference which would be acceptable to the Bank (para
4.09).
6.02      An agreement was reached with GOT that disbursing loan funds in
excess of US5.0 million equivalent for vehicles, equipment and civil works
(including US$4.0 million from the Special Account) would be conditional on
MAFRA signing contracts with internationally recruited firms of consultants to
assist: (i) supervise and support overall training programs (24 sm);
(ii) train staff in extension methodology including training of Turkish
trainers to take over the program (S sm); (iii) strengthen monitoring of
project activities (4 sm); (iv) present topical workshops or seminars (10 sm);
(v) train staff in diagnostic survey techniques (13 sm); and (vi) implement
the pilot women farmers' extension program (6 sm), and to place and administer
MSc and short-term trainees in suitable foreign country universities and
programs (para 3.31).
6.03      With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for an IBRD Loan of US$63.0 million equivalent at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate, for a period of 17 years with a five-year grace
period. The Borrower would be the Government of Turkey.



- 33-                                                      APNEX I
Table 1
TURKEY
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
Prolect Cost Estimates
Extension Component
tall     Fo"   ToI Ita)I Tta
aininmmm -1 o -
A. CIIL                         3,2314.77  44*80.64 129313. 41        35      63 PoW.41 21m.07  61014.43               35     63
a.    mn                         1,171.50  14,143,S2   u7IS.02                 9    M.33  63.1   7405.34              90       e
C. 13011                           617.19   5M4.68  69171.97          9        I 3       90."  2,MG.0    20.          *0       3
Is NOIrM9      M                    760.15    485,31    M.46          90       0      36.26   324        312.40        90      0
E. GFF1  135RI1                    2M.57   1050.16  2,05.                      1      9I 89     95.3     97*92                 I 1
FP lahn                            97.32  i1s,aw0  u6.Ang             94       9    436.82 7,04.0?   7940.91           94      9
B. tNUCM  M319T1                   111.63   t,5964  24111.26          95       1   55.06   9.30   1 >,0536                     I
No UO116  TWFF I Ut*             9sW,.2            -  9,W.52           -           4,468.4          -    ,45.4!         -      5
It STAFF AU      i                 7M3,94          -    764            -       0      37.2A        -        .026       -       0
Jo I mILIIS M T                  19.09    722.61  2s411.70                     1       2.9    3410  11.1U40            30      1
K wn    ON                       1,726.44  153995  11,266.39          90       9    92.21  74n1e9   8.m25             90       9
to E ll e1  0                       3,97      323.77    359.74        S0       0      V7.13   15417    171.30          le      0
1. DMEN lIIIB  CUR                 10.2?    9,U64  1I2.4                       1      50.62   455.4       0646        9        1
lotl_ DE  mm                     1M     4.47102,16.1220290.79           so    100 4799.21 4Se50.63 96,W6.10             50    to0
Utusl Cewat1m1o                13.210.94  12,497.93 1,5778M          48      13  6324.21  1.9s.40  172s.U61           49     13
Prig, c.l1iftu                 22.906.76 23.1,42 4604919.7           50      23 10,9.91 1 ,020.20 21W92.13            50     3
--    --    -    -    -                                        - _                 -_       -
Toa  fewl mm                     136092.0  I 1.0    274,760.74          50    135   091146 65.722,22130,03              50    135
_ - - m                                      _ _-s
Research Component
(TL Hillio)                                    ws  oo)
2 Fowos    SaW                                         Saw
local   Fmi       T l "      b_u   Cos    Local  Feoain  Totl   bamE   Cest
a. ciL 353 3m,19.19  2#55.4  1.74.12                               35      26 1913,19  979*02  2om.20           35     26
S. Wm=                            184.16  16634.07  19945.63        t       8    B7.38   790.9     973.97        90      3
C.   _                            123.17  1.110.3  14233.74        S0          5 9.75  520.71   597*50           9       5
D. L_llStt E      NT               92n.79   035.10   99            90       4    44.19   97.       441.95        90      4
E. IS FS IF    Im.                 05.20   767.5         .94       90       4    4061   165,10   406.11 S0               4
F. 11 3                          35.0   6S97.9 7142.S9            91      31   10.60 3,232.32  3.401.40         95     31
U. N31M1       STAlFF I 9 S     2W,6.94          - 2MM5.Y4          -      12 124.69          - 15.N69           .      12
H.s STAR                          21UU11         -   2191.1         -       1   103.90        -   103.90                 I
I. h4313TM                        365.50    365.50  m7o3           50       3   174.05  174.0:   349Lo           50      3
J. oIC. a ltnUt" N NT              43.73    20.99    6.62          30       0    23.21    9.9!    33.1           30      0
K. 311011 03                       71.23   64103   M725            30               .92   365.25   U39.17        90      3
L. sEplT OIWl                      49.02    432.17   410.19        9        2     22.37  205.79   229.66         9       2
otal SME    cUTS                  8,026*05 14i677*49 2274.33        6u      100 3822.31 6.99*2e 1091.              65    10
FdUsi    Cwithsmias              676.0   1,1,504  2,211.11        69      10     21.94 73.s97 10.91             69      10
Pico Cantemmias                 2,112.89  3.544.71  157.61         63     25 1.006.14 1#687.9  29694.10         63     25
Total    r Cr                    W10,.311.91 19.77.24 30,57.05       6      N5  3 StIO.9 90408.21 1415.60          65    135
.   .             .                    ..   ..a                     m     



iF
TURKEY
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
Estimated Annual Project Expenditures
5xtension  CeunonDOM                                 Totls Includind Contliuwin                                                 To,s belU6    Cu,ti.mries
(tL millin)                                                                 USt '060)
1990     11       12         m       1994     1995      199     T.tel      199      1991    1I92      1993      1994     1995    I9       TOWl
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~azxa    _ ae=                                      _*  __.o __  ---
A. cmVI UKS                    139175.98 44,663.14 47759.85 39P865,66 29Y72B.41      -       - 17539306 6,274.21 21.363,40 220742.79 1893.66 141S6.38         -       - 03520.51
a. EIIOICE                            - 19,039.42  1,650.79       -        -         -       -  19,699.21        - 3b590.20   79.0S          -        -       -        -  9S376.29
C. EUUIPENt                           - 4,445.07  3,403.31        -        -                 -  7,949.19            2,117.96 81620,62        -        -                -  39739.71
9. mm    FIWRIlCLS               123.43   135.91 141 7H    149.3   154.54   161.34  168.44  1,038.39    61.16    64.67    67,52    70.49    73.59   76.93   90.21    494.47
El 0FFlC  FMUTU1                 26e.51  1U236,95 1.092,19                 -                 -  2M5.2    127.67   99.2    520.09             -        -        -       -  1,236.79
F. 13*I611                        77.30 3399."  6n091.39  6,449.22 3391.99  2,514.24   75.79  22,488s.6      36.91 19614.8 2,900.66  MMO70.58 1t3.28 1.19?.26   36.09  I0P70M.95
6. TECI.t ASSISTAICE             651.68    39.92   535.97   313.29   229.57    46.40   50.53  2p669.35   310.33   399.96   255.22   149.10   109.32   23.05   24.06  1t27112
No.  DITIAL STAFF I SLARIES           - 1.293,62  1.7M2.   2,062.52 29174.16 24269.B2 2.369.69 11,n7272          -   611.34   95.67   91.68  1,035.31 1.080.07 1,123.42  5,701.30
1i STAFF ALLWt                        -   109.47   150.14   173.41   191.04   199.0   197.32  I1,O0.37           -    52.13    71.49    82,57    86.21   90.00   93.6    476.37
J. IIIB  _       EINTV                -    37.96   204,71   423.01   741.67  1,047.40 1,225.99  3h660.63         -    18.03    97.48   20.4    353.9  499.76  513.60  1,752.68
K.  IU..E 019                         - 12903.62 398.87  4366.42 4,560.63 49761,30 4M.970.  24.350,64            -   653.67 19050.42 2*.00.20 2v171.73 2,267.9 29367,05 114595.54
L. EUIIENT 0M                         -   247.05   210.9          -        -         -       -    458.04         -   117.64   100.47         -        -        -       -    20811
1, OTtER  ETINS CSTS                  -    59.50   164.75   257,99   331.16   345.73  360.95  l.52009            -        29.33    79.45   122.95   157.70  1.64  271.69    723.5
Total M3CT CUTS                14,301.50 76,492.44 67,064.45 54.0056 4193.06 11,337.24 9,419.49 274709.74  6610.24 36,424.9" 31944.97 257M2.61  196.70 53939.69 4495.47 130613.68
Reserch Component
Totals Includi CatniUncigs                                          Totals Incilni Cintinweis
(TIL NIlion)                                                        (051 '00)
m99    199      1m      19      14    19s    1m6   Total           190   1m       192    19        194    1995    Im       Ttal
A.t cL                             - 29697.79 1ts,037.6  1d63.3I 1M3.  119073 lo232.69 6363.13         - 128466  494*12  515.86  5336   62.25  516.9  3MUM2.
s.     CLEs                        - 2,304.32        -       -        -       -       - 2,304.32      1-097.30          -       -        -       -       - 1097.30
C. EWINT                           - 1,540.36        -       -        -       -       - 1.540.36       -  733.50        -       -        -       -        -   733.S5
D. L3*T1     ClTIST                - 1,156.50        -       -        -       -       -  .1,158.0      -  551.67        -       -        -       -        -    51.47
ECt BOOKSI PERIODICALS        143.94   152.11  158,81  165.79  173.09  10.70  169.65  1t3.00  65.50   72.43   75.62   7*995   92.42   86.05   s9.84   s53.01
F. T*1B11K                     123.29 t96B8.82 1,910.20 1994.25 19979.15  903.52  943.27 9n721.50   s.71   69.91  90.62  949.64  941.97  430.25  449.19 469.29
Go AITIOUSTAFF I &VA1              -   410.41  493.43  5m.90  599.50  624.84  652.33 3333.41           -  115.43  234.97  263.76  265.00  27.54  310.63 26W.34
H. STAFF ALtUAIN                   -    34.57   41.25   46.24   49.77   51.96   54.25   M."5           -    6.46   19.64   21.97   23.70   24.75   25.93   132.36
I. ON-FF 1RILS                    -   138.28  244.37   1so57   1573   264.29  171.50   926.51         -   65.55   68.75   71.77   74.93   79.23   91.67   442.19
J. lIE. SWUILUD0 MAIICC            -       .8    27.79   18.57   19.39   20.24   21,13   102.80        -    2.70    6,47   B9.4    9.23    9.64   10.06    46.95
K, WVEHL  Os"                      -    7?.90  169.20  176.65  194.42  192.54  20120   1 2002.72            37.57   6057   84.12   87.92   91.68   95.72   477.48
L. ESUIPIENT OIN                   -    32.85  116.32  223.53  129.96  234.64  140.56   679.86         -   15.64   56.34   5e.82   61.41   64.11   66.93   323.2'  
_ _ _ _ _    _        _       _         _        _       _        _       _        _       _ ~        ~      ~~~~~~~- cq
Totl PIct COSTS                 267.13 10,422.59 4,091.02 4U312M66 4420.61 3.43.45 36.*4  3057305 227.21 4963.14  94.11 2,053.74 2M105S5 144.50 1,716.86 124568,6t
__mu 2MmuZZ'm                                     mm =m                 u          ==cmmm               m m            r      mm. =



- 35 -
ANNlE I
Table 3
TRK
SECOND AGRICULTURUL EXTENSION AND APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year             IBRD              Cumulative          Percent of
and Ouarter              Disbursements        Disbursements      Loan Disbursed
--------- (US$ million) ---------             (X)
FY90 - 3                      - 
-4                       4.0 j1               4.0                  6
EYl -1                        -                    4.0                   6
-2                       0.5                  4.5                  7
- 3                      0.5                  5.0                  8
-4                       1.0                  6.0                 10
ff92 -1                       1.0                  7.0                 11
=2                       1.5                  8.5                 13
- 3                      1.5                 10.0                 16
- 4                      2.0                 12.0                 19
FY93 - 1                      2.0                 14.0                  22
-2                       2.5                 16.5                 26
- 3                      2.5                 19.0                 30
- 4                      3.0                 22.0                 35
FY94 -1                       3.0                 25.0                 40
- 2                      3.5                 28.5                 45
-3                       3.5                 32.0                 51
- 4                      4.0                 36.0                 57
FY95 - 1                 4.0                 40.0                 63
- 2                      3.0                 43.0                 68
- 3                      3.0                 46.0                 73
- 4                      3.0                 49.0                 78
FY96 - 1                      2.5                 51.5                 82
- 2                      2.0                 53.5                 85
-3                       2.0                 55.5                 88
-4                       1.5                 57.5                 91
YZ - 1                        1.5                 59.0                  94
- 2                      1.0                 60.5                 96
- 3                      1.0                 62.0                 98
-4                       0.5                 63.0                100
LI  Initial deposit into Special Account.



- 36.-
ANEX I
Table 4
1n!
SECOND AGRICULTtUAL UETENSION AND APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Loan Funds
(US$ million)
Loan
Total a         Forei             Amount
Civil Works La                   77.9              27.2              19.5
Vehicles /                         9.7              8.6               8.7
Machinery, Equipment
and Books /4                    5.6               5.0               4.9
Overseas Training a              13.4              13.4              13.4
Technical Assistance Lk           1.2               1.1               1.1
Incremental Operating Costs 12   19.8              10.3               9.9
Unallocated
Contingencies (Physical)         13.6               6.8               5.5
Other                             4.2               2.7               -
Subtotal                       l7.8               9.5               55
Total                         145.4              75.1
L1  Base cost plus price contingencies.
it 251 of civil works.
L3 100l of foreign expenditures, 100l of the ex-factory price if manufactured
locally.
k4 1001 of foreign expenditures, 1001 of ex-factory price if manufactured
locally, and 802 of local costs of imported items purchased locally.
LI  1001 of overseas training costs.
Li  1001 of technical assistance costs.
1Z  661 until US$4.7 million equivalent has been disbursed from the category,
then 501 until US$8.2 million equivalent has been disbursed, and 331
thereafter. Incremental operating costs which the Bank would disburse
against include salaries and allowances, field-trials, farmer
demonstrations, and operation and maintenance of vehicles procured under
the project.



- 37 -
ANNE I
Appendix 1
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EMTENSION AND APPlIED RESEARCH PROJECT
Su=m=ar of Prolect Activities
1.        The project woulc. comprise the following activities:
(a)  construct some 883 deuble-storey VGT houses and offices in project
area villages, and some 156 agricultural extension supervisor (AES)
houses, 78 SMS apartments, and 13 training halls in county capitals
to foster increased personal contact between extension staff and
farmers;
(b) procure some 523 vehicles, 950 motorcycles, audio-visual, office,
demonstration and pest surveillance equipment, and scientific books
and journals to mobilize extension staff and assist them in their
work;
(c) provide and equip about 4 mobile veterinary clinics which would be
used to initiate a pilot program to supply improved livestock health
services in the villages;
(d) recruit about 64 additional agricultural engineers to provide
expertise in agricultural economics and extension
methodology/training, 46 female VGTs for the pilot program of
extension services to women farmers, and 247 drivers to chauffeur
the additional vehicles;
(e) provide overseas and local training and technical assistance for
extension staff, farmers study tours, recurrent costs for
incremental staff salaries and allowances, vehicle and equipment
operation and maintenance, and new construction upkeep, and funds to
prepare the next phase of GOT's program to upgrade provincial
extension services;
(f) construct training facilities for three participating research
institutes and minor renovations and additions for all 14
participating research institutes;
(g) procure 34 vehicles, audio-visual, office, laboratory and field
equipment plus scientific books and journals for the research
institutes;
(h) recruit some 45 additional research specialists and 34 drivers,
provide overseas and local training for research staff, and
recurrent costs for incremental research staff salaries and
allowances, vehicle and equipment operation and maintenance, and new
construction upkeep.



- 38 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
TR
SECOND AORICULTURAL EXTENSION AND APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
Agricultural Extension OrSaiMiation
A. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Government of Turkey (GOT) has requested the World Bank to
assist in the continued strengthening and development of its agricultural
extension services.  The project is a second phase of the Agricultural
Extension and Applied Research Project I (Loan 2405-TU) (AEARP) and would be
covering :19 provinces with 1.15 million farming families. The project's main
aim is to improve the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs
(MAFRA) capacity to induce voluntary change through purposeful communication.
The project is designed to make durable improvements upon the management of
the agricultural extension system through responsive diagnosing and subsequent
improved technology propositions, decentralization and mobilization of staff,
and sound management. Under the project, staff will be moved closer to the
farmers: houses will be built, staff will be made mobile: vehicles will be
bought, recommendations will be formulated in response to the needs of
different categories of farmers: meaningful linkages between extension,
research and farmers will be developed and the service will be managed
professionally.
2.        This annex is structured as follows:  after a brief history of the
organization of extension in Turkey and a description of the structure of the
Ministry, somie key information on the nineteen provinces under the project is
outlined. Next, the problems and constraints related to extension are
described, which includes also some lessons learned from the project's first
phase. The next section gives details of the proposed organization of
extension under the project, describing the initial situation analysis, the
ensuing diagnostic survey, the programming exercises for extension and
research, their linkages, the responsibilities of all levels of staff, their
training and the monitoring. The last section details the technical
assistance foreseen under the project.
B. BACkGROUND OF EXTENSION ORGANIZATION
3.        Since 1980 the Government has undertaken a number of important
reforms in its agricultural policies and bureaucratic structure. The new
policies were designed to promote increased efficiency and growth through
greater reliance on market forces. Input subsidies were largely removed or
reduced in the early eighties. Many of these subsidies were reintroduced or
increased beginning 1987. Less regulation and dismantling of existing
inefficient monopolies resulted in a new prominence of the private sector's
role in agriculture. The shift in agricultural strategy led to an initial
sharp decline in the agricultural growth rate in 1980 and 1981. Thereafter
growth resumed an average of 3.6 X per annum ('82-'87). However, growth in
Turkey's crop yield rates has been slowing down, and has not kept pace with
some of Turkey's competitors. One of the main limiting factors to increased



- 39 -
Page 2
productivity is deficient management of the agricultural information system,
and significant improvements in research and extension are needed to raise
farm-productivity. The project will assist MAFRA to better it"s services and
to encourage the private sector to enhance it's role in research and
extension.
C. SITRUCTM OF THE NINXSTRY
4.        Following its reorganization in 1984/5 MAFRA now has at central
level three service units, each headed by a General Director for
(i) Protection and Control, (ii) Projects and Implementation and
(iii) Organization and Support. The Ministry also includes four advisory and
audit units; the Research, Planning and Coordination Board being of particular
importance for extension. Furthermore, two out of the four auxiliary units of
MAFRA are relevant for extension: the General Directorate for Personnel and
the Department of Publications. Lastly, at least two out of the four attached
organizations have a di,ect bearing on the Project; the G.D. of Forestry and
the G.D. of Rural Services (see Chart 2).
5.        To ensure cge'dination among the many ministerial units that are
responsible for various project components, the Central Coordination Committee
(CCC) was established under AEARP. The CCC is chaired by the Undersecretary
for Agriculture and has both permanent (directly under MAFRA) and temporary
(all related organizations) members and meets at least once a year. GDOS is
responsible for: (i) programming, coordination and partial execution of
extension training; (ii) establishment of guidelines for the founding of rural
organizations; (iii) authorization oi the establishment of cooperatives; and
(iv) assisting provincial government and private organizations aiming at
improving agriculture. GDPI is responsible, jointly with GDOS, for
procurement, construction and central-level monitoring. A Central Executive
CommLttee (CEC) is chaired by the General Director of GDPI or his designated
representative and meets monthly to review progress and to bring issues to the
CCC as required.
6.        On provincial level the Provincial Directorate of the Ministry is
presently composed of the following sections: (i) Projects and Statistics
(P+S); (ii) Plant protection; (iii) Animal Health; (iv) Farmer Training and
Extension (FTE); (v) Support; and (vi) Control. Especially FTE and P+S are
important for extension, but also plant protection and animal health have
relevance for the improvement of farm productivity and the farmers' incomes.
Hence, a very important managerial role is being played by the Provincial
Director.
7.        Extension is being carried out in the 19 provinces under the project
by agricultural engineers and agricultural technicians. At present staff is
often underemployed and insufficiently coordinated in their task
implementation. Especially provincial staff is not optimally informed about
farmers' problems. Agricultural technicians (diploma level staff) are
employed both in the provincial headquarters and in the county capitals. They
do different jobs, including varying amounts of extension work within the
framework of the sections they belong to.



- 40 -
AME 2
Page 3
8.        The Count  Direct.rs (CDs) are directly responsible to the Mayor
(Kaymakam) and the Provincial Directors of Agriculture (PDAs). Apart from
their main agricultural development task, of which extension only forms one
part, the CDs have a considerable amount of administrative work to do. They
occasionally substitute for the Kaymakam, the Ministry of Interior's
representative on county level, in the case of absence of the latter. Most
counties have, in addition to the CD, an agricultural engineer, a veterinary
specialist and several agricultural technicians on their staff.
D. KEY INFORhT_ION ON 19 PROVI=CES OF PROJECT
9.    Agriculture:  One very important aspect of the 19 provinces (18
provinces at time of appraisal; 1 province subsequently split into 2) covered
under the project is their astounding variety in agricultural systems and
potentials, hence in their information needs. Those provinces have been
subdivided into 156 counties, comprising 9,494 villages. In total 1.1 million
farming families tend the land. The total area planted under rainfed field
crops was in 1987 5.1 million hectares, with 1.9 million ha irrigated and 5.0
million ha under grass, representing 28 X, 59 X and 35 X respectively for the
nation as a whole.
10.       Government plans for completion of irrigation works that would bring
an additional 675,916 hectares of irrigation under cultivation by 1993. There
are 10.2 million sheep, 1.5 million cows of which two-thirds are milked, 4.2
million goats and 175,500 tractors. It is important to keep in mind the big
provincial differences (e.g. goats: in Kayseri there are 127,000 and in
Kirsehir 7,000 with only 2.4 times as many farming families; 63,000 and 26,000
respectively; or with tractors: there are 22,000 in Adana and 7,000 in
Kahramanmaras while these provinces have comparable farming populations:
94,000 and 90,000).
11.       Staff.  At present (MAFMA survey, June 1989), 2,390 Agricultural
Technicians are employed in the project area, of whom 1,444 (602) are at
County level. In total, 646 Agricultural Engineers are employed, of whom only
130 (20X) at the County level. Following the Ministry's personnel policy, the
less experienced tend to work in the eastern and more difficult areas (e.g.
Siirt has only four young Engineers; none of its FTE engineer level staff has
more than three years experience).
12.       Vehicles.  The vehicles in running order, available at county level
in the 19 provinces total 195 station wagons, 54 4x4s, 154 pick-ups and 157
mopeds. Provincial staff have access to an operational pool of 209 station
wagons, 30 4x4s, 116 pick-ups, 14 trucks, 14 minibuses and 49 mopeds. (N.B.
the average travelling time from the Provincial headquarters to the furthest
County seat is two and a half hours, with an exception for Siirt: 8 hours.)
13.       Buildings.  MAFMA owns 77 one-family houses at village level and 13
two-family houses in addition to the 16 rented accommodations for a maximum of
119 staff to be working at village level. At County level MAFMA owns 88
offices, of which 20 have a meeting room capable of accommodating 25-30
people, and 148 apartments.



- 41 -
ANNE 2
Page 4
F. PROBLEMS AID CONSTRAINTS RELATED TO EXTENSION
General
14.       Extension in Turkey is hampered by a number of rather common
problems of undertrained, underequipped and underutilized predominantly male
field staff that are physically away from the producers, with insufficient
means to get to them, without many relevant and whole-farm-based
recommendations to give to them, with insufficient training -nd motivation to
find out what the needs and expectations of the different groups of farmers
are and with insufficient support from their supervisors and agricultural
engineers. Job descriptions are not sufficiently operationalized and
incentive structures not sufficiently transparent, resulting in underutilized
human capital making the service inefficient. The result is a fairly
unresponsive extension service, eschewing farmers' participation in problem
identification, with inadequate planning and targeting, while monitoring
categorized farmers' feed-back, and research linkages, are insufficiently
developed.
15.       Most of these issues have been addressed during AEARP, which covered
18 provinces (16 provinces at time of Loan signing, two of these provinces
were divided during 1989, bringing total provinces to 18 without changing
project area) by getting staff closer to the client population, by making
staff mobile, by ensuring the - elevance of the recommendations and by managing
the system better. Significart improvements in extension have been achieved
in the AEARP's project. How ;er, it is useful to consider its lessons.
Lessons Learned from AEARP
16.       Organization of Subject Matter Specialists.  Depending on their
size, the provinces are subdivided into counties. Under AEARP, a number of
Count2-group Subject Matter Specialist-teams, intended to have four members
reside in one of the counties and serve a number of counties, depending on the
number of extension workers to be supported. The County-group SMSs are being
supervised by an eight-member Pro     al SMS-em that resides in the
provincial capital and serves, depending on the size, one or more county-
group-SMS-teams. In the present situation, the disciplines of the county-
group SMSs must include field crops, horticulture, livestock husbandry and
plant protection. On Provincial level the eight SMSs have the following
disciplines: field crops, horticulture, livestock, plant protection,
mechanization, animal health, irrigation and home economics.
17.       A number of problems have been experienced so far:  (i) shortage of
qualified staff; (ii) insufficient expertise in planning, economics and
extension; (iii) muddled task limitations between county-group and provincial
levels; (iv) insufficient support of Village Group Technicians; and
(v) limited involvement of provincial SNSs in farmers' problems and extension
planning.
18.       Under the project, the SMSs are to be agricultural subject matter
specialists, having training and expertise in a particular sector of
agriculture. The concept of specialist in a subject matter is not to be used
to indicate a certain level of training, like engineer or technician: all



- 42 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5
subject matter specialists are engineers, but not all engineers are
necessarily subject matter specialists. Two of the main tasks of the SNSs are
training and suMport of the VGTs. To improve the ability of the SMSs to
undertake that role, there will be one team of SMSs for every 40 VGTs on
average, alternatingly training groups of 20 VGTs.
19.       That means that nine provinces will include one SMS-team, seven
provinces will have two teams and three provinces will have three teams,
totalling 54+84+54-192 SNSs (see para 21). In the case of only one SMS team
per province, the team will reside in the provincial capital; in the case
where there is more than one, the teams will be of equal status and their
location will be determined in function of the main agricultural activities
with a particular preference for at least one of the sites away from the
capital, under the explicit agreement with the County Director, that SMS-
teams, whatever their geographical locations, support about forty VGTs in a
number of counties and are technically coordinated by the FTE Director.
20.       The composition of the teams is flexible, both in number and in
discipline to allow it to be situation specific. However, the team as a whole
should possess expertise in the following fields: agro-economics, extension/
training, crops, livestock, horticulture, irrigation/mechanization/erosion,
while it is obvious that different combinations of various fields of expertise
in one person are possible. Especially the first two fields of expertise have
been relatively lacking so far and necessitate considerable training.
Candidates to be trained in extension and/or training will be recruited from
those having already their basic agricultural training and experience. The
candidates will therefore be agriculturalists with above-average performance
and attitudes in extension and/or training. (The comprehensive SMS training
program, covering knowledge, skills and attitude training, is described in
para 66.) The teams will be supported and supervised by the FTE Director who
will be assisted by two or three staff members who have experience and
training in planning, budgeting, monitoring and man-management.
21.       The total number of SNSs spending a considerable amount of time on
extension won't increase, because the majority of staff is already employed
either on county or Provincial level, including an important number of women.
A possible exception must be made for economists, extension specialists and
mechanization specialists, disciplines that are indeed very scarce in Turkey.
For indicative purposes it is assumed that each county-group team will need--
to be effective and relatively unbiased--6 SMSs on average, resulting in a
total of 192 SMSs in the 32 county-groups.
22.       Line of Command.  The double layer of command of SMSs at provincial
and county-group level resulted under AEARP in inefficient communication,
professional (crop) biases, lack of involvement of the provincial level staff,
inadequate support and training of VGTs and only partial realization of
research linkage potential. In addition, unclear relations between county-
group-SMS-teams and a number of CDs have caused some teams to limit their work
to the physical boundaries of the county they happened to live in.
23.       Under the project (in AEARP), the farmers will have at villag& level
only 9oM government extension worker responsible for all extension activities,
although some other services will continue to be provided: veterinary, soil



- 43 -
AM 2
Page 6
conservation, supervised credit, land registration and statistical services.
The project will decrease the average ratio farmer:extension worker to 850:1
in irrigated areas and 1,900:1 in tainfed agriculture, though variations will
exist, following the criteria of choice mentioned above. At the time of
naraisal 1,767,000 hectares were under irrigation with 519,000 farming
families tending the land, necessitating 613 VGTs, on the basis of one VGT per
850 irrigated farming-families. Also, 5,118,000 hectares were rainfed
cropping land tended by 627,000 farming families, necessitating 331 VGTs on
the basis of one VGT per 1,900 dryland cropping families. In total, there is
a need for 944 VGTs under the Project, serving about 1.15 million farming
families. GOT has plans in different stages of development to bring a total
of 677,000 additional hectares under irrigation by the end of the Project
(19962. The upgrading from dry to irrigated land would involve approximately
83,000 farming families. Those 83,000 farmers have been served by 44 VGTs
while they were dry cropping; once they intensify their agriculture, using
irrigation, those families will need 98 VGTs. By the end of the project there
might be a need for an additional 54 VGTs (98-44) to the planned 944. In view
of the uncertainty of the realizations, it has been agreed to leave the number
of VCTs at 950. The VGT is the main contact with the farming community and
all others in the extension service have the objective to make theg VGTmore
effective.
24.       Under the project, a selection will be made from the reservoir of
Agricultural Technicians whereby a careful and positive choice will be made in
favor of good technicians with above average communicative skills. The
operation will largely be a budget-neutral transfer of already existing staff
and measures will be taken to avoid the risk of competition in recruitment for
other projects, and to allow thle opportunity for younger people and women to
join the service.
25.       Village Groups to be assisted by a Village Group Technician will be
selected on the basis of: (i) the possible existence of an active farmers'
group; (ii) the potential for increases in production and productivity;
(iii) the relative lack of adequate information availability of farmers from
other sources; (iv) the relative information needs of different categories of
farmers; and (v) the relative suitability of the village as a home for a VGT
with special reference to schooling. The VGT will work directly under the
Agricultural Extension Supervisor (AES), residing in the County capital.
26.       At county level the extension service will be represented by an
Agricultural Extension Supervisor (AES) who will be selected according to the
needs of the particular region but with special emphasis on training and
experience in economics, extension and the use of farm machinery. The AES
works under the direction of the County Director and will be responsible for
the organization, planning, training and monitoring of the extension
activities. They will be assisted by the specialized services of the province
that are--for extension--coordinated by the Director FTE.
27.       At County-group level the SMS-teams will, for practical purposes,
usually be led by the extension and training SMS. The members of the team
will work in a number of counties, but will administratively report via their
team leader to the CD of the county of residence of the team. However, in the



- 44 -
2
Page 7
execution of their tasks the SMSs report for technical matters to the Director
NTE.
28.      At Provincial level, the Director of the Farmer Training and
Extension section with one to three assistants will program and coordinate all
extension activities of the Province. The T&V inspired management of the
province will be based on the principle that the paramount task of any level
of responsibility is to ensure the optimal operation of the level it is
supervising. During staff selection for the assistants to the FTE Director,
particular attention will be given to: (i) economics, as this aspect has been
somewhat neglected while the need, especially while assisting VGTs in drawing
up the situation analysis and subsequent diagnostic surveys of their areas,
but also assisting VGTs to help farmers draw investment plans, is obvious; to
(ii) farm machinery, as farm expenditure for mechanization is one of the
largest outlays in a typical farm budget, whether the equipment is owned or
rented; and to (iii) the training of extension.
29.      Phasin. Under the project extreme care will be taken in phasing
and synchronizing the activities as the extension service can only be fully
operational if the components are adequately meshed. All levels of staff need
to be trained, equipped with relevant recommendations and effective audio-
visual aids, sometimes housed and provided with transport prior to, or
coinciding with, their arrival in the villages to work with the farmers.
?unds will be made available from AEARP to (i) enable the training program to
start even before project effectiveness; and (ii) allow a detailed timetable
of the Project to be drawn (see Chart 2 for timing of the project).
30.       Ideally, the bulk of the work of the project would be split
geographically into three equal lots of six provinces each. However, it is
considered undesirable to execute civil works, buy transport, train personnel
and develop the extension service's management in a limited number of
provinces, leaving the other provinces till the next year and the year after.
On the other hand, a real danger exists in executing the work in a such a
fashion that unrelated individuals get trained, uncoordinated houses get built
and unmatched lots of specific vehicles bought.
31.      Under the project, farmers living in the area covered by a county-
group-SMS-team constitute the basis for planning. The project will train
staff, build and allocate houses and offices, purchase and allocate vehicles,
and reinforce research on a county-group basis, making all actors in the whole
of the county-group area operational in a coordinated fashion. Thus, over a
period of four years, four sets of about eight county-groups each will become
operational.
F. ORGANIZATION OF XTENSION
Limitations of 1xtension
32.       Extension is a policy instrument which uses communication
deliberately to induce voluntary behavior changes. Three major uses of this
instrument can be distinguished:



- 45 -
AMN 2
Page 8
(a) infomation to support farmers' decisions (including increases of
farmers' knowledge and correction of erroneous information);
(b) persuasio to change behavior for a presumed collective benefit
(e.g. erosion control);
(c)  educatin for the development of human resources or their
management/organization (e.g. development of farmers' organizations
or skill training).
33.       Agricultural extension is only one of the policy instruments at the
government's disposal, limiting itself to influencing the knowledge, skills
and attitudes of the parties involved. Agricultural extension cannot solve
problems of input supply, marketing, tenure, pricing, taxation or statistical
enumeration. The extension service to be improved under the project will
become a profess_. aal organization, capable of assisting farmers to raise
their production and productivity. Care therefore will be taken to improve
the management of the system, rather than simply execute a project. The
manarement Drinc 9sb  of the Training and Visit system of extension will be
applied, characterized by a single line of command, regular and frequent
contacts of extension workers with their supervisors, a concentration of
efforts, a significant reduction of non-extension tasks to be performed by the
agents, a calendar of farm visits, continuous training and strong links with
research.
34.       Experience from countries with highly productive agriculture
indicates that extension services, to be effective, need to be responsive to
ate needs of farmers.  Much more than a simple message delivery system,
effective extension services act as institutional managers of agricultural
information, linking users, researchers and policy makers.  The first step
therefore is to find out what the farmers' problems are, why, and to what
degree they apply to men and women of different socio-economic groups. Under
the project, 950 Agricultural Technicians will become VGTs. They will move
to, and work and live in "their" villages.
Situation Analysis
35.       Upon their arrival in the village the VGT will undertake a situation
Analysis, for which he/she has been trained and equipped. The training will
cover not only the methodology of the analysis, including interviewing
techniques and informant identification, but also the quality and quantity of
the' data to be usefully collected. The main objectives of the situation
analysis are to (i) find agreed upon and somewhat standardized data on the
farming systems of the VGTs 'constituency" and (ii) to familiarize the VGT
with his/her area in a purposeful and unbiased manner.
Diagnostic Survey
36.       Partially based on the situation analyses prepared by the VGTs a
team of no more than ten members, operating together for the purpose of the
survey only, will subsequently do a county-group area diagnostic survey. This
team will typically consist of a number of the VOTs, the relevant AESs and
SNSs and preferably the representatives of the relevant research institutions



- 46 -
Page 9
based in the vicinity of the area under diagnosis. It is important to aim for
an unbiared team by including members who have expertise in the fields of
crops, livestock, extension, rural sociology and agricultural economics. To
furthar improve upon the team's capacity for diagnosis it is essential that a
mber of women are among its members. The team will work for about two weeks
in the county-group area in daily changing pairs, ideally combining natural
and social scientists in each pair.
37.       Every evening the whole team will gather together to discuss what
they have learned, what they consider essential to learn the next day. It
might prove useful to take pictures or preferably slides of what farmers
perceive as problems or constraints. These slides will be given, after the
team has finished its work, to the VGT to facilitate his/her rekindling the
dialogue with the farmers. The team leader's main task will be to guarantee a
smooth methodological running of the survey.
38.       Employing different raRid rural apraisal techniques, that will be
largely based on farming systems experiences, the team will (i) use existing
information (maps, books, reports, films, statistics, etc), (ii) tap local
indigenous knowledge (from men and womeu, on all aspects of agricultural
production, possibly requesting them to find specific answers to the team's
questions), (iii) participate as much as is practically possible in the daily
(working) situations, (iv) use key informants, cross-checking the information
to redress possible biases, (v) use group-interviewing techniques,
(vi) organize themselves into an effective, multidisciplinary team.
39.       The QuUt of the team's efforts will be a report that has been
written during the survey and that might be presented to a panel of interested
parties. The report will be a collective appraisal of the strong and weak
points of the agricultural knowledge system in the county, identifying
different homogeneous categories of farmers. These categories can also be
called recommendation domains. Recommendation domains are groups of farmers
with similar circumstances for whom more or less the same recommendation can
be formulated.
40.       The 19 provinces under the project are so varied in their farming
systems that it would be very unlikely that the same recommendation could be
made for all farmers. Hence, the establishment of provisional recommendation
domains to guide extension and research is an essential output of the
diagnostic survey. &,  team members need to feel personally responsible for
the end product, thereby guaranteeing that each recommendation has been
evaluated in terms of productivity to the whole system. No sectoral reports,
for instance on livestock or on women's programs, will be prepared, but a
holistic view will be presented.
41.       A diagnostic survey never starts from a zero-situation. All parties
involved--farmers, VGTs, SMSs and researchers--do have their reasons for their
behavior. The team will formulate reasons why changes need to be made in the
existini situation. These reasons will be reassessed during the preparation
of annual extension programs as currently practiced under AEARP. A diagnostic
survey is not necessarily a once-only experience in the beginning of the
project, but will be repeated periodically.



- 47 -
ANNE 2
Page 10
Progr,NmLng
42.       The report will then outline Rrijorties for   tension (e.g. the
observation may have been that certain skills are not mastered by staff or
farmers, like pruning olives or milking cows effectively) and resarh (e.g.
certain diseases might have been observed, research might be able to come up
with answers "of the shelf"). However, also constraints might have been
identified that need to be pushed further up the research line, like the
development of a shorter growing period variety of a main crop, allowing the
farmers to squeeze in a second crop that year.) It is also possible that the
report will outline constraints that are beyond the scop3 of the Agricultural
Knowledge and Information System. In such cases the report will present the
constraint with possibly quantified causes, effects and target category-
proposed solutions to relevant policy makers.
Linkages
43.       The research-extension linkages will be strengthened at all four
levels (village, county, provincial and national), by: (i) executing
diagnostic surveys together with SMSs and Research personnel, resulting in
clear priorities for research and extension; (ii) involving VGTs in on-farm
trials to be organized by the liaising staff of the regional research centers;
(iii) the presence of two research/extension linkage specialists at the
regional research centers, whose task it is to strengthen the communication
between research and farmers, via extension; (iv) the encouragement of the
private farmers' organizations to articulate their research priorities;
(v) bimonthly training of SMSs by research staff; and (vi) regional
coordination committee meetings.
44.       Research-extension linkages are not limited to the contacts between
institutes. For instance, farmers' research and suppliers' product
information are important elements in the agricultural information system.
45.       An additional output of the diagnostic survey will be the direct
involvement and commitment of research and extension professionals in the
constraints of the county and the job at hand to overcome those. On
provincial level these work plans for extension (and research in so far they
depend from the Provincial Directorate) will be agglomerated and budgetary
allocations to execute them will be forwarded to Ankara for approval.
46.       Another important link is the working relation between the county
and provincial staff on the one hand, and the staff of the Extension
Information Center (EIC) in Ankara, on the other. Already during the
diagnostic survey EIC-staff may participate, recording farmers' and staff
reactions to each other, using stills and video cameras. Village and county
staff will be trained in the use of simple audio-visual equipment. Provincial
staff will be trained in the use of video, not only as a simple film camera
but also as a tool for upgrading farmers discussions by facilitating a very
concise articulation of key constraints. Another important role of the EIC,
that was established and equipped under AEARP, is the continuing written
information provision of all Ministry staff and literate farmers. Also, the
SIC will provide the counties with frequent and regularly updated
instructional video cassettes to be shown to farmer groups by VGTs. The EIC



- 48 -
ANNEX 
Page 11
staff will periodically evaluate the impact of their efforts at farmer-level
and will consciously endeavour to adjust their program, following suggestions
of field staff and farmers.
Staff Resgonsibilities
47.       Village Groun Technicians MVGTs).  Apart from their tasks of:
(i) strengthening the different farmers categories' capacity to articulate
their main problems and their alternate solutions; (ii) most effectively
conveying--or assisting farmers in conveying--that information to higher
appropriate levels; (iii) training skills to farmers; (iv) informing farmers
of relevant improved technology and giving advice on farm management,
intensification, investment needs, cost reduction and increasing profits; and
(v) encouraging them to adopt those techniques, the VGTs will also supply
research with information on the limiting factors in production, as
experienced by men and women of different socio-economic groups and with
feedback on the results of diffused research findings and mass-media programs.
48.       With refterence to rural credit the VGT may give, at the request of
credit supplying organizations and with the knowledge of the farmers
concerned, technical advice on the credit needs of the farmer and of his/her
repaying capacities, reviewing all sources of farm income. Training will
center around this type of systematic, profit oriented and economically
analyzing approach. The VGT will not fill in credit application forms, will
not make promises on credit matters and will not be involved in the
recuperation of farmers' debts. With reference to pest surveillance, VGTs
will be trained to identify and catch pests. They will assist in establishing
economic thresholds for spraying pests. They will be trained to measure pest
intensities and to zommunicate them rapidly and effectively.
49.       The VGTs are extension Rrofessionals, spending at least 80X of their
time in the field with groups of farmers. They will provide them with
production recommendations, assist them to form meaningful groups, encourage
them to participate in the planning of extension activities. The objective
will be to provide the farmers with adequate information to enable them to
make considered choices between various alternatives, rather than to coerce
them to make predetermined changes. The main incentive for working with the
improved extension service will be a high degree of job satisfaction. Regular
and frequent staff training with the possibility to get questions answered
fast plays an important role. Also the provision of free housing, basic
stationary materials, audio-visual aids and adequate transport will motivate
the people in the field.
50.       To improve the extension service's access to women farmers a number
of female extension workers will be selected and trained under the project.
In the provinces of Erzincan, Tokat and Icel, the service will be strengthened
under a pilot project by an additional total of 46 female agricultural
extension workers, covering 25% of the total of the farming families in those
provinces. Staff for the pilot project will be recruited from various
sources; home economists to be (re)trained, female agricultural engineers,
wives of VGTs already in the field.  The project would provide six months of
technical assistance to implement the pilot program. The main objective of
the pilot project would be to evaluate different methods of training women



49 -                ~~~~ANNEX 2
Page 12
engaged in agriculture, thus enabling a more formal and effective inclusion of
female staff in a possible third phase to upgrade provincial agricultural
extension services.
51.       VGTs meet their sunervisors (County Agricultural Extension
Supervisor) regularly and frequently whereby both technical and methodological
problems are discussed and solutions sought. Also, the VGTs will inform their
supervisors and their SMSs in a systematic way on the response from the
farmers and the categorized relevance of the messages diffused through radio
and television. More in particular the VGTs will report on the logic of the
recommendation domains: why the farmers do not adopt a message, why they
might have initially adopted but disregarded the recommendation and what the
most powerful arguments are, used by those farmers who have indeed adopted.
Also they will report on meaningless repetition of recommendations if and when
the majority of relevant farmers have adopted or have good reasons not to
adopt.   These reports will form the basis for formal and informal monitoring
surveys.
52.       The farmer:VGT ratios employed under the project do not allow the
VGT's to visit all farmers individually; therefore, extension agents will
address selected farmers' groups and no longer contact farmers. Choices will
be made whereby the criteria for categorization of farmers (or formulation of
recommendation domains) are set by the VGT and his/her supervisor on the basis
of the diagnostic survey with the well-informed assistance of the farmers
concerned. It is to be noted that categories are never determined by one
single criteria. Any farmer category will regroup a considerable number of
criteria.
53.       At least, the following criteria are to be considered: (i) gender;
(ii) the main socioeconomic and farming conditions; (iii) the existing farming
systems; (iv) the geographic dispersion; (v) willingness to collaborate; and
most importantly (vi) the already existing groups. The number of groups and
the frequency of visits depend largely of farming system, season, distances,
efficiency of the extension-research linkages, and the training of the VGTs.
For indicative purposes, one VGT will visit sixteen farmers' groups per
fortnight. During peak periods for certain crops this might be changed to
eight groups every week or to thirty two groups of farmers once visited every
four weeks. Each group consists of about 12 men or women.
54.       Under the project, the VGTs who have no other tasks than extension
will be provided with trepnsort (usually one motorcycle per male VGT and a
chauffeur-driven vehicle to be shared between two female extension workers),
with h-owing with basic audio-visual materials (a simple black-wipe-
flannelboard'per VGT, a simple slide projector for the six VGTs on average per
County with slides and video tapes in those areas where the coffee house would
provide the video player and television set), with minimal demonstration
materlals (the farmer pays for half the inputs, provides the labor while the
government pays for the innovation and half of all other inputs for the first
year of its introduction. After its introduction, the farmers will pay for
everything except for the innovation. Contracts will be signed, covering the
farmers against disproportionate risks due to the innovation to be
demonstrated in his or her field. Funds are made available under the project
to cover the hiring of large agricultural equipment, while all VGTs will be



- 50 -
Page 13
equipped with small materials like pruning shears, crop scales and livestock
weighing machines for selected VGTs.) and with desks and simnle stationary.
Most importantly the VGTs will be given extensive training.
55.       Agricultural Extension Supervisors.  The extension supervisor
(County AES) has two basic functions: (i) assist the VGTs to better organize
their work, and (ii) provide technical support to the VGTs. He or she will
supervise the effectiveness of the flows of information to and from the
farmers and SNSs and will, in particular, ensure that the VGTs are provided
with answers to questions from farmers they cannot respond to themselves. The
supervisors will spend about four days per week in the field, visiting each
VGT of his/her six VGTs on average (944 VGTs in 156 counties) at least once a
week in the field. An AES will not have more than ten VGTs to supervise.
56.       Under the project, the AESs will be provided with a double cab
pick-up, a video player and color monitor, an overhead projector, a
photocopier, a slide projector, and a duplicator. They will get additional
training in training skills, extension management, monitoring techniques and
in man-management. The AESs, preferably having training and/or experience in
the fields of economics, extension and/or mechanization, have the overall
responsibility for agricultural extension in the county under the direction of
the county director.
57.       They have the following tasks:  (i) ensure the methodological
quality of periodical diagnostic updates in the county; (ii) plan, organize
and partially execute regular VGT trainirg sessions under the direction of the
SIS team leader; (iii) execute field visits to review the extension work being
carried out in the county, both on content as on method aspects;
(iv) coordinate information gathered and generated in the area, with special
reference to (a) linkages with research on relevance of recommendations, to
(b) input suppliers and to (c) marketing organizations; and (v) coordinate--in
concordance with the county director--with the Director FTE and the provincial
technical services the support the subject matter specialists of the region
will provide to the agricultural extension activities in the county.
58.       Subject Matter Specialists.  The main tasks of the SMS teams will be
to: (i) train the VGT's in technical matters and extension professional
skills, (ii) technically support the VGTs in the field, (iii) assist the AESs
in the planning of the extension activities and (iv) liaise with research
(inside and out of the province, institutionalized and not). SMSs are nL the
supervisors of VGTs; VGTs should feel free to ask all possible questions to
the SMSs without any ramifications on their careers.
59.       SMSs will assist VGTs in relaying recommendations to farmers,
improving their understanding of the farmers' reactions. The SMSs will devote
at least 60X of their time to field extension, preferably operating within
teass or mtaskforces" for specific jobs at hand. In particular, they will
execute farm visits, assist the VGTs in the organization of field
demonstrations, organize, plan and execute VGT training sessions and perform
VGT housecalls). The remainder of their time they will build on to the
contacts that they have already made with research in the preparation of the
training sessions and they will assist the AES and County Directors in the
monitoring of the agricultural development and in the ensuing adjustments of



- 51 -
ANNMEX 2
Page 14
the programs. Also, under the project, each team will be provided with a
video camera, a player/recorder and monitor in sturdy transport casing. Each
six-person team will be provided with two vehicles (one station wagon, and one
4x4 double cab pick-up).
60.       Farmer Training and Extension (FTE). The Director Farmer Training
and Extension (FTE), assisted by one staff member, has a facilitating, rather
than a executing task. In particular he/she (i) aggregates the county
programs, sets priorities for extension themes, prepares budgets,
(ii) coordinates staff training, (iii) controls and supervises movement and
initial orientation of staff, (iv) programs the preparation of mass-media
programs, literature and audio-visual software and programs the relevant
training of staff in these subjects and (v) encourages the provision of
meaningful feed-back to research and extension policy makers.
61.       Under the project, each of the 19 provinces will be provided with:
(i) transport (two station wagons, one 2x4 double cab, one 4x4 double cab, one
midibus and one 10-ton truck); (ii) audio-visual aids (slide projector,
overhead projector, screen, simple 35 mm camera, wall-mounted black-board,
video equipment with accessories and storage); (iii) a small and locally
compatible gersonal computer, complete with printer and wordprocessing,
database, spreadsheet and editing/graphics programs, a photocopier; and
buildings (860 single story one-family houses for VGTs, 13 meeting rooms and
78 SIS apartments).
62.       At Headquarter level of the Ministry the following has been foreseen
under the project for each of the GDPI and the GDOS. One photocopier and
wordprocessing equipment, expected to consist of six small systems of one hard
disc CPU with three monitors and keyboards, coupled to a printer.  Four
station wagons and one minibus will be bought, especially destined to execute
field trips. Lastly, one data show equipment is foreseen for each of the
General Directorates.
63.       Regional Executive Committee (RCC).  In the 19 provinces, 6 RCCs
will be established in each agroecological region to coordinate project
activities. All RCCs will be chaired by the General Director of GDPI or GDOS
or by their deputies. Nembers are the provincial directors of agriculture,
heads of projects and statistics and FTE and the regional research Directors.
From central level the Director of Externally Financed Projects, the GDOS
extension Director, the Implementation Units' coordinator and the Director of
GDPI's research department will participate. Each RCC will meet at least once
a year during two or three days to review project implementation, remove
constraints, increase coordination and to approve the proposed provincial
programs.
Training
64.       Initial Training.  Under the project, a    killga analysia will be
made, giving particular attention to (i) knowledge, skillr and attitudes
considered required for all four levels of staff:  VGT, AES, SMS and FTE to
perform satisfactorily in the relevant Provinces, to (ii) the levels actually
existing among those staff and to (iii) the differences resulting from the
confrontation between what is wanted and what is actually available. The
results will be, for all four levels of staff in the 19 provinces (i) an



- 52 -
ANNEE 2
Page 15
agreed upon set of job descriptions, profiles and minimum requirements, (ii) a
transparent and agreed upon incentive structure and (iii) a comprehensive and
augmented training program.
65.       For indicative purposes the following initial training is foreseen
under the project, notwithstanding the results of the skillgap analysis,
mentioned above. The VGTs and their supervisors will be given an initial
training on the strategy and organization of the Project and will furthermore
be trained in: (i) the principles of extension; (ii) interviewing techniques
and diagnostic surveying; (iii) group work; (iv) demonstrations and
communication; and (v) the organization of their work, for twenty-five days
total, while the supervisors (AESs) will follow two additional weeks of
training skills, monitoring techniques and man-management, giving constant
attention to a systematic approach that is problem-solving and profit
oriented. Women will, in addition to the above, be trained in pertinent
agricultural skills.
66.       The SMSs and candidates under consideration for SMS positions will
be trained practically and theoretically during four months during the
relevant growing season in Turkish research institutions that specialize in
the discipline the SMSs are going to work in (for instance, the Central Crops
Research Institute in Ankara and the Agricultural Mechanization Institutes in
Adana, Amasya, Kayseri and Malatya). Furthermore, the SMS candidates will be
seconded for four weeks to carefully selected good, experienced SMSs with
outstanding extension skills and attitudes. Lastly, all SMSs under the
project will be practically trained in extension methods for four weeks,
including training skills. Distinction will be made between the technical
SMSs and the Extension and Training SMS. The latter will receive in-depth
training on extension methodology separately. All diagnostic survey team-
members, including VGTs, SMSs and a limited number of researchers from other
parts of the Ministry, will get an initial training in diagnostic surveying
techniques of ten days.
67.       The initial training of the FTE staff will entail, apart from
extension methodology and planning, the use of personal computers, project
strategy and organization, research/extension linkages and monitoring.
68.       Provincial Directors of MAFRA, County Directors, Provincial Section
Directors, Governors, Kaymakam and Directors of the pertinent Research
Institutes will participate in different orientation sessions, including
workshops on extension management, to make them thoroughly familiar with the
project. Relevant staff of Research Institutes and central level Directorates
will be adequately informed on the organization of the extension service.
Provincial and Headquarter staff will be trained in the use of personal
computers. In addition to this, a total of 10 farmers (male and female) of
each of the 37 provinces under AEARP and the project will make a study tour of
25 days outside of Turkey to other farmers' organizations that are operational
and provide a useful example, e.g. farmer-organJzed quality control in cut-
flower marketing. In addition, in-country farmer study tours will also be
undertaken.
69.       In-service Training.  Both for their agricultural and their
extension training the VOTs (male and female) participate in regular traing



- 53 -
AMX 2
Page 16
sessions, coordinated by the extension/training menber of the SMS-team and
organized together with the AESs, that will be held every two, three or four
weeks, depending on the need relative to the farming system and the level of
staff. VGTs are trained to help men and women farmers to better grow a crop
or better milk a cow using the impact points that were identified during and
after the diagnostic survey. Before the relevant season starts all impact
points are carefully discussed in a coherent manner, allowing the training
sessions to respond to immediate feedback from the field. With every
production reco_mendation to be extended by the VGTs to certain well-defined
categories of producers, some suggestions will be given as to how best to
extend the message, using different channels of information, including
demonstrations.
70.       The SNS will actively participate in bimonthly workshops in their
respective research institutes. The two-day sessions will be organized by the
Research Coordinators of the institutes, in collaboration with the Extension
Information Coordinators of those institutes. The objectives of the workshops
are to: (i) inform the SMSs on the agricultural conditions, (ii) inform them
on the status of the research, with particular attention to research that
seeks answers to identified problems, (iii) discuss technical matters,
(iv) support the tentative training and extension programs, including
demonstrations. On occasion VGTs will join these SMS workshops.
71.       The FTE staff will supervise the VOT training and will in particular
ensure that the SMSs will continue to operate in teams, approaching the whole
farm, and that the service remains responsive and farmers' profit-oriented.
The research institutes participating in the project would be responsible for
training SMSs, and the Provincial Directors of Agriculture and the Research
Institute Directors, through the Regional Coordination Committees, would
coordinate this training.
72.       Training abroad.  Overseas training under the project includes long-
term degree training, observation tours and attendance at seminars, and
conferences and workshops. MAFRA will internationally recruit a contractor to
assist administer the program. Sixty-one M.Sc. degrees (one person of each of
the 19 provincial FTE teams, the extension/training member of each of the 32
SIS teams, 5 GDPI and . CQDOS headquarter staff) are allocated in agricultural
extension, while fund. allow for foreign language instruction. Under the
project, a total of 50 man-months is foreseen for international study
tours/workshops/seminars to primarily benefit provincial extension staff.
Monitorine
73.       Monitoring collects, presents and reviews information about
extension activities in a methodical way. This information will be used by
(i) those carrying out the activities, (ii) managers of the activities,
(iii) others, including World Bank staff. Under the project, different
aspects will be monitored on all levels: inputs (e.g. houses built, staff
employed, vehicles bought), ou?puts (e.g. visits made, demonstrations given,
surveys carried out) and effects. The effects will be largely monitored in
terms of reaching agreed extension objectives and the adoption by
recommendation domains of promoted improved technologies but also in terms of
increased farmers' capacities to articulate their production constraints and



- 54 -
AMNE 2
Page 17
the subsequent effectiveness of the information flow upwards. Case studies
would be used to monitor the project's long-term impact.
74.       The objective of the monitoring exercise is to enable staff in and
outside the project to make decisions; to provide information for adjustment
or improvement of the service. Monitoring is essentially a positive and
constructive activity, involving all levels of staff, aiming for a better
product. Consequently, any reports are to be concise and timely. The
reporting itself will be regularly evaluated by the parties concerned in view
of opportunity costing. Precise job descriptions with expected results will
be drawn to (i) improve efficiency and to (ii) avoid competence conflicts
between staff.
G.  TECHNIL ASSISZ6ZJ
75.       Under the project, a total of 70 man/months of Technical Assistance
have been foreseen for project implementation: (i) a comprehensive skillgap
analysis and formulation of a training program, 6 m/m to be financed under
AEARP; (ii) supervision and support of the training program, 4+12+8 m/m;
(iii) training in extension methodology, 2+2+2+2m/m; (iv) diagnostic survey
techniques training, 8+4+1 m/m; (v) monitoring, 1+1+2 m/m; and topical
workshops, 2+2+2+2+2 m/m; and (vi) implementing the pilot women farmers'
extension program, 6 m/m.  The project would provide an additional 5 m/m to
assist GOT prepare the next phase of the program to upgrade provincial
agricultural extension services.



- 55 -
ANNE 3
Page 1
TUM
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
1.  BagkXXq=d A
1.        Agricultural Research in Turkey is predominantly in the public
domain, with little research conducted by private sector entities. The
encouragement by the present administration of public sector enterprises has
resulted in a few companies, especially the hybrid seed companies, to initiate
research trials of their own. In the public sector more than 80X of
governments funds for agricultural research resides in the Ministry of
Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs (MAFRA). Outside of MAFRA, the
Turkish Sugar Factories (SEKER) for sugar beet research and the Tea
enterprises (CAYKUR) for tea research in the Ministry of Industry conduct
meaningful research. The Faculties of Agriculture, especially at Ankara, Ege,
Cukurova and Ataturk Universities in the Ministry of Education carry out some
research but are constrained by budgetary limitations and teaching
responsibilities.
2.        Prior to December 1983, public sector agricultural research was
fragmented to an unusual extent with soil, fertilizer and water research on
irrigated lands being conducted within a separate Ministry of Village Affairs,
with crops, livestock and forestry research in the Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry. Much greater focus was given by government on agricultural research
(crops, forages and livestock) during a ten-year period (1971-1981) when these
activities were grouped within a separate General Directorate of Agricultural
Research (GDAR). GDAR was abolished in 1981 and merged with extension in an
enlarged general Directorate of Agricultural Affairs (GDAA) which lasted until
December 1983, when a major government change abolished the Ministry of
Village Affairs and its activities were merged into an enlarged Ministry of
Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs (MAFRA). Three new service General
Directorates were established to replace GDAA and the General Directorates of
Veterinary Services and of Plant Protection and Quarantine and named the
General Directorate of Project and Implementation (GDPI), the General
Directorate of Protection and Control (GDPC) and the General Directorate of
Organization and Support Services (GDOS). The new General Directorate of
Rural Services (GDRS) absorbed all the services located in the abolished
Ministry of Village Affairs and the General Directory of Forestry (GDOF)
continued as before.
3.        The research activities in GDRS and GDOF for soil, water and
fertilizer research and for forestry continued more or less as before the
reorganization. However, the research activities in the former GDAA and the
abolished general Directorate of Veterinary Services and the General
Dlrectorate of Plant Protection and Quarantine were in limbo awaiting MAFRA's
plans for reorganization of these agricultural research activities. It left
many of the research institutes directly under the control of Provincial
Directors of Agriculture, some of whom had little recognition of the



- 56 -                      AN 3
Page 2
importance of their activities in developing improved technology for their
farmers. These uncertainties combined with government's promotion of the
private sector led to the loss of a number of the most effective researchers
and administrators to a number of commercial firms newly established in
Turkey. Not until three years later (1986) did a fundamental reorganization
of agricultural Research take place but which did not become operative until
January 1989 or some five years after the reorganization of MAPRA. In the
interval, it would appear that research staff (agricultural engineer or higher
degree) dropped from 1,070 in 19841/ to 664 in 19892 (excluding GDRS,
Veterinary & Forestry research).
Present Organization of Agricultural Research in A
4.        Agricultural Research in MAF   is administratively located in four
separate general Directorates as follows:
GDPI - Crops, forages and livestock research
GDPC - Plant Protection, Veterinary, Food and Feed Control Research
GDRS - Soils and water research
GDOF - Forestry research
Extension, which for about two years was in GDAA (1981-3) with the research
institutes now associated with GDPI, has again been administratively separated
into GDOS and line responsibility rests with each of the 67 (soon to become
71) provincial Directors of Agriculture.
5.       The reorganization of agricultural research in NAPRA established by
ministerial decree established a High Council for Research and Development
(HCRD) which had its first meeting in January 1989. It's functions are to
define targets and priorities for long-term research policies; define target
areas for investment in accordance with research and development plans and
programs; examine and evaluate manpower training and training places of the
research establishments of MAFRA. The HCRD is supposed to meet annually in
June but additional meetings can be called by the Chairman, who is the
Minister of MAFRA. Other menbers include the Undersecretary and relevant
assistant undersecretaries, the general directors of the service units (GDPI,
GDOS and GDPC), affiliated GDs, representatives of the Ministries of Finance
and Customs, Industry and Commerce, State Planning Organization (SPO), Higher
Education Board (YOK), Scientific and Technological Research agency of Turkey
(TUBITAK), agricultural Bank (TCZB) and invited scientists from universities
or other agencies and Directors of MAFRA's research institutes.
6.        The office of the chairman of the Research, Planning and
Coordination Board (APK) acts as the Secretariat for the HCRD. Furthermore,
with the assistance of the three main service units (GDPI, GDOS and GDPC), APK
defines and formulates the plans and programs of agricultural research and
submits them to SPO for approval after receiving the pertinent approvals
within MAFRA. APK coordinates and ensares cooperation between the general
11   Source - Turkey Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan, Part II Review of
MAFRA's Technical Support operations - World Bank 5576-TU, 3-30-1985.
B    Turkey - AgriculturaL Extension II Preparation Report, April 1989.



- 57 -
Page 3
directorates in charge of agricultural services; prepares, distributes and
controls the annual budget for research programs. Other duties of APK include
participation, monitoring and management of research implementation together
with the responsible directorates, coordination of relationships with
international organizations vis-a-vis agricultural research development and
attending meetings of other organizations on behalf of MAFRA.
7.        Although the reorganization of MAPRA has rescued the fragmentation
of research among various general directorates somewhat, the present
organization still leaves research divided among four general directorates and
much could be gained by a further consolidation. HCRD with APK is supposed to
provide the mechanism for effective planning and programming of the joint
MAFRA agricultural research effort. However, APK is presently understaffed to
effectively conduct the functions outlined above and fragmentation of research
is compounded by inadequate policy guidance and support at the national level.
Each general Directorate has national research working groups which meet
annually to review previous findings and to recommend the research programs
for the following year. APK in its secretariat function, compiles these
annual research programs for approval by HCRD which are then submitted to SPO
for final approval after MAFRA recormends appropriate budgetary allocations.
Such a system should lead to effective research planning and programming. Up
to the present, however, insufficient staff has prevented effective planning
and programming resulting in HAFRA and SPO mostly endorsing research programs
submitted to them.
8.        In an effort to improve HAFRA's agricultural research capabilities,
a consultant firm from West Germany hired with funds provided from the Bank's
agricultural sector adjustment loan (2585-TU) has reviewed MAFRA's research
activities and offered recommendations concerning:
(a) research programming and priorities;
(b) manpower and training requirements;
(c) budgetary requirements; and
(d) improved linkages with extension and external research entities.
At this stage it is not known whether KAFRA will take any action concerning
the recommendations.
Agricultural Research Responsible to GDPI
.9.       Research presently responsible to GDPI covers crops, forage, and
livestock, excluding sugar beets and tea. The major thrust of the GDPI
research programs has been on plant improvement and breeding and the
development of new or adapted varieties of various field and horticultural
crops. Less research is done on improved cultivation practices, even though
soil management and tillage are important for grain yields on dry land as the
choice of crop variety. Livestock breeding and animal nutrition research is
conducted on a more limited scale.
10.       Beginning in 1969, with the assistance of the Rockefeller
Foundation, Oregon State University and CIHMYT, the GOT established a national
wheat research and training program which used a multi-disciplinary approach
and established research teams with representatives from different General



- 58 -
ANNE 3
Page 4
Directorates in Crops Research, Plant Protection, Soils and Extension. It
resulted in the release and adoption of a number of improved cultlvation
practices and wheat varieties which have been responsible for Turkey's wheat
yields increasing to an average of two tons per hectare. The approach to
research in this program led, in 1972, to establishing activities on a
commodity oriented basis, where possible. The 33 research institutes and
stations were grouped with 7 ecologically homogeneous regions devoted to
agrLcultural commodities of national importance. At present 651 separate
projects are underway with 77 projects completed in 1988. This large number
of projects is allocated among 32 national commodity research programs
(Table 1). Each national research program is under supervisior of a national
coordinator who resides at the leading research institute and coordiriates the
annual work program which may include several research stations in different
agroecological zones.
TABLE 1 RESEARCH PROJECTS OF GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF PROJECT AND IMPLEMENTATION
PLMNT RESEARCH OP GDPI                     No. of pciets
Plant genetlc resource                               12
Cold climate cereals                                 37
Potato                                                5
Maize                                                24
Food legumes                                         33
Tobacco                                               4
Second crop research and extension                   16
Sunflower                                            12
Paddy                                                 6
Grassland and forage crops                           26
Cotton                                               27
Other field crops                                     3
Vineyard                                             40
Citrus                                               13
Olive                                                38
Pistachio                                             8
Hazelnut                                              9
Pome fruits                                          16
Stone fruits                                         23
Nuts                                                 11
Fig                                                  12
Berries                                              13
Tomatoes                                             18
Cover type and under cover production techniques    33
Open field vegetable production                      69
Mushroom                                              6
Ornamental crops                                     16
Other subtropical fruits                              9
SUB-TOTAL                                           543



- 59 -
Page 5
Livestock Research Projects
Big and small ruminant livestock                     36
Poultry                                              38
Sericulture and other domesticated animals           16
SUB-total                                            32
Fishery Research Projects                            16
SUB-TOTAL                                            16
11.         The procedure for starting projects is that a project is first
proposed. The all important question who identifies the need for research is
not answered by a systematic procedure. In theory, this need is generated by
extension and farmers. However in the absence of a clear procedure for
generating information on problems from the field, and knowing that contacts
between research and extension outside Phase I provinces are haphazard at
best, research problems tend to be generated, first of all, by researchers
themselves with no guarantee that this research answers any field problems
whatsoever. The fact that implementation of phase I has shown that
researchers soon begin to resent efforts by provincial directors to identify
research topics shows that research is not user-oriented. Once a proposal zias
been formulated, it has to go through three deliberative bodies: the research
committee of the institute in question; work groups of researchers from a
particular discipline from all over the country; and, finally, the Ministerial
Cotancil of Research Development.
12.         A number of institutes have contacts or cooperative arrangements
with, or receive support from, international organizations. Financial support
has come from eight different agencies. Since 19831, the World Bank has been
the major donor ($34.7 million) compared to $2.6 million for the seven other
donors combined. This difference will increase greatly with the financing of
various new loans by the Bank. Good contacts and cooperation programs have
been established with CGIAR institutes (CIMMYT, ICARDA, ICRISAT, CIP, IRRI and
CIAT).
13.         Despite some of the problems, the GDPI institutes have made some
major contributions, especially towards agriculture in the western part of the
country. These include the release of mold-resistant varieties in tobacco;
tk. release of four barley, 5 durum and 15 bread wheat varieties, the
establishment of a gene plasm bank, the release of six walnut, two apricot and
one strawberry variety, the development of mushroom production techniques, the
doubling of local lamb weight yields through improved nutrition and soil
management techniques.
14.         GDPI research institutes account for some 80X of research
activities of MAFRA. With reorganization of MAFRAs research, this group
includes four central research institutes, 8 regional research institutes and
40 commodity research institutes. The justification for 52 research
institutes and stations and a large number of projects (Table 1) for GDPI
alone, excluding the research entities of GDRS, GDPC and GDOF needs to be
reviewed in -light of national priorities, and the allocation of limited human,
physical and financial resources.



- 60 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6
Central Research Institutes (CRIs) of GDPI
15.         With the reorganization of research in GDPI, four research
institutes have been designated as Central Research Institutes (CRI's). The
Central Research Institutes (CRI's) are to be responsible for planning,
project preparation and implementation of country-wide research activities on
field crops, horticulture, and livestock. The four CRI's are:
(1)   Field Crops CRI - ANKARA
(2)   Horticultural CRI - Yalova-ISTANBUL
(3)   Livestock CRI - KONYA
(4)   Livestock Disease CRI - Pendik-ISTANBUL
The CRI's prepare draft research projects and programs on a national, regional
or subject basis. They are responsible for implementation, control and
evaluation of research projects and programs in accordance with the guidance
of HAFRA, and assist in the transfer of the results to the field.
16.         The CRI's are to give technical assistance to other institutes.
Their laboratories are established with that purpose in mind. However, it is
questionable how much assistance can be given by the Livestock Central
Research Institute at Konya since it was established at the time of
reorganization and has limited resources and staff. The CRI's are to provide
training programs for researchers in the country, using resources available
throughout the country. They are responsible for the purchasing and
dissemiiation of scientific publications. They are also responsible for joint
projects with foreign institutions and the exchange of materials with such
institutions. They may also organize international seminary and meetings and
liaise with other research institutes in these matters. The CRI's formulate
recommendations based on research results through the research-extension
groups and send these to the extension service. Furthermore, the CRIs are to
prepare programs, seminars, training sessions and so forth, in order to
increase the relationship between research and extension, to get the approval
for such programs and to implement it in cooperation with regional and
commodity research institutes.
Regional Research Institutes (RRIs) of GDPI
17.         The designated RRIs are to have responsibility for regional
research programs on products or product groups which have priority in
accordance with the agricultural potential of the region where there is no
CRI. The designated RRIs are:
(1)   The Aegean ARI - Menemen - IZKIR
(2)   Cukurova ARI - ADAMA
(3)   Mediterranean,ARI - ANTA&TYA
(4)   South Eastern Anatolia ARI - DIYARBAKIR
(5)   Eastern Anatoila ARI - ERZURUM
(6)   Black Sea ARI - SAMSUN
(7)   Thrace ARI - EDIRNE
(8)   Transitional Zone ARI - ESKISHEHIR



- 61 -
Page 7
The staffIng pattern of the RI's are much the same as the CRVs and also are
to include a research-extension group. The RI's define the problems and look
for solutions to factors limiting the production of product or product groups
which are of prLority importance to the reglon. They are to propose research
projects, seek approval for them and implement them after approval has been
obtained. Besides this central duty, the RRI's are to develop relatlonships
wlth other relevant institutes in the region and exchange knowledge with them.
The RRI's are to make programs for on-farm trials in order to accelerate the
utliLzation of research findings in the region. The RRIs further assist
provlnclal directorates ln the preparation and implementation of thelr
demonstration programs. The research institutes are to formulate
recommendations based on research results through its research-extension
groups and are responsible for the training programs within the first
extension project (AEARP) so as to improve relationships between research,
extension and farmers.
Commodity Research Institutes (CIs) of GDPI
18.         CI's implement regional or national research programs on products,
product groups or subjects in close coordlnation with reglonal research
lnstitutes. Table 2 lists the names of the CI's.
TABLE 2:  LIST OF HAFRA's COMMODITY RESEARCH INSTITUTES OF GDPI
Locaticn                      Name of Subject
Ankara                  Poultry Research Institute
Ankara/Lalahan          Livestock Research Institute
Ankara/Etlik            Livestock Dlsease Research Institute
Ankara                  Foot and Mouth Disease Institute
Ankara                  Plant Protection Research Institute
Adana                   Plant Protection Research Institute
Adana                   Livestock Disease Research Institute
Afyon                   Buffalo Research Institute
Antalya                 Citrus Research Institute
Antalya                 Greenhouse Research Instltute
Aydin/Nazlli           Cotton Research Institute
Aydin/Erbeyli           Fig Research Institute
Balikesir/Bandirma      Sheep Research Institute
Bitlis                  Beekeeping Research Institute
Bursa                   Silkworm Research Institute
Bursa                   Food Research Institute
Diyarbakir              Plant Protection Research Institute
Elazig                  Livestock Research Institure
Erzincan                Horticultural Research Institute
Erzurum                 Livestock Disease Research Institute
*       GizLantep               Pistachio Research Institute,
Giresun                 Hazelnut Research Institute
Hatay/Kirikhan          Field Crops Research Institute
Isparata/Egirdir        Aquaculture Research Instltute



- 62 -
AMNE 3
Page 8
Icel/Erdemli            Horticultural Research Institute
Istanbul/Kartal         Leather Research Institute
Izmir/Bornova           Plant Protection Research Institute
Izmir/Bornova           Olive Research Instltute
Izmir/Menemen           Plant Genetic Resources Institute
Kastamonu               Handicrafts Research Institute
Konya                   Livestock Research Institute
Konya                   Bahri Dagdas International Winter Cereal
Malatya                 Horticultural Research Institute
Manisa                  Viticulture Research Institute
Hanisa                  Poultry Disease Res. and Vaccines Product. Inst.
Migla/Bodrum            Aquaculture Research Institute
Sakarya                 Maize Research Institute
Samsun                  Livestock Disease Research Institute
Tekirdaq                Viticulture Research Institute
Trabzon                 Aquaculture Research Institute
S. Urfa/Akcakale        Irrigation Techniques Research Institute
Yozgat/Yerkoy           Angora Goat Research Institute
*Source: MAFRA, 1989
19.         The Commodity Research Institutes are to implement basic and
applied multi-disciplinary research programs and projects. They exchange
materials and maintain relationships to coordinate with CRI's and RRI's. Tney
assist with specialists, training, research, tools and equipment, in the
implementation of projects of other institutions and give service through
their libraries established for special purposes. They are to also improve
international relationships and cooperate with the CRI's to import new
technologies. They are to evaluate research results and publish them through
the central institutions. They are to improve their cooperation with the
provincial directorates in order to transfer research findings through their
research-extension group.
Soils and Water Research Institutes of GDRS
20.         GDRS research is carried out in 10 regional institutes and a Soils
and Fertilizer Research Institute. Some of its research centers are well-
equipped and staffed and have conducted useful research on soil classification
and fertility levels, and provide a useful service in advising farmers on soil
analysis and fertilizer use. This is particularly evident in case of the
Soils and Fertilizer Research Institute and the Central Research Institute,
both at Ankara, and the Regional Research Institutes at Samsun and Tarsus.
Others, however, are poorly equipped and conduct a minimum of research with
inadequately trained staff.
21.         The GDRS institutes have some 327 projects, 666 field trials and
62 field demonstrations for farmers. Although the majority of the projects
are devoted to various aspects of soil and water research, some overlap exists
between the work of the GDRS institutes and the GDPI ones, especially in
variety trials. There is minimal contact between the soil and water research
effort and crops, forage and livestock research. The procedure for approving
projects is very similar to the one described for GDPI.



-'63 -
ANNEX 3
Page 9
Plant Protection Research Institute of GDPC
22.         Responsibility for plant protection research rests with GDPC,
together with veterinary and food research. Plant protection research
(diseases, pests and weeds) is conducted in nine institutes. Of the 562
projects carried out, one third or about 100 projects are nnt truly research
projects but tests of chemicals for registration, which last one to two years
and are referred to as RID projects. This task clearly limits the efforts of
professional staff on true" research projects. Attention is also given to
research on biological control.
23.         Given the fragmentation of research in different general
directorates, all crop research institutes (GDPI) which want to evaluate the
resistance of new varieties to pests and diseases must have their own plant
pathologists and entomologists and cannot rely on plant protection research
institutes. Most of the research and testing in GDPC are done in
laboratories. The institutes have hardly any farm facilities. Together, the
nine plant protection research institutes have no more than 14 hectares of
trial farms. Field work that needs to be done is usually carried out on State
Farms. The plant protection research institutes do, however, have the highest
proportion of professional staff with an advanced degree (55X have MSC or PhD
degrees). Nevertheless the greater part of the effort of the institutes seems
to be service-oriented rather than applied research, with a considerable
variability between the institutes.
VetriJnary Research Institutes of GDPC
24.         The 30 veterinary institutes and laboratories are partly devoted
to research, partly to services and partly to the production of vaccines, some
of which are exported to Middle East countries. The research focus is
primarily on viral, bacterial and parasitic diseases of animals, toxicology
and drugs. The intstitutes range from well-staffed and equipped units in
Ankara, to ones which conduct little research and devote most of their efforts
to animal disease diagnosis and, and therefore no more than service
laboratories. The three major institutes conducting some research are the
Veterinary Control and Research Institutes at Etlik (Ankara) and Pendik
(Istanbul) and the Foot and Mouth Disease Research Institute at Ankara. All
of them are also oriented to providing services.
25.         Since all institutes are devoted exclusi'vely to animal disease
control and fertility, there is practically no research on animal nutrition or
its impact on animal health. GDPI institutes are responsible for animal
breeding and nutrition. These include the Livestock Central Research
Institute in Konya which was established in 1986, the Lalahan Animal Husbandry
Research Institute and the Poultry Research Institute, both at Ankara, and the
research institutes at Erbegli, Afyon, Erzurum, Bandirma and Yozgat. The
contact between these stations and the veterinary research institutes is
minimal and there is little collaborative research.
Food and Feed Control Research Institutes of GDPC



- 64 -
ANNEX 3
Page 10
26.         The six institutes devoted to food and feed are invol-ed in
research on various aspects of processing, storage, ingredients, quality,
contamination, fermentation and packaging on a range of food and feeds.
Research projects include studies of frozen crawfish, sausages, cheese, milk
and milk products, vegetables, canned fruit, mushrooms, apples, candy,
sardines, grape juice, honey, beer, bread, pesticide and aflatoxin residues.
Some of the institutes are well equipped and are capable of conducting most
types of investigation on any kind of food.
Forestr= Research in GDWF
27.         Although forestry research has been carried out for 50 years, the
present Forestry Research Institute was established in Ankara in 1955. It has
eight branches in various afforested areas in Turkey. Most studies are
carried out in the research stations, as the institute at Ankara does not have
any facilities for research.



- 65 -
Page 11
Research Needs
28.         Despite the plethora of research institutes, stations and
projects, there is no program which systematically looks at Turkish
agriculture from a farming systems perspective, or at knowledge utilization,
social change and so forth, which could provide much needed intelligence to
policy makers. Other missing areas are research on family and household
economics and farm management research. These studies could include
nutrition, family planning, budgeting, employment and a host of other
important issues. Given agricultural development, research on the impact,
combination and use of policy'instruments, including extension, subsidies,
price interventions, and so on, should be given high priority. A few of these
concerns should be addressed by KAFRA's review of research being undertaken
with technical assistance for 6 months but the task has limited inputs and
will probably not fully address all the problems.
B. Progress on Aricultural Research Component of First
Aricultural Extension and Apolied Research Prolect (Loan 2405-TU)
29.         The first extension project (Loan 2405-TU) became effective on
July 25, 1984. The agriculturaL research component was designed to utilize
six agricultural research institutes servicing the 18 provinces1t in the
project area as follows:
(a)   provide monthly training to subject matter specialists (SMSs)
based on improved technology developed by the research institutes
for crops, horticulture, forages and livestock;
(b)   foster improved linkages between research and extension by
establishing research and extension information coordinators at
research institutes;
(c)   conduct on-farm research trials of promising newly developed
technology;
(d)   train abroad 136 researchers to MSc. level plus 202 man-months of
short term fellowships and provide 12 man-months of technical
assistance ($10.1 million);
(e)   procure some laboratory, field and office equipment, vehicles and
audiovisual aids to more effectively service the extension service
and farmers ($9.84 million);
(f)   construct additional research and dormitory facilities at the 6
research institutes (7.75 million); and
(g)   provide for incremental staff and operating costs ($5.29 million).
11    Originally there were 16 project provinces but these have been
subdivided into 18.



- 66 -
ANNEX 3
Page 12
Thus a total of $33.0 million of a total project cost of $205.9 million (161)
are for agricultural research related activities of the project which is
supposed to close on 12-31-90.
Progress
30.         As mentioned in para. 3, the reorganization of MAFRA followed by a
reorganization of its agricultural research entities seriously delayed
agricultural research activities and impinged on project implementation for
procurement, civil works and the training program abroad for the research
component. It was compounded by attrition of many competent researchers which
reduced the potential of sound research to develop new information of use to
farmers. However, it has not delayed the establishment of monthly workshops,
appointments of research coordinators and required coordination committee
meetings. It has led to closer working relationships between research and
extension and an increased awareness of each others activities and problems.
Furthermore, since 1988 about one-third of the total projected at appraisal
are presently abroad for MSc. degree training and equipment and vehicles have
been purchased.
31.         Since appraisal, two of the six research institutes were merged.
The Nid Anatolia Regional Research Institute (MARI) and the Grassland and
Animal Husbandry Research Institute (GAHRI) were combined to form the Field
Crops Central Research Institute with its headquarters at Ludumlu (outskirts
of Ankara) where GAHRI was originally located. The animal husbandry and
breeding research has been transferred to the new research institute
established at Konya as the Central Livestock Research Institute. The civil
works planned for construction of new research facilities at Haymana (40 km
from Ankara) for MAR! have been abandoned because of the merger. The only
other construction presently planned is for a research facilities complex at
the newly acquired research farm for the Eskisehir Research Institute and a
consultant architect has been hired by MAFRA to prepare detailed designs and
its construction should be completed by the closing date of 12-31-90.
32.         The Central Field Crops Research Institute (CFRI) has been
particularly effective in providing training to SMSs in these workshops. They
have found it particularly effective to provide training directly to the
Village Group Technicians (VGTs) with their SMSs. Their experience has been
that some of the messages are lost when given secondhand by the SNSs to the
VGTs. They have also found it useful to have VGTs visit their research farm
to observe directly promising research trials. The CFRI needs to construct a
dormitory to house at least 50 persons for workshops, whereas, at present,
only 15 can be accommodated. Possibly the existing barns could be converted
to dormitories and cattle transferred to the Central Livestock Research
Institute at Konya.
C. Research Component - Asricultural Extension II Project
33.         As with the first extension project, seven research institutes
have been selected to provide training for SMSs in the 19 provinces where



- 67 -
Page 13
extension services are to be strengthened. The six selected are on the basis
of location in or nearby the project area where SNSs and VOTs can be assembled
for training purposes. The institutes for training purposes are;
(1)   Cukurova Agricultural Research Institute - Adana;
(2)   Fruit Research Institute - Malatya;
(3)   Horticultural Research Institute - Erzincan;
(4)   Livestock Central Research Institute - Konya;
(5)   Livestock Disease Research Institute - Adana;
(6)   Plant Protection Research Institute - Ankara.
(7)   Cotton Research Institute - Nazilli - Aydin.
34.         Information on the seven research institutes may be noted in Annex
4 of NAFRA's Preparation Report on the Second Extension Project - April 1989.
The above mentioned research institutes are clearly not capable of providing
information on improved technology to solving all the problems faced by
farmers in the 19 provinces. Workshops at the institutes will require inputs
from other institutes to provide researchers in the training of SMSs and VGTs
and some problems will be handled directly by institutes with useful
information. This will include the Soil and Water Research Institutes of GDRS
at Ankara and Tarsis. Seven other institutes which will be supported (but to
a lesser extent) to backstop the seven designated institutes listed in para.
33 will be:
(1) Animal Disease Research Institute - Etlik - Ankara;
(2)   Central Field Crops Research Institute - Ludumlu-Ankara;
(3)   Central Horticultural Research Institute - Yalova-Istanbul;
(4)   Plant Protection Research Institute - Adana;
(5)   Southeast Anatolia Agricultural Research Institute - Diyarbakir;
(6)   Soil and Water Research Institute - Ankara; and
(7)   Rural Services Research Institute - Sanliurfa.
35.         Other research institutes, the agricultural Faculties of Turkish
Uni arsities and other agencies or non-government organizations (NGOs) may
also provide personnel occasionally who have meaningful information to give to
extension personnel. Funds for their travel and lodgings are provided for in
the project.
36.         The seven selected institutes will have the following functions:
(1)   to host bimonthly workshops for provincial and country SNS's from
the 19 provinces. In the Extension I project, the workshops were
held once a month, but different types of workshops are planned
for the Extension II project and would include field workshops;
(2)   to bring together appropriate teams of trainers and researchers,
if necessary from other research institutes and universities, to
cover the crop and livestock problems in the various regions of
the project area;
(3)   to develop appropriate technology, methods, practices and
procedures in cooperation with other research institutes and with
SMS's inputs, to solve the problems faced by farmers and



- 68 -
ANNE 3
Page 14
agricultural industries in each of the regions of the project
area;
(4)   to assist provincial and country SHS's in formulating appropriate
recommendations based on the research work in such a manner that
target categories of farmers can understand and apply the
recommendations;
(5)   to develop, pretest and produce, in cooperation with provincial
SMS's, leaflets and bulletins and other written and audiovisual
materials covering the technical aspects of regional agriculture;
(6)   to acquaint themselves with the region's recommendation domains
and the problems of farmers in each of these domains by absorbing
information from provincial and other intelligence units and by
frequently making general orientation survey trips in the areas to
be covered;
(7)   to assist provincial SMS teams in on-farm testing and adaptive
research, so as to establish and pre-test feasible technical
recommendations; and
(8)   to assist provincial SMS teams in laying out demonstration
programs on farmers' fields.
37.         The research institutes concerned will have program formulation
committees establishing annual research programs. These committees consist of
; MAFRA directors of the provinces for which the institutes are servicing
=<d, where these exist, representatives of farmers' organizations the same
sovinces. These directors also have budgets with which to "purchase"
research from the institutes. Private companies can do the same. Because of
their experience in the first extension project of providing effective
workshops for SMSs and their VOTs, the Central Field Crops Research Institute
will assist the others research institutes in coordinating training programs
based on plans formulated by the General Directorate of Organization and
Support Services (GDOS) for required training of extension personnel.
Improved Technology
38.         Appropriate improved technology has been developed by the research
institutes for training of SMSs and VGTs to convey to farmers. This,improved
technology has been grouped as to commodities or disciplines and the research
institutes associated with them and may be noted in Annex 5 of NAFRA's
Preparation Report on the Agricultural Extension II Project - GDPI - 1989.
This technology would be augmented by the institutes during the course of the
seven years of project implementation especially with increased inputs from
extension and farmers as to their needs. Annex 5 lists some information which
will not be of practical value to farmers. However, sufficient practical
information is provided to form the basis of useful workshops for training
SHSs and VGTs. Groups of Research Institutes and their improved technology
are as follows:



- 69 -
ANNEX 3
Page 15
(1) Cukurova Agricultural Research Institute - Adana
Cotton Research Institute - Nazilli - Aydin
Central Field Crops Research Institute - Ludumlu - Ankara
Southeast Anatolia Agricultural Research Institute - Diyarbakir
'Wheat and Barley Cultivation
Rice Cultivation
Cotton Cultivation
Alfalfa Cultivation
Sunflower, Maize, and Potato Cultivation
Vetch Cultivation (Common and Hungarian)
Fallow reduction using legumes
Pasture Management
Lentil Cultivation
Sainfoin Cultivation
Soil mulching for moisture retention
Seedbed preparation for fodder crops
Harvesting and Storage of Forage Grasses
Vegetables cultivation
(2)   Plant Protection Research Institute - Ankara
Plant Protection Research Institute - Adana
Pest Control in Wheat (Sunn Pest)
Pest Control in olive trees
Pest control in vegetables
Pest control in cotton
Pest control in fruit trees
Pest control in vineyards
Pest control in sunflower and ornamentals
Pest control in edible legumes
Pest control in maize
(3)    ntral Livestock Research Institute - Konya
Dairy cattle nutrition
Calf rearing
Small ruminant nutrition
Poultry nutrition
- (4)   Animal Diseases Research Institute - Etlik-Ankara
Animal Diseases Research Institute - Adana
Mastitis control
Anthrax control
Brusellosis control
Distomatose control
Lice and flies control
Trichostrongylose and Metastrongylose control
Proplasmose control
Ticks control
Scabies control



_ 70 -
AMNI 3
Page 16
(5)   Central Horticultural Research Institute - Yalova - Istanbul
Fruit growing Research Institute - Malatya
Horticultural Resgarch InstLtute - Erzincan
Soil management for apple trees
Pepper cultivatlon
Leeks, okra cultivation
Mushroom production
Apricot cultivation
Cherries cultivation
Okra production for canning
Peach production for canning
Pea production for canming
Strawberry cultivation
Plastic tunnel use for vegetables
Ornamentals cultivation
Grapes cultivation
Peach cultivation
Tomato cultivation
D. Proiect bAicultural Research  gmyoents
39.         Strengthening of the research institutes to provide improved
service to the extension activities in the 19 provinces of the project would
include training, additional staff, additional civil works for dormitories to
house SMSs and agricultural engineers, (funds for renovation of existing
buildings), equipment and supplies for on-farm research trials and vehicles.
TrainiDg
40.         Each of the seven designated research institutes would select farm
research staff in those disciplines needing strengthening and acceptable to
the Bank to be sent abroad to receive Masters degrees training. It would
result in 24 additional M.Se staff at the institutes with training initiated
in project year 2 and completed in project year 5. In addition, short term
training of between 1 to 6 months would also be provided to the seven research
institutes and the backup research institutes of 24 more months each for a
total of 336 more months would be provided to visit key research institutions
or to attend international research conferences. There would be flexibility
in the use of these funds for short term fellowships to permit reallocation
between the research institutes as appears rational and acceptable to the
Bank.
41.         In view of the fellowship program abroad for both researec. and
extension staff including masters degree program and short term fellowsnips,
an international organization with broad international contacts and acceptable
to the Bank would be used to administer the training program abroad. Funds
would also be provided for english language training in Turkey to obtain
sufficient proficiency for those going abroad to english speaking universities
for advanced degree training.



- 71 -
Page 17
Incremental Staff and Coordination
42.         Additional staff would be recruited to augment existing
professlonal staff In strengthening the research institutes to assist the
extension services. It should include specific disciplines which need to be
enhanced and the establishment of a research-extension liaison department
which would include a research coordinator and one extension information
coordinator. The function of each of the six Research-Extension Liaison
Departments would be to:
(a)  be responsible for training facilities;
(b)   develop training courses agreed upon in program formulation;
(c)   develop training and extension materials;
(d)   select, invite and brief speakers and trainees for the courses;
(e)   notify participants well in advance of the training programs;
(f)   be responsible for field work in the provinces such as on-farm
testing and farm problem diagnosis;
(g)   plan research to serve the provinces involved; and
(h)   integrate findings from different researches into recommendations
and teaching materials for SMSs and VOTs.
43.         The Research Coordinators (RC) would organize the bimonthly
training workshops for SMSs and VGTs and participate in the two-day sessions.
The Extension Information Coordinator (EIC) will function as a liaison between
the Extension Publication Department and the Research Institute.  Functions of
the EICs include responsibility for collecting technical information from
researchers based at various research facilities in the region, prepare
extension and training materials for extension staff and transmit to the
Publications Department in Ankara for printing and distribution to the
relevant provinces. The Research Extension Liaison Department will be
administratively under the Director of the designated research institute.
44.         All SMSs at the provincial, county and county group levels and
some VGTs will participate in bimonthly workshops at their respective research
institutes. The two-day sessions will be organized by the RCs in
collaboration with the EICs based at the same Research Institutes. The
Research Director will ensure that most professional staff will participate in
these workshops and when appropriate, specialists from other research
institutes will also be invited to participate. Audiovisual aids will be
utilized and a field trip will be included in the program. The bimonthly
workshops objectives will be as follows:
(a)   review the previous two months and the present agricultural and
livestock conditions in the pertinent provinces;
(b) discuss agricultural and livestock related technical problems
faced during the prior two months and the means to resolve them;
(c)   review the status of research findings, trials in farmers fields
and the available extension and training materials;
(d)   outline a tentative extension program for the next two months
including trials in farmers fields, demonstrations, and technical



- 72 -
ANNME 3
Page 18
recommendations, designed to produce the maximum net income per
hectare for each of the 19 provinces in the project; and
(e)   outline training plans containing technical recommendations for
SMSs to convey to their respective VCTs in the fortnightly
sessions for the next two months.
Cix1l Works
45.         Civil Works includes the construction of workshop training
facilities at the Livestock Central Research Institute at Konya, the Fruit
growing Research Institute at Malatya and the Animal Disease Research
Institute at Adana. It would include a dormitory to house 50 SMSs,
agricultural engineers, veterinarians, VCTs or farmers, a meeting room, dining
room, kitchen, laundry, and recreation room. It also provides funds for
renovation or relatively minor additions to the existing facilities at the 14
research institutes involved in training of extension personnel.
Epuinment - Farm. Office. Information. Laboratory and Documentation
46.         Farm equipment and machinery would be purchased primarily to carry
out on-farm research trials office and information equipment would be
purchased to equip the newly established Research Extension Liaison Department
for use by the Research Coordinators and the Extension Information
Coordinators. A small amount of laboratory equipment, books and periodicals
will also be purchased under the project.
47.         Annual subscriptions to scientific journals would be provided for
each of the main seven institutes to remain current in their specific research
fields of endeavor for the seven years of the project. Scientific books on
agriculture would also be provided as required by each research institute.
Vehicles
48.         Each of the research institutes would be provided with vehicles in
order to carry out their research activities. Of particular importance will
be the purchase of vehicles for carrying out on-farm research trials. All
vehicles would be purchased during the second year of project implementation.



ANNEX 3
MsC=>a AsCULTURAL omoZMM AMwXx APt=                          RA    PO                                  Table I
T.bl. 1. IPLA  P10U  111= 1TllMUZ: AUM
lotals Itllfns Contansmuln
O^ititv                                         (USt 'O00}
Unit     190 1991 1992 19 m 4 195 196 TOMe    1990  19  I9    199 I            9 I   1995  19   Totsl
1. I-E5t                                                         . COSTS
, CtIL VW
P06ATIKBI tDmoI S                     Ls          -    -    -    -    -           -      -  -  33.81 3S.29 36.85  38.41 40.1  41.93  226.51
S4&Iot.1 CIVIL VW                                                                              - 33.81 3S.29 36.85 38.47  40.16 41.93  226.51
1. 31ES0
PIOK-W( 412)                         o              I- _                                 -    .4       -                               11.64
IUI amS                            No               I                                    - 32.34              -            -      -   32.34
TMa (10tN1)                        NO          -   I   -    -    -    -    -    I        - 46.57              -            -      -   46.57
LOCAL IWTLINS                      LS          -    -    -    -    -    -    -        -  -  9.05       -                   -      -    9.05
Su*-Toul 3iES                                                                            - 99.0        -                               "9S
2. E1Wll11i1
IICE EIPVET                        LS          -    -    -    -    -    -    -        -  - 33.37       -                               33.3;
IWAtTII EWINIT                     LS          -   -   -164.67                                                   -                -    4.t.
LAMM  EUtINL LS                                -                                         - 123.40      -                              12.40
LAL HIUNG                          LS          -    -    -    -    -     -    -       -  - 22.17       -                              22.17
Sub-Total EW0T                                                                              - 243.62-                  -                2.62
3. DMt I PERIOIUCALS                  L           -       -    -    -    -    -    -     -    9.  10.35 10.80 11.28 11.W7  12.29  12.83   79.12
Sb-Totl VEHICLES t EUIP1T                                                                     n 353.56 10.80 11.29  11.77 12.29  12.83  422.33
C. TRUNIII S  TECH. SSISTAIEM
1. OVES
Ise PRM                         Staff-fbnt6    -  24  24  24  24   -   -   96            - 77.61 81.02 84.59 88.31         -      -  331.53
ST TR1U1S                       Stff4bJth      -   4   4   4   4   4   4   24            - 25.97 27.01 28.20 29.44  30.7   32.08  173.33
Sib-Total   EISS                                                                            - 103.48 108.03 112.78 117.75  30.73 32.08  504.86
2. LCAL
LUME                            StaW 4jnth    48  48  24  24   -   -   -  144   5.87   6.21  3.24  3.38             -      -      -   18.70
Sub-Total LOCAL                                                                          5.87   6.21  3.24  3.33       -      -     -   18.70
Sub-Total TlI INS I TECH. ASSISTAINC                                                       5.87 109.69 111.27 116.17 117.75 30.73 32.08  523.56
Totl IWElEIT   CSTS                                                                           15.66 497.06 157.37 164.2  167.99  83.19 86.85 1172.40
-    _i    ml=  2a              s   2182S?ssn.
it. ectiT  tDSTS
A. AIMOT L STAF
1CH( CM8 INA'*                       lo          -   I   I   I   I   I   1    6            -  4.23  4.42  4.61   4.2 5.03  5.25   28.36
EXMISIODIIlR NAO1                    No          -   I   I   I   I   I   1    6            -  4.23  4.42  4.61   4.82  5.03  5.25   28.36
PKANT PTEtTIDN PECIUIST              No          -   2   4   5   5   5   5   26            -  8.47  1.68 23.07 24.08 25.14 26.25  124.69
EIUCAL ElSISfR                       No          -   I   I   I   I           1    6       -  4.23   4.42  4.61   4.02   5.03  5.25  28.36
DREIS                                go          -   3   3   3   3   3   3 1 8             - 5.29  5.52 5.77   6.02  6.29  .56          35.45
Sub-Total AIDITIgIIL STAFF                                                                   - 26.46 36.46 42.68  44.56  46.52 48.56  245.23
S. STAFF *LLUS
SPECALSTS                            lb          -   5   7   8   8   8 0         4         -  1.68  2.46  2.93   3.06  3.19  3.33   16.65
RIVERS                               No          -   3   3   3 1         3   3   18        - 0.50 0.53  0.55  0.57  0.60  0.63    3.38
9b-Total STAFF MU ICBES                                                                      -  2.8   2.98  3.48   3.63   3.79  3.96   20.03
C. 31FAm TRIALS                         LS          -       -    -    -    -    -    -    -  -   9.41   9.82  10.25  10.70  11.18  I.6    63.03
I. VEHICLES 01                          LS               -   -   -   -   -             -     -  3.70  765   7.99   0.34   8.71  9.09    45.48
E. ElQPIINT DIN                         LS          -    -    -    -    -                           -   9.72 10.15  10.60  11.06 11.55   53.08
TotUl OClt COSTS                                                                                 - 41.74 66.64  74.55  77.83  81.25 84.83  426.85
Toul                                                                                          15-66 538.80 224.01 230.84 245.82 164.44 171.68 6.599.24



-714 -                                                                         ANNEX 3
go= IICULThRL  U                               AMM URZCK uuBiuy                                                   Table 2
table 2. LIVBIS               CUA.   *DSUtMIiLz: KOM
bult~                                          (S 109)
Unit      t1o 19   1S2 1I   194 191 199 To.l   199O   IM            92   19M 19    4 M  W195   1SI   otl
1. OnMO Cam
A. cm  VW
v    fI111                          LB                    -              -    - -                               - -  - --- 270.4
uInnI       I nu33 U8a                                                                      - l;l    J5.29  3.05  .47  40.16 41.93  226.51
W*  dtda C2L  I5                                                                               * -24.26 35.29  3.05  30.47  0.16  41.91   496.94
- gm I IOTv[
1. W1OUI
n9      8                         o xI1                                                      11.64 -    -                               11.64
mIU     N1o                                  -   t                         -    I        - 32.34       -      --   32.34
TM 1l                           N1           -   ' I    .        - .    .        I       - 46.57       -        -      -      -      -    46.57
LW    VAMINB                     Ls          -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -         -  9.05                                  -    9.05
*Total  IES                                                                                 -99.6         -                           -   S.60
2. EU IIT
ClElr      T ELSB                                                              -        -    .9--    -    -3.9
T101  T                          tS          - -  - -  -i- LB--                          - 25-87  -              -L  -   -   -75.8?
rEIIIT                           L- - S                        -                          -104.77 -              -04.77
LAMMT*IIETEI                     LS   - - - --178-                                                                   -12 -7.78
LWU  WAtS L&S                                -   -     -    -    -    -    -        -    -  342        -        -      -      -     -    34.25
*Ttal ETVE                                                                                  -             -6.63  -                -   76.63
PI       S               LS          -    -    -    -    -    -    -        -    9.79  10.35  10.80  11-2   11.77  12.29  12.83    79.12
W*Toa UPSIUSS I EMIIII                                                                      9.79 486.57  tO.80  1129  1.77  12.29  12.83  555.34
C. T1is a TEOI.  aTM.
1.     -W
ok  _FA"                     Staf-ltbth      -  24 24  24  24    -   -   96               - 77.61  81.02 84.59 88.31        -      -  3H.tJ
a TRMN                         Stath         -   4   4   4   4   4   4   24               - 25.7  27.01 28.20  29.44  30.7    32.08    ;.33
0*-Total       .M                                                                           - 10348 108.03 112.78 117.75 30.73  32.1'   594.86
2- lEN
u E6 Stf-Nint    40 8 24  24  --    - 144                                              5.7 6.21 3.243.28             -      -      -    18.70
WiOTtd  WCA                                                                              5.87   6.21   2.24   3.38      -      -      -   18.70
S*Tobl T1Mi1   I TEIH.  IST6i1                                                               5.87 19.69 1U.271        117.75 30.73  22.08  523.56
TOtbl  r1    It 1n                                                                            t5 11.66 900.52 t57.2  164.29 167.99  83.19  86.85 11o75.86
11.          085 15t
A. 88911509 BYE
IEBI101 a_ w                       110         - 1 1 1 1 1  I                       6      -4.23   4.42 4.61 4.2   5.03   5.25  28.36
CIESI  11TI81                      No           -1 1 1 1 1                 1       6        -4.23   4.42  4.61   4.82  5.03  5.25   28.36
WfIIST                             Nh          - 1   1 1 1                 1      6         -4.23   4.42 4.61   4.82   5.03   5.25    28.36
Alm         Y HammNo                           -    1   2    3   3   2    3   15           -4.23    .84 13.84 14.45 15.09 15.75    72.20
F8D TEOISIT                        No          -   I   I   I   I   I   1           6        -4.23   4.42  4.61   4.82  5.03   5.25   28-.6
FIE Wa     C SINST                 no          -    I   I  1 1            I   I    6        -4.23  4.42   4.61   4.2 5.03   5.25    28.36
mmIE*TN WEV41ST                    No          -    1   2   3   4   4   4   18             -   4.3   8.84  13.84  19.27  20.12  21.0t   87.30
mEWS                               No          -   3   3   3   3 2     3 1 8                -5.29   5.52  .77   6.02   6.29 6.56    35.4f
0*Totl  91T11.L 11091                                                                         -  34.92  U.30  56.52  63.82  66.63  69.56   336.76
8. STAlFF UI.5
PECUIBS                            lb          -   7   9   It  12  12  12   6              -   2.35   3.16   4.03   4.59   4.79   1.00    23.91
MWERS                             INo                    3   3   3   3   3   18             -0.50   0.53  0.55  0.57 0.6   0.63            3.30
11*-Toll STAFF  LOtES                                                                          -  2.86   3.68  4.58   1.16   5.39   5.63   27.29
t.  IFm    I "s                                   -    -   -   -   -   -   -     -            -   9.41   9.82  10.25  10.70  11.18  11.67   63.03
o. NMnst m OWING   LS-- -                                                                            - 2.82 2.95 3.08 3.21 3.35 15.42
1. 111I1   89UK                                                                              -  3.70   7.72   8.06   8.41   8.78   9.17    45.83
F. ISIIEWIT  U                        LS -            *-  1144  16.3  V7.05  17.80  18.59  19.40   104.82
Tot   CIEIT COSl                                                                                   - 66.53  85.68 5S.41 10.98 113.77 118.78  193.15
MM M.-- -    -~.
TeW                                                                                             U.66 967.05 243.05 263.70 27.97 196.96 205.63 2.169.01
- _U   -    _e                            -z*t



- 75-
irni                                                                       ANNEX 3
m2   AGCULUMVL MMM   111US REM&W  IMabe 
Table 3. DImfCUL!U 22 US0 TITh: ZUZnI                                                                         8ae 3
~~t1tII  ~~~~405  100
MaOt      1    191 M2 199 14 191996s  Tal 19     199    1              1993  1994   19"   196  Toul
1~~~~~~~-as. . 01B1u lSswl_
X, a~~~~~~oson=
A. ca  gB
a  l um                    LB--                       -.8-  3 5.29  36.5  38.47  40.16 41.93  261
h-Is        CL Oms                                                                              -   1.1  35.29  36.85  8.47  40.U6 4.9         A.s
1. WURfl
sraw Ui  -1X-                                                                             - 9.05                                          9.es
PIXW   442)                         l           -    I   .          .         ,    I      -11.64                    -_-                   1.
Om la                                                                               I   -,2.3:  *                                        32.34
TM    M  ns)                                        ,I   -     -    -    -    -    I.5 - w . 7                                            :  u.s
LOAL  m mA                          LS          .     .    .    .    .    .    .        .   .  9.-96      -      -      -      -      -    9-98
B*Stb- l  DUO.E- - 109.58-109.5
2. 0113
WVICIE      T                       LS          -   _ , , ,--                                                  -        - -         -   25.61
mT     a                            LS                 .     .    .     .    .                0.41      -        -      -      -      -    8.41
FmJ         W                                       S -74.89 -                                                    74-99
UrAL emuws    Ls -12.41 - - - - - 12.01
b4oUl                                               n                                         - -31.92-131.92
3.      I    OLS                       LS          -     -    -    -     -    -    -      -   s9.79  M15   00  11.20  11.7  12.29  12.03    n.12
To   gown                                                                                     s w i  97954  10.0  11.2   u.7  12.29  12.83    20.6
1. gaud
ok m                                            -24  24  24  24   -   -   96               -    .61  81.02  84.59 U.31       -      -  33M.M3
-TRADU                          St&-Nmh         -   4    4   4    4   4   4   24           -2s.a7   .01  2020 209.4  30.73  s2.o    173.13
1T.     e      s                                                                              - 103.48 18.03 112.78 117.75  30.73 32.08  504.6
I_5331                          8tats iiS -h   48  48  24  24   -   -   -  144   5.07  6.21   3.24   3.38              -      -      -   18.7
9    rTOt   UA,                                                                            5.87   6.21   324   3.38       -      -      -   10.70
10-ToAl 11Rll;                                                                                5097 109  11,27 116.17 117.75  20.73  32.08  523.56
TOtal  ESItDW  cam5                                                                              1.4839 .33 17,37 164.29 167.99   3.19  06.05 1.070,7
It.   tm     m tS
A. A8IJ   SrT                                                                                             _
REITVUIU st z                        30 -b1 1 1 1                            1      6       -4.23  4.42  4.61   4.82   5.03 5.25    20.36
E01W3t                                30oa                  I -    1 1  t   I        6       - 4.23  4.42  4.61   4.02 5.03 5.25    20.36
lm ft                                 No MI     I                  I -         I    6        -4.2  4.u  4.61   4.82 5.03   5.25   28.36
KLM PIl    n 1. 1      Mt             f           - I                  I     1      6        -4.23 4.42   4.61   4.2  5.03 5.25    20.36
FMD   s      rH S                     liO         -        I            I       I   6         -  h23   4.U   4.41   4-82  5-03  s.25   29.36
I.TlM.1IS                            No          -      I                   11      4        -4.23  4.42   4.61  4.82 3.03   .25    20.36
fs                                                -    4   4   4   4 4   4          24        -7.067  .37   7.9   8.03  8.388 .7s   4.27
-TOt  OMS 1113a5.SFF                                                                             - 32.0  33.88  3s.37  36.93 32.s3  40.25   217.45
1. TiAF        S
CSETS                                 go               6   6  6       6 6   6       36        -2.02  2.10 2.20   2.29  2-39  2.50    13.51
No                                               -   4   4    4   4   4   4   24             -0.67   0.70   O3   0.76 0.E   e.83    4.50
MTtald 8TAF U         SB                                                                        -.  2.69   201   2.93   3.06   3.19  3.33    t8.01
C. 010   Was                             Ls          -     -    -    -    -    -    -     -B-  9.41   9.82  10.25  10.70  11.18  11.67    63.03
D.      S1 eu                            LS          -    -     -    -     -    -    -           -  4.31 10.10   0.54  11.00  11.49 11.99   59.43
E. EWIENT am1                            LS          -    -    -    -     - -1 -  3                               315M   3.71   3.88   4.05    18.61
T4M        Ps I'MEII Camts                                                         '                 - 48.36 60.01  62.65 65.41 08.29 71.29   376.52
Total                                                                                             15.66 444.19 27.38 226.95 233.40 151.  13.14 19447.19
,_   ..   .  .  _          ,  , _,   ,  ,_   _ .ma ,           a_. lSl.S, S.  , SW   mu. _a n _SS .      a.



-M76-                                                                      ANNEX 3
uuam ACULTna ZMzi m APR=D 111aM P                                                                            Table 4
Tabl 4. ANIM  DUDSU U112                        RUSAfIITUf: ADAM
Totals WItiM CinA1A
i                       ommu~~bitit                                      nut I40)
unit      1990 1M         M993 1994 1995S 1996T l  190   11   19    1993   994  1M     1996  Totl
1. DUEStl M
A. CIVIL INM
I Fn  E          S  15T              s -270.45                                                          -             -                 270.45
En vIN m  I 18TI3                   Lis                         -33.81  35.29 36.5 39.47  40.16 41.91  226.51
SitX-otl CMIL onS                                                                            - 304.26 35.29 36.85 38.47  40.16 41.93   496.96
B. YIIES I EQUPET
8.I1-u tIlS UlT
1. gnaw
STATION WA                       10               1   -         -    -    -    -    1  -  9.05       -      -      -             -    9.05
P10-  4412                       I                I   -         -    -           I     -  11.64      -      -      -      -      -   11.64
m8l116                           U           - N-                                I   - 32.34   -   -   -   -   -  32.34
TM (RSFRIGERE)                   NO          -    -                              I   - 46.57   -   -   -   -   -  46.57
UtLW   Injiie                    LS          -       -    -    -    -    -     -     -  -   9-B      -      -      -      -      -    9.98
W-otal IENES                                                                              - 109.58      -        -      -      -      -  109.58
2. E01REllt
W61M E      I                    LS          -       -    -    -    -     -    -     -  -   5.1      -      -      -      -      -   25.61
wNFmONAUGN _um                    S          - - -                      - -  -   - 9.41-                         -   -    -            8.41
LlDRt EIHST                      LS          -       -     -    -    -    -    -     -  - 26J9       -      --   26.J
Lea. WHsII                       LS          - - - - - - -  -  - 6.04-                                          -                -  .04
WToa EQUIPENT                                                                              - 66.44 -                                - 66,44
3. NI   S FLPOULS                   L -                          -    -     -    -   -  9.79  10.35  10.90  11.28  11.77 12.29  12.93   79.12
Sit-Tta  165ME0    I EBJIPIENT                                                            9.79 186.7  10.80  11.29  U177  12.29  12.83   255.13
C. team   a TEC-.  SSTIU
ileRuN                       Statt-Nonth     -    24   24   24  24   -   -   96        -  77.61  1.02 84.59 80.31         -          331.53
ST imIu                      Statt-Itnt      -   4   4    4   4   4   4   24            - 2s.e7 2.01 2e.20  29.44  30.73 32-.  173.33
isTotal -u E                                                                              - 103.40 106.03 112.78 117.75  30.73 32.08   504.96
2. ILM.
ANDUAE                       Staff1antkh    49  48  24  24   -   -   -  144  5.87   6.21   3.24   3.38             -      -      -    10.70
S-otal LOCAL                                                                           5.87   6.21   3.24  3.3        -      -      -   1.70
fsTOtl 101AM31S I TErH. 4S551STUX                                                         5.17 109.69 111.27 116.17 117.75  30.73 32.08 _23.56
TOt  WSENT cesTs                                                                            15.66 600.31 157.37 164.29   .99  83.19  86.85 1,275.65
11-. EIIt   tOSTS
A. muzmAs. STff
ERCH CORINTOR                      NO          -1   1   1   1              1      6      -  4.23    4.42    4.61    4.02  5.03 5.25 28.36
E     N  IITION                    No               I   :   I -         I   1    6       -  4.3    4.42   4.61   4.02   5.03   5.25   28.36
MIM  IEPLTH SPEJIJT                NoU         -    1   2   3   4    4   4    10         -  4.23   B.94  13.84  19.27 20.12 2.00    87.30
RS                                 8e  -44 4 4   4 4   224                                   7-76 7.3   7.698 .0386.398 .75 47.27
sTotal ADDIT          STFF                                                                  - 19.75  25.04 30.76 36.93 3B.55  40.25   191.29
9. StAff M1.AMNES
PEtILISTS                          L -   -   -   -   -   -    -                      -      1.01   1.40   1.83   2.29   2.39   2.50    11.42
RMS                                UL          -       -    -    -     -    -    -     -     067  0.70   0.73   0.76  0.80   0.93    4.50
Sub-Total STAFF A ES                                                                        -  1.68   2.10   2.56   3.06   3.19  3.33    15.93
C.  FOA  TMS                          L           -   -    -9.41   9#91  10.25  10.70  11.18  11.6    63.03
t. In  LWM MINSWI                     LS          -  -            -2.70 2.82 2.95 3.08 3.21 3.35  19.12
E. OBCLES                             L           -       -     -    -    -    -    -     - 0   4.31  10.10  10.54  11.00  11.49  II.     59.43
F. E     T  OI                        Ls               -       -  -      -    -    -        -          2.19   2.28  2.38  2.4   2.60    11.94
Total IC t  test                                                                                - 37.86  52.07 59.35   7.16  70.11 73.20   359.74
tal                                                                                          IS.6  638.17 209.44 2236  235.5 13W.30 u1.04 165.40
-    _      _us  m           . _un   _u. 5.5



-77-                                                                  ANNEX 3
w1001111 AQKCMuu.m I                                                                               Table 5
tabLe s. 13211?   N1  31A _  8TnU: H*4ATU
talds "bans
1t        19    91  m992 199 1"4  95 1 i         tnl 199    I9    1"2   19t3   1"4    95  199   Toal
I.  cIVI M
A. CM M
W vwmS                                  LI                                                     - FACI.E   --- --   20.45
SIU    0    a*I Im                      Ls                         -       -    -    -      -  - 33.81 35.9  36.95 38.47  0.16  41.93  226.3
Wttal CI  I*                                                                                      - 34.46 38.29   36a.  3.4  40.6  4.1S   49-6.6
1. 1CLES a hIIIS
1. youC
nn WO                                lb          - -  -I                   -    1   -9.s                                             - -   9.c
PtCK-3 (24                           lb          -  I             -          -              - 11.4    - - - - -    1.64
mm83                                                            .   _0  -    I              - 32.34                                         .
TM   (101to)                         90          -    1                        -              -46.7                                       4.57
LOC.L VAKU              -                        -    -       -                             -  9.98                                  - .   .   .     *.
tiotal S                                                                                       -19 481-9.50
2. tUIIT
mm   EME T                           L           -       -    -    -    -    -    -      -  - 2a.61                                  -   a-u1
2VM   IT  l  t                                  -   -   -    -          --  8.41                                                    -    8.41
FE    lEIT                           U           -       -    -    -- 20.82                                                          -    20.82
LE IT?R  T EMENT                     U           -   -   -    -                                  .1                                  -   79.81
UOL        S O M                                 -        -    -    -    -     -    -     - -     4 -  13.9-                         -   u3.4
O-Total                                                                                          4          -  _ _  -    -    -    - 14.14
3.          P U                         L9 -                -    -    -     -    -    -   -  9.79  105  10.00  11.2  11.77  12.29  12.83   '9.12
*Totl 590.  I EIIiT                                                                            .79 260.06  100  11.28  11.77  12.29  12.83  316.83
C. mm" S IMtI. 6SSISIE
1. WEA
me   PEUI                        Saff-W ttb      -  24  24  24  24   -    -   96           - 77.61 01.02  84.59  8831         -      -  J31.13
ST T7 D5s                        St"Nfth         -   4   4   4    4   4   4   24            - 2s.87   .01 2.20  29.44 30.73   2.08   173.3
-ToIA   110                                                                                   - 83.Z4  108.03 112.70   7.75 10.73 32.0    04.86
2. LE
LANNINGE                         Sftf?-loth    0        44    24   24   -    -   -    44   5.87  6.21   .243B          -      -      -   11.70
144-Total LWIL                                                                             5.07   6.21   3.24   3.18      -      -      -   18.70
-ToTtl T9au"    I T1M.  513                                                                   5.97 109.69 11.27 116.17 117.75  30.73  32.08 c   23.56
Taw  ININEINT S!II                                                                              15.66 682.01 157.  14.29 167.99  8.19  86.85  W57.35
II.                                                                   - CUM
A. WITTW TSTAF
PE 51      M81 T2                                       I   I              I    I   I  1 6   -4.23   4-2  4.61 4.02   5.03  5.25   20.36
EZES                                   IID         -   I                      1 1 1   1 6    -4.23   4.42   4.6   4.82 5.03 5.25   28.36
EPUMIAT                                            -    I  1 1         1     1         6     -4.2   4.42  4.61   4.92  5.03   5.25  28.36
FUMl TtWliSMITW  S T                   lb          -   -   I   I   I   I   I    S            -      -4.42   4.61   4.2 5.03   5.25   24.11
IRTIOULTIRISTS                         N           -  1    2    2   2   2 2           11     -4.23   8.84   9.23   9.63 10.06O10.50    52.49
BM So                                              - 4 4 4 4 4 4 24    -7.06 7.37 7.9 0.3 8.30 8 s  47.27
Ttal *ITIIIIIW 81                                                                               - 23.9  33.08  35.37  36.93 38.55 40.25  208.99
9. STff LS
tICINS                                 LS          -       -    -    -    -    -    -      -  -   1.34   2.10  2.20  2.29   2.49   2.50    12.83
o 5                                    LS          -       -    -    -    -    -    -      - I   0.6   0.70  0.73   0.76   0.e0   0.83    4.50
SiToa  STAt  A        CS-  2.02   2.81   2.93  3.06  3.9  J.33    17.34
C. FF I MKS                               U           -   -   - --9.41   9.02  10.25  10.70  11.18  11.6    63.03
D. 13 SILNS 111111-1111CE N- -    -                                                   -                -2.82 2.95 3.0 3.21 3.35 1.42
E. BICLES N0                              Ls          -       -    -    -    -    -    -      -  -   4.31  10.10 10.54  11.00  21.49  I."    59.43
F. EMEIIT   1                             tS          -   -        -    -    -    -    -      -  -     -S4.44  443   4.84   5.05   5.27   24 .3
TOta 5110 T  5815                                                                                   - 39.72       766.68 69.61  72.67  75.7   308.42
TOt                                                                                              15.66   n.73 2213 230.97 237.60 115.86 162.72 12745.77
_- __ ____



- 78-                                                                       ANNEX 3
SiT                                                                        Table 6
MEACUAL mzin AMU  RUW= SAJET
table 6. CUUMVA WAJWT I2AE IUSTZTUU ~AM
Toal lel.i Ccmum1 :
iamtltw                                         i s I         _1
nit      1t0 1I9   1   199  1W4 tm   W9 Toa    10   1991  1m2    9M    tW4   19    19     ToaUI
t.     ~ ~                               ---                --  maslsm                                                 w -
I. caIVI.  s
IEMIIU1l 1 AWITS                  LS          -   -    -    -    -         -     -     -    - 3381 35.29  36.85 3.47  40.16  41.93  2A.61
SToal CML.                                                                                   - 23W01   5.29    .5   8.47  0.16    .    226.51
S. you       I    -uv
1. YENWS
PIt43 (414)                    No          - t                -I                            - .6---  - 164
IIIDI5 IUS                     1D1 t   -   -   -   -   -                      I       -f12.34       -                               32.34
NM51(1a11)                     Io -I                                                   - 46.57   -    -    -    -    -  U4.
t  HW LS                       LS          -    -    -    -    -     -    -        -   -  9.05       -        -      -      -     -    9.05
rTotael WJtlOES                                                                           - 9S.60       -        -      -     -      -    -.0
2- E"nFF
WFE E W                        LS          -    -    -    -     -    -    -        -   -   5.96      -        -      -     -      -   35.96
1NMATI EIIIEWT                 LS          -    -    -    -    -    -    -        -    -  11.38      -                -              11-- 8
FI39D ERIT                     LS          -    -     -    -    -     -     -      -   -- 12s79153.79
LA     M  E0WIT                LS          -    -     -    -    -    -    -        -   - 71.40       -        -      -      -     -   71.40
LOA NUN                        LIs         -    -    -    -    -     -    -        -   -  7.22       -        -      -     -      -   27.2
8th-Total m1E                                                                             - 29.76       -        -     -      -      -  299.76
3. m     a       CLS              LS          -    -    -    -    -    -    -        -    9.79  10.5 10.0  11.28  t.77  12.29  12.83    79.12
9 OT   I EHIB * Ea      PnT                                                               9.79 409.70  1U.80  11.28  11.77  12.29  12.83   478.47
C. TIAIIS
.      - NN                Staftth         -  24  24  24  24    -   -   96             - 77.61 81.02 84.598 W.            -      -  331.53
ST T1!1l6                  Sbffth    -   4   4   4   4   4   4   24                    - 25.87 27.01 280  29.44  30.7  32.08  173.33
Sdr-Toal W      S                                                                         - 1032.4  108.03 12.78 117.75  30.73  22.08  504.86
2. L1rAL
LMOM                       Staff-hN       48  48  24  24    -   -    -  144    5.87   6.21   3.24  2.38           -      -      -    18.70
-Tota LWAL                                                                             5.87   6.21   3.24   3.3e     -      -      -    18.70
thTotal VANN11115                                                                         5.87 109.69 111.27 u6.17 117.75  30.73 22.08  523.56
TOW tOtalWITENITS cm                                                                        15.63.20 157.7 164.29 167.99 8986.s5 1,228.54
It.  Cuma.                                                                   -      --                  -            a
II.  St SUTS
I. 111.   _TM
F    3Il C 0n 10TI3I             NO          -    I   I   t   I   1            6        -4.23   4.42    4.61   4.02  5.03  5.25 28.36
ElUI     UMlST                  SO          -   I   I   I   I   I    I    6             -  4.3   4.42   4.61   4.82   5.03   5.25    28.36
f31T                             SoIE ON  N  -    I        I 1       I   1    6         -4.23   4.42-4.61   4.82  5.03  5.25    28.316
FMCE WP SPECIMIST                IL          -    I   I    I   I   I 1           6       -4.23  4.42  4.61   4.02  5.03 5.25   28.36
s                                No          -   3   3   3   3             3 18          -5.29  5.52 5.77   6.02   6.29 6.56    35.45
8hTo        ITIW. L1EV                                                                      - 26.46 D27.62 28.4  30.11  31.4  32.81   177.27
S. 81EF M,L
SfCLUmSIS                        LS          -     -    -    -     -    -     -     -    -  1.68   1.75   1.83   1.91   2.00   2.08    11.25
IsR                              LS          -    -    -    -     -    -    -       -    -  0.50   0.53   0.55  0.57   0.60   0.63    3.32
-Twotal STP mLS                                                                             -  2.18   2.28   2.32   2.48   2.59   2.71    14.63
C. GFR 1i1                          LS          -     -    -     -    -    -     -     -    -  9.41   9.81 10.25  10.70  11.18  11.67    62.03
0. VEH1E0  03                       LS          -    -    -    -    -     -    -       - --    .70   7.72   8.06   8.41   0.78   9.17    45.83
E. EUIP   0u                        LS          -    -    -     -    -    -    -       -           - 19.16  20.01  20.89  21.81 22.76   104.62
TOWtal   -       mmTS                                                                             41.74  66.60 o9.53  72.59  75.79  79.12   405.27
_                     _         -   -   - - 
Total                                                                                        15.66 594.94 223.97 233.83 240.5  158.97 165.97 I633.91
--           . -- -  ----  -   --       . a-----a



_ 79 _                                                               ANNEX 3
Table 7
SE=D AJCULTURAL EL'WSIOS amD APIlMD RSt= PRCT
Table 7. COTN RZSEALt ISTiLu:  RAGIUJ/AYDIU
Totas Y   ladli C'M0m00)
UIit      19o0 19  1  IM 3 14 1                 Total   9m     19   1M    193   194   195  196  Totl
,_ ,, --   _~                              -                                  a _a  -   a,a _ 
1.     CIVI  CSa
a. am so
.oTi         a a I=t              Ls           -    -    -     -       ---  33.81 35.29  36.85  38.47  40.16  41.93 226.51
Sih-Toa   CM  NM                                                                             - 33.1 35.29  36-.5 38.47  40.16  41.93 226.5
3. EM
1. 
OMCE EIIT                     LS                                                     -  12.93        -      _          - -       12.9
TlE lil EIUWT                  LS E-  4.01                                                         -      -      -      -      -  4.01
LA 1 16                         LS         -     -    -   -         -                 -   1.72    -       -      -      -      -   1.72
Sh-Tdta1 EUIN                                                                            -  18.67     -      -      -      -      -  18.67
2. MMI  M081                      LS9. -    -     -    -     -    -    -            -    .79  10-35 tO1.0  11.28  11.77  12.29  12.83  79.12
SmbTotal E     IUNT                                                                      9.7  2S.02 10.80  11.28  11.77  12.29  12.93 97.78
1. N
- TUDIIEt                  Sba -_          -    4   4   4   4   4   4   24            - 25.8 VD.01  28.20 29.44 30.73  3208 173.33
srTa   gj                                                                                -  35.7 27.01  28*20 29.44 30.73  32.08 173.33
2. LWEM
LJ                         Staff-fNtA    24   24  24  24   -   -   -   96  2.94  3.10  3.24  3.38               -      -      -  12.66
-TOtal LIC                                                                            2.94   3.10  3.24   3.38     -      -      -  12.66
W T4 W   n*21                                                                            2.94  28.97 30.3  31.9  29.44 30.73  32.08 1S9."
TOWa niTfl   mm                                                                           12.72  91.90 76.35 79.71  79.69  93.19  86.95 510.28
it. FECNm    m                                                                    m mammm
11. mr eD
. AITUIM  ITfF
3w  1in1                             - 1  11                  1 :            -4.23 4.42 4.61 4.82 5.035.25 28.36
EXIEIWISII    IIN                  o         -          1   I   I    I   1    6        -  4,23 4.42  4.61  4.92   5.03   5.25 28.36
m-Total AUITInM                                                                           -  8.47  8.84   9.23  9s63  10.06  10.50 56.7
14 n4FF MIA
tlUltS                           L0 -                      -    -    -    -    -     -     -_    0.67 0.70 -0.73   0.76   O.O   0.93   4.50
9mTotal STOW M.11                                                                             0.67 o ."7   0.73   0.76   O.O   0.93   4.50
C. O    F                           U           -    - LS9 -  941  9.82  10.25  10.70  U.18  11.67  63.03
D. E0       IT 011                  LS               -                                             1.09   1.14   1.19   1.24   1.30   5.97
Tlowa Su        0                                                                             - m18.5 20.45  21.35  22.29 23.28  24.30 130.22
9==mamm ~         a ma mam CX ma m=
Tota                                                                                        2.72 110.34 96.90 101.06 101.97 1O6.46 111.15 640.50
amzma m= = amm ma ma 



ANNEX 3
- 80 -                                                                Table 8
SEBi   ACULTUEUL UIEnMICI AM A1lZ  RISZAC PROT
14                                  T1abl   8.  FI=   CR8  CRAL RESA=   nS                        E:  ANKAA
uetttv~Ttd  (131 '000)
unit     1990 1991 192 13 1994 1M 1     TOt   1        191  192 1M         194   15  1996  Totl
-              --   C- g- mi [   , -   -- -   -mmm
1. I ESCIOS tm
A. CML VIM
EWTIUIs t            o      L s L8                   -    -    -    -        -   -33.1 3.29 36.85 33.47  0.16 41.93  226.51
Si-Toa CPJIL   n                                                                  - 33.81  35.29 36-35 8.47 -4016  41.93  226.51
8. NWiuuS
PIa UP (44)                 No         -   2   -    -    -    -    -    2      -   .9       -                              34.99
NIbIUS                      No         -   4   -    -    -    -    -    4      - 12.35      -      -     -      -     -  129.35
NWl BUS                     No         -   2   -    -    -    -    -    2      - 36.22      -      -     -      -     -   36.22
HTltC TLER                  lb         -   4   -    -    -    -    -    4      -194.14      -      -     -      -     -  194.14
LOCAL     M                 LB         -    -    -    -    -    -    -       -   - 39.48    -      -     -      -     -   39.4
Sub-Total OWIIES                                                                  - 434,1      -     -      -      -     -  434.1B
1. 1M
STIIAI               Stsff-Noftl    -   4   4   4   4   4   4   24          - 25.87  27.01 2-20 29.44  30.73  32.08  173.33
Sb-Total I S,                                                                  - 25.87 27.01 28.20 29.44 30.73 32.09  173.33
2. LOCA.
LAUASE               Staff-Nth    24 224 24   -    -    -   96  294  3.10 3.243.38                    -      -      -   12.66
Sib-Ttal LOCAL                                                              2.S4  3.10  3.24  3.3        -      -     -   12-66
S-Totai TILC"lII                                                               2.94 28.97 30.25 31.58  29.44 30.73 32.08   WS.99
Total IIiESCIEUt COSTS                                                            2.94496.9*  65.54 68.43 67.91 70.39 74.01  846.67
it. Ellt camtS
A. ABDTOK9  STAFF
Nam9115                    lo         -  12  12  12 12    12 12   72             21.17 22.10 23-07 24.08  25.14 26.25   141.1
Sib.-otWl ODIIINM.tl STAFF                                                       - 21.17 22.10 23.07 24.08 25.14 26.25  141.81
S. STAFF  OIhCES
VIM                        LS         -    -    -    -    -    -              -  2.02  2.10  2.20  2.29  2.39  2.50   13.51
b-Totl STAFF  LOAC                                                               -  2.02  2.10  2.20  2.29  2.39  2.50   13.51
C. EIi0  mm                   L5- -    -    -    -    -    -    -              -  -12.32 24.63 25.71 26.84 23.02 29.26  146.79
Total EMT  CSTS                                                                      - 3.50 48.83 50.98 53.22 55.56 58.01  302.10
Tatal                                                                              2.94  .2-46 114.37 119.41 121.13 126.46 132.02 1I143.78
-       _     . -         _ mm  _m     ___m
. _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNEX 3
- 81 -                                                                 Table 9
5I30CD AMICULTURAL B9TEIU hID AMA =ID  R3AlC PVT
Table 9. Sco  EAST AZ( IA usREA   InTUUTK: D!YARuA
Totl Iind  ConXtincin
SItitY                                      CUSS '000)
Urit     tW0 1991 IM  193 t14 195 I    996 Total  1990  19   1    1993 1994 1995 1996 Ttl
~~  =  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                        mm     ~~~~ M=m=2
t. DUIETW  MM8
a. crm 
TEWM     t OMTUS            LS         -    -    -    -     - -33.91 35.29 36.05 38.47 40.16 41.93 226.51
SbTotl Cel       o                                                                    - 33.91 35.29 36.E5 3.47 40.16 41.93 226.51
3. MtES
oInD  a                       o          -        _         -1                     -32.34    -            -     -   -      - 32.34
r W9 -LS                                    - - -              ---3.26 -
SbTotl MMS                                                                            - -3560
C. T91lMlB
1. OREN
ST 511105             Staff-tth       -   4   4   4   4   4   4   24             - 25.97 27.01 28.20 29.44 30.73 32.03 173.33
Sib-Totg   ERAS                                                                     - 25.97 27.01 29.20 29.44 30.73 32.01 173.33
2. LCAL
LISME                 8taf-ltl h    24  24  24  24   -   -   -   96    2.94  3.10  3.24  3.39            -    -    -  12.66
SbTot  LOCAL                                                                     2.94   3.10 3.24  3.3B     -    -    -  12.66
fbTotal 11*111111                                                                   2.94  29.97 30.25 31.58 29.44 30.73 32.8 185.99
Toutl tESN  mm                                                                         2.94  99.38 65.54 68.43 67.91 70.97 74.01 449.10
II. .m           3 s
A. 0IT0     . STAFF
YaDERIS                     lb         - 1 1 1 1 1 1  I   I   I6                   -1.76 1.94  1.92 2.01  2.10  2.19  t.t2
SibTotal TtAL STAFF                                                                   -  1.76 1.84  1.92 2.01  2.10 2.19  11.92
B. STAFF MELOAIS
m                           LS          -    -    -    -    -    -    -        -    -  0.17  0.18  0.18 0.19  0.20 0.21   1.13
SiTotal STAFF 1OUI-  0.17 0.18 0.18  0-19 0.20 0.21   1.13
C. MRIS M                      LS         -    -    -    -    -    _   _      -        -  1.23 2.57  2.69  2.90  2.93  3.06  15.28
Total IEINT C8STS                                                                         -  3.16  4.59  4.79 5.00 5.22 5.45 2.22
* a= m= tm *mm= = =MMM=
Total                                                                                   2.94 tOl.55 70.13 73-22 72.91 76.11 79-46 476,32
mm        _m         Sm   mm  mm *_



(f --                                  tsI  
U    *                                i A
I               fi ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~62.        ,               ,4l
-                     i    .                     i                                          ii                7
i~~~ III                                            ,     I                                     l 



IU5EX
SECOND AGIJU          E TS   AND  APPLIED  ESEARCH PRJECT
Research Institute Edutlment Lists
Ite ---------------------------------- Research Institutes ------------------------------
Plant                     Horti-      Animal         fruit                     Cotton
.-otection   Livestock    cultural       Disease      Growing       Cukurova      Nazilli/
Ankara       Konya       Erzincan       Adana       Malat          Adana         Avdin
(No.)
1. office Eauioment
Eliectric typewriter                       I1                         1            1             1
Computer set                               I             I            I            1             l            1
Desk calculator                            2             2            2            2             2            2
Duplicator                                 -             1            -            -             -            1
Photocopier                                1             1            -            -            -             I
Data show system                           1             1            1            1             1
2. Audio-visual Eduinmnt
Color TV                                   1             1            1            1             1             1            1
Video camera                               1             1            1            I             1            1             1
Video player                               1             1            1            11
Overhead projector                         1             1             1           1             1            1
Slide projector                            I             1            1            1             1            1             -
Camera                                     I             I            I            I                                                           oD
Facsimile                                  1             -            -            -                          _                                w
Portable slide projector screen            1             1            1            1                         l             -
Offset printer                             -             I            -            -             -            -
Fixed wireless                             -             -            -            -             -
wireless (hard type)                       -             -            -            -             -             1
3. Fi old Eau5ament
Tractor          i                                       1            I                                 1                   -
Plough (3 point hitch)                     -             I            I                            
Combine harvester                          -             1            -
Silage machine                             -             I            -
Grass mower                                -             1            -            -             -            -
Hay baler                                  _                                                      I 
Rototiller                                 -             1            -            -             -                          -
Self-loading wagon (short chop)            -             1            -            -             -            -
Scale (2,000 kg caPacity)                  -             1            -            -             -            -
Pulverizer                                 -            -             1            -             1
Pneulntic pruning shears                   -             -            -            -             1            -
Hoe (tractor-drawn)                        -             -            -            -             '
Subsoiler                                  -             -            -            -             1            -             -              '
Selector                                   -             -            -            -             -            1             -            0P
Cotton picher                              -             -            -            -             -            1             -               ( r
Seedlng planter                           -             -            -            -             -            1             -
Rotovator                                  -             -            -            -             1            1             -



--------------------------------- Research Institutes -------------------------------
Plant                     Horti-       Animal        Fruit                      Cotton
Protection   Livestock    cultural       Disease      Growing       Cukurova      Na2illi/
Ankam        Konya       Erzincan       Adana       Malatya        Adana         Aydin
(No.)
5. Labnr.tLre Eauuimint
Vertical laminer flow cabinet              I             -            -            -             -            -
Electronic precision balance               2             -            -            -             -            -
Climate control chambers                   4             -            -            -             -            -
Binocular microscopes                      2             -            -            -             -            -
Deep freezer                               2             1            -            1             1            -
Potler-Elverhjem homogenizer               1             -            -            -             -            -
Electtophoretic equipment                  1             -            -            -             -            -
Stove                                      I             -            -            -             -            -
Stereo microscope                          -             1            -            -             -            -
Vertical autoclave                         -             1            -            -             -            -
Spectrophometer                            -             1            1            -             -            -
PH meter                                   -             1            2            -             -            -
Microtome                                  -             1            -            -             -            -
Ultracentrifuge                            -             1            -            -             -            -
ELISA device                               -             1            -            -             -                          -
Enzyme immeroassay                         -             1
Refiractometer                             -             -            1
Ash oven                                   -             -            1            -             l            -
Densitometer                               -             -            l            -             -            -
Hardness Detmen. App.                      -                          1            -             -            -
Lovibart Tuitometer                        -             -            1            -             -            -             -
Microscope with camera                     -             -            1            -             -            -             -
Sterilized cabinet                         -             -            1            -             -            -             -                   o
Tersen equipment                           -             _            1            _             _            _             _
Stereoscopic microscope                    -             -             -           1             -            -
Distilled water equipment                  -             -            -            1             -            1
Fluorescent microscope                     -             -            -            1             -            -
Precision blance                           -             -            -            l                    1        l
Mixer                                      -             -            -            1             -            -
ELISA Serological Diagnostic
kit with computer                        -             -            -            l             -            -
Atom Abs. spectropholemeter                -             -            -            -             1             l
Sterilizer (250 c)                         -             -            -            -             1            -
Nitrogen analyser                          -             -            -            -             1            -
Polarimeter                                -             -            -            -             1            -
Coloremeter                                -             -            -            -             l            -
Refractorer                                -             -            -            -             1            -
Hardness Return App.                       -             -            -            -             1            -
Densitometer                               -             -            -            -             1            -
Tutometer (Lovibout)                       -             -            -            -             1
Flame photometer                           -             -            -            -             -            1
Controlled growth chamber                  -             -            -            -             -            1             -
Deionized water device                     -             -            -            -             -             1
KJeldohl equipment                         -             -            -            -             -             1                          
Incubation cabinet                         -             -            -            -             -            1             -            
Nitrogen/Protein equipment                 -             -            -            -             -            1             -w
Stem rust collection unit                  -             -            -            -             -            1             -             -
Autoclone                                  -             -            -            l             -            1
Sterilizer                                 -             -            -            -             l
.             *1



- 85 -
ANNEX 4,
Table 1
SECOND AGRICULTMRAL EXTENSION ANID APLIED RESEARCH_/I OECT
StafgRs
Stalf Categ2ory           Bsquir d           EX18istg     Additiona
1. Extension Staff
Provincial Directors       19               19              0
FTE Directors              19               19              0
FTE PPB Staff a            19               19              0
SMSs                      192              128             64 it
County Directors          156              156              0
Ag. Exten. Sup.           156              156 O            0
M&E staff                  4                0              4
Computer Programmer         1                0              1
Interpreter                 3                0              3
Typists                     2                0              2
VGTs                      950              950              0
VGTs (female)              46                0             46
Drivers                   247                0            247 i
2. Research STaff
Research Coordinator        7                0              7
Ext. Inform. Coordinator    7                0              7
Economist                   4                0              4
Horticulturalist            3                0              3
Animal Husbandry Spec.      3                0              3
Plant Protection Spec.      7                0              7
Animal Health Spec.         8                0              8
Food Technologist           3                0              3
Field Crops Specialist      2                0              2
Chemical Engineer           1                0              1
Drivers                    34                0             34
LI Planning, programming and budgeting staff to assist FTE Director.
L2 These represent SMSs with expertise in agricultural economics and extension
methodology who would have to be recruited from outside MAFRA.
LI AES would be selected from exlsting ag. technicians or ag. engineers at
county level.
ii VOTs would be selected from existing ag. technicians at county level.
IE Drivers would be required for the female VGTs (23), SNS teams (64), AESs
(156), and mobile animal health units (4).



suain ~ICLWR1. ximsro  nf i.wIz  EUARCN PROJECT
Stat.Wagon    Pick-up    Pick-up    Midibus    Minibus    Truck             Truck        Trailer    9ttorcycle
Grin                                  _    _ DL 4                            -4x                 10-to       Refrha!Lted    Hydrau.
1. Headquarters
GDPI                                   4             -          -           -           1         -              -              -             -
GMDS                                   4             -          -           -           1         -              -              -             -
Monitoring Div.                        1             -          -           - I                   -              -              -
2. Provincial Staff
PDA                                   19             -          -           -          -          -              -              -
FTE Section                           19            19         19          19          -         19              -              -             -
3. SM6 Teams                               32                       32           -           -         -              -              -              -
4. County Staff
co                                   156             -          -           -          -          -              -              -             _
AES                                    -           78          78           -          -          -              -              -             -
5. Village Staff                                                                                                                                               CD
VGT (male)                             -             -          -           -          -          -              -              -           950
VGT (female)                          23             -          -           _          _          _              _              _             _
6. Research Institutes
Pest Control, Ankara                   -             1          -           1          -          1              -             -
Central Livestock, Konya               -             1          -           1          -          1              -             -
Cukurova Ag., Adana                    -             1          -           1          -          1              - I
Horticulturtl, Erzincan                1             1          -           1          -          1              -             -              -
Animal Disease. Adana                  1             1          -           1          -          -              1                           -
Frutt Growing. Malatya                 I            -           -           -          -          -             -              -              -
Central Field Crops, Ankara            -             -          2           4          2          -              -             4              -
Southeast Anatolia, Diyarbakir                      -           -           1          -          -              -             - _
Total                                    121            102        131          22                    21                             4
qk



- 87 -
MNhEX 4
Table 3
TURKEY
Extensien Egugiment
Headquarters      FTE      VGt Train.     S9S         CD &      VGT
section      Halls        Team       AES
--- --- -- --- --- -- --- ---  (No)    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
1. Audio-visual
Slide projectors & screens                 -              -          45            -         156
Video player and monitor                    -             -           -            -         156
Video camera. player & monitor              -             -           -           32           -
overhead projector                         -              -          45            -         156
Portable blackboard                        -              -           -            -           -      950
Video tapes and slides                      -             -           -            -          LS.LJ     -
2. Office Eguinment
Duplicator                                  -             -           -            -         156        -
Photocopier                                2              -           -            -         156        -
Personal computer                          -             19           -            -           -        -
Word processing sets                        6             -           -            -           --
Data show system                           2              -           -            -           -
3. Surveillance EqUlJW nt
Magnifying glass                            -             -           -            -           -      650
Efnsect traps                              -              -           -            -           -       LS.LZ
Test tubes & preserving material           -              -           -            -           -       LS./I
Tables and books                           -              -           -            -         105
Metrological sets                           -             -           -            -         105
Binocular Microscopes (mag.x20)             -             -           -           32           -
4. Scientific Rogks & Jaurnals                   -            LS.Li        -             -         LS./      -
4. Other Equipment
Demonstration plots                         -            LS.LJ        -            -           -
VGT simple equipment                        -             -           -            -           -       LS.Li
Li  Lump sum of US$250 equivalent per county allocated.
LI  Lump sum of USSS.250 equivalent for some 650 VGTs.
LI  Lump sum of US$S00 equivalent for some 650 VGTs.
Li Lump sum of US$2.500 equivalent per province per year allocated.
Li  Lump sum of US$1000 equivalent per province allocated.
Lf  Lump sum of USS50 equivalent per VGT allocated.



- 88 -
4,.
Tabi. A
TURKEY
SECOWD AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND APPLIEO RESEARMC PROJECT
VOT and S#S Team Distribution by Province 11
No. of Farm Famiiets                No. of VOTs
Realon and              Irrig.   Dryland               Irrig.   Oryland                SNS
Province               Forms     Farms  TotaL         _ea      Arms    Ingal         T m
------- t 000) --------       --------- (No.) --------        (No.)
editerranwan
1.  Antalya               46       66      112          54        35       89           3
2. Icel                   59        32      91          69        1?       86           3
3.  Adana                 45        49      94          53        26       79           2
4.  "atay                 45        37      82          53        19       72           2
Central North
.  Amasys                 17        19      36          20        10       30           1
6.  Erzincan               5        26      31           6        14       20           1
7.  Sivas                 33        59      92          39        31       70           3
8.  Tokat                 64         8      72          75         4       79           2
Central
9.  Nevsehir              18        22      40          21        12       33           1
10.  Niode  )La            23        32      55          27        17       44           2
11. Aksaray)
12.  Kayseri               2P        34      63          34        18       52           2
13.  Kirsehir              24         2      26          28         1       29           1
14.  Yozgat                 3        63      66           4        33       3?           2
Central Southeastern
15.  Gaziantep             12        38      50          14        20       34           1
16.  Kahraanmrmras         41        49      90          48        26       74           2
1?. Siirt                   8        33      41           6        17       20           1
18. Nalety                 32        28      60          38        15       53           2
19.  Adiyammn              18        30      48          21        16       37           1
Total             522       627   1.149          613      331      944          32
L/  This is a proposed distribution of VGTs.  OetaiLed project design may change the distribution
of VGTs sLightLy, however, the total mnber of VGTe would not excedd 950. and S9S teams 32.
I  GOT split Aksaray province from Nisde during mid-1989, and it Is not yet possible to give number
of farm families by each province.
QAnooJe



- 89 -
ANNEX 5
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND APPLIED P SEAR5I PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available In Prolect Pile
A. Regorts and Studies on the Sector or Subsector
B. Renorts and Studies Dealing with the Project
B.1 Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs (HAPRA), Republic
of Turkey; Preparation Report; April, 1988;
B.2 MAFRA; Preparation Report Updated Annexes Nos. 1-4 (Project Cost,
Agricultural Extension, Data on Project Area, and Description of
Research Institutes and Their Programs); April, 1989.
B.3 MAFRA; Preparation Report, Annex No. 5, Technological Packages, June
1989.
C. Selected Workinf Paners
C.A Mi. G(lten Cakir, Possibilities to Apply Agricultural Extension to
Women in Rural Areas in AEARP II and Some Recommendations, Nay/June,
1989, Atatark University, Erzurum, Turkey;
C.2 Agricultural Extension II Project Appraisal Mission; Aide-Memoire;
World Bank, Washington; June, 1989.



- 90 -                                            CHART 1
Page  1
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1,10   ~1991         192         1993        19          95         19
1231   1234   1234   1234   1234   1234   1234
Site .equisition                                       -         -
Contract Documents
Constrction
1.6.T. houses (a)
Offices
Balls--
Procuresent _
mipa
Procuremnt
a. 5eiection
Prov. staff _
Drivers                       m           m            e
b. Posting/Confiratioa
US                      -    m    m    - _
Pro,. Staff
Drivers
unuu
a. Initial Orientation
16? (5 weeks)               -           -           -           -
hI  (7 weeks)
915 (7 mon_ths)
Pro,. Staff                 _          _           _           _
igric. Trng.
b. In-service           _ _    _                       -
c. Study Tours, etc.
10 farmers per prov.                                _ 
d. Overseas Traiing
USc's            -...... ......



- 91-                                  CHART 1
Page 2
|~~~~----- _    _P_ --
1234    1234   1234    1231   1234   1234    1234
e. Diaguost rley                                        HIMI
sUS
r.ow. Staff f
a. Skill gap analylas, job
description, traiing
program
b. Superision traini
prograo
c. xtension letbodology  _
d. Dianostic Soney
e. flositori__
f. Vorks_ops            -        -                          _
Seai-aual progrs           *       s                     - U         U
Audit teports                   U        U        U         U        U
Rid-term eview
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---- --_ __ _



- 92 -
CHART 2
Ieiomoi
a~~~ ~ ~ ~ Osid Ciite               ieoeut
Leg0 . Afieovet of L
attics                                a lumoiaL Aftel..
~~                                   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
AivisouT Offi.e got              oee    of
the amists:                                 Isceeteiat
Xbe"eh   a  via a                       *oM O a                      a^
NAZ Ooord  UeeT                                AZL        AUUAUOI
DenDgo!      GoD:of      beinDi:o                 e Di:o      ot    io       DnD@f         D:o
Ie taGom      a.I                 *a         Ilu z                        Atattt
Gen^vSos Otf Boir PR" oti
upnet *X at Uupsu                                  Ilezvaieal        e.       Vl.Vm
DenAdio Otifi U.f ho. ff
Gen Div Tuzkieh Dairy LAs.
Seh bit lead Zuduetq
Om Oi: Tuftih Ag-. SuppLy
Oem  OIL Dov Ag: I     0ntezplost
1w,v. As.
Den Div Forestry hod. Ind.                       Disestor
Den DiO Ag CFredit Coop Ass.
Coty As.
DiDe4to:
PrIov  Grou
Oeene 4C Cp
Te'h.          



- 93 a
TURKEY                          Cln a
SECOND AORICULTI AL EXNON UD APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
PROVN. hAL ENTINSZON SERIv-E CRcANIZATION
dI U) 0t
is~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i 16 ,. upo
Si
Onist  ?Immix)               abt h
* i                 {hlF X .bIII so )      Cd DAh
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I bt b               _
er         in. *tanfa
Asw behi
DDDD- 
Lfir E lat? (,u100  a;    50



IBRD 22
q l W      .=2=e                  /''             '   f   i<K45TAA/ONOU    <   S OP          <e          ,K4ST C)NC)U  SINOP
VJRKLARELI~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Al~ KA*M                                                            AVTVIN0/R
Ta                                     DLNLZU  it6< < < sYRUs
seo                                                                 TOW                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GUMUSISANE
-                                                                            S                                              o                                             GI2LUA  XESO AND~
~~ ~~~Al.W~~~~~~KA1E  LEC~~~~~~~~~~~K                                                                     - ~~~~~~E'~WNCAN4                                                               LAIC
BURSA r                  k           .       .                                           rT                             Pwi^AxoPims.Ph"tI                O   sidwdoow       gR OF
TADRYACHE-
YE REZA'IYEH
~~JYON~~~O
AN,~~~~~~MNS
! SPARTAD                                                                                               UW                                                     IRAQ
z~~~~~  e                  D~~~~~~~~ENI ill DU
P                                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND
APPLIED RESEARCH II PROJECT
Project Area Provinces
Po.od A-. P,oooo.. AEAW ff,a. I  0    Po.-n Co.Pw 
-~~~~~~ ~~MEDJTERFPANEAN                                       SEA                                                                                                              is ~Noio.I Cp                   (D)  o.A.1 No.1
A~~~~~3  ~ ~       ~        mA                                                                                           dUd. th. "d                      Poa jod P.9i.n 8 ..ndo.CM   S..
i          ~~~~CYPRUS                                       0oo froo.Kn~o.
n om m   4   16   16 0   )l a   26  =                                           O w   w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,   h ol,tf  o . k  p o,4i a d. P fim f . .6
I  / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FEBRUARY



