Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19178-TU
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
Loan No. 3177-TU
April 30, 1999
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 26, 1999)
Currency Unit   =    Turkish Lira (TL)
I TL    =    US$0
US$1    =    TL 365,579
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Jan 1990  Jan 1991 Jan 1992 Jan 1993 Jan 1994 Jan 1995 Jan 1996 Jan 1997 Jan 1998 Jan 1999  Mar 1999
2,328    2,988   5,307   8,694  15,164   40,157  60,291   111,652 211,141  357,859  365,579
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
IBRD   -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA   -  International Development Association
PIU   -  Project Implementation Unit
SOE   -  Statement of Expenditures
MOF   -  Ministry of Finance
ECS   -  Export Company Survey
ERC   -  Eskisehir Research Center
FS   -  Farmer Survey
FTE   -  Farmer Training and Extension
FTES   -  Farmer Training and Extension Survey
GDAPD   -  General Directorate of Agricultural Production and Development
GDAR   -  General Directorate of Agricultural Research
GDOS   -  General Directorate of Organization and Support.
GDP  -  General Directorate of Personnel
GEF   -  Global Environment Facility
ICB   -  International Competitive Bidding
ICR   -  Implementation Completion Report
IES   -  Impact Evaluation Study
M&E   -  Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS   -  Management Information System
NCB   -  National Competitive Bidding
PDA   -  Provincial Directorate of Agriculture
SAR   -  Staff Appraisal Report
SMS   -  Subject Matter Specialist
SMSS   -  Subject Matter Specialist Survey
T&V   -  Training and Visit
VGT   -  Village Group Technician
VGTC   -  Village Group Technician Center
TURKEY FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Ajay Chhibber, ECCO6
Team Leader: Nedret Durutan, ECCTR
Sector Leader: John A. Hayward, ECSSD



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
TURKEY
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
Loan No. 3177-TU
Contents
Preface ..............................                                                 i
Evaluation Summary .............................                                       ii
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment ..............................I
A.   Project Origin and Objectives .1
B.   Achievement of Project Objectives .1
C.      Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project   . 6
D.  Project Sustainability                             .9
E.  Bank's Perforance                                 .9
F.  Borrower's Performance .10
G.  Assessment of the Outcome .11
H.  Future Operations .1
I.  Key Lessons Leamed .11
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary Of Assessments .13
Table 2: Related Loans/Credits .15
Table 3: Project Timetable .16
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated And Actual .16
Table 5:  Key Indicators For Project Implementation .16
Table 6: Key Indicators For Project Operation .16
Table 7: Studies Included In The Project .17
Table 8a: Project Costs ...........................................                17
Table 8b: Project Financing ........................................... 18
Table 9:  Economic Costs And Benefits ...........................................  18
Table 10: Status Of Legal Covenants ...........................................    19
Table 11: Compliance With Operational Manual Statements .................................... 21
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...........................................  21
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ........................................... 22
Appendices:
A.  Mission's Aide-Memoire.
B.   Borrower's Contribution to the ICR.
C. Map: IBRD22041.
his document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



-i-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
Loan No. 3177-TU
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Agricultural
Extension and Applied Research Project in Turkey, for which Loan 3177-TU in the arnount of
US$63.0 million equivalent was approved on March 13, 1990 and made effective on June
28,1990.
The Loan was closed on June 30, 1998, compared with the original closing date of June
30, 1997. US$12 million of the Loan amount was cancelled on June 3, 1997. The disbursed
amount was US$47,482,371.1 and US$3,517,628.9 was cancelled on February, 1999.
The ICR was prepared by Nedret Durutan, task team leader at Turkey Country Office,
and reviewed by Gottfried Ablasser, Principal Agricultural Economist (ECSSD), Willem Zijp,
Principal Agricultural Services Specialist (RDV), and Marie-Helene Bricknell, Country Officer
(ECCA4). For the preparation of the ICR, eight surveys were conducted solely or jointly with
MARA in 1998 in which 3979 persons from different stakeholder groups were questioned.
The preparation of this ICR is based on these surveys, material in the project files, and
discussions with officials of the line agencies. The GDAPD, GDOS and GDAR contributed to
the preparation of ICR by conducting surveys, providing summary data and submitted comments
contained in Appendix A to the ICR.



- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
Loan No. 3177-TU
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The Project which started in 1990 was the second phase of the Government's program for
upgrading provincial extension services which was introduced to 18 provinces under Loan 2405-
TU in 1984. This was consistent with the Bank's and the Borrower's strategy of improving
agricultural productivity and increasing exports to contribute to economic development and
poverty alleviation. The Second Project which also concentrated on state-financed extension
included 23 (out of the 80) provinces.
Project Objectives and Components
2.    The objectives were to: (i) foster increased productivity and agricultural incomes through
improving information flow from farmers to MARA's extension and research services, and the
transmission of appropriate technology, (ii) contribute to institution building and strengthening of
extension and research services, including program for women farmers, and (iii) improve animal
health services. The efforts would translate into increased farm production, improved quality of
agricultural commodities, expanded exports and higher farm income. The Project would also
help to renew and preserve agricultural resource base, and reduce pollution.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    The project was implemented in a difficult political and macroeconomic environment.
After several years of large and growing fiscal deficits, Turkey suffered a severe currency crisis
in early 1994 and the Government launched a reform program which focused on fiscal
adjustment, with large cuts in investment and personnel expenditures. This coupled with frequent
staff changes in the line agencies contributed to the difficult implementation environment. The
objective of the Project should be to develop an extension service which was cost-effective and
which could be politically and fiscally supported in the future. However, adoption of a uniform
system for regions with a wide range of socio-economic and production circumstances which also
had high recurrent-cost implications was unlikely to be the most cost-effective use of public
extension investment. Therefore, the original format was modified and a loose formn of T&V
system was implemented.
4.    The original Loan allocation included US$19.5 million (revised as US$14.4 million) for
Civil Works. At project closing, US$14,541,508.01 had been disbursed from this Category.
Despite construction of several VGTCs, MARA reviewed the appropriateness of recruiting VGTs
at village level and decided not to initiate further construction except those which had prospects
for becoming a county. However, the austerity program hindered the whole construction
program, excluding a modern research complex located in Eskisehir. US$13.6 million (revised as
US$16.2 million) was allocated for the procurement of vehicles, equipment, and scientific books
and periodicals. At project closing, US$15,875,725.36 had been disbursed. The Loan allocation



- iii -
also included US$14.5 million (revised as US$10,510,000) for overseas training andconsultancy.
At project closing US$8,941,210.61 had been disbursed of which 88 percent was used for training
and 12 percent for technical assistance.
5.    In the Farmer Survey conducted for ICR, around half of the surveyed fanners reported
that in recent years, MIARA improved its extension service. The FTE directors described the
change in the extension service as; increased farmers' demand for extension service, increased
effectiveness in the service, and faster adoption of new technologies. Although the provincial
extension service were strengthened in terms of training, equipment and vehicles, there were wide
disparities in performance which stemmed from the approach/style of the provincial managers.
Therefore, while a viable extension system was established in some provinces, in others the
system was not dynamic. As it is expected, the most common source of information for the
farmers was the friends/relatives (reported by 95 percent) and then the extension workers
(reported by 36 percent) and private companies (reported by 25 percent).
6.    During Project, there were changes in various aspects of agricultural production; more
farmers reported increases in yield, quality, and marketability and decreases in chemical spraying,
production cost and labor requirement (IES, FS, FTES and SMSS). Data indicated less progress
in livestock production.
7.    The efforts of the extension workers for improved quality in crop production reflected in
expanded exports. The majority (54 percent) of the surveyed export companies emphasized
increased awareness in quality on the producer side. Farmers, particularly medium and large
scale ones reported yield increases ranging from 1 percent to 61 percent (FS and IES) and 66
percent of the farmers attributed the increase to genetic material, 62 percent to pesticide, 59
percent to fertilizer, 39 percent to irrigation, and 13 percent to mechanization. Changes occurred
in production practices; mostly in the following areas; i) improved livestock feeding/forage
production, ii) new crop varieties, iii) fertilizer use based on soil analysis, iv) promotion of
mechanization, and v) economically and environmentally sustainable chemical use.
8.    There was some improvement in the livestock production such as; upgrading of the
genetic material, increased milk yields and better hygiene and health. The majority of the cattle
owners (84 percent) reported upgraded genetic material and 40 percent of those reported
increased milk production with purebred and hybrid cows. It appears that once production per
animal increases, farmers tend not to increase the number of animal he owns (IES and FS). There
was a strong emphasis in the extension programs on the improved livestock feeding (SMSS and
VGTS); significant increases occurred in area sown forage crops (FS and IES). The progress
regarding silage making was less pronounced; 41 percent of the farmers reported that they heard
of silage and 33 percent of these reported extension worker as the source of information.
However, very few reported practice mainly due to few animals, and limited land and water
resources. Research and extension efforts resulted in increased farm incomes. IES gave some
clue in the use of increased income; there was a significant increase in purchasing machinery and
equipment by the farmers e.g. milking machine was reported by 78 percent of the surveyed
farmers, subsoiler by 49 percent, harrow and seeding drill by 31 percent.
9.    Project conditionality was met satisfactorily. There were only two problems; i) central
and regional coordination committees not able to work efficiently due to frequent staff changes,
and ii) limited counterpart funding, moratorium on staff hiring, restrictions on procurement. In
some cases, there were debates with the Bank regarding procurement which were ultimately
worked out consistent with the Bank procedures but with some delays. Progress reports were



- lv -
submitted on time and were in good order. There were some delays associated with the audit
reports. Excellent records and accounts maintained.
10.   The Bank very positively and quickly responded to the client's request for a second
project. However, the agreement on; i) concentrating only on the public-financed extension, and
ii) expanding a system (T&V) with high investment and recurrent cost implications for the
regions with very diverse characteristics, was not appropriate. The implications of the costs on
the state budget was not analyzed and potential fiscal constraints were not even identified as a
risk in the SAR. While the Bank's supervision performance has been satisfactory, deficiency at
the time of preparation and appraisal may be noted. Despite staff changes at the Bank, there was
overlap among team leaders and members. The transfer of task management responsibility to the
field provided; i) proximity to client which enhanced client responsiveness as well as cost
savings, ii) continuous rather than episodic supervision. The working relationships with
Treasury, and MARA were very good. The Bank responded positively to the Borrower's requests
for; i) increasing the disbursement percentages temporarily during the Gulf Crisis in 1991, and ii)
extension of Closing Date. The Loan Closing Date was extended solely for training/technical
assistance. Another important expectation was the "Extension Strategy Workshop". However,
the extended period was mainly utilized for financing the ongoing overseas MSc training with
some support to farmers study tours.
11.   During implementation, the Bank was more responsive to the changes in the sector and
the country. The mid-term review and following supervision missions recommended review of
the state's role in extension and formulation of a strategy for the transition to a more pluralistic
system of advisory services. Although there was an initial ownership, it was not maintained long
enough to make some changes due to disrupted the commitment and ownership, bureaucratic
caution and procedural.
12.   During the project preparation, MARA like the Bank, overlooked changes in the sector
and country. During implementation, the Borrower's performance has been adversely affected by
several factors beyond the control of the agencies; such as; weak public finances, unstable
political environment, frequent changes at the ministerial level resulted in varying levels of
commitment, delays in implementation, and high turnover of staff. However, MARA could have
performed better in; i) providing effective coordination between agencies, ii) appointing more
competent field managers based on the "staff profiles", and iii) supervising the implementation
more frequently.
13.   During implementation, the GDAPD made two important decisions which prevented
unsustainable use of funds and setting wrong examples for the future by canceling; i) construction
of approximately 800 VGTCs by applying the lessons learned from the First Project, ii) study
tours due to inappropriate selection of participants. In the provinces, thePDAs raised some funds
by recovering part of the cost of providing extension services to provide better cooperation with
farmers, and more funds for procurement, and prizes for farmers' competitions. This could be
considered as the first steps towards commercialization of extension activities.  Increased
cooperation with the private sector was another positive development.
14.   The overall rating of the Project is marginally satisfactory with regard to implementation
performance. Despite the unfavorable implementation environment, the GDAPD and provincial
extension services made numerous achievements; such as skill development in diagnostic survey
and M&E, technical training of SMSs, training of managers in management skills, systematizing
monthly workshops at FTE directorates, establishment of M&E and MIS systems, production and
use of mass-media, women farmers' extension program, farmer study tours and construction of an



excellent research complex. Surveys with around 3000 farmers indicated improvements in state
extension service, improved productivity and increased awareness about the environment.
15.    The MARA's plan for future operations includes i) continuing service provision to the
villages from the county centers instead of initiating more village based services, ii) continuing
the systematized training for extension staff at all levels, iii) re-activating bi-monthly training
workshops and applied research activities, iv) improving women farmers extension program, v)
conducting Impact Assessment Studies regularly, vi) producing for and using more mass-media
and vii) focusing more on natural resource conservation. The decision regarding new approaches
that shift some of the financial burden from extension to beneficiaries while increasing the
effectiveness of the service is a political on and depends on the approach of the new government.
16.    The lessons learned include: i) in designing projects, the implementation environment
(including macro-economic, political, sectoral factors) in a country for the Bank assistance
projects needs to be carefully reviewed, ii) in designing projects, diversity of circumstances
among beneficiaries and regions must be considered; blanket prescriptions do not work, iii) in
introducing a system, its implications on the state investment and recurrent cost budget needs to
be analyzed, iv) initiation of a second phase must depend on thorough review of the
implementation of the ongoing project, v) solid monitoring data must be available to be able to
make modifications during implementation, therefore, a simple but effectiveM&E system needs
to be established earlier on, iv) strengthening of the beneficiaries position to formulate demand is
needed to improve the performance of the organization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
Loan No. 3177-TIJ
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
A. Project Origin and Objectives
1.    The Project which started in 1990 is the second phase of the Government's program for
upgrading provincial extension services which was introduced to 18 provinces under Loan 2405-
TU in 1984. This was consistent with the Bank's and the Borrower's strategy of improving
agricultural productivity and increasing exports to contribute to economic development and
poverty alleviation. The First Project reflected the socio-economic realities in Turkey during
latel97Os/early 1980's and concentrated on state-financed extension. While it was being
implemented in some provinces, the remaining provinces were still operating ineffective
extension services. Therefore, the Government prepared a feasibility report for a second project
with technical assistance provided by the First Project and the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program.
It included 23 (out of the 80) provinces, appraised in 1989 and implemented by Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Affairs (MARA).
2.    The Project objectives were to: (i) foster increased productivity and agricultural incomes
through improving the flow of information concerning their needs and problems from farmers to
MARA's extension and research services, and the transmission of appropriate technology, (ii)
contribute to institution building and strengthening of MARA's extension and research services,
including program for women farmers, and (iii) a pilot program to improve animal health
services. These efforts would translate into increased farm production, improved quality of
agricultural commodities and animal health, expanded exports and higher farm income. The
Project would also help to renew and preserve agricultural resource base, and reduce pollution.
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
3.    In spite of prevailing difficult macro-economic and political circumstances, the objectives
of the Project were achieved, but partly. The objectives are discussed below.
Foster Increased Productivity and Agricultural Incomes
4.    During the Project, there were changes in various aspects of agricultural production as a
result of adoption of recommendations provided by the extension workers. The Impact
Evaluation Study (IES) and the Farmer Survey (FS) indicated that more farmers reported
increases in yield, quality, and marketability and decreases in chemical spraying, production cost
and labor requirement. This outcome was consistent with other survey data (Farmer Training and
Extension Director Survey-FTES and Subject Matter Specialist Survey-SMS S). The positive
changes were more in crop production compared to livestock production.
5.    The efforts of the extension workers towards improved quality was reflected in expanded
exports as indicated by the Export Company Survey (ECS). The majority (54 percent) of the
surveyed companies emphasized increased awareness on the producer's side for quality. There
were also 1 percent to 61 percent (FS and IES) improvements in yields experienced by medium



and large scale farmers: 66 percent of these farmers attributed the increases to genetic material,
62 percent to pesticide, 59 percent to fertilizer, 39 percent to irrigation, and 13 percent to
mechanization. Changes occurred in production practices; mostly in the following areas (SMSS);
i) improved livestock feeding/forage production, ii) new crop varieties, iii) fertilizer use based on
soil analysis, iv) introduction/promotion of mechanization, and v) early warning/ economically
and environmentally sustainable chemical use. The VGT Survey (VGTS) results mostly
overlapped with the above. The changes in these areas are elaborated in the paragraphs below.
6.    New crop variety was an attractive input for both extension staff and farmers (FS,
SMSS). As the farmers' resources got richer, they tended to get more interested in new genetic
material, while the resource poor ones were focusing on pesticide and fertilizer use (FS). The FS
indicated that 96 percent of the surveyed farmers heard of soil analysis, 59 percent of these
reported extension worker as the source of information. Thirty six percent of those who heard
about soil analysis had their soils analyzed and 65 percent changed practices; 87 percent changed
the fertilizer type, 48 percent reduced the rate, 11 percent increased the rate. In pesticide use,
there was a clear tendency to reduce the frequency (VGT Survey and FS). Early warning systems
helped to achieve this in horticulture; 39 percent of the farmers indicated that they heard of such a
system and 89 percent reported extension worker as the source of information. As a results of
these efforts, 69 percent of the surveyed farmers reduced the frequency of spraying mostly for
apple, apricot, and grapes (FS). Growing awareness in pesticide use resulted in less problems in
export (ECS). Since irrigated agriculture expanded in the project provinces, the extension
programs included efficient irrigation methods (VGT Survey). In potato production where
excessive irrigation is a problem, 40 percent of the producers were informed that they were over
irrigating and 67 percent of these reported the extension worker as the source of information.
Based on the recommendations, around half of the farmers reduced irrigation (FS).
7.    There were also some improvements in the livestock production; such as upgrading of the
genetic material, increased milk yields and growing awareness about hygiene and health issues.
The majority of the cattle owners (84 percent) reported upgraded genetic material and 40 percent
of those reported increased milk production. Generally milk yield increases reported from all
regions. It appears that once production per animal increases, farmers tend not to increase the
number of animal he owns (IES and FS). There was a strong emphasis in the extension programs
on the improved livestock feeding (SMSS and VGTS); significant increases occurred in area
sown forage crops (FS and IES). The progress regarding silage making was less pronounced; 41
percent of the farmers reported that they heard of silage and 33 percent of these reported
extension worker as the source of information.
8.    Environmental protection and natural resource conservation were new concepts for
farmers. However, in 1998, only 16 percent reported their efforts by describing as "practices to
conserve natural resources"; land leveling in irrigated areas (3 8 percent), constructing terraces on
slopes (36 percent), plowing on contours on steep land (31 percent), drainage (25 percent) and by
controlled grazing on communal rangelands (3 percent) (FS).
9.    During the last two years of the project, 47 study tours were organized for 800 farmers.
Visiting modem commercial farms and observing new innovations helped them to develop a
vision. Research and extension efforts in increasing yield and decreasing production costs
resulted in increased farm incomes. IES gave some clue in the use of increased income; in the
last three years of the Project, there was a significant increase in purchasing machinery and
equipment by the farmers e.g. milking machine was reported by 78 percent of the surveyed
farmers, subsoiler by 49 percent, harrow and seeding drill by 31 percent.



-3 -
Contribute to Institution Building and Strengthening of M4RA 's Extension and Research Services
10.   The objective of the Project should be to develop an extension service which was cost-
effective and which could be politically and fiscally supported in the future. However, adoption
of a unifonn system in some regions with a wide range of socio-economic and production
circumstances which also had high recurrent-cost implicatie:s was unlikely to be the most cost-
effective use of public extension investment. Therefore, the original format was gradually
modified based on circumstances on the ground and a loose form of T&V system was
implemented.
11.   Around half of the farmers reported that in recent years, the MARA has improved its
extension service (FS). Change in the extension service was described by the FTE directors as;
increased farmers' demand for extension service, increased effectiveness in the services, and
faster adoption of new technologies. The SMSS and Research Coordinator Survey (RCS) also
indicated positive changes in the system.
12.   As it is expected, the most common source of information for the farmers was the
friends/relatives (reported by 95 percent) and then the extension worker (reported by 36 percent)
and  private companies (reported by 25 percent).  Companies were more active in the
Mediterranean Region reaching to 40 percent of the farming community (VGTS). It is clear that
more open and liberalized agricultural markets are gradually bringing the knowledge of private
sector to farmers. It is also observed that public sector withdrew from being conservative and
more tended to collaborate with private sector. They invited the companies to contribute to the
training workshop held for extension workers (FS, SMSS, VGTS).
13.   The provincial extension service was strengthened in terms of training, equipment and
vehicles. However, there were wide disparities in performance which stemmed from the
approach/style of the provincial managers. Some did not understand that they were accountable
to the client rather than to the public sector bureaucracy. Therefore, while a viable extension
system was established in some provinces, in others the system was not dynamic. Although the
system did not allow provincial managers to manage their own staff, based on agreed and
transparent criteria, it was still partly dependent on the ability of them to secure, retain and
motivate good technical staff. However, reassignment of staff, often after short interval at post
made it difficult to develop the necessary rapport with farmers and, for farmers to develop a trust
in extension personnel.
14.   Although some characteristics of the T&V system were modified, the principle of precise
task definition was mostly retained; the majority of the extension staff were freed from
bureaucratic tasks. The "single line of command" principle was also maintained and put all
VGTs under one system providing some degree of supervision at all levels. Supervision was
limited for a period mainly due to the delayed delivery of the new vehicles. In some provinces,
the supervision task did not necessarily get the highest priority while in others, in spite of the
fiscal situation limiting its frequency, it was satisfactory. Some FTE directors articulated the
need for more supervision. VGTs and the SMSs were supervised both by the county and FTE
director. In many cases, supervision of VGTs were delegated to SMSs. Systematic VGT training
by SMSs and to a certain extent by researchers continued either fortnightly or monthly.
15.   In the beginning, VGTs were recruited at 64 village group technician centers (VGTCs)
constructed by the Project. Later, MARA reviewed the appropriateness of recruiting VGTs at
village level and decided not to initiate firther construction except those which had prospects for
becoming a county; however, the austerity program hindered the construction. Subsequently,



- 4 -
MARA made arrangements to provide extension service to the villages by VGTs and SMSs
stationed at County Directorates. Only 3 percent of the FTE directors attributed the positive
changes in the extension system to the recruitment of VGTs in the villages. Even if the envisaged
number of VGTCs had been constructed, most of VGTs would be reluctant to leave town centers
and live in villages anyway, because shortcomings of rural infrastructure. As a matter of fact,
more commercially advanced fa.ning systems required comprehensive and up-to date
information to select the best opportunities for resource use. Therefore, the rationale for posting
VGTs at the frontline was gradually vanishing in some regions where more competent frontline
extension staff (SMSs) had to deal with such farmers. During 1996-98 period, VGTs had 30
percent less clients and less appreciation for their services (IES).
16.   When arrived in their responsibility area, VGTs conducted a situation analysis however,
most need updating. Around half of the VGTs used motorcycles provided by the Project to carry
out their extension program. The rest used other means including farmers' private vehicle (27
percent) which could be considered as a step towards cost-sharing or commercialization of
extension activities.
17.   The extension staff worked both with farmer groups and individuals. The groups were
not necessarily formed on the basis of readiness to change and progressiveness but willingness to
work with the extension staff. The individuals were usually selected based on literacy,
progressiveness and wealth. Since these had enough resources which allowed them to take risks
in testing new technology, the ones with limited resources benefited from innovations by
observing the results and without taking risks. The accelerated adoption resulted from farmer-to-
farmer contact, at no public cost. The FS indicated that in 1998, 58 percent of the farmers,
particularly the resource poor ones had direct contact with extension workers. Although in the
initial years, the visits were carried out based on a rigid schedule, later a loose form of T&V
system was implemented. In the FS, 16 percent of the answers indicated a monitorable visit
schedule.
18.   As the fiscal constraints limited the frequency of visits, mass media was used to
complement the face-to-face services. Many FTEs in 23 provinces produced excellent video
tapes (3160), prepared radio and TV  programs.  FTEs were particularly successful in
broadcasting for early warning system and environmentally friendly pest control. The national
agricultural TV school (YAYCEP), was also used to complement and reduce the staff intensive
services. In 1998, around 40 percent more farmers attended farmers meetings, study tours, and
training courses which became more popular than other extension activities (IES). During 1991-
98, about 99,000 farmers' meetings and 33,000 demonstrations were conducted and around 1.5
million printed were distributed.
19.   Based on the size of the province several SMS teams were established in each province.
However, certain fields of expertise (such as agricultural economics, marketing) were under
represented in skill mixes. To upgrade the professional competence, around 20 percent of the
SMSs received computer and 10 percent language training, 19 percent had the opportunity to
attend overseas and 43 percent in-country training courses, and 7 percent to study tours. There
was significant SMS turnover in the project provinces; only 24 percent spent more than 6 years in
the same province. GDAPD partially dealt with this problem by organizing training programs to
cater the newcomers, in addition to the refresher training courses.  Excellent bimonthly
workshops organized by research institutes to train SMSs in earlier years of the project, but the
momentum was eventually lost. The majority of the SMSs found the information given to them
rather useful, but 42 percent them assessed the practical training as insufficient. However, 40
percent of the research coordinators felt that their task in SMS training was achieved (RCS).



Since research mostly withdrew from playing an important role for bimonthly workshops, the
FTE started to involve private companies in training sessions which was well accepted by
majority of the SMSs.
20.   The GDAPD formed a good core team for the diagnostic survey which aimed to develop
a basis for extension planning and research. The teams were trained with the assistance of
consultants and field manuals were prepared; surveys were conducted annually. Nearly half of
the researchers and extension staff were trained on-the-job (FTES ) and the topics identified
during the surveys were included in research programs.
21.   GDAR research institutes were supported significantly by the Project in terms of overseas
academic training, and physical infrastructure. In the initial years, the bimonthly workshops for
SMSs were the most effective linkage with research but later, there was less commitment from
GDAR side; it did not fully mobilize its resources and the linkage was somewhat improved (RS
and SMS Survey). The FTE directors (73 percent) reported some change in the linkage as;
increased responsibility in research for identifying and solving farmers' problems (42 percent),
quicker response from research institutes (38 percent), more problem awareness at the extension
service side (12 percent), and extension service being more informed about new technologies (8
percent).
22.   The Project significantly strengthened the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) capacity of
GDAPD. A good system was designed with technical assistance by making use of situation
analysis and diagnostic survey. It was standardized and introduced to the First and Second
Project provinces in May 1996 and several workshops were organized for provincial extension
managers to emphasize the system's function of helping management decision making. This still
needs improvement. A manual was prepared, a good core group was who further developed and
operated the system at central and provincial level and initiated the "Impact Evaluation Studies".
23.   The Project envisaged a pilot women farmer extension program in 3 provinces. GDOS,
having the overall responsibility trained 1004 home economists who regarded the program as
highly satisfactory despite insufficient practical training. In 242 selected villages, the service
reached 4312 women farmers. Since the experience was positive, the component was gradually
expanded to 16 new provinces where success was dependent on the commitment of the managers.
There were two issues; i) cost-effectiveness of the extension services in terms of number, and ii)
insufficiency of the overall supervision. Establishment of the Department of Women in Rural
Development at GDOS was a promising development for the future of this program. Trained
farmers wanted to take the advantage of the newly gained knowledge and were keen to expand
their activities and undertake new small business. However, they were unable to do so as they
lacked access to small credit. The Bank's recommendation to utilize some of the project funds to
set up a micro-credit scheme was met with concern by Treasury and MARA due to potential
implementation problems.
24.   The Project established a Management Information System (MIS) where the First and
Second Project provinces, major research institutes and central units of MARA were linked to the
center. The system was also linked to the internet. It was made compatible with theMIS and
GIS systems which were set up under two other projects; ongoing Agricultural Research and the
newly completed In-situ Conservation of Genetic Diversity (GEF Grant No: 28632-TU).



-6 -
Improving Animal Health Services
25.   Five mobile animal health units were initially located in Erzincan, Kahramanmaras,
Nigde, Tokat and Aksaray since east-west movements of cattle are controlled at these points.
Intensive programs were carried out to reduce Mastitis and Brucellosis in dairy animals. At
project completion, the units were being used jointly with Veterinary Research Institutes mainly
for disease diagnosis in Erzurum, Elazig, Adana, Ankara, and Izmir. There was an awareness
about hygiene and health issues; 43 percent of the surveyed farmers reported measures taken
against Mastitis, 53 percent against parasites, and 87 percent some kind of renovation in their
traditional barns to provide better hygiene.
26.   Farmers seemed to be less satisfied with the quality of information they receive from
extension workers on animal health compared to crops (IES) compared to veterinarians. This
resulted in limited demand for information regarding animal feeding/nutrition and animal health.
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
27.   The Project was implemented in a difficult political and macroeconomic environment.
After several years of large and growing fiscal deficits, Turkey suffered a severe currency crisis
in early 1994 and the Government launched a reform program which focused on fiscal
adjustment, with large cuts in investment and personnel expenditures. Moratorium on staff
hiring, restrictions on procurement coupled with frequent changes of staff in the implementing
agencies and appointments which were subject to political interference contributed to the difficult
implementation environment.
28.   Under these circumstances, the allocations made by SPO to the sectors and agencies were
significantly reduced and new approval procedures were set. The patterns of budget release by
the Ministry of Finance irrespective of project needs also caused delays in project
implementation. Although the externally financed projects were treated comparatively better,
still there has been a severe competition for the limited funds between and within the government
agencies.
29.   The 1993 mid-term review, emphasized the more cost-effective approaches to extension
and suggested that issues of financial sustainability of extension programs, farmer participation in
extension management and possible cost sharing arrangements with farmers need to be examined.
In 1994, GADPD organized successful workshops on extension policy and future strategies
which were well attended by various stakeholders. There was a consensus about more farmer
involvement in decision making and cost-sharing. In 1996, the Bank's recommendation
regarding some modest pilot programs which would support farmers and private sector initiatives
in extension was agreed by the Government. However, no steps were taken by the concerned
general directorates towards formulating a strategy for the transition to a more pluralistic system
of advisory services mainly due to bureaucratic caution and concerns and disrupted ownership.
30.   For the implementation of the extension component, GADPD and GDOS were the major
agencies as it was the case for the First Project, and GDAR was responsible for the applied
research activities. The First Project suffered from a lack of clearly defined task boundaries
between GADPD and GDOS which did not change for this Project. The central and regional
coordination committees did not work efficiently due to frequent staff changes. Administrative
authority over extension staff belonged to the centrally located General Directorate of Personnel
(GDP) of MARA. The staff profiles prepared by TA for each job level to assist management in
staff appointment were not always taken into consideration and in some cases the GDP failed to



- 7 -
appoint PDA or FTE directors who had leadership qualities and a reasonable level of
management capability. As the infrastructure and resources provided by the Project were the
same for all project provinces, only management and organization were the determining factors
for success. In order to improve the situation, GADPD organized excellent courses (23) to train
165 extension managers and 425 extension staff in management skills.
31.   In 1991, research was organized under GDAR. Except initial years of the Project, its
management did not regard itself as a full partner in the operation and did not fully mobilize its
resources to improve the extension-research linkage. Higher management was not able to secure
its commitment. Relevant recommendations formulated by the researchers were adopted by the
farmers, but irrelevant messages not only wasted extension efforts but also caused frustration on
the farmers' side. In the FS, around half of those who were not following the recommendations
of the extension service (17 percent of the surveyed farmers) reported that the recommendations
were risky, and 16 percent of those complained about the high cost. Lack of farmer organizations
to articulate small farmers' needs affected the responsiveness of the services to their needs and
circumstances. However, educated, resource-rich and politically influential farmers managed to
give feedback to research and extension. The Bank supported Agricultural Research Project
(Loan 3472-TU) aimed to improve research programming and priorities and linkages with
extension. However, it had implementation problems until 1998 and provided limited benefit to
the extension.
Civil Works
32.   The original Loan allocation included US$19.5 million (revised as US$14.4 million) for
Civil Works to finance construction of VGTCs, staff houses, training halls and some minor
renovation for research institutes. The First Project attempted to construct a complex for
Eskisehir Research Institute (ERC) but the work was re-tendered and, a contract for US$5.7 was
signed on December 2, 1993. The Bank agreed to finance 75 percent of the cost of the
construction out of the Second Loan. The design company supervised the construction with a
cost of US$370, 818 of which 100 percent was financed from the Loan.
33.   To help compensate for costs Turkey incurred as a result of the Gulf crisis, for FY91,
disbursement percentages of total project costs were increased (80 percent for civil works) in
April 1991 and later extended to February 1993 and was reset as 60 percent for the civil works
with the exception of the ERC for which 75 percent as was previously agreed. The construction
of the ECR started in December 1993 and was completed in January 1998.
34.   The SAR envisaged the construction of 860 (revised as 883) VGT offices/houses in 19
provinces. On December 27, 1993 the Bank agreed to finance the construction of 57VGTCs and
11 County Centers (CCs) where contracts were awarded under the First Project. By the end of
1994, 64 VGTCs were constructed. MARA reviewed the need for further construction and in
May 1995, GADPD submitted a two year plan to construct 71 more VGTCs which also be used
as "County Offices". However, either these or envisaged training halls (16) in counties and at
research institutes, and government housing facilities (234) were not built due to the austerity
measures. At project closing, US$14,541,508.01 of the Loan had been disbursed from the Civil
Works Category.
Goods
35.   US$13.6 million (revised as US$16,2 million) was allocated for the procurement of
vehicles, equipment, and scientific books and periodicals. At project closing, US$15,875,725.36



-8 -
had been disbursed. The original allocation included procurement of 261 station wagons, 233
pick-ups, 950 motorcycles, 5 mini-buses, 29 midi-buses, 24 trucks, 4 trailers and 4 mobile
veterinary clinics. US$10,622,283.71 had been spent to procure 672 vehicles and 1073
motorcycles through ICB at the end of 1991. The research institutes received 6 percent of the
vehicles, 93 percent were given to provincial extension offices and 1 percent to the ministry
headquarters at the beginning of 1994. Delays were experienced due to lack of funds to pay the
import duties. However, in some provinces, the governors allowed the use of vehicles with
temporary plates although the duty had not been paid.
36.   In total, US$.5,253,441.65 was spent for equipment, 80 percent of which was being
allocated to the research institutes. Once the Research Master Plans (RMPs) under the ongoing
Agricultural Research Project were effective, procurement of remaining equipment was financed
from that Loan. The contracts for the MIS system were signed during the First Project but it was
mostly financed (about US$ lmillion) by the Second Project. The system linked 39 provinces, 15
research institutes and 9 central units of MARA and became operational in 1996. Almost 1000
staff was trained in using the system.
Training and Technical Assistance
37.   The Loan allocation included US$14.5 million (revised as US$10,510,000) for overseas
training and consultancy services. At project closing US$8,941,210.61 had been disbursed of
which 12 percent was used for technical assistance and 88 percent for training. Technical
assistance packages were prepared for: i) skill gap analysis, ii) training master plan, iii) situation
analysis, iv) diagnostic survey, v) pilot women farmers extension and vi) M&E. Lack of
qualified full-time counterparts, delays in translation of technical documents and receiving
comments from management resulted in the delayed operationalization of recommendations.
38.   Eighty percent of the training funds were used for extension and 20 percent for research.
Around 600 staff benefited from the English courses. The overseas study tours were planned as
450 person months (89 percent for provincial staff, 11 percent for research). In May 1995, the
short term training component has been substantially reduced (250 person months) by canceling
the study tour program mainly due to the inappropriate selection of some participants. Totally,
372 persons (93 percent from extension and 7 percent research) benefited from study tours mainly
to the UK and USA. Short term training was limited only to specific individuals taking courses
of 2-4 months and/or attending international meetings. Around 50 staff (78 percent from
extension and 22 percent from research institutes) benefited from this program. The MSc
program provided degrees for 75 person (41 percent from research).
39.   A very good in-service training program was conducted for all levels. County directors,
section chiefs of PDAs, project related staff from GDAPD and GDOS received courses on public
and project management, and agricultural extension. Training on new topics such as modern
irrigation techniques, fertilization techniques, covered vegetable production, IPM, organic
farming and impact evaluation were conducted for SMSs. Training also provided for the staff of
some Water User's Organizations and Livestock Breeders' Associations.
40.   Project conditionality was met satisfactorily. In some cases, there were debates with the
Bank regarding procurement which were ultimately worked out consistent with World Bank
procedures but with some delays. Progress reports were submitted on time and were in good
order. There were some delays associated with the audit reports. Excellent records and accounts
maintained to reflect operations. There were only two serious problems; i) central and regional



-9 -
coordination committees did not work effectively due to frequent staff changes, and ii) limited
counterpart funding, moratorium on staff hiring, restrictions on procurement.
D. Project Sustainability
41.    The project intended to establish a labor and mobility intensive extension method
requiring high recurrent budget.  However, under the high inflation and fiscal deficit
circumstances in Turkey, governments, within the fundamental reform program of the public
sector, will continue to make reductions in the costly state interventions in investment, production
and marketing. This requires questioning of the intended system in agricultural services sector in
terms of financial, political and institutional sustainability.
42.    Since the beginning of the First Project, recruiting technicians at the village level has not
been sustainable due to the; i) reluctance of them to live in the villages, and ii) farmers' increased
demand for more specialized and sophisticated information which can be fulfilled by specialists.
Therefore, MARA decided; i) to provide services to the villages from the county and provincial
centers through SMSs and VGTs, and ii) not to initiate further VGTC construction at the villages
which also requires funds for maintenance. Providing village or county-based extension services,
both calls for sustainability of infrastructure and human resources which need to be secured by
MARA.
43.   In view of the regional differences, MARA should make a careful assessment of the need
for providing extension services from the villages and find situation-specific solutions. The
circumstances may necessitate a departure from the current approach for some categories of
farmers, regions and information areas. Resource rich farmers who have sufficient cash resources
and are willing to pay for high quality services for tailor-made recommendations can receive
services from the private sector. This can reduce public cost, and bring professionalism into the
sector. This would allow public extension to concentrate its limited resources (particularly
financial) on the provision of services to the most needy; and, the less developed regions, and on
selected areas like natural resource conservation which has a public good nature. This could
increased the financial sustainability. Financial sustainability could be further enhanced by
increasing complementary use of mass-media.
44.    Institutional sustainability for public extension and research will be at risk as long as;i)
administrative authority for staff transfers, discipline and promotion stays at the General
Directorate of Personnel (GDP) instead of line agencies, and ii) the staff for specific positions are
not recruited based on the characteristics required for efficient performance including
operationalization of staff profiles and skill gap analysis. On the other hand, unless the extension
service continues to demonstrate and document benefits to the client group, the political
sustainability will be in question.
E. Bank's Performance
45.    The Bank's decision to complement the Government's commitment in further
strengthening its provincial agricultural services and to accelerate Turkey's agricultural
development was appropriate. It very responded positively and quickly to the client's request for
lending for a second agricultural extension project. A correct decision was made in giving the
priority to provinces which were included in the Project. However, the Bank's agreement on; i)
concentrating only on the public-financed extension, and ii) expanding a system (T&V) with high
recurrent and investrnent cost implication for the regions with very diverse characteristics was not



- 10-
appropriate. The implications of the costs on the state investment and recurrent budget were not
analyzed and potential fiscal constraints were not even identified as a risk.
46.   Later, the Bank was more responsive to the changes in the sector and the country and
following a good mid-term review, the supervision missions of 1994 and 95 emphasized the need
for a review concerning how the extension needs to be evolved in the context of country's rapidly
modernizing agriculture, and the demographic changes in rural Turkey. The Bank also
recommended formulation of a strategy for the transition to a more pluralistic system of advisory
services and proposed several modest pilot projects that support farmers and private sector
initiatives in extension.
47.   While Bank supervision performance has been satisfactory, deficiencies at the time of
preparation and appraisal may be noted. Bank supervision missions provided useful guidance on
technical issues, project management and institutional strengthening. Despite staff changes at the
Bank, the project did not suffer from discontinuity due to overlap among team leaders and
members. The transfer of task management responsibility to the field provided; i) proximity to
client which enhanced client responsiveness and efficiency as well as cost savings, ii) continuous
rather than episodic supervision. The working relationships with Treasury, and MARA were very
good.  The Bank positively responded to the Borrower's request for; i) increasing the
disbursement percentages temporarily during the Gulf Crisis in 1991, and ii) extension of Closing
Date.
F. Borrower's Performance
48.   During the project preparation, MARA, like the Bank, overlooked some facts; i) the
signals of rapid demographic, market, economic and structural changes that began to emerge in
rural Turkey in early 90's, ii) high recurrent cost implications of the intended system and its
heavy reliance on state intervention. Later, while the public system was suffering more from
insufficient funding and many private sector and farmer initiatives in extension had been
developed, the Bank's recommendation to re-fornulate the role of government in extension was
not put into action. The initial ownership was not maintained long enough to make changes due
to disrupted commitment and ownership, bureaucratic caution and procedural concerns. MARA
could have been assertive to take a lead in developing new approaches that shift some of the
financial burden from extension to the beneficiaries while increasing the effectiveness of the
service.
49.   During implementation, the Borrower's performance was been adversely affected by
several factors beyond the control of the implementing agency. In particular weak public finance,
unstable political environment, frequent changes at the ministerial level (8 ministers and 5
undersecretaries) has in turn caused varying levels of commitment, delays in implementation
particularly in procurement, high turnover of senior staff (5 general directors, 5 department
heads) and staff at the operating level. However, MARA could have performed better in; i)
providing effective coordination between GDAPD, GDOS, and GDAR, ii) appointing more
competent field managers based on the "staff profiles" and iii) supervising the implementation in
the field more frequently.
50.   The GDAPD made two important decisions which prevented unsustainable use of funds
and establishing inappropriate precedent by canceling; i) the construction of approximately 800
VGTCs by applying the lessons learned from the First Project, ii) the study tours due to
inappropriate selection of participants and increasing the allocations for the short-term technical
courses. At the field level, there were also positive initiatives. In the provinces there were some



solid steps towards commercialization of extension service to reduce public cost. The PDAs
established "Association for Services for Agricultural Support" where funds were raised by
recovering part of the cost of providing extension services to provide; i) better cooperation with
farmers, and ii) more funds for procurement of equipment, minor civil works, and prizes for
farmers' competitions. Increased cooperation with the private sector was another positive
development.
51.   An extension of the Loan Closing date was requested solely for training/technical
assistance including ongoing overseas MSc training, in-service training for extension staff and
farmer study tours. Another important expectation was the "Extension Strategy Workshop".
However, the extended period was mainly utilized for financing the ongoing overseas MSc
training with some support to farmners study tours.
G. Assessment of the Outcome
52.   The overall rating of the Project is marginally satisfactory with regard to implementation
performance. Despite the unfavorable implementation environment, the GDAPD and provincial
extension services made numerous achievements; such as skill development in diagnostic survey
and M&E, technical training of SMSs, training of managers in management skills, systematizing
monthly workshops at FTE directorates, establishment of M&E andMIS systems, productions for
and use of mass-media, women farmers' extension program, farmer study tours and construction
of an excellent research complex for Eskisehir Research Institute. The implementation took
longer than planned, mainly due to the overseas training component which was completed during
the extended period. The ultimate result of the efforts were clearly observed in the field, surveys
with around 3000 farmers indicated improvements in MARA's extension service, increased
productivity and increased awareness about the environment.
H. Future Operations
53.   The MARA's plan for future operations includes i) continuing service provision to the
villages from the county centers instead of initiating more village based services, ii) continuing
the systematized training for extension staff at all levels, iii) re-activating bi-monthly training
workshops and applied research activities to strengthen the research and extension linkage, iv)
improving women farmers extension program through the Department of Women in Rural
Development of GDOS, v) conducting Impact Assessment Studies regularly, vi) producing and
using more mass-media and vii) focusing more on natural resource conservation in extension
programs. The decision regarding new approaches that shift some of the financial burden from
extension to beneficiaries while increasing the effectiveness of the service is a political on and
depends on government policies in the future.
I. Key Lessons Learned
54.   There are several lessons to be learned: i) in designing projects, the implementation
environment (including macro-economic, political, sectoral factors) in a country for the Bank
assistance needs to be carefully reviewed as a whole to apply lessons learned, ii), before
introduction of a system, implications of the its costs on the state investment and recurrent cost
budget needs to be analyzed, iii) diversity of circumstances among beneficiaries and regions must
be considered in the design; blanket prescriptions do not work, iv) initiation of any second phase
must depend on a thorough review of the ongoing project regarding implementation problems at
the central and field level, v) solid monitoring data must be available to be able to make
modifications during implementation, therefore, a simple but effectiveM&E system needs to be



- 12 -
established earlier in the project, iv) strengthening of the beneficiaries position (farmers'
organization) to formulate demand is needed to improve the performance of the organization.



- 13 -
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Substantial       Partial      Negligible   Not applicable
A. Achievement of objectives                       (X)              (X)            (X)            (X)
Macro policies                                 E l              E                             0
Sector policies                                El               0              E              El
Financial objectives                            O               0              0              0
Institutional development                      El               0                     El      0
Physical objectives                                             0              El             El
Poverty reduction                               0               0              El             El
Gender issues                                                   0 o                           El
Other social objectives                        El               El             E              0
Environmental objectives                        0               0              E              E
Public sector management                       E                El             El             0
Private sector development                     E                E              E              0
Other (specify)                                E                E              E              0



- 14 -
B. Project sustainabiliy                      Likely                  Unlikely             Uncertain
(X)                     (X)                   (X)
O                        D                    ED
Highly
Satisfactory            Satisfactory            Deficient
C. Bank performance                           (X)                      (X)                    (X)
Identification                                                     0                      El
Preparation assistance                     E                       a                      0
Appraisal                                  0                       0                      0
Supervision                                E                       0
HWy
Satisfactory           Satisfactory             Deficient
D. Borrower performance                        (X)                     (X)                    (X)
Preparation                                a                       El                     0
'Implementation                            El                      0                      El
Covenant compliance                        0                       0                      El
Operation (if applicable)                  E                       E                      E
Highly                                           Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
E. Assessment of outcome                   (X)              (X)             (X)              (X)
El              0               O                El



- 15 -
Table 2: Related Loans /Credits
Loan/Credit                         Purpose             Year of         Status
Approval
Increase production, institutional
Seyhan Irrigation I                  development, upgrade and
(Credit 38)                          strengthen agricultural extension,  FY 63     Complete
improve irrigation
Seyhan Irrigation II (Loan 587)                  Same                  FY69        Complete
Seyhan Irrigation II (Credit 143)                Same                  FY69        Complete
Fresh Fruit & Vegetable Export                   Same                  FY71        Complete
(Loan 762)
Fresh Fruit & Vegetable Export                   Same                  FY71        Complete
(Credit 257)
Irrigation Rehabilitation Completion             Same                  FY72        Complete
(Credit 281)
Ceyhan/Aslantas Multipurpose                     Same                  FY73        Complete
(Loan 883)
Ceyhan/Aslantas Multipurpose                     Same                  FY73        Complete
(Credit 360)
Corum/Cankiri Rural Development                  Same                  FY75        Complete
(Loan 1130)                                      Same                  FY75        Complet
Second Fruit and Vegetables                      Same                  FY81        Complete
(Loan 1967)
Erzurum Rural Development            Same + strengthen agricultural    FY82        Complete
(Loan 2094)                          research system
Agricultural Extension and Applied   Same + strengthen agricultural    FY84        Complete
Research (Loan 2405)                 research system
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan  Improved capacity for sectoral    FY85        Complete
(Loan 2585)                          planning and analysis
Agricultural Research (Loan 3472)    Strengthen agricultural research  FY 92        Ongoing
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle     Date planned    Date actual
Latest estimate
Identification               June-July 1987
Preparation                          -          October 1988
Appraisal                    April-May 1989     May-June 1989
Negotiations                 December 1989      01/20/1990
Board Presentation           03/13/1990         03/13/1990
Signing                     03/30/1990          03/30/1990
Effectiveness                June 1990          06/28/1990
Midterm Review               12/31/1993         10/13/1993
Project Completion           12/31/1996         12/31/1997
Loan Closing                 06/30/1997         06/30/1998



- 16 -
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
.______________  FY90   FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97               FY98
Appraisal estimate     4        6         12       22        36        49      57.5      63        51*
Actual                        10.053    15.180   22.315   31.221    38.034  42.760    46.700    47.400
Actualas percentof      0      167       127       101       87        78       74       74         93
estimnate____
Date of final                                                                                    10/28/98
disbursement                                                                                     1
The total was revised as US$5 lmillion due to cancellation of US$12million in June 1997.
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
|Key implementation indicators in SAR/President's Report       I Estimated  I Actual
Key implementation indicators were not used for this project
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
ey implementation indicators in SAR               I  Estimated   I  Actual
Key implementation indicators were not used for this project
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
7  Study       Piurpose as defined       Status                Impact of study
at appraisal/redefined
Training programs were prepared partly
based on this analysis, the majority of the
Skill Gap AnalysiTechnical assistance to    Partially   extension workers were appointed in
Skill Gap Analysis  MARA                  implemented    accordance with the staff profiles,
however, for managerial positions these
were not applied.
M&E capacity of MARA was
Monitoring and    Technical assistance to                 strengthened, a competent monitoring
Evaluation        MARA                    Implemented   team was established, system became
operational needs improvement in the use
of the system for management purposes
.  .   Technical assistance to         Extension programs were prepared based
Diagnostic Survey  MARA                   Implemented    on these surveys, farmers feedback to
research was partially improved
Pilot Women       Technical assistance to                 Women farmers were recognized as a
Farmers Extension   MARA                   Implemented    client, home economists were utilized
Farmers Extension  MARiA                more efficiently at the provincial level



- 17 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)           Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Item
Local     Foeg
cosctas   Foesitgsn   Total     Local costs  Foreign costs    Total
Civil Works         65,6        21,9       87,5         5,5          14,5           20
Vehicles              1         9,5        10,5          2           10,6          12,6
Machinery,
equipment and        0,8        5,3         6,1         0,5           5,3          5,8
books
Furniture            1,2         0          1,2          2             0            2
Overseas training     0         14,5       14,5          0            7,9          7,9
Local training       0,8         0          0,8          1            0             1
Technical             0         1,3         1,3          0             1            1
Assistance
Incremental
Salaries and         3,9         4         7,9           1            1,3          2,3
Allowance
Incremental C        9,1        6,5        15,6          10           6,8          16,8
Grand Total         82,4        63         145,4        22           47,4          69,4
Table 8B: Project Financing
l___________  Appraisal estimate (US$M)               Actual/latest estimate(US$M)
Source              Local costs      Foreign costs      Total          Local costs   Foreign costs   Total
IBRD/IDA                   --                63             63             --             47.4        47.4
Domestic contribution     70.3              12,1            82.4          18.8            3.2          22
TOTAL                 70.3              75.1           145.4          18.8            50.6        69.4
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
These are inapplicable to this Project.



- 18 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Second Agricultural Extension and Applied Research Project
Covenant                             Present   Original
Agreement   Section         Type     Status    Fulfillment  Description of Covenant             Comments
Date
Loan
No.3177        3.01(a)      02         CP               Carry out project with due diligence      None
efficiency and provide promptly the
required funds, facilities, services
and other resources.
3.01(b)      10        CP               Carry out the project in accordance        None
with the implementation program
(Schedule 5; see below).
3.02         03        CD                Carry out procurement of goods,           None
works and consultants according
to the provisions of Schedule 4.
4.01(a)      01          C               Maintain records and accounts             None
reflecting operations, resources
and expenditures of the departments
4.01(b)       01          C              (i) Have records and accounts             None
independently audited each fiscal year.
(ii) Furnish audit reports to the Bank not
later 9 months after the end of FY.
(iii) Fumish other information conceming
records, accounts and audits.
4.01(c)      01           C             For all expenditures for which            None
withdrawals from the loan account were
made: (i) maintain records and accounts
reflecting expenditures; (ii) retain all
records at least one year after last withdrawal
from the loan account was
made; and (iii) enable the Bank representative
to examine such records.
4.01(d)     01           C              Fumish the Bank within 2 months after end of  None
each semester with an expenditure statement.
5.A1        05          CP              At central level, MARA shall carry out the  None
project through GDPI except for:
(a) construction of VGTCs, VGT training
facilities, and housing for AESs and SMSs
which shall be carried out by GDRS and
MPWR and acting in collaboration with GDPI;
(b) establishment of mobile animal health units,
5.Al(con't)  05          C              c) strengthening of veterinary and plant   No comment
protection and soil and water research
institutes; and
5.AI(con't)  05         CD               (d) training of extension staff which shall be    None
jointly coordinated through GDPI and GDOS.



- 19 -
Covenant   Present  Original
Agreement   Section       Type      Status  Fulfillment  Description of Covenant                Comments
Date
Loan        5.Al(con't)    05       CD                 GDPI responsible for: coordinating input of    None
No.3 177                                               GDPC, GDRS and GDOS and other
Departments and agencies of MARA to the
project for procuring vehicles and equipment;
for overseeing management and implementation
of the project at provincial level; for monitoring
and evaluation of all project activities.
5.A2           05       NC                 At central level MARA to coordinate all  CCC remains
project activities through CCC.           inactive
5.A3           05       CP                 Designated Research Institutes to regularly  the training
conduct training, coordinate on-farm     programs, and
research, conduct diagnostic surveys.    diagnostic
SMS to train VGT which in tum have       surveys are not
direct contact with farmers              conducted
regularly. Large
variation among
regions and in
the approach of
the research
institutes.
5.A4(con't)    05          NC              At the provincial level MARA shall        RCC remains
coordinate all Project activities        inactive
through the RCCs to be established
in each region no later than October
1990. Each RCC (chaired by GD of GDPI)
to meet at least once a year
5.B5           05          CP              GDRS shall: (a) appoint no later than    None
October 31, 1990 a full-time architect-
Engineer to review progress and ensure
Quality control; (b) arrange visits by
its staff to supervise project sites and
prepare reports.
S.C6            09         CP              GDPI in consultation with the Bank        None
shall carry out: (a) an annual review
no later than June 30 in 1991 and 1992; and
5.C6(con't)      09          C               (b) a mid-term review not later than     None
December 31, 1993.
5.D7            09          CD              GDPI to provide progress reports for      None
each semester not later than 60 days
after each semester.
Present Status:
C      - Complied with
CD    - Compliance after Delay
NC    - Not Complied with
SOON  - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP    - Complied with Partially
NYD   - Not Yet Due



- 20 -
Covenant types:
I    Accounts/audit
2    Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3    Flow and utilization of Project funds
4    Counterpart funding
5    Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
6    Environmental covenants
7    Involuntary resettlement
8    Indigenous people
9    Monitoring, review and reporting
10    Implementation
11    Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12    Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13   Other
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title           | Describe and comment on lack of compliance
Operational Manual Statements have been complied with.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                  Revised                      Actual
Stage of project cycle      Weeks        US$         Weeks          US$         Weeks           US$
Preparation to Appraisal                                                           35.2             72.8
Appraisal                                                                          36.3            109.5
Negotiations through Board                                                           5.7             17.0
approval
Supervision                                                                       119.1            205.1
Completion                                                                          9.4              15.5
Total                                                                    205.7            419.9



-21 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Perfonnance Rating'       Types of
Stage of project cycle    Month/    No. of Days in  Specialization'    Implem.         Developm.   problems3
Year      Persons  Field                          status       objectives  Problems
Through Appraisal          3/86       3       26       Ad, ES (FAO)
3/89      1        2        ES
5/89      6        15      A, AE, E, ES, E
9/89      1        2        E
Appraisal through Board
approval
Supervision                6/90       5        17      AE, Ad, ES, A, A 1              1
6/91      2        7        A, P              2            2              A, M
1/92      3        15      ES, E, A          2             2              A, CF, M
11/92     3        10      E, A, AE          2             2              M, PC, CF
4/93      2        5       A, A               2            2              M, PC, CF
10/93     3        12      A, A, A           2             2             A, M,CF, P
6/94      2        25      A, A               S            S              P, A, M, CF
12/94     2        5       A, A               S            S              M, A, C, CF
9/95      2        17       ES, A             S            S              CF, M,PA,
9/96      2        10       A, O              S            S              M, C,CF, P
3/97      2        15       A, PS             S            S              A, M, PC, C
9/97      1        7       A                  S            S              A, M, PC, C
Completion
Total
1-Key to Specialized staffskills:         2- Key to Performance Ratings:    3- Key to Types of Problems:
A- Agronomist                              1. Highly Satisfactory           A-Administrative
AE-Agr. Economist                          2. Satisfactory                  M-Management
PS-Private Sector                         HS-Highly Satisfactory            PC-Project component
E-Economist                                S- Satisfactory                  C-Commitment
ES-Extension Specialist                   U- Unsatisfactory                 P-Procurement
0-Operations (disb.)                                                        CF-Counterpart funds
Ad-Administration
World Bank User
C:\TEMP\tricrrep.doc
05/10/99 10:52 AM



- 22 -                           Appendix A
SIE(<7M3 AGRICUTIURAL EXTENSION and API LIED RESEACH PROJECT
(Loan 3177-TU)
Supervision Mission (September 19-25, 1997)
AIE-MMOM
J     -- FoTrd B,- ak Mission co-isisting of Ms. Nedret Duritan (Task Manager, ECI TU)
A . T,   xaEt ensi and Appied Rseach Project (AEARP I)
du-ri  ny19b 25, 1997. The mission's findings and recommendations are based on the
dts c'urKv?t tt   D)ep t Undersecretary, Mr. . Bilgin, General Directorate of
DealDop'   O  H         l Production (TUGEM, General Directorate of Organization and
Su,ppnrt ,,    CC  A) of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Ser6ces (MARA) and the
Treasui. i ;e n ssi!on mshes to thank the Government of Turkey for the cooperation and
countesRes e,   ' Thus A.de-M emcire summarizes the observations of the mission and
agr ei,z.zes reae-; Wth tje po'eta' authorities. The Views oft-e -mission contained in the
Aide-,Me.. o ren -wbh aJerm discussed at the wrap-u,p meetng on September 25, 1997 are
subxect co) n      zIy T eVd Bank management.
EXECUTIVE SUMMJRY
2.    i       oca0 Cnlosing Date has been extended for a ear only/or the "Training and
9t9c,    A.S  X .-:.t g t-.oponenc a detailed Action Plan has been agreed upon for the next
nife nionv'751 Pro o.e.rnen. of goods has been completed and the payments were made. The
temp orq yxcevl ane f6o the construction of Eskiseh i Rese .h lansitute Complex is
scheduled a,f e  e mude by) ctober 30, 1997. 7he payment ofretentionfee will also be made
by tt dae. an4d+for thi Treasur   will request reallocation offnds. Since the final
accepo 7ce o01.1 be mda e. i-1998 !,LRA has suggested to ma ke t- efinal payments from the
Ag? '1442 ad ew .eSe-'C..P 4ect (oan 3472-TU). This matter will as4o be discussed with the
Bcr-,F',. '.r ,' ..mWer ofthe siwdjectproject.
3.    A,   Se v teer Y3, p19917 the disbursement rate  46.67%. However, the loan
afnaf.ig'h rv..?e,ome US40,500, '000 after cancellation of US$.12 mi.loin and conversion to
sh- g ie.. c-    / P 'erj, he currentdisbursement is 96.32%. 17he remainingamountis
@ 'e'-     , ed-isburse -alasV te training and technical assistane activities (Appendices 1
ta,Pl  )         ot. 't'? SiFy;icring de next months.
4.    ',au i$_,.-9D +-zifXtinfthe preparatory workfor 1CR. ARA hagreed to assign the.
tra?k o anS2} 7J2g.d overseei -ig completion reporting to a senior official familiar with the
opea .z'+    a1 .0ia.e .k   i as the formal cont-ac   t. i the Bank during the
c ,w .n.a.gSgi&J .     vel;seduledfor early sprzng. P   va greed  ith TUGEM that
.ffio- r tmpsiew e  XmDg7gafirz*PXe T   ier estionnaire will be used to ptfrth the comparative
prog 3r.e   a nM >. fey wZl -e designed o determine:t )i  creased crop and livestock
produ :*c   aa ( rg'ofved vautiliz.. o.n of irrigartion inveAments, ii) improved quality and
healt.jh c-g m . d /ve sto.c Wi,) expanzded agricvztural exports, especially from the



- 23 -
Mediterranean provinces; and iv) reduced spraying costs in cotton and horticultural crops.
The Bank will start the ICR work in December, 1997.
Extension of the Closing Date
5.    Upon the formal request of Treasury, the Project Closing Date has been extended for
one year only for the "Training and Technical Assistance" component (Category 3) along with
a cancellation of US$12 million. The Loan Account was kept open for further disbursements
from Categories I (Civil Works), 2 (Goods) and 4 ( Incremental Operating Costs) for
withdrawal applications received by October 30, 1997 to accomodate the request of Treasury.
Procurement
6.   Procurement has been completed including information equipment, internet, and other
computer equipment and the payments were made. TUGEM extended the contract of the
consulting company beyond June 30 mainly to continue to administer the overseas training
(MSc) program. During the Supervision Mission of April, 1997 it was agreed that the Bank
would make payments for a few M.Sc. candidates who are expected to complete their courses
by October 1998 (beyond the Closing Date of June 30, 1998). For this period either the
contract with the consulting fim will be extended for 3 months or TUGEM will handle the
payments.
7.    The temporary acceptance for the construction of Eskisehir Research Institute
Complex is scheduled to be made by October 30, 1997. The payment of retention fee will also
be made by that date. Int order to make this payment Treasury will request reallocation of
funds remained in other Categories. Since the final acceptance of the Complex will be made
in 1998, MARA has decided to make the final payments from the Agricultural Research
Project (Loan 3472-TU) after consulting with the General Director of GDAR-
Disbursement
8.    As of September 23, 1997 the disbursement rate is 46.67%. However, due to
conversion to single currecy and cancellation of US$ 12 million the current Loan Amnount has
become US$40,500,000. Therefore, the disbursement rate has increased to 96.32%. The
remaining amount is expected to be disbursed as the training and technical assistance activities
are carried out during the next nine months (Appendix 1) .
Training and Technical Assistance Component
9.    Due to government change and related staff changes particularly in field extension
offices activities planned for June 97 have not started yet. The agreed Action Plan
(Appendices 2 and 3) includes the following main activities: i) Extension and Project
Training for SMSs, VGTs and County Extension Specialists, ii) Refresher Training on the
Project Concept/Principles for Extension Managers, iii) Management Training for Extension
Managers, iv) Technical Training for Women Farmers Training Program and Water Users'



- 24 -
Organizations, v) In-Country Study Tours for farmers, vi) Workshops for extension policy,
M&E and MIS/Impact Evaluation.
10.   For the technical assistance program TUGEM requested the Bank's assistance to
identify experts on i) agricultural marketing, ii) farmers's association to provide practical
advice to extension officers in the field. It was agreed to hire a company for YAYCEP
(Agricultural TV School) Assessment to carry out a farmer survey in spring 1998.
Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
11.   MARA has agreed to assign the task of organizing and overseeing the completion
reporting to a senior official familiar with the operation, and to designate this official as the
formal contact with the bank during the completion rnission, tentatively scheduled for early
spring.
12.   TUGEM's two Departments concerning the monitoring & evaluation and the
investments have planned the preparatory work for ICR. They will prepare and make
available to the Bank MARA's own evaluation report on the project's execution and initial
operation, costs and benefits, the Bank's and borrower's performance of their respective
obligations under the loan agreement, and the extent to which the purposes of the loan were
achieved. MARA will also i) adopt a plan acceptable to the Bank for the operational phase of
the project and, ii) assist the Bank in ICR preparation.
13.   It was agreed that for impact evaluation the current questionnaire will be used to put
forth the comparative progress and a new survey will be designed to determine the following
developments in the project provinces; i) increased crop and livestock production and
improved utilization of irrigation investments, ii) improved quality and health of crops and
livestock, iii) expanded agricultural exports, especially from the Mediterranean provinces; and
iv) reduced spraying costs in cotton and horticultural crops. It was agreed that the field work
will start before winter in the temperate zones (Mediterranean and Southeastern Anatolia) in
spring in the semi-arid regions (Central Anatolia and the North Transitional Zones). The
Bank will start the field work for ICR in December, 1997.



- 25 -                           Appendix B
BORROWER'S CONTRIBLTION TO ICR
*  Contribution of General Directorate of Agricultural Production and
Development (GDAPD-TIJGEM)
*  Contribution of General Directorate of Organization and Support (GDOS-
TEDGEM)
*  Cottribution from GCecral Directorate of Agricultural Research UoDAR-
I .AGLMJd 



- 26 -
P-PUBLIC OF TURKIYE
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND RURAL AFFAIRS
General Directorate of Agricultural Production and Development
Milli Miidafaa Caddesi No:.0 Ankzra/TURKIE
Is. Nedret DURUTAN
Tzsk Manzc-                             .                               7 t
VWorid Bark
Residen. Mlission
ANKARA
Ref: Second Agricultural Extension and Applied Research Project (TYUAP II)
Loan No: 31 77-1-
ear , !fs. DURUT-AN.
Enclosed piease find the comments of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural affairs on the
draft "Implementation Completion Report (ICR)" for the Second Agricultural Extension and
Applied Research Project.
WiLh kind regards.
Dr.Kemal SANDIK
Director General



- 27 -
BORROWER"S CONTRIBUTION TO ICR
General Directorate of Agricultural Production and Development (GDAJPD)
1.    The Project objectives were partly achieved. MARA's extension. service was
strengthened in terms of training, transportation, and equipment. This resulted in i) more
disciplined extcnision service to the farmers and ii) increased quality of in-formation, iii)
increased interest from the farmer side for new information, iv) more collaboration with
private sector and v) incrcased yield and quality in agricultural production.. An . MIS
system linking. provinces. research insLitutes and central units of MARA to the center
was established and became operational. Also, an effective monitoring and evaluation
systeimi wvas set up at the central level. A rescarch center (ERC) was conastucted in
EsKisehir by the Project which is an excellent facility which could be easily used as an
interinational research center. In spite of a good stt, the improved research-extension
linkage was not maintained. However, in some regions the linkages were regularized.
The imnplementation problems were elaborated in the paragraphs below.
2.    The Project was implemented by three separate General Directorates;  DEPD,
GIDOS and GDAR which was established after 1991 reorganization. Research being
under a separate general directorate created some bottlenecks in project coordination. On
the other hand, since research institutes supported earlier by the First Agricultural
Extension and Applied Research Project (Loan 2405-TU) in tenns of equipmen and
training and later by Agricultural Research Project (Loan 3472-TU) which became
effective 2 years after the Second Project, Second Project lost its attractiveness for
GDAR as a support provider. Therefore, GDAR did not see itself as a counterpart in the
implementation and did not make enough effort to strengthen research-extension linkage
and to be responsive to the farmers needs. MARA management did not adequately adapt
the Project to organizational changes to ensure timely implementation. The bimonthly
workshops which were initially organized systematically by the research institutes
gradually became less frequent. However, individual research institutes continued with
the program at least 3-4 times a year in spite of the lack of support from the ODAG R aid
moratorium on staff hinng. Although the research institutes directors had difficulty in
assigning staff for organization of workshops, some managed to maintain the sytem as
much as possible.
3..    A GDOS-based Extension Support Group established during the First Project to
visit provinces, assess implementation and organize in-service train-ing programs
functioned poorly mainly due to limited commitment from  GDOS and btidgetaxry
problems and abolished in 1993. The Department of Extension under GDOS which
should be the real owner of the Project remained passive during the life of the prqjeat and
assumed Women Farmers Extension Program as its only responsibility.



- 28 -
4.    The Project required competent staff at very level for a well functioning system.
However, staff transfers, reassignments. discipline  and  promotion  tasks were
adminrustered by the (eneral Directorate of Personnel (GDP) at MARA not by the Project
agencies. Therefore, the staff profiles prepared by TA for each level job level to assist
managers in recruitmrent of appropriate staff were not taken into consideration most of
the time and GDP did not see any drawback; in transferring trained project staff to either
other sections under the PDA or to non-project provinces.
5.    The committees for central and regional coordination and central execution
remained inactive after 1994 mainly due to frequent staff changes at every level. It should
be noted that during the Project life, 8 Ministers, 5 Undersecretaries, and 7 General
Directors/GD1'D were changed in MARA and 5 Department Heads'GDPD were in
charge of the Project.
6.   T1he Farmers Training and Extension (FTE) Section of the Provincial Directorate
of A,griculture (PDA) did not receive sufficient funds for implementation mainly due to
the non-earmarked funds coming from the central ministry to the PDA's general "fund
pool". Multiple demands on these finds put the PDA in a difficult position in resource
allocation. The competent and committed FTE directors managed to get the necessary
fimds for the Project. Others satisfied with whatever was allocated and reduced the scope
of the work.
7.    Performance in  extension management widely  varied among provinces.
Differences were due to level of commitment to the project, management ability, being
predisposed to political interference and frequent staff transfers.
8.    As the cutting edge of extension, the Project envisaged the recruitment of VGTs
Ln villages. Although the VGTCs were constructed in villages with better social
conditions and high potentials, it was difficult to assign staff for those. In Southeastern
and Central Anatolia due to very limited social life, VGTs were very reluctant to live in
the villages. Even they were assigned, after a short time they sought ways to go back to
towns as soon as they could. The site of the VGTC in the village was an important factor
in contacting the technician. In some cases which the site. selected made based on
political preferences, farmers' visit to VGTC was very infrequent.
9.    In some areas due wild dogs, rough topography and harsh climate motorcycles
were not used efficiently. In those areas VGTs preferred the public transport or farmers'
vehicles. Farmers of the remote areas preferred to go to the county and provincial centers
instead of visiting a neighboring village, since public transport to towns was more
available. Fanners preferred to town center also due to the quality of the information.
10.   In the light of the changes in rural Turkey and in agricultural sector, the VGTCs
need to be abolished and extension service should be provided from the county centers.
MARA have already made arrangements to provide extension service to the villages by
SMSs and VGTs stationed at County Directorates.



- 29 -
11.   Out of 883 VGTCs foreseen by the Project, 64 VGTCs were constructed. Even
the Bank- strongly supported thc Project during the Gulf Crisis by deciding to increase
temporarily its share funding of Project costs, this opportunity was not used efficiently
due to counterpart fund problems. Later, MARA decided not to initiate  further
construction in villages except those which have prospects for becoming a county after
reviewing the appropriateness of recruiting VGTs at village level. MARA's preference to
give more emphasis to County Centers was not materialized due to austerity measures
and prevailing fiscal problems. Housing facilities were also excluded from the program
because of the same reason. The First Project attempted to construct a complex for
Eskisehir Research Institute (ERC). However, due to many administrative reasons
construction was started after a long delay and it was financed by the Second Project..
12.   Almost all the foreseen vehicles and ficld. laboratonr and office equipment were
procured and distributed to the project provinces and research institutes but with delavs
mainly due to insufficient funds for value added tax and customs duties.
13.   Training programs were affected by mis-selection of participants and frequent
staff turnover. Therefore, the study tours were limllited later and more short-term courses
were organized.
14.   The Bank responded quickly and positively to the Govenmment's request for a
second project. However, launching a new project without adequate analysis of the
implementation problems of the First Project caused repetition of some of the problems.
Different. approaches could be applicd by taking the regional, socioeconomic and,
ecological differences. A blanket application of one system was not appropriate.
15.   During implementation the working relationship with the Bank was very good.
Particularly the Bank's decisions to increase the disbursement percentages during the
Gulf Crisis and to extend the Loan Closing date were highly appreciated. Supervision
-missions provided effective guidance and assistance, and worked to find constructive
solutions to the problems identified. However, approach disparities between the field
office and the headquarters sometimes caused problems in implementation e.g. the task
manager's agreeing on procurement of seed cleaning and silage making equipment for
PDAs for demonstration purposes was not cleared by the higher management but after 5
months. Because of the late decision, the GDPD who already initiated the tender process
had hard time.
16.   The Bank's rigid posture in procurement caused problems, e.g. in one case,
GDPD initiated an international shopping for some equipment which would be financed
100% by the Loan but only 80% was financed due to contract award to a local firm.
There was no interest by the intemational companies. This resulted in serious difficulty
for the agency in providing the necessary counterpart funds. The Bank should be more
flexible in procurement procedures and should not insist on time consuming, complex
methods.



- 30 -
17.   Starting from  Mid-term  Review, the Bank recommended a number of pilot
projocts to bring pluralism to the advisory services in Turkey. These were not tested
mah,dy due to the following reasons; i) proposed implementiing agencies which were not
public agencies to which the funds could be transferred, ii) the required counterpart fumds
would not be provided since these were not included in the budget proposals, iii) short
tlime was left for implementation since Closing Date was so close.
1X.   Projects addressing connected problems should not be started simultaneously. The
Agricultural Research Project (Loan 3472-TU) started txvo years following the
effectiveness of the Second Project. This was resulted in insufficient support from
GDAR to extension.
19.   In preparing Aide-Memoirs. the Bank should not tak-e into consideration the views
anu re comrnendations of the provincial agencies and central agencies which are contrary
to existing rules, regulations and Laws.
20.   For smooth implementation, establishment of a professional project management
unit which will not be affected by externalities including political interference should be
a woidition set by the Bank.



- 31 -
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND RURAL AFFAIRS
General Directorate of Agricultural Research
Ms. Nedret Durutan
The World Bank
Turkey Country Officc
Ankara/Turkey
April 12, 1999
Reference: Your letter dated April 4, 1999
Subject : Agricultural Extension and Applied Research Project-I1 (Loan 3472-TU)
Borrower's Contribution to ICR
Dear Ms. Durutan;
Thank you for your letter and the draft report regarding the GDAR's contribution
to the ICR for the Agricultural Extension and Applied Research Ptoject-fl (Loan 3177-
TLJ). We have reviewed the draft report carefully. Please find our commnents attached
which will be the Appendix A to the final version of the ICR.
Many thanks for all your support and guidance through the life of the Project.
Best regards,
Dr. Vedat Uzunlu
Director General
Attachment
GDAR's Contribution to the ICR (1 page)



- 32 -
Attachment: GDAR's Contribution to the ICR for the Second Agricultural
Extension and Applied Research Project (Loan 3177-TLJ)
1.    The Project partly achieved its objective of improving applied research, and
research and extension linkage. The reasons were explained below.
2.    The GDAR was established in fall 199 I to coordinate the agricultural research,
around 1.5 years after the effectiveness of the Second Agricultural Extension and Applied
Research Project (AEAR.P II). However, it took almost 2 years for GDAR to become
fully operational and make an impact on the ground. This created serious bottlenecks in
cooperation and coordination with other agencies even under the same rninisty. On the
other hand, the Agricultural Research Project (Loan 3472-TU) started in 1992. For a
newly established general directorate, the responsibility of a multi-agency, Bank
supported project was not an easy one. Since GDAR had to devote almost all its attention
and energy to the new project, and it was not able to consider itself as a fill-time
counterpart in AE ARP II. However, MARA's higher management could have intervened
and corrected this mistake.
3.    The agricultural research system suffered from inappropriate policies regarding
human resources. While there was a significant staff erosion due to retirement, it was not
possible to fill the gap by recruiting young scientists due to moratorium on staff hiring in
the public sector which was a part of the Govenmment's broad stabilization and reform
program. In addition to that, the GDAR was not filly successful in motivating and
supporting its staff. The staff in the extension service, particularly at the provincial level
also suffered from similar problems.
4.    Despite the problems mentioned above, the research system greatly benefited
from the AEARP-II in terms of staff training (language, in-country and overseas short
term and academic training) and improvement in research infrastructure. Most research
institutes were supported regarding farm and scientific equipment, and vehicles. A
modem research complex was constructed for the Transitional Zone Regional
Agricultural Research Institute located in Eskisehir. The institutional strengthening
resulted in; i) increased dissemination of accumulated information by interactive research
and extension linkage, ii) diagnosing the production problems at the farm level and
design the applied research accordingly, iii) delivery of more appropriate technology, and
iv) improved the quality of research, and v) improved linkage with the international
research community. Unfortunately, the initial momentum was not maintained
throughout the AEARP-II. The new management at GDAR is making serious effort to re-
activate the applied research component and to improve the research-extension linkage.



*   -.0  '  * .     *.  I  a'  S.   I  8- 'as    I  =  I  LI * 
- 33 -
TARIM VE KOY1$LERI BAYANLI(I
TE$IATLANMA VE DESTEKLEME GENEL MDtRILVOGU
Vayun DiLesi Ba#kmft
SAYI  : YAY.03.002/ff26                                   A N K C  R A
KONU; TYUAP 11.                                           / t.i4J1. 999
DEAR MS. DURUTAN
Thank you for  your letter and the drafl report tegarding the GDOS's
conltlibution to the 1CR for the Agricultural Extension and Applied Research
Project-1l (Loan 3177-Tl)J). We have reviewed the draft report carefully. Plcase find
our comzprents attached which will be the Appenldix A to the final version of the ICR.
Besl rcgards.
Gencl MMlrYardunclst



- 34 -
Attachment: GDOS (TEDGEM)'s  Contribution to the ICR  for the Second
Agricultural Extension and Applied Research Project (Loan 3177-TU)
1.    The Project partly achieved its objective of irnproving extension infrastructure
(vehicles, equipment, training etc.) However, the system has not been fully
institutionalized as it was also indicated in the draft ICR. This situation may be
attibutable to the rapid changes of circumstances that was prevailing in the country.
2.    During implementataion. TEDGEM  was given the responsibility to train the
extension staff without taking the funding and staffing needs into consideration. It had to
organize training programs on "extension principles" uth insufficient funds which was
also the major bottleneck in monitoring and evaluation of the activities. Therefore.
TEDGEM did not considcr itself as a countcrpart in the Project.
3.    During imnplementation there were several bottlenecks: i) TEDGEM's role in the
Project was not in accordance -with its manda-ed duty which is the agricultural extension.
Therefore, the Bank's acceptance of TUGEM as the main counterpart for the Project was
inappropnrate, ii) in general, MARA was more interested in the hardware side. However,
it is important to maintain the balance and harmony among the project objectives and not
over emphasize any particular objective, iii) the allocation of resources to lesser priority
objectives was not appropriate, iv) the prevailing conceptual confusion in basics such as
extension, training, coordination and collaboration between the agencies could not be
overcome, and v) the staff trained by the Project has not been sufficiently utilized by the
Project for achieve better implementation and result.
4.    The Bank's decision to support MARA's agricultural extension was a right one.
The Bank's satisfactory performance could not sufficiently affected the implementation
due to changing circumstances both in the country and sector.



MAP SECTION



rO \\NX j X~~~~~~~~~~BLACK  SEA 0__ 9o 'Ck 
BU  R=A                                                                                                                                ( ~'/~                                                               Mi>ZNOPN-\                                          '(
GREC              TE                                               -AMGL  P4 17,/ \1                                                                  2GZlRIP                                                                                            ennc
tj~~~~~~~~b                         i ZUG  _  TAY I NAY   E;7/)TRE
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A KAR ;                                                                                     )r uh                                    ldAaPn ,2Ae  e2   oolr  w    ilgs                                           {
\   J:  ;   MEDI@ERFU4NEA N               ;       SEA      0            0          <    <            :       X                                   e  aPrnoderArspRogEpcedconurcankri          @     NueionslCapitc                 /9   CondslNodl~~~~Si"A
 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~UAY                                                                                                                                                                               BINGa O.06o]0)(2A 5 pddUdrL      c     -Ml     d  tk  efw  otlcl
FLkeT  o      190A        9       d        2o               P       U                                          \           '     '=          ;ENidctRipomELAdZG         de                            io     =rsF                      hdifr
gin   mel   0   0\ 0                                0 lw           __       :     d'        0                 )     !hel jdev/:;r hircp qfdAhDproUpmeiscleSpi   apoHiolisNigdevEndG
; i   e  I                                                <                   I       ;                 /                                                                                                                             FEBRUARY 199(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lll-1~ '-ll.'



