Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11607-4H
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIVATE ENTERPRSE AND EXPORT DEvLOeN     PROJECT
APRIL 27, 1993
1R r( '   !t   l ¾, bY ',E.
i~r,.t -. rl r -T f   -i-;l t.. - a ,7*
Industry and Energy Divrision
Western Africa Departmet
s document has a resticted d tion and may be used by recipiens oly in he pedmon e of
their offcIul duies. Its contents may ot otrwis be dislosed witht Wodd Bank auhoralon.



OMAN= F-XQUYALEN
(as of March 5, 1993)
Currency Unit = Cedi (¢)
US$1 = Q!592
¢   = US$0.0019
BOG    -   Bank of Ghana
EAP    -   Environmental Action Plan
ECRGF  -   Export Credit Refinance and Guarantee Facility
EFC     -   Export Finance Company
EFO     -   Export Finance Office-BOG
ERP    -   Economic Recover Program
FINSAC -   Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
GEPC   -   Ghana Export Promotion Council
GIC     -   Ghana Investment Center
GSE    -   Ghana Stock Exchange
IDA     -   International Development Association
MFEP   -   Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
NIC     -   National Insurance Commission
NPART  -   Non-Performing Assets Recovery Trust
NTE    -   Non-Traditional Export
PIU     -   Project Implementation Unit-MFEP
PFI     -   Participaing Financial Institution
PSAG   -   Private Sector Advisory Group
PVE    -   Potentially Viable Enterprise
SCB     -   Standard Chartered Bank
SOE    -   State Owned Enterprise
SEC     -   State Enterprises Commission
SME    -   Small and Medium Scale Enterprise
TIP     -   Trade and Investment Project
USAID  -   United States Agency for International Development
FJ SCAL YEAR3
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
GELANA
PRIVATE ENTERPISE AND EXPORr DEVELOPWNENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CON?NTS
Pap No.
CREDJEURY .OJEc..S ..ARY.  ir
L INTRODUCTION .,1
II. THE PRTV~iATE SECTOR..2
L    IM ODUrION......................................... 
IL   THE    wz PRIVATE S....Cr..R......................................  2
A. Bakrud2
B. DescriptonoftePitSect .                                                            4
C. llePiateExrtrs .....................................  6
D. BusihmEansm    ........i.ss.............................  9
E. FmnLevelConstraints ..................................... 11
P. TIeBankingand Finarial Sector .............................. 11
G. Impact of State Owned Entrpise on PrivateSeco  ..................S .              14
H. Policy and Busiess Framework  ............................... I
ImL BANK ASSSTANCE ANDSRAEG ...........................R .                                16
A. Pas Programs and Adevemens   .............................. 16
B. OdherDonorsRole  .......................................  19
C. Etvironmme   ...........................................  19
D. Rationle for te Project .................................... 19
IV. THEPROJECr .0.......................... 2
A. Objeis and Expected Adievements ........................... 20
B. Descripton ..................................  20
C. Support EPogmn  ......................................... 21
1. Export Credit Refinanc and Gurante Facity .                                   21
2. Tedidcal Asstance ....................................   23
3. Project susala ty .................................... 26
4. Lessons fom P nvious IDAKves    ........Ivolve............... 26
V. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN   .........                      ................ 27
VL PROjECT EMPLEMENTATION ........................                                        28
A. Oj>Lndl     nwge=_., ........................ ..... 28
B.                 ArranEonngementns .............................  29
C. Prcrmn  ........................ ......... 30
This document has,         4t                 be u    by *4-P*  t '4  Y i t
o thi  ofic                 . I ts  s m    n  s b       e wi         W      B      at
|~~~~~~~ N.                        N    =   a   4                i...   |. ..  'E*   .44    S   
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by r..p.cnt only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.|



- ii -
Pag No.
l. l rs.n.n.s .............................. 31
B. Auditing ad Report  Requiements          ..      .......................... 31
F. Bank Supervison              ............................... 32
VIL BEN-EFrS AND RlSKS ..............................                           32
A. Benefits ......                                                         32
B. Risk ....                                                               33
VIIL AGREEMENTSAND RECOMMBENDATION ....................... 33
ANNES
Amex 1-1  - United Stats Agency for Inertiond Development - Tmde and Invesme
Program
Anex 2-1  - Terms of Reference for Corpomrt Enterpris Reructuing
Anex 2-2  - Strategy Max fo Pvate Sector Development
Anex 2-3  - Letter of Strategic Dvelopment Pohey
AnAex 3-1  - Prior Bank Group Aatan  to Prvate Secwr
Amex 4-1  - Eligblty Criteria for Partcipafn Fmancial Insfitutons
Anex 4-2  - Technical Asstn  Budget
Amex 4-3  - Export Credit Tning for Bakers and Won-Trional DExpm
Anex 4-4  - Inteation  Paymnt Setement System
Anex 45  - Terms of Refrace or the Study of Forward Forein Ecanep Operafims
Anx 4-6  - Terms of Refernce for the Study on Ghana's Log Term Debt Marbket
Amn   4-7  - Terms of Reference for Study of the Commercal Insuran  Market and Long
Trm Advisor in Development of Insurance Producs
Anx 4-8  - A Credit Reference Agency for Ghana
Annex 4-9  - Docments in the Project le
Amex 6-1  - Roles and Resbilies of the Project Implentig Unis
Annex 6-2  - Ipenao Schedule
Annex 6-3  - Key Indicators for Project Implementaton and Reporting 
Annex 6-4  - Summary of Proposed Procurement Aan
Amex 6-S  - Summary of Prcurment for Goods and Services
Annex 6-6  - AocaioD and Disburenme  under the IDA Credit
Amnex 6-7  - Supervion Plan
Annex 6-8 - Items for MlidTerm Review
Map: IBRD 24755



-liii-
UU3 7MAmA  ENIm                               EXOPOR D on
CRED AND WtOQWT SUMMARY
Republic of Gha
Bank of Ghana (BOG), pardcipatng financial istutlors (PFIs)V
private exporters, Nationa Insurance Commission (NIC), Ghana
Stock Exchange (GSE)
Amount:                SDR 29.6 million (US$41 million equivalent).
Terms:                 Standard IDA widh 40 years maturity
i*nndh   TGovenmt will make the proceeds of the credit avaiable as
fioows:
Fns  for exp  tmde finance (US$34 million equivalent) will be
pwvided to BOG. BOG will discount eigle short-term (up to
360 days) trade credits fom PTh on the following interest rate
term: OI) for domestic currcy at the average 180daY
commercial bank deposit rate, and (i) for foeig curreny at the
eivtt Eurodolla London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR)
praling at the time plus 2.625 percent A technical   ta
component (US$7 million equivalent) would finance manageme
and technical traing, consutant services and equipmet and
maral for fdilating m        .pl  of the relevawn progran.
*e O b: IThe overall objectves of the proposed project are to foster the
growth of privae Ghan  exporters by (a) providing fre
exchange for export finnce and developing a credit _
program to encourage tie icusion of        exrl ters in the
efort to expand nontrditional exports; (b) providing tedhical
asistance to the baking and com ral export sectors to
incrae their efdiciency and oVetitiveness; and (c) supporti
the deveopmait of a busine  acton plan to assess the legal ad
busi    ssues involved in developing a markt-driven corporate
resucturing pilot program for poteiy viable entrises
presently located in the Non-Pefrming Assets Recovery Trust
(NPAR'I).
I l  Tpnhe proposed project inudes two principal compones: (a) an
export credk refinance and guarantee fity to assist piVate
eWporter in obtning dst-m pre- and post-shipment finance
from banks; and (b) a comprenshve te  aassistance
compone  to finance, firstly, mgm     and technical ainin,
consultant services, eqipment and maters for the Cntral Bank
to srgeng     its spport to the trade finan  sectors of to
co ercial baos and to the export commniy to develop Its



- iv -
trade and eport finance capacity; secondly, the ecessary legl
and fianca expeise to develop an appropriate business plan to
support a market driven corporate restcturing effort for those
NPART companies identified by the market as beng of potenti
value; and, tirdly, to evaluwat development of further non4bank
fiaial secto  such as  mIs       and financial instittions.
dThe prposed project will assist Gana's acceleated growth
srateg  by smulatg the growth of present pdvate exporters and
expanding t  number, by improving the productive efficiency of
the private sector, and by helping to foster an environment in
which it can flourish. The growth of this segment of the economy
is expected to contribut to: broadening the export base of the
economy; stregteniog the culb  of exporting; enacing
competito and reled          s  in proQ/ucvity; and
broaden  direct and indirect employm  poteWn   by genatig
a basis for the much needed supply response. The main risk is
rela3d to the sustainability of polit wil and the
macroeconomc enviromnt, which may both weaken the
investmen climate and reduce the private sector's ability or
wiinges to utilize the proposed project. Howerer, In
;itigation, the Banks on-going economic and sector diaogue, as
well as prevwus adjustment credi, are all contiuig to correct
IsItutonal and regulatory obstacles that might negatively impact
the project. Additionally, the support of the prive secor in
geeral, and the m    ers' and ewortete usciatons in
particular, helps to minimize this risk. Further risk are related to
the limted istonal eperience of banis and nobk financa
groups supporting private expores and the limited _ma ial and
marketg experience of the exporters themselves. Ibe tehnical
ssstace to be provided under the project is designed to lessen
these risks and mutually increase the capacity of both sectos.
Furtermore, this whole project has been desiped in  operatio
and in parallel with a USAI) Trade and Invesment Project that is
now under implementation and X aimed at strengtening many
other elements of the real sector.



(US$ mion equivaent)
Um  Fadae
Eprt CrdtRdw and
Guwaatee Facpiity                         15.00     26.00      41.00
(a) Epr  Finmce Facilities                    0.08      0.57      0.65
(b) Fhinacial= ft    e                        0.42      4.43      4.85
(c) Corpora Ru ng                             1.00      0.30      1.30
(4) Ode I otSuppo  niSdies                      s       L2
Total                                    18.0
IIDA                                          8.00     33.00     41.00
Goveranment                                   2.00                2.00
Exporters                                     6.00                6.00
LOa Bank                                      0.20                0.20
Other Commercial                              0.30                0.30
hIstitutions                                 ..L"       --La~
Total                                      =J,Vj/  3          ,l.00
If Net of duties and taxes
ff]MWATED MWISSMUM: (US$ miflion equivalent)
IDA Fiscal Year
Annual                      4.0    14.5    13.7        5.6      3.2
CUMlve                      4.0    18.5    32.2    37.8    41.0
ECONOC RATE OE R51                Not applicable



GHAN
lUVAU nlRDE              AME  EXPORBIT EV?i!METRO
L INlRODUCrION
1.1   After several years of improved macroeconomic performance, the Govement is
strogly committed to supporting a range of initiatives ta wil hicrease and accelerate the
fture growth of the economy. Notwi ostan   the successes achieved, however, the
financial and private sects in Ghana remain very fraile for the Wllowing reasons: (a) the
continued ovedrg of a large public sector cotributes to sustaining an environme  of
limited gowth in the private sector as a whole and in the priae export sector in particula,
(b) the restuctuing of the bans and a tighter supervisory climate have still  create the
necessary degree of self confidence withi the fiacial establithme  to respond more
forcefly and creatively to the needs of the private sector; and (c) the inability of companies
to plan or communicate their needs to their bank and the reciprocal inflexibility of ban  in
dealing with the needs and problems of such companies. There is a need in this envimen
to cre,£e certain catalytic forces to spak the necsary itatves In trade finae and develop
thereby an ongoing and sustainable capacity amongst both ban  and their corporate clients.
1.2   In 1991, the IDA approved a third strctura adjustmn credit with the specific
objective of promoting a stronger regulatory clhnmate to support private investment and
sustained development; and a second financial strucbur adjustment credt aimed at
strengthenig the Central Bank and stabilig the bank and non-bank financia sectors.
1.3   The proposed iwtnv m  project is being developed to complement and build on the
gains made not oniy by these two most rece  credits, but by also several previous structl
and sectoral adjusent loans. It is also being designed to implement the ongoing USAIl)
Trade and Investmnt Project (IP) (Ann 1-1i, aimed at export and enterprise
development. Both IDA and USAU) identfied a number of issues stil confonting Ghanaian
manufcrs and exporters and recognizing the need to establish a complementarity of
efforts, developed the two projects in paralel. TIP is suporting the mag and
export sectors, commifttig grant funding to the development of prodUction capacity, technical
improvement, design, export sym   and foreign twinning arrangemnts. The proposed IDA
project will focus its efforts on the complemenry    ements of the financial sector, by
developing improved export finance competencies in both lenders and eporters by
contributing additional short-term export financial liquidity, by supporting the development of
an export guarantee scheme, and by improvng key elements of the facial infrAsucture
system and broadening the base of productive enterprises.
1.4   Total financing of about US$51 million euivalent, including US$33 million in foreign
exchange, would be required for the project. Ihe proposed IDA credit of US$41 million
equ ent, will provide two reled mutually supporting componems: (a) an export
rnan    anud credit guarante  i iit  and (b) a technical assistance moVn=  to
strengthen export acdvities of financial instutions, deepen the capital markets and prepare a
framework and acdon plan for the corporate restructng efort.



-2 -
H. THE PI IVATE SECIOR
2.1   In 1983, Ghana adopted an Economic Reovery Program (ERP) and has sine
devalued the currency, dismaed most prce and distribution controls, eliminatd many
subsidies, broadened the tax base, Improved tax collecns, and provided more adeWquately for
operations ad maitence and capital exp_ed . Under the ERP, economic growth has
averaed about 5 percent a year. The curit empsis on euring macroeconomic stability
to coniue economic progress Includes development of the foreign exchange marke to
maintain a free and flexible exchange rate, fisca polices designed to increase public avins,
and monetary policies to reduce Infladon. While these liberaizain measurs have been
important first steps, a supply response has yet to develop in the prvae secto, paticularly
the non-itional sector, which would be robust enough to even stan current economic
growth levels. This can be atriuted tO many causes, incuding reatively high production
costs due to low opering capacity (avarage in1988n all manuacturig sectors = 40
percen), limited i aonal market access and leverage, lack of marketig and managemee
ills, product desin and quality, a large and static but competing public sector, an
unesponsive and itself fagile banking and financial sector and, up to 1991, a high level of
Inflation that led to very tight fiscal and monetary policies, a danger which may still recur.
2.2   In hte 1990 and early 1991, the Govenment undertook measures to restrict monetary
growth, inluding the sale of Bank of Ghana (BOG) bills to mop up excess liquidity in the
economy. In January 1991, the BOG discount rate was increased to 35 percen. Nomina
money market interest rates, led by the acti-'e marketing of BOG bills available to the banks
and the public, rose by 8-9 peentage poinls betwee September 1990 and August 1991 to a
range of 31-38 percent. As a resut of these measures, comercial bank interest rates also
rose markedly. However, from August 1991, the BOG progressively lowered the discount
rate, inducing a downward adjustent in money market interest rates to a low of about 18
peren An important corollry to the decline in inflation had been that bank interest rates
were positive again in real tm.
2.3   In April 1992, the Goverment inormed the Bank of subtntl adverse changes in
the macroeconomic situation in relation to what had been agreed in the Policy Framework
Paper, 1992-1994, particularly with regard to external sector developments and the
govenment budget. Specifically, the Government expected a major shortfall in the export
earnings for cocoa, as well as gold and timber. The budgetary outlook was also considerably
less favorable than what had been programmed, owing to the corresponding expected shortfall
in coooa tax revenues.
2.4 The slippage in both the balance of payments and fiscal accounts was confirmed in
September 1992. In addition, the Goverment in September granted wage increases averaging
80 percent to government workers; the inreases were made retroactive to July 1992. The
decision to grant the wage increae reflected election-year pressure, as the military
government, which had been in power since 1982, prepared to transfer power to civilians.
While petroleum product prices were also raised by 10 percent, the net effect was sfill a
budgetary shortfall of C40 bilion in 1992 (or about 1.3 percent of GDP). Subsequently, the
Goverm t also agreed to pay end-of service befits to all 200,000 employees of public
enpries and subvenood orgizations. These represent retirement gratuities which were



-3 -
frozen at the end of 1990, when workers were moved to a pension scheme. As a condition
for accepting the switch, workers demanded a cash payout of accumulated gratuities. The
Government agreed to phase this payment over four years, with 20 percent of the total being
paid out in 1992 for state-owned enterprises and 25 percent for subvented organizations and
the remainder in three equal installments with an interest of 16 percent to be paid semi-
annually. The payment amounts to over C20 million in 1992.
2.5    The macroeconomic performance in 1992 was thus weaker than envisaged in the
program. Real GDP growth in 1992, targeted at 5 percent, turned out to be only 3.9 percent.
The current account deficit was US$413 million, as against a target of US$217 million, and
the overall deficit was US$142 million, as against a target surplus of US$140 million. The
fiscal overrun in 1992 was very large-a deficit of I177 billion as compared to a programmed
surplus of C16 billion. The dominant component of this was the 80 percent civil service pay
increase, but other major components of expenditure were also higher than programmed.
Clearly, the direct and indirect costs of the new electoral process overwhelmed mechanisms of
expenditure control. On the revenue side, there were shortfalls in taxes on domestic goods
and on international urade, leading to a projected collection for 1992 of only C300.2 billion as
against a target of C364.3 billion. Some of this is explained by the cocoa shortfall referred to
above, but much of it is also due to low collection rates. Broad money grew by 52 percent in
1992, with most of the growth coming in the last quarter of the year. The latest available
inflation figures are for December, showing a year-on-year increase in the price level of 13.3
percent. However, the normal lags in the system would suggest an increase in inflation
during 1993.
2.6   In response to the outcome in 1992, the Government is implementing corrective
measures that aim to restore fiscal balance in 1993, turning the deficit of Q:177 billion in 1992
into a surplus of C21 billion. This will be achieved by (a) substantial increase in the
petroleum tax; (b) a marked acceleration in the divestiture program of public enterprises; and
(c) increases in the rates of collection on domestic and import taxes. In the external sector,
the Government projects a substantial reduction in the current account deficit from US$413
million in 1992 to US$218 million in 1993, composed of improvements in gold and cocoa
exports, a decline in non-oil merchandise imports and an improvement in official grant flows.
The capital account is expected to show a large surplus, based on the assumption that the
delayed disbursements on long-term loans in 1992 will materialize in 1993.
2.7   The macreeconomic framework, as announced in the 1993 Budget Speech,
demonstrates the Govermment's determination to overcome the setbacks encountered in 1992.
Moreover, the Government is taking specific steps to achieve the fiscal targets and has
undertaken to take whatever mid-course corrective actions are necessary. Both IDA and IMF
agree that, if implemented successfully, the programs as a whole would constitute a credible
degree of adjustment. IDA and IMF have accordingly planned to monitor the macroeconomic
situation over the course of 1993, in consultation with the government economic monitoring
team.
2.8   The med'ium-term future for Ghana points to the need to establish a national
comprehensive strategy which will lead to a higher or accelerated level of economic growth.
The rationale is to shift focus from economic recovery to policies and investments needed to
stimulate a more dynamic supply response, especially from the private sector. A joint study
between the Government and IDA was prepared in 1992 to define and map out this strategy
for accelerated growth. A major increase in domestic private savings and investment is



-4-
required to suppor this strategy over the neo few yes, supplmend by direct for1i
investment and a retr of the acmua   surplues of overseas Gh=m  capit. Such a
strategy calls for a redeinition of the roles of Governmet and the pvat sectof and a
reassessment of the atr of the Govement  role. There is a case for lager Govaerm
involvemet in, among other things pimary education, transport       research
operations and maininance, while ts role in the productdon,  y   and f_nanal
Scctors must be significanlly displaced by a progressively greater and diverse involvemet of
the private sector.
B.    Descriptor of-    Prhate Se
2.9    Overview. During the early to mid-1980s macroecnomic conditons in Ghana hve
had a pervasive influence on the private sector through their ef     on the production and
investment climate in which private producers operate. Not surprisingy, empitical analysis
has also shown th  unceraity has caused investors to be extremely caous In their capaci
expansion decisions. This includes unceinty regardn future demd, exchange a,
interest rates, inflation and price levels. In the shortrun, stabizatn and adjustmet
programs increased uncertainty because of devahuaion and changes in the incentive
framework, and thus may have dampened investment. In addiion, high interst rates on
Government paper have attracted capital, at the  pese of uncertain, less profitable
investmens. This is thought to be one explanatin for the initia drop in private investment in
the economy, at least in the early years of the ERP.
2.10 In the latter part of the period (1989-1990), the situation has improved with private
investment having grown from 3.3 percent of GDP in 1988 to 8.4 percent in 1990. But the
continued domiance of the economy by state enteprises was not a poite factor to
strengthen confidence. Thus, in order to continue to stimulate an investment response, it is
important that any future economic program is credible and that the private sector Oocal or
foreign) is convinced of the Govermet's commtent to prudent and stable policies in areas
tat bear strongly on investment decisions such as the exchange rate, monetuy policy and
divesdture of public enterprises.
2.11   Structure. The strucure of the OGanaian prive sector is  aactized by a
preponderance of small- to medmcale enterprises.I/ Ninety-two percen of the &,351
Ghanaian enterprises, the toD number of enteprises enumed during the 1987 industrial
census, were small scale. Medium- and large-scale enterprises accounted for only 8 percent
of the tota number of induws   esablimens in the county. There were only 52 frms, or
0.6 percent of the total, employing 500 or more woekers. However, the Govement still
holds about 25 percent of the medium and large scale enteprises. Such enterprises accounted
for about 40 and 44 percent of employment and value added, respectively.
2.12  According to the 1987 industrial cemus, manf e of wearing apparel (excluding
footwear) is the leading small scale indust  acdvity, followed by wood-related indusries,
food m a       , shoemaking and shoe repair, moufatur and repar of fabricated metal
1/    With respect to size, manuing enterprises in Ghana are classified on the basis of
number of people employed. In Ghana's Statistical Services's Industi Statistics,
medium and large scale enterprises are defined as those employing 30 or more
workers; the rest are considered as micro and small enterises.



-5-
product, and motor fting and bodyworks. Medium- and lage-scae enpis  ar found in
food pessing, beveage, tobacco, texties, wood-relaed nustries, petoleum reining,
aluminum and other bsic metal, rubber, hemicls inluding p  ti       s, 
cement and other building materials, nd paper and printig. lhe lrges  terprises, in tew
of value of fixed asset and size of employmnt, include the Valco aluminum smel,
sawmls and dmber processing plants, coca processing plants, brewing, cme
manufure, oi refining, textis and vehicle assembly.
11E'~t *                    A                                              TT ; M    
.t.  >A..¾d            .c.*.*.nN..R
~0                      4~*   474.I   1           lt~   t. g   .
2.13   The above stai are only indicative of the current siuation of the private sector
since in 1987 the program of divestiture was inauged and there has been a progressive
shif towards the private sector. In the absence of another national survey, at this stage, the
new ratios are difficult to quantify, but the size of the private sector has clearly increased, and
its activities have been diversfied.
2.14  Performanee. Ghana's manufacturing sector has been caaerized by low rates of
capacity utilization for many years. The average rate of capacity udlization during the period
1970-1977 was in the range of 43-52 percent. The utilization rates worsened in the late 1970s



-6-
and eary 1980s as the counrty's abiiy to import raw materias and spare pars diminished.
By 1984 the average capacity utizaion had fallen to 18 percent k rose again In 1985 to 25
percent, in 1987 to 35 percent and in 1988 and 1989 appeus to have platened at about 40
percent as the ERP got underway.
2.15  The reversd of the dowmward trend was acomnplished through an Improved bsine
environment and greatr avaabity of reources, especaly fign exchaqge. Significant
and continuous increases in capacity utlization have been redized especaly in agro-based
industries, wood-procesing, tobacco, beverages, chemicals and non-metallic mndra
products. While in 1984 all 16 sub-eto, except one, operated at average rates below 30
percent, in 1989 only tr  opated at less than 30 percent, and four were over 50 percent
After years where the lack of forign exchange was the major fiator limiting capacity
utilization, the main limiting factors now are shortages of credit especially long-term,
competition from imports that are now readily available, and the generally soft market
demand and the continued presco  of a large group of static, distrsed enterpries.
2.16 Over the past few years, successive currency devaluations, high rate of inflation and
structural shocks resuting from necessary adjustment policies have been among the major
fictors accounting for the extensive distress of a significant number of Ghanalan enterprises in
both the private and public sectors. The impaired capacity of such entepries to perfrm
adequately and to service teir debts came to a head in 1990 and led ultmately to a heavy
acm      n of non        g assets on the books of the Ghanaian bans  and to fte
financial distess of the bans themselves.
2.17   Within the Ghian economy, there are some 200 companies with individual debts of
over C20 mllion (US$37,000) hat have been successively identified under the two Financial
Sector Adjustnt Credits (FINSAC I & 11) as constiug the core of distressed but
pontily viable enterprles. Those companies account for some 06 billion in annual sales
(EUS$11 million) and about 3,500 jobs. Ihe Governt, seriously concerned that this group
of companies are important potential contributors to the economy, is anxious to formulate a
proposa for implemening a corporate restrucuring program. Under FINSAC II, a study was
commissioned by the Govermment to empirically as  this core group of companies, identify
those that are potentWily viable and submit rem ndats. This study was completed and
will serve as the basis for a corporate    rg   impl on pla  (See Annex 2-1.)
Ihe legal and fi     expetise to develop an approprit fiamework and action plan will be
provied under ftis project.
C.  Me PrLq-  Eis
2.18 Oveviw. The number and range of private exporters is increasing. While for
years, Ghana relied mainy on the traditional exports of cocoa, gold, diamonds, umber, and
more reently electricity, other exports have steadily increased as illustated by Table 2.2.
Until 1990 the majort consisted of agricultural products such as pineapples, cocoa waste,
tuna, lobsters, shrimp, prawns and other fish. Now Ghana is also developing exports of
processed and semi-oceed goods. 1990 was the first year in which exports of procsed
and semipced goods exceeded those of the      nal primary agricultural exports,
indicating a positive trend towards higher value-added exports. Apart from cocoa, gold,
diamonds, electricity and raw timber, the bulk of these exporters are pivate and account for
all exports of non-traditional items (able 2.3) as well as processed timber, bauxte and
manganese. While the latter three categories are well established, it is among the non-
traditional exporters where the incremental export growth is most likely to occur.



-7-
I 01 I         Q        RI II  I                    $$
., | > g |    m       .u,                    .   .'E
W
2.19  NonAdkd eWpor (NME) stutd from a small bms of USS23.7 miliont in 1986.
Ihe value of these expo  increased by 18 perc5. tD USS27.9 million in 1987, and by more
tbal 50 pereent to US$42.3 million in 1988. Despite a fall of 18 percent tD US$34.7 mllion
in 1989, they stongly abounded in 1990 to US$62.4 million. 1991 did not coed this
acoelerated ft-end and only recorded a modest inc of less ffian I percent to USK62.5
millio The 9- mnhreturs for 1992 an projected tD produce an annual increms of some
S percent over 1991. Ibe other sectors, namdy timber and non precous metas accounted for
abou USS119 million and USS25 million, rpciely, in 1990.
2.20 Ibe early sectoral bradon for 199 showv some quite sweeping trends. Processed
and semi-pro e goods whic were down in 1991, show a stroDg rebound in 1992 and at
thie 9-onth level are akeady ahead of the 12-month resWts in 1991. The major contriWon
was wood products showiqg a 268 percent incemas over 1991. Alumbmm, pardclly dime
and cogs were up 93 percent over 1991. Procmed food showed a sumon upgwwh at 314
percet with coned vegetables paficululy robusL AgdLicltumrough fl thedird quartor is
down quite sbUdally showing an o;~, rral sector decline of 28 percent over a like period in
1991. TIhe big losses were in pineWples, down 5.6 percent and fish down 50 percez Ihere



-8 -
is usually some seasonality in these numbers and the fourth quarr of 1992 might show some
Improvement but given European market corditions, it is unlikely to be too dramatic.
.          N,~RM"MI   0  .~3111
2.21   Ihaeshas beenasbsantfMgrowthinthesmlmberof eworters of NTEs. Ihe tota
number has incrssd firom 725 in 1987 to 2,498 in 1M9. Ihe tota mwaber of ep kems
incased from 132 in 1987 tD lSS in 1991. Ghana codmwed to esoor principadly to 1he
E_n Com_u;ty (4.9%) w    the lea9n countes of d          n  in IM being e
United KRingdom, Holland and Spain. Ihe Economic ioqmzn for West Afirica ma*ets
came next with about 20.8 percent of eports, pa Aculmly Cote d'Ivoie, Togo and la
Paso. Other developing counties took about 15.7 perent of toota exports and the rest of the
idw    cobies, notably the United State and Switelnd took the bdanc of about 13
peresL
2.22 Outlook. Gan neehb to broaden and support an agp-essive export drive focussing
eqmy  on the non-iudonal areas of agrroceS products and light inidustgry. While
Ghoeas trade ratios (18% ratio of ewports to GDP and 25% ratio imp?orts to GDP) have risen
Inhem  yeus, for a nsmal country and one which has the poetal to become a major WVest
Afican trade, hub, dfiee ratios could increase sustly. Ihe export ratio untrnatlely



-9 -
remains low becaus Ghaas exports, outside of cocoa and gold, remain relatively small.
However, despite this, a s import regme  remains relatively libeaL. Under its
accelerated growth strategy, Ghan should consder tie option of an apropriate exchange rate
policy to provide non-dscimbat  expont hIcentives and must focus on providing
governmn 8support in finance nd Ifatucur to exporting firms. For example, while
bank credit for ewports rose fom 5.2 percen (US$7.5 mllion) in 1991 to 5.8 percent
(US$12.0 milin) in 1992, ficing of impos rose from 6.3 percent (JS$9.0 million) to
7.6 percm  (US$16.0 million) in the same period. It must also consider adopting more
aggreive and creative meau   to attact foreig direct investment especially geaed towards
exports.
D.    BudnessBoiropnit
2.23  Ihe bu_s envonment for Ghanaisa enterprises has been strongly improved over
the past several years, altho-ugh much needs to be done to establish Ghana in the ranks of the
internatnlly compeitve emerging economies. Annex 2.2 highlights with a matrix the
principal strategic acions take and to be take by the Governmen to liberaize the
commcal environment and ifcilitate pivate enterprise opersons.
2.24  To furher the liberaization and Ident  remaining regulatory constaint, a review of
the business environment was completed in 1991 by the Eria Sector Adjs yQGroup
(PSAG), a gro  compised of rpsentatives of both the prvate sector and the
Governent 21 and rm        as were made to the Government for further
Improvements. A substantl number of these recommendations were accepted by the
Government and have been enacted as indicated in Anx 2.2
2.25  Important steps In creaing  stable Lk   and regulan io nnmnt have been
initiated. In Ghana, many exsing laws and reguation governig investment activities were
enacted at different times reflecting the then more restrictive prevailig political and economic
cimate. Key laws such as the Exchange Control Act (1961 and amended in 1986), the
Industrial Reations Act (1965), the Labor Decree (1967), the Investment Code (1985),
alth h amended many times, are still enforced. However, a number of recent actions have
been taken to mend and liberaize them. For example, repeal of the M uring
Ixnduse Act, 1971 (Act 356) has take place as well as repeal of a number of Price Control
Laws. In 1992, the Inesute  Code 1985 (PRIDCL 116) was amended in a number of
important areas to improve foreig imrestment, immigrant quotas and tedhnology transer.
2.26   Some of their provisions are still unnecesrly complicating the opeations of
eMPdses. Despite the iInportat         Walready enad, there is still a need to review
and amend these laws In order to: (a) hamnize conflicdng provsions; (b) reflect the
consirable libersization of the ecomy under ERP; (c) reduce the role of Goverment
agenies; and (d) pwvide a better legal basis for admistative and investment decisions and
mprov  publicWt and dissemiton of such infom         The 1993 Budget speech
anounced a numer of major lega and regulay revions, many of which had been
proposed by the PSAG. Ihe Goverment annunced that it would submit a proposd to
Padiamet to enaat ns    lavet  Code in 1993 which wil, inter alia, alter the Ghana
nhestment Center fom a regulatory to a prmoonal body, simplify investment regulatons
and shift the present ex-ante approval of invesms to an ex-post review. It wil further
increase the use of the Tax Code rather than the Investnent Code to deliver investment
incntives to lnvestors.
2/    Created in 1991 under the auspices of the IDA SAC m project; see para. 3.6.



- 10-
2.27   A wide rarge of eo incentiv  has been implicidy included in policies and
procedures that have been implemented since the ERP was introduced. For example, in
additon to the reform of the foreign excha    regime, the Government has simplffied export
procedures. In 1984, 32 separate steps were necessary in order to export, now only eight ae
requird. Ihe export license requiremen has been abolished and the new exchange control,
Form A2, has been designated as the sole document for exports of nonaitional items. MTe
proportion of foreign excage eain   at exporters of non-traitional items are permitted
to retain has been increased to 100 percent and the flexibility permted in the use of export
retention fumds by exporters has also been increased. Such funds can now be used to meet
business promotion, training and related expenses.
2.28  Further incentives to the export sector were amounced in the 1991 budget. Corporate
tax rebates have been raised from a minimum range of 30 to 40 percent to a maximum of 60
to 75 percent for agriculture and, in the case of m c uig, from a minimum range of 25
to 30 percent to a maxim   of 60 to 70 percent, depending upon the proportion of output
exported. Firms tat manufcture for export are exempt from customs duty on imported
machinery and equpent. The Customs Duty Drawback rate is also to be increased from 95
to 100 percent. This means that exporters can now claim a full refund of the duty paid on
nmported inputs.
2.29   Applicable du  refind MW=  for exporters are stil a constaint and are to be
fiurher streamlined to improve the promptness of payments-exporters currffntly wait about six
months for refunds. The system also omits indirect transactions. Only a few companies to
date have actually benefitted from the duty drawback scheme. Apart from the important need
to mproe the duty drawback process, other fiscal improvements have been introduced when
for example in the 1992 budget, corporate tax rates were reduced from 50 percent to 35
percent.
2.30  The capacy and resources of Giana's various int antio d tadade moiations vary
widely. Although they have been playing an increased role in the past couple of years,
ntibtng  in pariuular to the PSAG, all require stregtening to: (a) vocaUy represt the
interests of the private sector particularly those of the small and medium enterises;
(b) improve the private sector informaon flows available to Government to assist in
formulating r  e e  and supporive policies; (c) provide technical and economic
information to support their own member organizations; (d) improve management skills at the
enterprise level; (e) provide better technical services and physical infrsructure to support
smaUer prvate enterprises; and (f) asist and support entrises in adopting practices that will
be necessary to conform to Ghana's ei      regulations.
2.31  Financd Irastructure.  1Thanks to subtantia exter  assistance, the financial sector
has been greatly ren_gt    par=y ftrough the IDA financed FINSAC I and H credits.
However, despite the irrprtant progress that has been made in providig medim term credit
to smaU and medium size companies under IDA's SME credit, there is stil a strong risk
aversion to proviing trade credit. In part this is explained by the lack of capacity in many of
the banks to handle trade credit issues, but is also caused by the poor marketng and
relatonship sklls of the exporters. Furthermore, while the Government is also an active
taker of funds, there is a strong prodivity amongt the banks to make those technically risk
free loans. A comprehensive technical assistance component under this project is aimed at
strengthening the exprt fnance infrastructure.



- 11 -
2.32   Physical infrastructure continues to be a further constraint to Ghana's export growth.
Inadequate roads and ports, poor telecommunications and either insufficient or unavailable
specialized storage for perishable goods create problems for small scale exporters that reduce
their ability to perform. Under the auspices of a separate IDA project, studies are being
planned to investigate the feasibility of establishing an export processing zone and the
development of a private sector refrigerated warehousing complex. Both initiatives will
address these physical infrastructure limitations.
E.    Ilrm-level Constraints
2.33   Although the liberalization efforts under the ERP have resulted in a much improved
enabling business environment, which in turn has produced a more dynamic private sector and
an increase in non-traditional exports, there is still another layer of firm-level constraints that
continue to impact the competitiveness of the companies and the capacity of exporters to
access international markets. Following are among the most critical:
(a)    Establishe' business practices and expectations are not compatible with the
demands of the international markets;
(b)    Existing management and eatrepreneurial skills are those that were developed
to serve an economy where quality control, financial management, pricing,
and marketing were not major concerns. In international markets, the needs
are dramatically different, and the management skills, marketing and
information systems required are correspondingly different;
(c)    Operating capacities and productivity are low, a situation related to historically
low labor costs, work practices stemming from labor hoarding and the limited
access to modern technology; and
(d)    Technology used by most private sector enterprises is aging and outmoded.
F.    The Banking and Finandial ',tor 31
2.34   Since 1987, there has been a gradual liberalization of the financial system as well as a
completion of the bank restructuring program. All sectoral credit allocation targets were
phased out with the last target, for agriculture, abolished in November 1990. Interest rate
controls were gradually relaxed and full liberalization was achieved in February 1988. In
November 1990, the BOG completed decontrol of all bank charges and fees. BOG is now
promoting rather than repressing interest rate competition in the system. In Table 2.4 below,
five years of prevailing deposit, lending and inflation rates are detailed. It is readily apparent
from the Table, that interest rates, in the past two years have been well above inflation and
have provided, in real terms, substantial margins to the banks.
l/    A detailed description of Ghana's banking system is contained in the President's
Report for the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit Loan (Report No. P-5659-GH).



- 12 -
__=Lale2~P1NWLPEVWGXThW AE
&.S   nlamuuypolt 1992                    14-IS    11iing for6 idvua    swrablhe.Lealizatino
fiToiies opeeD                 o       fffetegt          emre.   oeg
3Xag   u    a naua in~th     1 046 wilh1    14vera5    14a ual. In 1988 25
m Mrc 192 Ie orip exchang                1541o Wa84 aboised Th1544ml  asas
(S m,anilutisotDpagmysk          12tt 21)n syst2m     11ppor for2 th1e34i2ofa
international24 payent sel3een 8yste wilb2roie0ndrti*poet



- 13 -
2.36 In addition to the central bank, the Bank of Ghana, there are six commercial banks,
three specialized banks, three merchant banks, a coopeative bank and over one hundred rural
banks. The six comunercial banks, including Ghana Commercial Bank (GCB), Standad
Chartered Bank of Ghana (SCB), Barclays Bank of Ghana (Baclays), Social Security Bank
(SSB), National Savings and Credit Bank (NSCB) and the now BOG-managed Bank of Credit
and Commerce Ghana (BCCG) have over 80 percet of the totassets and deposits in the
system. With the exception of BCCG, all bank are either partly or wholly owned by the
Government.
2.37 Three private merchant banks, Ecobank Ghana Ltd., Continental Acceptances Ltd.
and Meridien have been established in the past 2 years. These institutions and te ex
Ghana Merchant Bank take corporate deposits, finance trade and industry, provide advisoy
services and manage money and capital market activities such as underwriting, trading on te
stock exchange, privatization, mergers and acquisitions and public and private issues. The
four merchant banks have about 7 percent of the total assets and 5 percent of the deposit base.
The 100 or so rural banks are not active in the export sector and have only about 4-5 percent
of the assets of the banking system.
2.38 The (;,nsolidated Discount House, Ltd. (CDlH) was opened in November 1987 to
support the development of a money market. Owned by a consortium of banks and insurance
companies, CDH acts as an interbank agent dealing in treasury bills, short-term goverment
securities, banker's acceptances, cocoa bills, negotiable shortterm certificates of deposih and
commercial paper. After some initial problems, CDIH is operating with a limited but
profitable business. A second discount house, Securities Discount House was established in
1991 with the assistance of IFC.
2.39 The Export Finance Corporation (EFC) was established in 1990 to offer short-term
preshipment export loans directly to exporters, including those which opeate in the infal
sector. Its primary funding source, other than capital, is issuing bills in the market carrying
the guarantee of the BOG. It is highly leveraged and its portfolio is considered fily high
risk.
2.40   Non-Performing Assets Recovery Trust (NPARI). Under the First Finnial Sector
Adjustment Credit (FINSAC 1), as part of the restuctuing process of Ghana's distressed
banks, it was decided to create a statory organization into which designated non-peforming
loans from the commercial banks would be transferred. NPART was established for the
purpose of operating as a recovery agent for these assets. To aid in the process, a Spea
Tribunal was established to expedite the legal process of establishing liability and processing
claims. NPART's mandate is to engage in debt re-heduling, work-outs, corporaet sales or
liquidations. NPART has no financing mandate for corporate restructbug.
2.41  Imperfections in, and the underdevelopment of, the fhuncial sector have been and
continue to be a barrier to the efficient delivery of credit and capital to the economy, and
more particularly to the private sector. Critical policy measures were succesly
implemented by the Government under the FINSAC I. The remaining policy and indsiuona
requirements of the banking system are being addressed under the recendy approved FINSAC
II, key elements of which are:
(a)   supportng the removal of remaining poUcy distordons in the financial syste=
by (i) addressing the issue of disintemediaton in the financial systm; i)



- 14-
reducing the high cost of financial intemediation; (iii) conforming the rate of
corporate tax on financial instions to that of the genera corporat tax (the
1993 Budget reduced the rate on fincial institions from 45% to 40%);
(b)   enhancing the effedveness of the Central Bank to lead the contining
finmcial sector reform program through: (i) development of a sound legal
framework; (*d) phasiog out non-cenal baning activities; (iii) realig   the
organizational structure of the BOG; and (iv) generally improvmg the
operational efflciency of the full range of central banking services;
(c)   continue the bank restructing program through: (i) divestiture of public
shareholding; (ii) improved monitoring of the performance of the restructured
banks; and (iii) improving the operational efficiency of the Ghana Commercial
Bank in view of its importance in the baking system; and
(d)   continue the recovery of non-performing assets by NPART; enhance the
effectiveness of the non-bank ftinancial system and upgrade the professional
skills of the financial sector.
G.    Te bnact of State-Owned Enterpss on the Private Sector
2.42  State-owned enterpises (SOEs) continue to play an important role in viruly all
sectors of the economy: agriculture, mining, manu , transport, power, trade, the
financial sector and tourism  All major exports are stil produced andlor marketed by SOEs.
Despite the ERP the sector still accunts for roughly 200,000 employees and, in tenms of
mnubers of SOEs, is one of the largest in Africa, second only to Tanzania which has 400
SOEs. The recently prepared classification of SOEs prepared by the State Enterprises
Commission (SEC) lists some 329 SOEs in Ghana, of which the Government has majority
interest in about 150, either through direct ownerip or indirecty through wholly-owned
banis or other SOEs. The performance of the sector has been marked by low productivity,
high losses, and increasing liquidity. SOEs have been a major fiscd burden, both In term of
direct operational support from the budget, and indirectly through tax exemptions and tax and
loan payment arrears, absence of dividends and, in many cases, inability to repay
Goverment-guaranted loans. On the whole the SOEs have not been paying their bills or
taxes, contributing to fire investments, servicing their debts or paying dividends to
Government.
2.43  Privatitlion. As of Dcember 31, 1992, 76 SOEs have been privaized either
through divestiture or liquidation. An additonal 20 SOEs are in the process of being
privatized. The privatization program is facing a number of political and practical constraints
that will need to be overcome if it is to build momenum and be succossf. The emphasis so
far has been on reducing the burden of the SOEs on Govment rather than trying to
stimulae private sector investment and activity. Issues that need to be resolved include the
lack of exrse in privaization in the ana  public sector, excessive reliance on
replacment cost and on the Land Valuation Board for asset valuation, lack of consstency,
transparency and publicity given to the selection of SOEs for sale, methods and conditions for
sale and evauation criteria for offers, and how to deal with the heavy liabilities of the SOEs,
especialy end-of-service benefits.



- 15-
2.44  The Govemment has indicated a quaitatve and acceleaed commitment to these
objectives dung t  most recent SAC m supvision mission when the following objectives
were sagr   for the divestitre program. Ihe overal objectives were to: (a) complete
implem  of a number of divestkure dedsos taein 1991; (b) broaden the modaities
of divestre in managig the privataon of a nber of larger profitable enterprises; and
(c) accomplish a significandy higher degree of transparency in the divstitre process. ThE
program was taken up as one of the principal themes in the 1993 budget speech by the
Secrtary for Finance.
2.45   Specfically the Governmnt outlined the following objectives:
(a)    The Goverment woud divest part of its minority equity position in the 6
enterprises presenty listed on the Ghma Stock Exchange (GSE). This would
constitt a low risk and relatively simple test of market response since issues
of control and GSE listng requirements would not arise. Current
capitalization of these companies is about US$17 mfllion;
(b)   The Govenmt will seek to divest 13 medium-to-large entrprises, at least
three by way of a public offering on the GSE; and
(c)    The liquidatons of the nine regional development corporations and the Baste
Fibre Development Board would be concluded.
Ihis program, which is in addition to any other divestitures which are envisaged as part of the
fiancial sector adjustment program, forms part of the Letter of Strategic Development Policy
prepared by the Govenment (An.ne%2-3!.
.    1tf lkand Bineassmt rk
2.46   There are six key elements tat will provide the overall framework within which the
project will be developed. The commitments to these are detailed in the Letter of Strategic
Development Policy sent to IDA by the Government (Anc) and summarized below:
(a)    Private sector development wiUl continue through programs to diversify
exports, assistance and support to firms for enancing technological
capabilities, and a contnuing program to assist in the growth and
transfrmation of small and medium enterprises. Investments in studies to
improve export infrastructure have already commenced.
(b)    Liberalization of investment and incentive regulations has begun. A new
Investment Code is expected in 1993, which will, inter alia, alter the
Government's previous policies of ex-ante approval of investment to ex-post
review. Proposals to shift invesnment incenives from the Investment Code to
the Tax Code are being proposed and an action plan to eliminate within 1994
the regatory functions of the Ghana Investment Center will be imented.
(c)    Financial framework improvements are continuing under a program of public
sector divestiture of shareholdiDg in 8 of the banks in which the Government
has a majority position. Corporate tax rates have been reduced to 40 percent



-16-
on financial insttutions and progress is being made on a leasing law and
muttaist crit guarantee scmes.
(d)    Corporae restructuing as a necessary djunct to the assets liquidation
programs inaugurated under FWSAC II is recognized by the Government and
the legal and rgulatory framework within which to address this problem is
being developed.
(e)    The divestture of other public entities will be accelerated by the Government.
The necessary regulatory adjustments have already been announced.
(f)    Private sector dialogue with the Government will be maitained and expanded
through the continmation of the PSAG as presendy constituted or perhaps
through a new Private Enterprise Foundation being developed under the
auspices of the TIP.
2.47   Furthermore, this policy basis for the project is fiuther buttressed by the additional
conditionalities incorporated in the USAID TIP project, relevant components of which are
summarized in Table 2.5 below.
Te =5: USAI) TIOP PICIPAL TRACfE RELEASE CONDITIONS
Treh. One    Liberaized exche rate for exportes, increased private sector representative in
GEPC, formaon of a trad. policy unit in Ministry of Trade.
Trache Two    Amended regulation issued an duty and tax relief for all exporters; tax clearance
for expoters eminated, sategic plan for customs clearance procedures;
evidence of change in Tnvestment Code; establishment of an export credit
guarntee find.
Tanche Thr     Evidence that stramlined duty drwback is being implemented; evidence that
export processog proedures have been sreamlined; GO  has initiated a review
of commera  codes, business ruions and other legal constraints to private
sector.
Tranche Four    General implemenation of abave isse.
Treche Five    Geneal implemen  of above issues.
M. RAN  A,S,SfSANC AND SRTG
A.  Past lm    andbhrmim1a
3.1   The liberalization and the importan progress achieved in the business environment
have been mostly due to the strong presence of IDA and the World Bank group over the years
as summadzed in Table 3.1 below and detailed in Annex 3-1. 'he World Bank Group has
been associated with the industri sector in Ghana since 1975, when it approved its first
Credit to the National Investment Bank, then Ghana's main development finance institution, to



- 17-
encourage the development of mainly domestic resource based small and medium enterprses
ta were, cpqale of contibuting to flreig exchange earings and savings.
Table 3.1: MROR IDA ASSWTANCE TO PIATE SECTOR
inves.t..t Creis                 Dite M_in
Nationa Investmnt Dank, Export Rehabilitation,   1975-1989  Development of small and
Reconstuction, Public Enteqpises and a Smal            medium enterprises, tcncad
and Medium Enterpri Credit                             assistam and long-term capital.
Financing of inputs, iniuating of
divestture poess and firthe
term credit support to pivate
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Stucural Adjusnent Credifs
Inustri Sector, Finni Sector I and U and    198-1991  I aiindlustia capacity
Private Investment and Davelopment                     ad modified oxw
-reching asgiswe to
ate_vm banl and the
financial sector with a
ontiuigeoffort to srngh
the ovemai finnial system
Most recent credit addressed
enabling and reglating
requremetDt strendten
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ private     sect r.
3.2  'Me credits of the late 1970s and early 1980s focussed mainly on providing foreign
exchange and sU gtimltn exprt to cope with the main iqmpdiment then, lack of foreign
exchange. While the lines of credit were somewvhat slow in disbursing due to the severely
depressed state of the economy, the adjustment credits have been notably successfM in laying
the groudwork of such key reforms as exchange rate and price liberalization, import
liberalization, export promotion measues and regulatory reform, all of which measures have
been sustained by the Government. All this resulted in greate availability of foreign
exchange for domestic mauatrr; export earing especialy from non-taditional exports
improved; production of locally manufactured goods increased; and project analysis,
evaluation and supervision capabilities of participating finacial institutions and agencies
improved. Implementation experience unider these various projects has been generally good.
3.3   At the end of the 1980, despite much of the progres throughout the decade, fth main
issues were still an unsatisfactry supply response and an increasingly distresse financial
sector. JIDA strategy focussed on contiuaing to support reforms and on addressing these
issues. The Private Small and Medium Enterprise Development Credit was to provide credit
to finance the short and long term credit needs of SMEs, provide equipment leas finacing,
sftregthen t~echncal and insututionil capabilities of the BOG, and train PFIs in project
anaysis and term financing. Imlmnainof the project is satisfactory and the objectives
of the project are being met. However, sustained lending to SMEs rest on high recovery
rates which in tarn is partly dependent on the banks' capacity to adequately appraise and
intenively supervise projects. Given weaknesse in these areas, continued technical



- 18-
aisance b being provided to train staff in the BOG and pardtipaXt banks to achieve high
reoovery rates by fousing on Implemeaton problems before they become repayment
problems.
3.4   Two adjustment projec FINSAC I in 1988 and PINSAC 11 in 1991, were designed to
address the fincial sector dist. The first addressed resource mobilization and credi
allocation in the ficial system as well as improvements i the regulaty famework of ihe
bankig system and restructuring of distsed banks. The project was also committed to the
broadeling and deepenng of the capital markets. The second credit was intended to coinue
the progm  iniated under FINSAC I to restucture the formerly distressed banks and
improve their fancial and operatonal performace, pursue the recovery of nonpeforig
assets taken over by the NPART created under the project, streDgthen compedtion and
efficiency within the banking sector through divesure of public ownership in all banks and
through rationalization of taxation on bank profits, improve the capacity and efficiency of the
BOG, prepare for the fiture development of the fincial sector by seuting up an apprepriate
institutional framework for non-bank finania institutions by stdying the infmal markets
and upgading the baoking, accoundng, and insuramce professions. Although the objectives of
these projects are bein met, it is recognized ihat the Govenment and IDA need to review
progress on aligning the broader objectives and consistency of the maco-economic policy
framework with the objectives and implemeon progress of the FINSAC projects (see para.
2.39).
3.5  In 1991, a third structur adjustment credit was approved to promote private
investment. Tbis credit was aimed at creating an enabling enviromnent for private
investment; main ing macroeconomic stability; undering tax reform to improve
Incentives for private investment and savings; taking steps to make the reguatory environment
in Ghana more consistent with the libealized economy; making further progress on state
enterise reform; and maintng the momentum of reforms designed to increase the
efficiency with which public resources are used and thereby enhancing their support oi private
sector development. Following the iniaton of a structured and resut-oriented process of
consultation and active problem solving between the Government and the private sector
(through the creation of the PSAG) the environment for meeting the objectives of the project
has been enhanced as policy, institonal, and regulatory reforms governing the private sector
were made in compliance with conditions set for the release of the second tranche.
3.6  IPC has also played an importan role in the development of the private sector since
the initation of the reforms and played a catalytic role in mobilizing direct foreign
invesment It has also played a further important role in the private financial sector,
suportg  the development of a private inv tament bank, Continental Acceptance, Ltd., the
second discount house, Securities Discount House, and a new leasing company. IFC will
continue to support the rehabilitation and expansion of gold mining, and locally-based fims in
the mufctg and agro-processing sectors. Support for small and medium scale
enterprises will be provided through the Africa Enterprise Fund (AEF) and the Africa Project
Development Facility. The response of Ghanaian entrepreneurs to the AEF has been strong.



- 19-
B.   Other Donon Role
3.7     A       mad Iestenat Proec  M. In 199M, USAMD approved a US$80
mUlion faciity for Ghana, thek largest single development project ever In Afiica or for
Gha . It s a combined quick disbring and teci  asstace grant aimed at lncriag
and diversifying Ghansa' NTEs.  is projed was designed in cooperation with IDA ad tho
OG and has se up a parallel project hat wi focus on (a) the ebling eavi   ent;and (b)
the present production and marketig capacity  d caility of exist  or potal eoWrt
fhms (nA= I D.
3.8   The United National Development Program (UNDP) export activies are pardy
implemented through the International Trade Center (MIT. Activities supported include
Export Production Villages (url area selected for spdeca attention to grow new crops or
fruit), a mushroom production project attemting to develop mushroom cidtivadon for export,
support to the handicra setor, and a number of taning and trade promotion actvities.
Generally, lTC focusses on enterpseoriented technical assistance, while UNDP is concened
witf production encouragement in pioneering project, export production villages, as well as
institutional strenghening. Ihe lTC component has been completed and an evaluation
resldted in an 18-mo  extension.
3.9   Programs by other donors include the fofllowing: the European Economic Community
has a program to provide technical assistance to the fmniture industry to expand exports; the
Commowealth Secretriat supports training in costing, pricing and market development for
garment and textGie fims; and the Overseas Development Assistance (OD)A), U.K., provided
support for training of GEPC and the private sector.
3.10 In late 1992, under the auspices of the Commonwealth Development Corporation, a
small venture capital group, Venture Fund Management Company was launched to support
emgergig growth companies.
C.
3.11  In the area of the environment, the Bank is assisting the Government in implemeing
the Envionment Action Plan through an IDA credit for the Envronmental Resources
Management Project (US$18.1 million). rae credit will assist the Environmental Proteedon
Agency in developing institutional and technical capabilities for effective management of the
country's natura resources. The Government is also getting assistance from ODA, to
formulate regulations and guidelines for environmental monitoring and control. Ihe
investmens made under this project would comply with existing policy and regulatory
framework praning to the environment.
D.   Ita    khl for the lWect
3.12 The following project has been designed to support Ghana's overal commitment to an
accelerated growth strategy and complement and build on the gains made by previous
sttural and adjustment loans (A 3ne&31). t is also timely as the Government has now
embarked on further libealization of the policy and business framework, as outlined in the
Letter of Strategic Development Policy (n    2-3) and is committed to address the issues.
In order to assist the Government in its rationalization and liberalization of the r,licy and
busine famework, there is a need for firther technical assistance to help accelerate and



- 20 -
implement reforms. The combined efforts of the TIP (&m -1) and IDA's proposed
project are addressing and strengthening these Isues. TIP will fcus on the m
and export sectors, commting finace to the development of production capac, techi
and managerial Wovement, desig, export systems and foreg twh    arrangemen.
The IDA project will suppo tree basic tenets of the ecnomic objecdves of the
Govermnent:
(a)  Strengthe  of the financial sector by building on the progress made in earlier
IDA projects;
(b) Developing a broader base of private sector exports and exporters by working in
close parallel with TIP; and,
(c) Deeenng the private sector through adreing many infastructure, legal and
other constr    holding back the development of this sector.
It will be a prmary concern of this project to focus on a simplified and streamlined approach
to meetng its objectives and achievement of such an approach wiU be a continued focus of its
supervision efforts.
IV. TIBLlREQ
A.   OWectives and Eqgci   Achievaent
4.1   The overall objectives of the proposed project are to foster the growth of private
anaan exporters by: (a) prviing foreign excge for export finance and developing a
credit enhancement program to encourage the inclusion of increm     exporters in the effort
to expand non-traditional exports; (b) providing technical  istance to the bankig and
commercial export sectors to increase their efficiency and competitiveness; and (c) supporting
the development of- business action plan to assess the legal and business reqrements that
will be a prerequisite to addressing a pilot corporate restrucg program for potenly
viable enterprises presendy located in NPART. These objectives are supported by IDA's
strategy for private sector deveopment as outlined in the matrix in Annex 2.1 and wiUl be
contnued through the Government's support as oudined in the Letter of Strategic
Development Policy in Annex 2-3.
4.2 The tangible objectives that might be anticipated over the five years of the project
(using 1993 as the base year) and (giving due account to the parallel efforts occurring under
the USAID project) are to see: (a) private sector exports double again as they did in the past
five years and have the share of cocoa and gold exports progressively reduced as a percentage
of total exports; (b) the share of macturing GDP to total GDP continue to increase; and
(c) all Ghanaian banks operating as competitive privately controlled entities and offering the
export sector viable financa infrastructure support.
B.   Descritigon
4.3   The proposed IDA credit includes two princa components: (a) an export credit
refinance and guarantee facility (US$34 million equivalent) to assist private exporters in



- 21 -
obtaining short-term pre and post-shipment fnnce from banks; and (b) a comprehensive
technical assistance component (IJS$7 million equivalent) to finance: (i) the setting up of the
Export Finance Office (EFO) at the BOG, define the operational and implementation
procedures, and provide the requisite training to implement the refinance facility and the
export credit gaantee program; (ii) training and development of both bankers and exporers
on an interactive basis m the financial methods and practices of export finance and provide
on-site training programs abroad for Ghanaian bankers in documentary credit departments and
foreign exchange departments of major commercial bans; (iii) development of an action plan
which will begin the process of identifying the legal and business issues involved in
developing a market driven corporate restructuring effort for potentially viable enterprises
within NPART and set up the necessary modalities to implement such a plan; (iv)
development and implementation of an international payments setdement system; (v) the
investigation and advisory work on the establishment of a forward foreign exchange market;
(vi) in conjunction with the Ghana Stock Exchange, a study and training program for the
development of an instimionalized short and long term debt market; (vii) an in-country study
of commercial insurance products to support commercial companies, establish
recommendations and implement appropriate advisory progrms; (viii) the feasibility of
establishing a credit reference agency; and (ix) studies to further support the development of
institutions.
C.    Supp X 
1. Esort Credit Refimnae and Guarantee Facility (ECRGF)
4.4  The project will provide a line of credit of US$34 million equivalent through the Bank
of Ghana to eligible participatng financial intermediaries (PFIs). The BOG would operate the
line of credit to the PFTs to undertake expanded pre- and post-shipment export finance. Based
on the present level of private exports and a reasonable expectation of growth over the coming
years, it is anticipated that the credit would be fully disbursed over about five years.
4.5 Fund Operations. The line of credit will operate as a refinance facility. The BOG
will on-lend the funds in US Dollars or in Cedis depending on the currency of the underlying
loan extended by the PFF to the exporter. Funds will be on-lent for the entire period of the
export loan subject to a maximum of 360 days. Exporters will bear the foreign exchange risk
on foreign currency borrowing. At the end of the agreed refinance term, the BOG will debit
the PFIs account for the outstanding balance. Unless operating under the guarantee scheme
(outlined below), the PFI accepts the full credit risk. Following the full financing of the
export credit guarntee program from the first repayment installments under the refinance
facility, the remaining repayment installments would be recycled by the BOG for short-,
medium-, or long-term export credits. In recyling these funds emphasis would be placed on
providing short-term export financing for the duration of this project. The fund will be
managed by the EFO at the Development Finance Department of the BOG.
4.6   Lending and Interest Rates. Approved loans for refinancing will carry rates of
interest that will be calculated on the following basis: (a)  s  Currnc: cedi
denominated loans will be refinanced at a rate equivalent to the average 180-day commercial
bank deposit rate as reported by BOG; (b) Foreign Cufrrncy: dollar denominated loans will
be refinanced at the equivalent Eurodollar London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) prevailing
at the time of loan approval plh s 2.625 percent for the borrowing term. The BOG Apex unk
will retain 2% of the BOG onlending rate to PFs to cover expenses. This rate structure will



- 22 -
be reviewed with IDA and the BOG quarterly to ensure that rates remain posifive and that
they are reflective of market conditions. The onlending rate from PTh to exporters will be
market determdind.
4.7   Eligibb FWnandal Interea. Under the refancing facility eligibility will be
exeded to al coercial banks that meet the financial digibility criteria set out in Annex
4-1. Duing negotiations, BOG indicated to IDA that Barclays Bank, Standard Chartered
Bank, Merchant Bank, Ghana Colmercia Bank, and Social Secuity Bank meet these criteria.
Banks will continue to be eligible as long as they meet thes crteria or as otherwise agreed by
IDA. BOG will provide IDA with an annual confrmation of the PFIs eligibility. It was
agreed that here would be no bankwise limits and that the facilities would be made available
on a first-come-first-served basis. As most commercial banis manage their export finance
operations out of Accra, it was proposed hat the banks with branches outside of Accra
consider offering such services selectively through their regional branches in order to eWpedite
export fina. It was agreed during negotiations Ot,at o           BOG wIll
confirm to DA theeligibility of at leastS banks based on the eligibility critera laid out in
Anex 4-1. PFIs will bear the full credit risk (except in the case of the insured pordon under
the gutee program) of the underlying tnsacto  financed by them and would be
responsible for their collection and performance.
4.8  In the case of the EFC, which is not a commercial bank but extends export finance, it
was agreed during negotiations that its eligibility should be conditional on compliance with the
eligibility crteria set out in h 4-1 except for Item8 l(a) and l(b) and that the BOG will
provide 1992 and current audied statements and a financial review and will confirm that the
EFC is also in conformity with the eligibility criteria as defined.
4.9   Eligble Beneficiares, Procedurs and imits. It is envisaged that any registered
private sector exporter, wil be eligible. The tradional exporters of gold, diamonds, cocoa,
raw tmber and electricity will be excluded because of their size and the alternative resources
available to them. The oveall approval procedures should be guided as much as possible by
quick, attractive and appropriate systems as the export business does not have the luury of
extended approval times and the system needs to expedite funding as rapidly as possible. It is
proposed that the Export Credit Refinancng Facility will be available only to (a) exporters
submitting an irrevocable documentary letter of credit or (b) in the case of established
exporters with at least two years of export finance history, financing may be allowed upon
documented and verified purchase orders. The manximum amount of export finance will be 85
percent of the cost of goods and services associated with the execution of the export order.
The EFO will opeate within a fre-limit per application of US$200,000 equivalent without
reference to IDA, and wiUl not expose more than US$500,000 equivalent to any one
underlying borrower at any one time. Duration o. the loan will not exceed 360 days. As the
PTh bear the credit risk (except for any portion covered by the guantee program), they will
be responsible for credit appraisal of the exporter and wil obtain all the necessary loan
documentation. The appraisal and loan docmet for each loan will be matained by the
PI and will be available for audit by BOG/IDA. Eligible PFls will receive 100 percent
refinance fron BOG. The request for refinancing will be made through the ii4 offce of the
PFI and wiiU provide the name of the exporter, the value of the transaction, description of the
goods and the amount of the loan and PFIs will submit monthly consolidated atemena   of
laims and repayments.



- 23 -
4.10 Tie proposed guarant program wil be an hltegral part of the credit fality and is
estimated tO reqiire funding of aty US$5 mihlion equivalent The purpoe   of the
faciity would be to provide the FF1 and the exporter a cedt enhancement faity to incent
the PPTs to broaden their export fmancing. By February 1, 1994, 20 percent of the guarne
find will be finded by the Government into a special Export Guarantee Fund (EGF). The
remain  80 percent for the EGBF will be fimded from the first repayment installments under
the refince cility. Ihe guarantee will be offered either in US dollars or cedis, depending
on the underlying liability. The guntee will be limited as follows: (a) it wil only cover
the risk of defaut on pre-shipment credit and will not cover receivables risk to the exporter;
(b) access to the guaantee will be denied to any borrower who has claimed twice under the
guaree.
4.11  Guuantee Opertions. Exporters and/or their PFIs may seek cover under the
guantee. It will not be necessary to utilize the refiace facflity to qualify for the guarantee.
Guarantees will be made available for pre-shlpment credit extended to eligible exporters
meeting ssfctory credit and operatonal crkeria simlar to the refinance facility. Cover will
be offered for 65 percent of the face amount of the loan with the PFI retining 35 percent of
the risk. In order to ensure credibility of the guarntee, BOG wiUl undertake to make prompt
settement of PFI claims.
4.12 Rates and 3milts. BOG will levy a guarantee fee of 2 percent per annum equivalent
of the face amount of the loan. As an incentive to both exporters and PFIs, BOG will rebate
25 percent of the fee as a no-claim bonus incentive. BOG wil limit guarane  to any one
exporter at any one time to US$125,000 and no more than 25 percent of the fund will be
aeposed in any one sector. These limits will be reviewed from time to time to establish an
equitable balance.
2.  Tedlucal
4.13      The proposed technical assistance component wil provide US$7 miUllion
equivaent e Annex 42 to assist in financing a program aimed at overcoming deficiencies
of the financial export system. Assistance wiUl be provided for, firstly, management and
tedhnical training, consultant services, equipment and materials for s ening the export
finance infrastructure and communiy, and secondly, the necessary legal and fia
experdse to prepare a business and action plan, in order to stimulate and attract private sector
interest in restructuring viable companies under NPART.
4.14  Export Credit Taning for Bks and No-Trditonal Exportes. To
supplement expont credit traing provided by some banks, additional training wil be
provided for bankers to enable them to better conduct credit analysis on the exporter, support
customers in caryig out sounder buyer risk assessments and securing more reliable
information for exporters on foreign market risks, assess repataton risk and mechanisms for
mitigatig or reducig it, provide advisory services for cliens on potentl non-finacial
problems with exports and bank-related resources avalble to mitigate or resolve them;
understand expu  to non-edit risik ficed by NTEs, and understand the use of credit
guarantees. For existng exporters training would address area that would improve their
skW" in woking with export finance and banks while for those who are just entering the
export business, they wiU receive Instruction on the export process and the need for outside
financing for NTEs, use of letts of credit versus exporting on open account or dhrough
prepyment, bank collateral reqemet for pr _hipm    financn, investigation of the



- 24 -
buyer before entering into a contract of sale, foreign imports standards, shipping and handling
arrangements. In addition to training, an Export Guidebook will be designed to serve as a
reference and decision-making tool for the exporter and the banker. It will carry a step-by-
step description of the export process and required action for every stage in exporting.
Bns and exporters are expected to share the training costs and the cost of the guidebook.
Approximately 420 bankers and 1000 exporters will be trained over 5 years.
4.15  A Bankers Overseas Attachment Program would be designed to enhance the
capabilities of Ghanaian bankers to manage foreign operations through application of a
number of learning tools including on-site observation at the Standard Chartered Bank (SCB)
(Financial Operations Group) headquarters in London. Subject to final arrangements bankers
could observe the dealing, interbank deposits and commodity swaps operations in the treasury
division, observe operations of the export-import department and the trade banling
operations, and work with the financial instition's economists to better understand bank and
country and trade credit risks. SCB agreed to provide this training on a pro-bono basis.
Annex 4-3 provides a description of the training program.
4.16 Corporate Restructuring. Deficiencies of the distressed private enterprises are well
known in Ghana and, in addition to their financial distress, are also sufferng from years of
neglect in their physical plant, management and marketing. While there are many companies
in the economy in similar condition, the opportunity has arisen to address a significant portion
of them that are, as a result of actions taken under FINSAC L now under the custody of
NPART. NPART itself was structured solely as a limited, timebound, recovery agency with
no restructuring mandate. It was decided under FINSAC 11 to investigate the issue of
Corporate Restructuring and a study of the issues was commissioned, the results of which
were produced in the REPIMS-ADDO study. The study, using the DRC analysis, identified
an initial cut of some 60 to 70 companies that it defined as potentily viable. The full study
is contained in IDA's project files (para. 4.24) and a synopsis of its methodology and findings
are in Annerx i2. During appraisal and post-appraisal meetings with the Government, it has
been proposed that an exit mechanism from NPART be developed for these oompanies which
will have as its object the return of these companies to the mainstream commercial economy
following their financial and management restructuring.
4.17 It has been generally agreed that restrcturing must be a market driven process and
that these companies, the majority of which are private, need to be presented with a workable
restrucuring proposd. Technical assistance will be provided to develop an action plan which
will begin the process of identifyig the legal, financial and business issues involved in this
effort and setting up the necessary modalities and structures to implement the program. In
addition, companies would be identified for restrucuring on a pilot basis. It is proposed that
this preliminary work be done in cooperation with NPART. Terms of reference for the
preparation of an action plan were agreed at negotiations.
4.18  Jnternaonal Payments Settlement System. Foreign remittances to Ghana are
received via a miscdlaneous set of channels. Foreign owned banks are linked to their own
interational networks bio liost of the smaller domestic banks rely on physical collections by
mail causing extensive delays to exporters and consequent problems of bank repayment. In
1992 Bank of Ghana instited discussions with the principal European-based international
payments system, the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication,
(SWIT) and Ghana has formally joined the system with 7 banks initially agreeing to
subscribe. However, following subscription there are large capital costs needed to install the



-25 -
necessary hardware and software systems that will in effect link Ghana into the inteaional
settlement system. It is prwposed under the project hat support will be provided to the Bank
of Ghana and the subscribing banks in prvidig the general common purpose requirements to
enable the system to operate (Annm . During negotiations, BOG confirmed that the
system would be owned by BOG and leased to the subscribing banks.
4.19  Forward Foreg Echange Operlons. In Ghana companies that need to secure
foreign exchange for imports as a component of the export process are faced, particularly in
the contest of a devaluing domestic currency, with the dilemma of obtaining the necesary
settlement funds at matching prices. A forward foreign exchange market facility does not
exist in Gbana. Under the project a study on the foreign exchnge market, levels of demand
for forward cover and likely feasibility of establishing a forward foreign operation facility will
be conducted. If it is wwat, policy guidelines and procedures for its set up and
reguation wil be prepared. Technical assistance for this component is described in AnnexM z5.
4.20 Long Term Debt Market. The Ghana Stock Exchange (GSE) was created in
December 1990, to stimle development of an instiuionalized capital market. It was set up
to trade in equities and debt instrumens and act as market development faciliator and trader
in corporate bonds and debres and public bond issues. However, none of these
instrumens have been introduced in the Ghanaian market to any significant degree. This not
only steatens GSE's further development but also has broader ramifications for the Ghanaian
capital markets as a whole. To bufld GSE's technical capability to educate and work with
various constencies and to stiumlate the supply and demand for longer term securities,
Provisions under the project wil be made for an in-depth market development study that will
address cumrt and future inuments, GSE's role and the potential roles of brokers as direct
market-makers. Technical assistance will also be provided for a securities market advisor to
work with Ghanalan brokers and inestmen advisors in developing long-term debt
insrumet, reviewing leislative framework and installing a bond rating agency, designing
and delivering investor education sessions, and developing new products and services to
generate diversity in long term securities. A description of this component is found in Anna
4.21  Cnnerdal I_surance Marke. To support the growth of private exporters, a
comprehensive study wil be conducted on existing and potia new commercial insurance
products. The study will identify and define covered and uncovered commercial risks within
the Ghanaian insurance industry, define products which could be offered to cover those rns
based on the level of demand and the regulafory environen, and develop a program
enabling the  uance idustry to develop and offer such products. Delivery of this study
will be combined with overseas atwhments for three Ghanaian insurance professionals
enabling them to obseve the brokerage and underwritig industries, state of the art
cnane            and handling systems for perisable exports. An advisor will also provide
assistance in the development of no-bank finaci and insurance product lines to be made
available to the Ghanaian in y. Technical assistance for this component is described in
Annex 42.
4.22  CredIt Referee Agcy (CIA). To continue strengthening the private sector
infomation and credit systems, it is proposed to fund a study to evaluate the issues and
constrats amongt Ghanaian companies to support the development of an independent credit
rehrence agency. Early steps in this directon was fuded under FINSAC I when an
interbank aced infonnation bureau was established. It has only a lmited term of reference



- 26 -
but is a building block on which a more comprel mive and commercial agency, with
internaional ties, could be established. The esoblishment of such an agency could support
improved credit information on Ghanain companies, improve the chances for broadening
access to non-bank credit and create the basis for international credit information to support
an export insurance program as described in Annx 48.
4.23 Agreements concerning the above criteria for the orgaizations and activities to be
funded under this component were finalized during negotiations. Of the US$7 milion IDA
credit, approximately US$1.6 million has been set aside for other institutiond support or
studies that may be required in order to implement recommendations.
4.24 Amex 4-9 provides a list of supporting documents for the TIP and the technical
assistance component of this project. A draft action plan for the corporate restruuing efort
will be submitted to IDA by January 31, 1994 and adopted by April 30, 1994. The stwdies
on the forward foreign exchange market, the credit reference agency, the long-term debt
market and commercial insurance market will be completed by June 30, 1994. The
Govermnent will distribute the Guidebook no later than July 31, 1994.
3.  Eoect Suainabilit
4.25 The project would enhance and increase the capacity of the export sector to respond to
ongoing reforms in ivtmet, trade and banking policies, export promoton and expasion
supported by IDA financed operations as well as through close coopatin with USAID and
TIP. In addition, the project design supports initiatives to increase the provision of ecport
credit and technical assistance to develop the financial and other suppori infrastrcture for
prvate exporters. The credit and technical assistance components will both enable the
financial sector to provide assistance to exporters on a revolving basis. Sustanability is
reiorced by (i) market determined on-lending rates for the credit; (-d) the prudenta
guidelines that PFIs must meet; and, (iii) the building of technical capacity in the BOG and
the PFIs to hndle the provision of credit to exporters on an ongoing basis.
4.  Lessons from Previous IA nvolvment
4.26 The lessons that emerged from experience in past and current operations in Ghana
were applied in project preparation and design including: (a) institg simple procedus to
facilitate the application of the trade credit component of the project; (b) close consultation
with officias of beneficiary agencies in the design of programs and detemination of terms of
refeence of the technical assistance experts to ensure ownership of program goals; (c)
provision of overseas attachment and on-site training programs to strengthen institions and
upgrade skldls; (d) setting monitorable indicators to evaluate the extent and impact of training
programs; and (e) close dialogue with other donors at the identification and design stages of
the project cycle to take advantage of savings from Implementation of related projects.



-27-
V. PROJECT CMANDPA,N
5.1   TableS.1 prsents an e ae of the total pect cost associda  with this specific
operation.
2~~ksMM atb                       -            .. "2 M
.1. f
5.2   Central to the funding  _  for the Ref e Facil  is the asumpdon that a
sbstt  proportion of export finance is presently gerated by corporate cash flows and
involves only limite bank fin g. Thi siuion arises from the continued demand by the
banks for high borrowing rates, excessive margins and excessive coLateral inluding in many
cases, cash. The appraisal mission concluded that Ohanaian exporters were severely under
leveraged and the growth poential accordbiny for exports would continue to be consained
by the rate of intern  cash flow. The following asumptions have been made to estimate tho
need for export finance. Cocoa, gold, diamonds, raw timber and electricity exports have
been excluded. AU cocoa exports are routed throu COCOBOD, which as a government
agency, will not be eligible for export finance under this projec  Exduding cocoa, gold,
diamonds, raw tmber and dectcity, other export producs are projected to grow at an
average amnual rate of 5 percent for the duration of dtis project GEPC has projected a much
higher average annual gwth rate of about 27 percent for nonaditional exports. Most
Ghanaln exorters felt that GEPC growth projecons are very ambiious and that an annual
h   rate of 5 percent ws acievable. Using an annual growth rate of 5 pecent, total
exports (oter an cocoa, gold, diamonds, raw timber and electricity) would be around
US$340 million by end of 1998 with iemental expo being about US$75 milLion between
begining of 1994 and end of 1998. Export finance under this project has been
conservadvey estmated on the basis at it will fimn  incremental ewpor. For these
inremental expors, a profit margin of 10 percent has been assumed. It has also been



- 28 -
assumed Xa exporters will have access to tade credits equivalent to about 20 percent of
Incremet expors. Bank finance will require a margin of 15 percent Finally, an export
cycle of one year has been assumed. Based on these asumptions, total financing required for
executing export orders wHi be about 55 pecen of incremenal export, i.e., about US$42
million. Since not all export ordes wfll be posed to bans for financing and, since ban  will
also be using other fmding sowurces, a credit facility of US$34 million has been deemed to be
appropriate. lhese estmates also assume that any long-term investments that may be required
to execute export orders will be fiaced fom fimnding arrangements that are already in place
for the acquisition of fixed assets.
5.3   The estimate for the Tedmical       component has been developed by Bank staff
joiny with staff from the private bector organions and the Govement instituions
involved in the project (see Annexg ).
5.4       For the project as a whole, IlDA financing is expected to cover US$41 million
equivalent or 81 percent of the to ost. IDA will fince 100 pecent of the foreign
excne component of approximately US$33 million equivaent. About 46 percent of the
local cost financing net of duties and taxes (approximaely US$8 miiUon) is anticipated from
IDA, and the remaning US$10 million equivalent to be provided by the Government,
exorter, investors, and from local financial entities such as commercial banks and other
institutions (see Table 5.2 below). The finncing plan was agreed upoA during negotiations.
i,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O ----
0..
VL POEIIPBETTO
A.   On-Lending Arl_ntsm
6.1   The pvoposed Credit would be made tD the Republic of Ghana at sunad IDA tms
(40 years maturit ios uding 10 years gtace). BOG would adnif the credit finds on
behif of thie Govemnment lEe folowing aTagments are envisaged.
6.2    Punds for the ECRGF 0D OUS$34 mMlion equivaent, will be passed on to
BOG, w.ho, in burn, wotdd on4end thie ftids to thie eligible PPE ftough the EPO. T.hese
hmlds wiff enable BOG tD offer de dbwu_f of eligible short-tem export loans at alrre
floatig ma*et rane (mcludwg a tascinfee) from P}!Is.  IEe discount rat chaged by



-29-
the BOG will be reviewed wihi IDA quarterly, to enure that the facility is both recompensing
the BOG for its adminisive costs as well as providing a usable and effective service to hie
PFs and exporters. The onlending rate from PFIs to exporters will be market determined.
6.3 Funds for tecnical assistance, US$7 mllion equivalent, will be managed (a) by the
EFFO within the BOG for ose allocated to: (i) the preparation, organization, staffing and
implementaion of the entire ECRGF program; and (il) the suppott progms directly related
to the traiing programs for bankers and exporters, the international payments system, the
forward foreigl exchange and credit reference agency study; and O) by the project
implem   on unit (PIU) at the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, which will
coordinate the development of the corporate restrucuring action plan, and the studies on the
long-term debt market and the commercial insurance market.
B.   Jmp*munaUUn..AIT_ents
6.4   A umber of legal agreements will be required in order to set out the respective
obligations of the various entities and to reguate the flow of fumds from the Government
and/or BOG to the beneficiaries. Outlined below are the specific implementation
arragemens that wil be developed to suWort the project.
6.5 The portion of the credit to be used for the credit refinamce and guarantee facility
would be made available by the Goverment to eligible financial itermediaries through an
apex arrangement in the BOG, which would on-lend these funds by discounftng of trade credit
by PFIs. The function and responsibilities of the BOG apex unit will be defined in a
subsidiary administation geemet between the Government and the BOG. The signing of
the subsidiary administration agreement, with terms and conditions sadsfactory to IDA, is a
condition of credit effectdveness. In addition, the signing of a participation agreemen
between BOG and at least 2 PTs and the issuance by BOG of a circular to the banking
system outliing the conditions and procedures for the utilizion of export finance and
uarmees by the PFIs under the credit are conditons of disbursement of the ECRGF.
6.6   Whfle IDA has had generaly good experience with the Development Finance Unit of
the BOG, the export focus of this project suggests that the involvement of the Export Finance
Department should also be considered on some basis. An Export Finance Office (EFO) will
be formed in the BOG and will operate under policies that will clearly define its objectives, its
scope and its mediod of peation. It would have its own opeational procedures which would
be developed to provide an acceptable degree of autonomy to avoid undue delay in the
processing of subprojects submitted for financing by PTh. With respect to the export traiing
program, the Financial Instittons Group of SCB in London will coordinate the UK
internships and trining programs with the EFO.
6.7  Initial staffig of the EFO should consist of a manager, two qualified officers each for
the refinance faiy  and the guaantee progam and an account. This staff will: (a)
complete the orgaion accounting, adminirative and reportng tasks required; (b)
efflcienv process the     af*i o for rfinanng and for cover presented by the PFIs; and
(c) arrmge and coordinate training seminaus and workshops with assistance from specialized
consultants, as neceary, to fully familiarize the staff of the PFIs and exporters with the
facilities being offered. It is expected that as volume incrases, additional staff may be
required. The technica assistamce to be provided to the BOG under the project would include
f hnancg bfor () the establs t of both the refinuncing and guarantee programs over a two



-30-
ear period; ii) costs of training EFO staff, some of whom might need some traing abroad in
trade fnace departments; (iii) training in apraisal and supeavision of PFls and exportes;
(iv) initial project statt up costs including speciaized software programs to handle these new
components; and (v) vehicles to meet local and regiona travel requiements. The
Govnment confirmed that the EFO has been established and stad and a manager
appointed. As a condition fr prject ffectivens, EFO will be fully staffed with personnel
with qualifications and exprience satisfactory to IDA. Preparation of operational procedures
and policies will be a condition of dibume  of the ECRGF.
6.8  Institutional arrangements to achieve the resuctring of PVEs will involve a number
of stages. This project will confine tself to defining the role and policy to be adopted by
NPART, supporting NPART in determining the PVEs to be offered to the market for
restructg, assessing the nature of the legal arrangements, and creating the necessay
modalities to develop the market response by investors. The Government reaffimed its
commitment to a preparatory implemenion plan. It was confirmed that during negotiations
implementation of this preparatory phase wil be coornated by the PIU in the Ministry of
Finance and NPART would actively participate in the desigp of the plan.
6.9 Ihe Government confirmed that the PIU has been established, staffed, and a manager
appointed. Annmex   summaiz  the roles and responsibiLties of the EFO and PIU.
6.10 The credit components are expected to be committed over a period of about four years
from effectiveness. Anex 62 provides the project ihplementaton schedule and  nexS6-3
provides the key indicators for implementaton and the reporting requirements for the project
C.
6.11 The purhase of goods and services financed under the proposed project will follow the
guidelines cstmary for financial  mai    operations of this type. PPIs will have to
satisfy themselves that the goods and services to be purchased are for the investment approved
by them and are reasonably priced by ensuring tat sub-borrowers canvass the main sources
of supply and purchase from the most advantageous source. For expor preparation orders for
which refinancing is being sought, for any single conact exceeding US$100,000, a minimum
of three quotations will be required by the PFls except in the case of standardized equipment
or proprietary Items that are needed for compatibility with existing equipment wherein direct
contracting may be allowed. It is recommended that bid packages exceeding $1.0 million
equivalent in value would be procured by intenational competitve bidding (ICB). ICB may
be waived by PFIs following IDA approval and limited international bidding (LIB) or direct
contracting allowed for: (a) equipment that is available only from a limited number of
suppliers worldwide; or (b) standard equipment or proprietary tems required for compatibility
with existing equipment. PFh will be required to maintain procement records for review
by IDA during supervision. Reports on subprojects sent by PFIs to the BOG should include a
list of goods and services to be finmced under the Credit and the method of procurement.
6.12 Under the technical assistance component, alt goods and services would be procured in
accordance with procedures acceptable to I1DA. Prcurment of vehicles and equipment under
the technical assistance component would be made according to local shopping procedures for
any single contract totaling US$75,000 equivalent or less. For each contract costing more
than US$75,000 procement wiUl be made by locit competitive biddig procedures (LCB).
For contracts over US$200,000, procurement shall follow international competitive bidding



-31 -
(ICB) procedures or limited internaional biing (IM) with IIDA appval. The pcure t
of consulting services wfll be according to IMA auidelnet for the Use of Consultants.
Poum  do          ion and arrangemen  for each cosltat conra  amountg to
US$100,000 or more wil be subject to prior rwiew by IDA. Exceton to prior Bank review
or approval requemeb thall not apply to the tems of reference for all conts nor t the
employment of individuals, to single-soe hiring of firms, to assignme  of a critical nature
as reasonably determined by IDA, and to amendments of contracts aising the conact value
to US$100,000 equivalent or above. Ihe Bank will apply is prior review aragemenu to:
(a) contracts in excess of US$1 million for sub-loans, and (b) contract in excess of
US$75,000 for the tehncal assistance.
6.13 Consultant requirements under the technical assistance component are detailed in
Anexes 4-3 through 44. Procurement reporting requirement are found in Annex 63 and
project procurement arrangements are summrized in Annexes 6-4 and 6-5. Final agreement
on these arrangements and procedures was reached during negotiations. Leer of inviation
and biddng docments for the technical assistance components, excluding the intrional
payments settlement system, will be finalized as a condion of effetens.
ID.   Disbursemenl s
6.14  The proposed allocation of the IDA credit and the disbursement schedule is provided in
Amu       To faite                 of the project, two Spec  Accounts will be
established and  nta  in US dollars in a commercial bank and on terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA. The fir account (the EFO Account) wiUl have an authorized alocation of
US$3 million covering estimated expendiures over six months, the second (the PIU Account)
US$400,000. After 50 percent of the funds have been disbursed, application for the
replenishment of the accouns wil be submitted together with fuil documentation showing
payments were made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
6.15 Documentadon for contracts valued at less than US$50,000, for which disbursements
would be made against certified staements of expenditures, would be retained by the
implementing agencies for review by IDA's supervision missions and project auditors.
Withdrawal applications will be aggregated in amounts of US$50,000 or more for submission
tD IDA when possible.
E.   Audidng and Rmranllg Malruments
6.16 All project accounts, the Specia Accounts, the Statements of Expenditure and the
financal stements of the project entities (PPIs, EFO and PRU) will be audited at the end of
each fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Copies of the audit reports will
be forwarded to IDA within six months of the end of each repordng period. Arrangements
for auditing were confirmed during negotations.
6.17 The EFO will maintain adequate records and a project information system, that would
provide quartrly updates on disbursements satisfactory to the IDA. In addition the EFO will
monitor the progress of the credit and its impact, and will prepare, bi-annually, information
on export sectors, geographic regions of activity, size of enterprises as well as the ex-ante
impact of export growth on employment and production. The PIU will maintain similar
records and proje information system that provide quarterly updates on disbursements
satisfactory to IDA for those components under its jurisdiction. All of these data will be



-32 -
essnal to the Government and InDA, in their guidance of program promotional and tecnic
assistance activity.
6.18  To enable IDA to monitor the progress of project impl aon,  d to sure
conformity with project objectives, the EFO and PRY will fkurish  IDA semi ualy with
repors detailing progress of their respective project cmpo . In addtion, thes agencies
will prepare a Project Completion Report for the entire poject sk months after the project
closing date, covering alI related activities during project impletin and descibing hie
Project's costs and benefits. Reporting formats and schedles were agreed during
negotiations.
F.   JaDkSupIsion
6.19  Because the proposed project is the first operaon focused mostly on the financing of
exports and considering Its technical assistane content, Implemeon of the proposed
project will be supervised on a semi-anul basis untl after the mid-term review. The
supervision plan for the project is at Annex 6-. Supervision during the first year of
implementation of the project would focus on: (a) launching the project with an on-site
workshop; (b) assessing the size and quality of the refinancing facility and the export
guantee program, evalua  their operational effectiveness and adjusting the program, if
necessary; (c) assessing progress on the restructuring effort and its technical assisance
component; and (d) reviewing the range and level of the asstance provided by the EPO and
PIU. A joint Bank-Govermment mid-Wterm review of the project will be conducted about 24
months into the project as a basis for: (l) deteminig implementation progress and making
mid-course adjustments, if necessary; (ii) identifying progress in meeting the targets oudined
in the Letter of Strategic Development Policy (Am"    ; and (i) dermAng progress in
follow-up studies and training to ensure continty in support of the development of the
private sector and the export industry. Anne fiprovides a summary of key item  for the
mid-term review.
6.20      The proposed completion date for the project is September 30, 1997, and the
proposed closing date is March 31, 1998.
VIIL BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    jeritts
7.1   Ihe proposed project, in paralel with the TIP, will assist Ghana's accelerated growth
staegy by stimulating the growth of present private exporters and expanding that mnmber, by
improving the productive efficiency of the whole privae sector, and by helping to foster an
enviromnent in which it can flourish. The growth of this segment of the economy is expected
to contribute to strengthening the culture of exporting, enhancing competition and related
improvements in productivity, and generating the much needed supply response and growth.
Finally, the project will promote economic development by broadening direct and indirect
employment potential, thus contributing to poverty alleviaton.



-33 -
D. Rlaka
7.2   The mn rsk is rete to he sutainabity of poltical andmo c
development, which may both weak  the Investent dlimate and slow down the
mplementation of the projecL While the Govenmet has indicated its comnitmet to the
proposed project, tee are a number of complex Inttutional arrangements to be overcome
before it can fully deliver its objectives. Nevertheless, the Bank's on-going economic and
sector dialogues, as well as previous adjustment credit will assist in idening and
correctg  sitional and regulatory obstcles that might negadtvely impact the projec.
Additionally the strong cocmmm  of the private sector in general. and the manufacturers'
and exporters' associations in particudar, helps to minmize this risk. Further risks are related
to the limited experience of bank and non-bank financi itutions supporting private
enterprises and the limited mangeri ad marketg experien  of the eereneus
themselves. The tecical assistance to be provided under the project is designed to correct
and lessen these rsks.
vm. AGIQM AND fRflKMEM
8.1   The Governm    has appointed the manager of the EFO and the PW (paras 6.74.9)
and has signed and delivered a Letter of Strategic Development Policy on the famework for
private sector development (ara 2.46). During negodations the following signficant
assurances were obtined: (a) a shift from an ex-amte approval process to an ex-post review on
al investments no later ta December 31, 1993 ad that by January 1, 1995 the GIC will no
longer have any reguatory functions (para 2.46); (0) detailed eligibility citeria were agreed
for the PFrs including the limitation that by December 31, 1994 eligibility would be
restricted to the financial instiions having 51 percent or more private ownership (ara 4.7);
(c) recognizing the Importance of continuing support for the export sector, the Government
agreed to continue to recycle the credit funds for the propose of providing export credi for
the life of the project (pra 4.5); (d) it was agreed ta the Goverment would include in the
1994 budget, for funding no later than February 1, 1994, US$1 million equivalent for the
Export Guarantee Fund (para 4.10); (e) to ensure responsiveness to market conditions, interest
rates will be reviewed on a quarterly basis (ara 4.6; and (fJ it was agreed that there would be
a mid-erm review of the project in 1995 to review progress on the credit program, the
corporate restructring program, the adequacy of the instituonal arrangements, the exection
and impact of the various training components and a review of the stats of the modifications
to the regulation of investments and other reforms set out in the Letter of Strategic
Development Policy (para 6.19).
8.2   C                             include: (a) submissica to IDA of detailed
proposa for implementing (Q) ex-post review rather than ex-ante approval of all investments;
(i) how fisca invesment incentives will be incotporated with the filing of tu rers; and
(iii) the elimiaion of the  ega y function of the Ghana Investment Center (GIC); O)
receipt by IDA of signed BOG subsidiary administration agreements; (c) designation of at
least five banks as PPls by BOG; (d) EFO and PIU will be fully staffed with personnel with
qualifications and experience sadsfaory to IDA; and (e) submission of draft bidding
documents/letters of invitadon for the technical assistance components except for the
intrnational payments settlement system.



-34 -
8.3 The prVparaion of the EPCis opeational policies and procedures, approvad by the
BOO ad acceptable to IDA and the isuance by LiOG of a circular to the banking system
satisctory to IDA, oudtinin the conditions and procedures for the utlization of export
finance and credit guantee program by the PFIs, ad the sIgning of a participation
agreement between BOG and at least two PFis on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA
wIll be conditions for  muuLof  tof rwk.
8.4   With the above a8grements, the poject will be suitable for a crdit of SDR 29.6
million (US$41 million equivalent) to the Government of Ghana, on standard IDA terms with
40 years of maturity.



AN         1-1
Page 1 of 3
GHANA
3ERUM   ARND 2T DEMUELOtR^C
UNrI   SrATFS AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Trade and bvesmnt Program (IP)
1.    I 1991, USA!]) and World Bank staff worked closely to design two complementary
projects to assist in the development of Ghana's export sector. In August 1992, the Board of
Direcors of USAID approved the Trade and Investment Program (TP) which is now
curreny efective and under implementation. Following is a brief executive summary of this
Credi
2.    The TIP is a five year, US$80 million initiative whose goal is to increase sustained
per capita GDP. The purpose of TIP is to increase private sector non-traditional exports.
The program's objectives are (a) an increase in the nominal value of NTEs by new and pre-
exsting fims from US$62 million in 1991 to US$250 million by the end of TIP (in 1997);
(b) an increase in the number of fims participating direcdy or indirecdy in NTEs by 1,500
from the 1991 total of 2,498; (c) an increase in real per capita income of men and women
engaged directly or indirectly in NTE of 5 percent per year by the end of TIP, compared to a
2 percent increase in the economy as a whole; and (d) at least 60,000 new full time NTE
related employment opportnities created for men and women by the end of the program.
3.    TIP proposed a US$60.0 milion cash grant that will address the principal constraints
in the enabling enviroment to export production and investment. US$50.0 million is
scheduled from the Mission's Operational Year Budget and an additional US$10.0 million is
requested from the Africa Economic Policy Reform Program. TIP also includes a US$20.0
million project component to strengthen the principal public sector institutions involved in
investment and export promotion, for support to private sector associations and firms to
improve their capacity to export and to obtain export financing. Funding is also provided for
program management and support.
4.    TIP responds to dual challenges facing the Ghana economy; i.e., the need to both
increase and diversify export growth. Ghana's export growth has not kept pace with the rest
of the economy, with the result that in 1991, after deducting 25 percent of Ghana exports to
cover debt servicing, Ghanaes export earnings only covered 56 percent of Ghana's import bill.
While donor resource flows and remittances from Ghanaians abroad have made up the
difference, Ghana's long-term economic health depends upon a significant increase in Ghana's
exports. Current traditonal exports (cocoa, gold, timber and electricity) which provide 87.5
percent of Ghana's export eanings, will not be capable of providing the export growth
needed to meet Ghana's growth needs ana reduce its dependency on donor resource flows.
Therefore, Ghana needs to look to the non-traditional export sector which has begun to
respond to the positive macroeconomic environment created by the Economic Recovery
Program, iniated by the GOG in 1983. Since 1983, non-traditional exports have increased
from US$1.0 million to US$62.0 million in 1991. A number of new products are being
exported and overall, the prospecs for sustained growth in non-traditional exports appear to
be good if the constaints can be eliminated.



Page 2 of 3
5.    There are a number of consts affecdag the general economy which are bing
addressed by the GOG in coopratio wih various donor grups. Te the constrait
having the greatest restraiing impact on non-traditional export growth we: (1) the enabling
environment; (2) the present productio and marketig capacity and capability of existg or
potential export firms; and (3) the limied financing available to exporers.
6.    In the case of the enabling envoment, the issues of the legal frmewwork,
transparency and the trade regime have a negatve impact on the Inrest of fitms to invest
into or expand investment for export production. Likewise, the dn re emens
frustrat exporters and raise their costs. Ihe weaknesses of public sector export and
investment promotion agencies have also acted as a brake on the expansion of export trade
and investment.
7.    Resolving the ises of the enabling environment will not be sufficient to get export
moving; the prest  capacity and capability of exporters limh  their ability to rapidly increase
production. Lack of market infrmation is cmpounded by managment, production and
finacial access problems. These issues must be addressed simulty with the enabling
environment. The restrat imposed by underdeveloped finacing systems a  particularly
severe for non-traditional exporters. Establishing export credit guantee, and export
refinancing facilities, as well as export insurance programs are essential inntves to
encouraging banks to actively market export finumcing loans to non-taditional expoters.
8.    Tht ibove three Issues, enabling envruonment, prvate sector capacity and export
financig art 'he subjects of two separate but parallel export promotion projects. The TIP
program wil a tress the issues of enabling environment and private sector capacity while the
IDA project wi  ddress the export finacing issues. The GOG, IDA and USAID (Ghana),
are agreed that the private sector must become the engine of growth for the economy thro
export expansion if Ghana is to continue to grow and deveop. TIP supports the development
of private sector-led export growth and complements other donor actvities in infrastructur
developmeit, the two IDA financal sector adjusument credits, the ird IDA Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC  o) and the upcoming IDA expor credit.
9.    The TIP cash grant will be implemented in five tranches and will leverage
conditionality in the following key areas:
(a)     mproving the policy framework through an improved and transparen legal
and regulatory emvironment and trade and duty relief regimes;
(b)   Reducing Ghanain exporters regulatory ad  ni tive ransactions costs
through the elimination of outdated requements and the streamlining of
export processing and clearance documentation;
(c)   Improving GO  public sector export support services.
10.   The project component will provide tehnical assistance and training amounting to
US$11.2 mfllion which wi be provided to the private sector non-tradi   exports direcdy
and through private sector trade or product group associations to: identify promising export
markets; produce intermationally competitive products; promote and sel products in
established and new markets; obtain inbrmation on changing markets; and expand export



Page 3 of 3
production. Included withn the private sector component will be the fcimg of a Privat
Enterprise Foundation at will oversee the provision of tecal assistance and training to
the private sector and will mapage the Accra Private Sector Center, a facility for providig
firm-level advisory and training services in any number of directy reated business
management, finning, ses and commercial areas that impact on exorts. Four hundred
Ghanaian businesses will successfully conduct non-traditional export transactions involving
sales, financing or searching through TIP assisted trade and/or professional associations.
Moreover, the TIP will fund the establishment of an Accra office of the African Project
Development Facility, ultimately to be located in the Accra Private Sector Center. Ihe
APDF will in tum be committed to the development of 8-10 bankable private sector projects a
year, at least half in the export sector.
11.   In addition to support to the pdvate sector, TIP will also provide US$6.2 mion fir
tecbnical assistance and training to selected export-related GOG agencies. Ihis assistance is
to strengthen the GOG's efforts to improve the export environment, enhance dialogue with the
private sector and expand non-traditional exports. Particular assistance is planned for the
Ghma Export Promotion Council and the Ghana Investments Center. Asstance to these two
units will be conditioned upon agreement on a sategic focus for each orgaization which will
transform them from public sector entities to quasi-governmenl organizations. Assita   is
also planned for the Customs Excise Preventative Service to assist It in establishing and
Implementing a comprehensive duty relief program to facilitate the importation by Ghanlan
exorters of raw materis used in the production of export goods.
12.   Finally, the project will pwvide US$2.6 million in progam management and support
fuing. Ibis will provide for the serices of an expatriate coordinator tD assist in the
management of TIP, as well as for vital support requirements in terms of impact and
environmental monitoring and evaluation, financial assessments, reviews and audits and for
contractor support through the Mission Field Support Unit.



AN=E 2-1
Page 1 of 7
,GHANA
PRNT _ RS AND E:nPORT DEEVIOT POl C
Terms of Reference for Corporate lttprise Restructwig
1.    Deficiencies of the distessed prvae enterprses are well known in Ohara and, in
addition to their fianci distess, are also suffering from years of neglect in their physical
plant, management and mrkg. While there are many companies In the economy in
similar condion, the oppormity has arisen to address a sigpificant portion of them that are,
as a result of acdons taken under FINSAC I, now under the custody of the Non-Performing
Assets Recovery Trust (NPART). NPART itself was structr  solely as a limited, time-
bound, recovery agency with no restructring mandate. It was decided under FINSAC II to
investigate the issue of Corporate Restructurig and a study of the issues was commissioned,
the rests of which were produced in a study by the consulting firms of REPIMS and
ADDO. The study, using the Bank's Domestic Resource Cost (DRC) analysis, together with
on-site visits and Interviews identified an initial cut of some 60 to 70 companies that it defined
as potentaly viable. The full study is available both from the Government or IDA. During
appraisal and post-appraisd missions, it was proposed that an exit mechanism be developed
for these companies from NPART which, depending on its conclusions, will have as its object
the return of these companes to the mainstream commercial economy foMowing their financW
and management restructuing, or their liquidation.
2.    R has been generaily agreed that restrucuring must be a market driven process and
tdat these companies, the majority of which are private, need to be presented with a workable
restrucuring proposal. Technical assistance will be provided to develop an action plan which
wfll begin the proces of identifying the legal and business issues involved in this effort and
setting up the necessary modalities and structures to implement the program. It is proposed
that this prelimlrny work be done under the auspices of and in cooperation with NPART.
3.    To prepare a legal basis for the action and business plan, a Ghaalan legal firm has
prepared a preliminary assesment of the legal framework in Ghana which would impact the
estabishment of a corporate restructuring program. This assessment includes opinions on
public auctions, non-voting cumulaive redeemable preferred shares, corporate restructuring,
acquisitions, merger arrangements, monopolies, foreign equity investments in Ghanaian
companies, Government controls and entitlements, the legal status and powers of NPART, the
Divestiture Implementation Committee and the Ghana Investe  Center, the tax implications
of corporate restructuring and finally, the issues of insolvency, bankuptcy and enforcement of
securities.
4.     t wll be necsary, in order to generate an action plan, to appoint both a legal and a
finanial consultant to work closely with NPART and IDA. The legal work already done wil
serve as a fkamework within which the plan can be developed and it is recommended that the
Ghanaian firm be retained to contime to act as legal consultant on this mater.



wANE 2-1
Page 2 of 7
5.    The credentials of the financial consultats should include experience in Africa and
experience in corporate restructuring with particular reference to troubled commercial
compnies as opposed to divestiure of public companies. Ideally, tie consultant will have an
investment banking background and be able to advise on a program which cannot
automatically assume alternative capital markets, secondary liquidation opportunides or
broadly held joint-stock companies.
Terms of Reference - Financial
6.    The financial consultants will be expected to produce a specific set of
reconmenations for presentation to the Government and IDA. Ihey will rely on the
REPIMS-ADDO study as their source of information and will wt be expected to update or
expand that study. Furthermore, they will work closely with NPART to develop a set of
feasible recommendations that will enable NPART to present to its board, the Government
and IDA, a plan which wil address NPART's primary mandate of optimizi  recovery of the
non-erforming assets within its portfolio.
7.    Beause this is a unique initative being proposed, the Government is anxious to
ensure that the action plan to be recommended is feasible, practical and worthwhile. Whie
the REPIMS-ADDO study identified some 60-70 companies as potentially viable, there is
some doubt that this wiUl indeed reflect reality. 'herefore, it is proposed that the consultants
wll, in coopetion with NPART and with reference to RMS-ADDO, develop the action
plan based on a smaller sample group. The consultants wil be expected to produce a plan,
based an the above criteria and inputs which will:
(a)    Develop an operational plan for restructuring. This would include developing
a plan of action applicable in general to each company, obtaining agreement in
principle from NPART as to Its disposition with respect to a debt settement
plan either by means of liquidation or debt equity swaps with private
investors.
(b)   Evaluate the legal framework facing the ompanies and NPART in considering
a corporate restructuring pln and that needs to be addressed. This review
should not exclude the possibility of recommending special legislation
necessary to unblock unresolvable issues if necessary.
(c)    Evaluate the amount and the need for equity fuinds, loan funtds and technica
assistance to support the restucturing of the subject companies. Develop a
series of recommendations on financial restructuring and or recapitalization
and identify whether there is any need for the Government to have any form
of profit back-in or convertible debt position in consideration for the debt
relief.
(d) Assess through direct discussions with potential investors, the private sector
finanng capacity, financing options and financial incentives, if necessary.
Asses the necessary conditions to elicit investor intert and detr6ne if
there are any necessay legal or other pre-requisite to ensure investor
security.



AEX2-1
Page 3 of 7
(e)    Finally, to the extent deemed possible, recommend a specfic set of guidelines
that could be publicly gazetted by the Governmet, offering a cowporate
restructring plan to the investor community and the subjecA c3m1panlies.
lbese guidelines should indicate a timetable for actions.
Terms of Refirence - Lea
S.    A preparatory legal report has been completed by the Ghanaian firm of Bents-nchili
& Leta, and a fina report is expected. Given the firm's involvement and work in prepaig
this special report, it is probably productive to rein them to work closely with the financial
consultants in prepaing the action plan. Specific tms of reference would be:
(a)    On the basis of the legal report prepared, advise and support the financial
consultant on the legal issues arising from the proposed restrucing plan.
(b)    Advise the financial consultant and NPART on the legal specifics impacting
NPART or the companies arising from the proposed restructuing plans.
(c)    Advise the financial consultants on the various instrumentalities such as
subordined debt, special preference shares, voting rights etc., which might
arise in a restructuring strategy and to what extent their use is permissible
under Ghanaian law.
(d)    Advise the financial consultants on the issues of tax, shareholder's liability and
other targeted issues arising from the restructuing plan.
(e)    Finally, review and advise on the final plan and support the financial
consultant in whatever representations will be necessary.
9.    Under the Banks First Fiacial Sector Adjustment Credit (Credit 191 1-G) the
cisis which confrod the Ghanaian commercial banking system was addressed by a series of
actions which included the transfer of some 1400 non-performing loans plus their coilateral
from the banks. These loans were placed in a newly formed stattory agency, the Non-
Performing Assets Recovery Trust (NPART). NPART was formed with the principal
objective of recovering as much as possible of these non-performing loans, the proceeds of
which would be used to retire the bonds which the Govermment had issued to the banks in
exchage for these loans to recapitalize their balance sheets. Furtermore NPART was given
a limited life of 4 years with a possible extension of one year. NPARrs commission runs
out on December 31, 1994, unless renewed for the extra year.
10.   Over the past two years of its existence, NPART has steadily fulfiled its objectives.
However, while it contiues to negotiate recoveries, it has become increasingly apparent that
this process is more complex than originally conceived. Uquidation of assets in Ghana has
not proved to be easy partly because there is a very limited secondary market for liquiated
assets and pardy becmse the normal processes of corporate receivership are not functioning.
Furthermore it is a fact at many of the companies withn the portfolio are continuing to
operate, albeit poorly, and that given the same level of commercia support and access to
credit, might well prove to be worthwhile credits over the longer term. However, being



ANNEX 2-1
Page 4 of 7
confined under NPART they have in effect been cut off from these normal avenues to capital
and loans leaving them essentaly in a commrcial limbo.
11.   Under the Bans Second Financl Sector Adjustment Credit (CR# 2318-H), it was
decided to invesdgate this situadon further and a study on corporate restructuring was
commissioned. An earlier study under FINSAC I had been done, but with the passage of
time and the experience of NPART, it was felt that a more formal, in depth, analysis was
necessary. The basic terms of reference of this study were to look at the companies in the
NPART portfolio tiat had debts in excess of C 20 million (about US$50,000) and by analysis
and investigaon segegae them into potealy viable or non-viable enterprises.
The Repins Addo Study
12.   The identification of Potenially Viable Entrises (PVEs) was achieved by adopting
a sievelike two stage approh. The population of "distressed" companies are ranked by a
domestc resource cost analysis (DRC) and those companies above a cut-off point were
selected for further analysis through a company visit. The selection of the cut-off point was
sufficintly generous to ensure that no PVE was eliminated at that stage of the analysis.
13. Each of the companies selected through the DRC analysis has been visited by a team
with business expertise covering technical, manageral and financial aspects of business. As a
result of tis visit, based on the detailed appraisal of the various functions of the company and
its potenti to adapt and survive if appropriate assisance was availed of, each company was
determined to be either a PVE or a non-viable enterprise (NVE). Thus those companies that
passed the DRC test but were considered to be a NVE as a result of the more detailed
appraisal of the company have been eliminated at tis stage.
Basic Cndulim
(a)    he Role ofA
14. The creation of NPART has indicated that the banks in the financial sector from
which the assets were trnsfred are until they themselves have been restructured, not
capable of carying out a corpore  restructuring programme. NPART, for its part, is acting
very much as a Chapter 11 process by allowing companies to contnue to operate. Its force,
however, lies in its backing by the special Non-PefoDrming Assets Recovery Tbunal. It is
not a corporate restructwrig ageny as conventionally understood and should be more
accurately described as a debt recovery agency.
(b)    Itaom   Beh      Financial Dism
15.   Whfle individua company reasons for financial distess vary, they can be classified
into broad categories:
16.   Polir Rela     sn res relate to the consequeces of the Economic Refom
Programme and the changig operating conditions for most of the companies in terms of their
exposure to externd competition, the effect of successive devaluations, and the interest rate



ANNEX -1
Page 5 of 7
and credit policies adopted. lTese drstic changes took place within a comparatively short
space of time and led to unsustainable debts in many cases coupled to the sudden
umnillingness of the banks to fund working capital requirements.
17.   AMigem e  by the FiTclW- St.  hbe reasons include the inability of the
banks to appraise projects properly, resulting in insufficient funding for projects from the
start. Thus, the companies operated at low rates of capacity utilization and at unprofitable
levels. In some cases, it was evident that the banks lacked an appreciation of the fill
financial implications of their actions to the project as they ignored situations where
companies were unable to complete the installation of equipment and commence operations
even though all the equipment had been purchased and was available.
18.   The transfer of the non-performing loans from the banks to NPART has also given
rise to certain problems.
(a)    There was no definitive agreement between the companies and the banks as to
the level of debt. Some companies dispute the figures particularly those
arising from foreign exchange losses. In a number of cases, it is not clear
who bore the exchange risk particularly when cedi related interest rates were
chaged. A case was noted for example where after a company had paid an
exchange risk premium as required under Bank of Ghana Notice No
BGJF0186J3 of February 14, 1986 and subsequent amendments, it was still
made to bear the exchange risk.
(b) Ihere was no clear agreement about re-assigning collateral from the banks to
NPART.
19.   It is apparent that some banks used the opportnity to transfer to NPART the debt of
companies in which they had shares and had appointed the managers and non-ecuidve
diectors. This allowed the banks to obtain repaynent in full while passing on the problem to
NPART. In many cases, the companies have disputed the level of debt.
1atrcurn  - PreatIon of an Action Plan
20.   It has been well documented in the REPIMS-ADDO study that in addition to fincial
problems, the other major issues in all the companies under NPART are management
production and marketing. Although some of the owners of these entprie have bright and
dynamic ideas, they often lack the skills for modem production, marketing, management and
finance hat will ensure the sustnability of their companies.
21.   R u       g is often a complex and many faceted business, and it is important to
understand what is needed to bring back an enterprise onto a sustainable and profitable path.
Mnandal Rtructuing
*     Bescheduling of the debt and/or decrease the level of the debt: most
enterrises which originally had their debts denominated in foreign cumencies,
on conversion to locally denominated debt (which was inflated by the
significant devaluations over the past few years) have found themselves with a



ANNEX 2-1
Page 6 of 7
burden of debt ssvice that e  wot be handle   d needs to be rescheduled or
restructured in the light of fute earnings and cash-flows.
*     JntQlLeon of sL iq  most private enterprises are largely undercapitalized and
need new equity, which can be achieved both through debt/equity swaps and
fresh capital.
Maagement and Techal Resucturing
*     M&kihikg; many enterprises were stertd at a time of shortages and relatively
high tariffs, which have enabled them to enjoy some kind of rent. With a
new liberalized trade environment, they need to develop new products, new
designs and a competitive strategy both for domestic and export markets.
*     Manmet  cost analysis, modern accounting systems and good
management practices are absent from most of these enterprises, resulting in
ballooning overheads and lack of profitable operations.
22.   In contrast to the financial restrucuing which might be a one shot action,
management and technical restrucuring is often a lengty process which of necessity is ofte
spread over a period of several months or even years.
23.   The fimncial restrucring is an enabling and necessary condition to ensure the
success of restrucurin. - However, in Ghana as in any other country, no financial
restructurig will be sustainable in the absence of management and technical restructing.
T3e Possible Role of NPART in Restructuring
24.   Ihis question was raised at the time of the creation of NPART. At the tme the
answer was no, the restracturing was to be carried out by another entity, the First Finance
Corporation. In view of the experience of NPART during its initia two years, it is
proprisate to revisit the question. NPART has the critical role of enabling agent in puting
the enterprise on a good startng base, but it has not the mandate, nor the capability for the
time being to carry out the other tasks. Therefre, it would not be advisable to ask NPART
to carry out these asks given (0 its mandate to recover as much as possible (for which
targets have been set); and (U) its statuoy status as a government instiution. It would not be
advisable to ask NPART itself to transform debt into equity for two reaons: (a) the
govermment would not recover funds to match for the bonds given to the bans when they
mature; and (b) the Government would be then partl owner of the NPART enterises, thus
producing in effect a partl nationalization at a time when the emphasis is on privadzation.
In addition, there is a need to create restructing skllls in Ghana to support not only the
restucturig of these identified PVEs, but also the restructuring of many other enterprises.
25. NPART should not be asked to cary out the restructuring, but to recover funds for
the Government, prepare the enterpis  for restructuring and ensure an exit mechanism from
NPART.
26. A crucial role for NPART in this preparatory stage involves the validation of a
mutually acceptable and agreed debt level. If the debt level of the companies is cotested and



ANNEX 2-1
Page 7 of 7
becomes a lega problem, it needs to be addresd before any restuctg action can take
place. A buyer of the company as an on-going concern acquir  ai the liabilities, including
debts and woud trenteed to be saed that no hidden liabilides or cla exist.
Following that de   at, he tansr of a company out of NPART to any other
instition or Just back on the market for resutucturig can be done only ater:
*     lIquBidton of the company aftr judgment by the specil tribunal and sale of
the assets; Ot
*     negotIation and selling/auction  of the debt to Ierested parties. Ceain
quesdons need to be addmsed wit this strategy such a the tax or legi
implications and the opportuity for the owner of the company himself to bid
for the debt at the reduced lwel.



antwvmdftfKpdvabseCnmbmtwSeodig
Meemsecaeinle- -Polii       Maeszisemml iablkr,          haial _aaoeoaoo             ReductioemabdiOtool         Reuce idflies ad
d_    higlesi               Nubily  nsdbc                nibe sa"in Isada            malaalabudse
heasseubEs mvlsgs            bh4at     s, s_ culg dd_otsl Jtodstoo                  mms anremse
reduce e,ieAask eb          budptda&is                  hiseit monetarycoatr        dowseatic U s NWs ad th
sa vveb              bmu          odoms           pa cesduarey BOO.           Ameta   pivae nor
axiom Emit cissau           unhodionotal                deonaic _aNmut
bosrwlisan ma-              pWsymr U .                  tb_he
oomeuosdaldmm by the
pubE sector.
NMontr policy               Malatab poshiv tad          htroduces syiemm of          Remaoal oftradis            Reduce the  vImylel                                     Iare dgeaneld
beerat rowe. Reduce         Indase mooneay coatro       ceilns. Decamtol of         taxamtiomo"bnsby                                         hitoesrae aon d ULam
Is Msnsgd Prlme             rates An IndIrect slow      reserves a rante Of
thuurgh e olatedof het      of wmontayetol bas          Iotera" clos  to the
demaucti sotart ofdth       been Itrotiued.             everp csoatofdeposit
Bak of GNasmgndthA                                      of thbmukingsyatrInh
boanki  systm as a                                      die cossoot of dhe overa
whol. To" ths  1nd4"Mhla meangmeat
absorb aus qcantdow                                     Pol hils
beis any smaess resenr
ofbobeos; adapt si refine
nascef fcfieos an
ENo. To ail esUl,                                     iqi    _
as ladidua  ancksll. ,
Tax Poly                    lvnymvsdomNl                Patlorasll  the0 takx        DkectTaxes- Level of        Ntabflslh procedure and     Linke to tranaw cit rle
macm.oemoBbltzsd           syatem, uinify die           ptaos incom. tax relif      criteia to review twre of   coodihioms.
while preaucti              corport tax r"so, a"        raised. Same lopboles        duty o particular
Incedies fo prodution. strnthn Sax               an non-taxable,             produts. Reduce tem
adMInIstration Reuc         alisomaneecsed.             difruereces. beftwee (a)
withholdin tax on           Vithholdin sa an            the top marsinal tx rase,
dividends Condan to         dividend psymatam           en prsonal incme aNd
sole exce dut  to           conetd to fina ax.          corporat inom  ta rate
presrv thei va  lae In      Conyny incosme tax nite     and Oa) btween tax rates
adeel str w.ecd an          lowered and capta gain      on diffregat industies.
the moodalItes for the       axauen MOdili.             Make SMdar progres on
inroductien of a value-     indrect Tax - Reduction     doube taxation
added tax                   Ik saue tax rteo.           agreenwut neotIatons
Inoaslatewcies elIminabtd   Wit h plDC_l trading
in determat  of base        pa.er. bplnpees
dds. Coe to    dbid pgp       ae pl _nd                   ~         ~         AdjstmMCoO
the Private Esteaprise TA, sad other sector-relaked IDA nveatmeat p_rejcis.



|i~~~~~~~~~~~Ao _OV It                                      Ats tobpg  y              us
br excisea  Wu te.    fAth  se  to
Taxo as potokam           ttosnzef b*, at, sad
-rdw  sad Vaokad           bucket aluctm. Etend
lguusd. Tax               do imh ea carzy-cr
Madala radoa - Tax        peod fbr Ione  ad
-         -uamod          BushorN& udoss
Iintaflstoo of            taxaton
ASYCUDA  _ae  to          Expand b. t bhcd
dvo ollceluof              ash a ra-    benfits
cuelMatesMubopa           that ea1aintaxexeaooro
Ia     b     _ xpayn      Daft vaised. Fdber
ideetfisaadno.mnae        teductom in mkse tax
indaed hr o1mp I_         Wate i f VAT i.
Stuy cowleda  is          iotroded, airwise as
tax adadaatrden  pado    insowmcpeink.
.ffni to tea  ufesbity of  Cosyista a
rtlacla  emma syim        eyreabemi wver ew of
wib a VAT. Tax            degn apdo8   sd
AppeasTlbast setup.         yft el a VAT.
Ta xclanwe                Coayt  ;iaatwo t
Cedbcaes ltsodmaudtl       ASYCUDA6ftc
_qosotaxoIulel.             xas ad exed to ashw
direc sad Indietraza
Imrodncounp axpaye
bb*t. Coo_
efo   t  encora
to       --,cowfto
otdihemed hrITcs
Exebsag auditd.  Malaem. ofmashes       Dmplat ada assagdma        Shif to mm"ta based        Stremgthe do bkerban       Linkedtitaahebdease       REjaRt lfasacea
alum  detesuined ambange sate  hr bk_aakfolg          inse rtp e                FWnumbL Broan              Oandki.a,
waft SU.li the            exdssngsms                 *hsasg K  a_don ilk        expoet bef  Pdtd
-M* elpeYt                  ssgente xpes              die baedsk      teomy. Sme&"                                                     at"n for bakr and
eqaem.d  Rada        anda   searthr  eu oy aN        lheeaeradofFm              *Xpea cibm de;velop                                   expoftmidadopusemea
tower  helv               hielhAtloml utmat           aw-nw              nte    0qdW*~o,n expeagoddeboet.
-od                         m m doao                          , oke               wmmep                                               andyea hwed hedge
03*41e1AS          III ImeZarIse-  dse Coootidea.     "mot dax*sbnge4yerianaas.sd
3oue0huoIfhbvdgebay        BxpaeFreeedvm                                                                   axndteo  Porossmisewsngoa.
tedr I mpost daB          uoxpaetaeafsgAp            atn  as ffect ofw Ird
1060% tralmfe roat of      odanes,mlng               liherallrdon an domestc
- x tlyaxtlintoww"ls      litemsed;buese             Iaeeq



s - X-
sod aMus a Ur, re .c        flmzIIy in do e  asst        Ethmue, *elu ImPOs
amopeof dutysaayomw          mmaudw lind Iauezemd           exeeeaeg *  beet,
NWmi comadam     -          kbgu dag im in               vpdm md 6t*a
toyitidfrsInboih            peednets*w  lalWm
lvlm aswon a                mpeclilmyotmswlf
diapeedw.Neadly sit          b. thrnd. Rnde
qwatay fta*lctla            aope, of duty exenydom
boied                       SOdW MmAmda duy
Tmed Regim  -  kae          dmwlmsckmyam
4moo-e owe
dan
duty afte Oa maul-
soods mmd apeid ox as
Plamahl Sutrwlefoms    obe,. doe eledvenma        Coaqaem   do soe UmbOf       A mew Deaft  law was         Simysbmn dhe InaeMi                                      P et  lsa of cbmabsia
of iUidkty mauseiau.        ohm. dmr say nut             eacted prwlidl.g a           coomidoof lOG; towe                                      thRe Rinmamgfeafty
matriin dimpodmbilby        mevdatoms tome on UK         mausm peudma mand            the blg ostof feualw                                       aid  mpotCed
an   mmho     m     t o6                                   aM     a   wdo             kaehiu pbafidancial                                              pulS y wbmAj
Indepenec   dof Bh akb       "maa papcial lowa of        bankngsythint.                                                                        as w otlmldivestisot o
oObne.. Enamsrage           wee a"m*e'asin               Unoan acamaftloge            asoacwe m   bl of beank                                  goememnembaraboldhgs
mabbilzsdoofbGomnca         govermetmeemudes.            audiliu asndaida for         to wtom  oascayettio                                     In bankb by Decmbwe
maying mii wpm"doe h        Enforc lbe amw bankIg        baoms be" beea               decumsgI nree privae                                     31, 1994. EuBo"
financial poanhs of dhe     regntion  ba ta&vsgte        hirodacud.                   setow ownerthip                                          Imbnmtmocsmmpeyummu
W04"k fbaIh1mnia (NIP)      risk eRxpouremi,,            RtAmctudng ofbeaksby         modeini  sad wesegiben                                   adeftti s system.
mesor.                      ettabld higher amimnr        transfr of non-              p"Maym ntsmetmmn                                         Stadle on Credi
capta adeqac Macos          pefoeming lwoa "afts to      sysetes; asabdag a                                       Referenc Agency. la"e
upped. eccaloftin           ?#AKT;, NPART baa            proembadoal baWnkg                                       tan dm1k mute
standatd. broaden die        geody oaVny)std th          ecsge; studyfof the                                        owd foreign ecange
mope of audNs adl           proes of validaion of        b*fomul finmucal aecor,                                  opeuttAm mi
impos mor shwt ln.          debt  hmmm intae               rve hanIng bam.                                        colm"InleCMi Iuc
-pdk -"kfm                  s-ay  -enla                  -prffs -"d                                               mdabL c-0t
for banks. Complet fth      llquldm*l   f debtsbd        for issuanemm tade M in                                  Retrucftan  AacIo
restrctuIn Pka" for         on OmiAsa timiuts            -gf cosous                                               MM
fimclallW distessd          realm llzmtl  of bobI.       ACmweitsa cm"at a
baute. Dives                 DecitWoto poivtiz           trnrwos*tu carmep
Govermeth                   isi owned banks;,           financ mad expot
iabreboldnga in banks to     Iftldamhn of prvat          gutaratee, progrms;
to rar. than 40pewese       Diseom  nautea and           ceate deposi bmane
Of tot al qiy by end.       privte banks                 achen.m; comst a OnVwar
appopiate toga.             rates one of Open             Ubeinizeprudenia
"Pi"aor and polic           us"ta Operetiomm; a          regueiono(oof tractmd
stock exchang wa set        maVing.hstluioww



comhinesv Sioet frloN  m
flamework $t amonbauk       up end coamumced            stre1gdhe dhe role Of
fiancAia  tlugiog.          trad  ingi November         discount hous  as
2990; credu osing           kenadis_bedb"n
hos fot bans has beea       BO i d tme ret of dke
estebdmi.                   finanh syestn;
ilbalize Wie NAand csat
Insurane budnes  sea
8udo --i w
guieliesand specifi
NBPs  remv
SW on SSNIF
=wmapdk
liquaionofd'tbased
Legda commcIa sad           Modify NulAtoy               evew lega reuai             Duas for pd iv_at           Inrodcean                   AiWstance   do               Rew  o tle
Invesmen Ilmwok             Oiamwmb to refetd           affecfti  palvat             diaogue catted throug       hveatme  code; braode       FreignAMvisay Sends.        Osew sto roppost
Eealb    ateof              leveao   PtoMt              die Pvsae Soedialogubeteenhe                            to deveop sbnveame           ooporate   zuu .
econmy.                     pvae ad diNW    balgo       Advisor GrW (PSAG.          Goveumma end                Pmamoo Stust_;ou
iavesmnt. Refom             Draf   o.mnndadom           leenalivea of private        amblame  ofsbe
beaking ayae                re_ging harmooiro           eynwises   ie by            Pivae  lit
anAinpljflot                GO on procuamep  of   FPomali wade sud
Invetmee regUlaton        goodso sat nvie             Invesmtme ont angun
~an industria liceniAmng0 thangh pMadaend               Office and Tgde Polcy
pteprdbyPS A;               sign8bilmata l_lnarv ofT  e
Invasew cod.rvised;          e       _tm _t teates Wh    dT        .
(Nun Inmun                  prospctive    s
C ekner  ratsss kQcousen seedg up
ret"cIVe fNoe oca nd        cmorportebre mueun
twaora OUC LAm an          ead ImNleny
Inetmmen gustlouu        preeedpus in Order to
agSey to Investme           reoave baiwasti
poo  agab dy;               crditerddm  "
seveal lws rpeale aNW       th review end actuia
mimin law  rdatitlizd       aslowwamtefsaNTs
to hollIsa prdvate           ew passion iter a*d
InveStmatprvate           of kga misn She cptal
_alc"i -bro                 nAa  tm
Invelveme    od"            swkaws reomw
p"riewwpeapomi              coel __4 caia
doomestccoco"Ua trae  d     adequac, prodfltbiy cc
a   bulof                   die   ms_em hdUsty



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OamlemeaTux   d kerni 
SSNI-  able   to hwe       wdOisa ad
Iean ot, of la own          bNalof.mula
-     heammed             nodes and budnem
eant...dhoJdi             ge     f _dd; eqUc
sysisem   w .p&alof        legdadas and pidwuis
.afteoae ido               sg I at.
coas"aycodes  ualv        tko6oerldommof
co     and                padlvt uwWsa loduos
I m m-po                pr-coqdof- 6 
*add. to aelabil          of age nd estsqala.
premrernatqmiiem          of goods and eeat
guat  osmnammyso           aandagAn lga adm
hadn.a.ibade. in         "ebOMr
aogaldoot                 d       _ _onla .
ebudegh. and hidg of      coresu ca. in al
_       bkin    3 -        dmidieedw  dow
bh shyuldefmsr        c0oupt lead amewy
veqy aiw").                q     _dntaA oIfW
dwo u _   oi M 
Urnpzee.fhnd
*~~~ of  utgpa  .eqhe
Soo amKpdn ntm  Cadime do &vadum  oqpvlu andw P161io                            V^han led afetgqmt o
i W  Redmodio  ottuirp of hur Md  od -am4we softacUseeaadam;em 
ow commid"Mt o  eauprim o btafta  o Avd an 000-M"           anefl   m& an epMt;"
the ecoanmy.              0i _i p"Aclmpw is te         0    eseada of a         and coapie
pluc... Conducebt a        Divtuem.                 4d*ceie. pes;
reviewef tdoe heea *s     lmpmaale                   aoeawIdk"u
pX oeey rid Ma oorf                                        *  V      _
diveoatmeg bealonhgI      38801 la           Zs840 a  cainulcs*alglfc
1993.                     agamua.                    so ftO_ %daoms
SOle- whh 00                 SOE_                                                                   xi
in      "    X 1cst4   gtf  msi 
I     _    _m
SOE Wk h aoo



comple"4. m ww                                 Co bm3meetfro
cee; - newWE
Sectom  Pooy                 inyrove farther                    _Madha-Tem            AU arcltr  priig             Enhancevmen
AIl-ture                          a ppost                ASrl8d_    Dopmn    an makegpt aurad hd_fawalte In
rvices, die Inpu  VPIy      Stre.                        cocoa, sby lIlberalized.     ore o uppost die
"Noe , aN  post hbast        ntoduce con_altio                                        p     de ctor. Co_Ia
m_ag      .   1ance         io dacomi coc                                             dgI eralIzatcoc
produce Ineat o to          maktingto°-n                                              pd8 and mr        i 
pme         yzo.            rtioms                                                    ode  to   OGIC farmers
coft ad  ioved                                           abae of ooa car
palce                                            to .  etovels  milar to oew
coushtics
Human  nResouree            Strengthen                   Bsbl"  Nami                  NC esabied, and              Ant     faiy plmng
inylsmentationof            PopktionComlso               MOL NOO and private          prta8, inuding
Ion poacla              (NP  to ive mateoc             mly planib  evicc          e_eded  GO and
reduce MDe of populato      dieo, nd xan                 axpanded; MOH                prv   svices;
sm*; strensihe              family plannig ervi_y         egwa     o                  sut        yrove
maneento ed delvey          chalbs Nd ativie;            _tren gbn bu,                    gme t aNdd "Very
of health serces;           ropaie a" buid               heat  budg_                  of MON heat servicce,
iwo  qualy and              inttoa capacity of           maaied.  d posite            mati heat buge,
revane of eduato at          misty ohealh                polides owads NOO W    an contin  to
an levels.                  (MOM), maitain               ond piv  healh bmaeexpansionof
_baat GovrAmet              povid   malntaintd;          NO ad pri at
heth budgets whie           secondary educaton           provision; maiain la
encouraqh8 NGO ad           resuctue ad teriary          ad balaedoedction
prva service deDly          rebnm begun. tsexbook        btdgts, im         uliy
reform  ructre and          sup      proe  nd            of pimq   ducaton.
curicua Of ecatION          moat teaer                   rom   vocatol ta
ne, fply texboos            tranedlraned, blge           to Inres quat and
an tai teachers,    aa t    baldcd educato               rlevane to lbor marke
arain lre eion              budgets main d, coat         requremets, Im
bud*twhbie                  rcvy at secoda               teiry education quly
e    Dnc qgn  pp           blv   bceed.                  MA rvanc, encourage
co  noery aN  privat                                       efped PA""
p-A.ivison.                                              provisios of education.
Infrastructure              Efficiew t and comt          D lopm of an                 Some lizatIn ie              Sabi  dke legal bas
effootie in atuctue          ina    ola trapot           pidcig and tAlf tpanda       for  tWAoOea trAnspot
that permni a bier          System,  mrved               for be cos recvery;          documents, expnso of
wel of ecnomic                                            bstnialreabllkstio           i cagoapacity am  of
acivity,                    systems and hanlng am        of road and port sytm.       coaerhbandlg
aOp 1aici.                  "nPdwipw  saftest    ic"m. Eqiof 
for prv°attof                oad netwod feeder
contane aing                toad ntwork cete a
eperationg; peAoto          frauework for
o pdvat entiy for           competi  conazcetg



a inr. k1q4m
q uIg huM ds.';
madwaka ad -N   d
Pmw uats Wad
e    t~~~~~~ol b2aoratTo
- - X
wau&inu  9-a ee
boaabftdW
lavimimuit         Nan=* so-d                  Aaist indie                Bohvluanmodprootta.       Foaab.Ja  uwircmesia       EawWaual                    ubwoeoa admim m  .os$
smnegemM  of sala         kq*lmoalea.i iase           C4am4l eaabfldaed In      coadh amdeadu*,            -ouniodag pIesooMm         WM Owith msloataplp.y
mAaazed  lbswd            eavlnmtuamellmodpie        19M. sa*oum=ta             mmilodq "yOsm ad          for uaeodm.a  uegulto=..
ofeawlomat                 whkich defaSm dke policy.  AIles Pis ad MMadm        eafeeseaaei syles..
U&gliatva ad              hwwircAoua Policy          Dowolap am
iettibodeem bactie"       de d. Stody os LAd         Nw4pwosnutt
"*X_my for tde            b     cor Mane                   e .
_Adlne  utillza Of         _oaptd. Prpsa to
db _meWaW_                banexpdwf'
tos uh                          p       w
¶1f



Page 1 of 4
PRIVATE EN MRS AND EXPORT DEV LOT MROMC
LEITER OF s8TEGIC DEVEWoPMET POLICY1
Dear Mr. Preston,
1.    As part of its Economic Recovery Programme, the Gov ent of Ghana has been
implementng economic reforms geared towards increasing growth rates in the productive sectors of
the economy. The Governes growth strategy envisages a leadig role for the private sector. Ihe
purpose of this letter Is to inform you of past and onoing actions of the Govemet relatdng to
private sector development and to oudine a fture program of actions in support of private sector.
2.    The Economic Recovery Program was launched in 1983. In the inial stages, reforms were
directed at restring fiscal and montary disciplne. Effor wer aso undertak  to rehabflitatthe
country's physical and social infrastructure and the cocoa and miing sectors. Success achieved under
the stabilization program allowed the Government to pursue fiuer structural reforms through price
deregulation and through liberalization of the trade and foreign exchage regimes.
3.    Supported by IDA and cofinacing from bilateral sources, gains made in the inia stages of
the economic recovery program were consolidated through reforms i tax policy and administration,
elimination of subsidies, better expendiue management and Civil Service Reforms. These measures
improved revenue mobilization and resulted in the Goverment Budget movmg from large deficits
into surpluses. The budget surpluses were used to mainain credit to the private sector through net
repayments to the banking system. Investments in the transport and social sectors were also
increased.
4.    In the third phase of the Economic Recovery Program, the Government efforts were later
directed at supportig economic growth through a comprehensive restucturing of the financial
system. Financial sector reforms have been directed at creatig a viable and effective bankng system
and iaying the basis for the intoduction of indirect monetary control systems. A new Banking Law
was introduced and prudental guidelines for banks were established. Financially distressed banks
were restructured by transferring most of their Non-Performing Loans to a Non-perfoming Asset
Recovery Trust (NPART) which now bears the responsibility of recovering these assets. Interest
rates are now fully deregulated and credit ceilings have been eliminated. Ongoing financial sector
reforms focus on enhancing competitive efficiency and supporting financia deepening through a
program of bank privatization and enactment of laws relating to the functiong on non-bank financial
intermediaries. Since the inception of these reforms, four new private investment banks and two
Discount Houses have been established. A private leasing company and a housing finance company
have both been established.
11    The signed original of this letter, dated April 27, 1993, is located in the Project files.



ANNE 2-3
Page 2 of 4
5.    Economic performance during the reform period has generally been satisfactory. Real GDP
growth has averaged five percent per annum and inflation has declined despite downward trwends in the
itenatona prices of cocoa and gold. Marketbased resource allocation mecaisms have beeo
strengthened. All external payment arrears have been cleared. Rehabilitation of the physical
infrastructure has been substantially completed. The deteroration in standards of living has been
arrested and reversed. Problems of poverty are being diminished through exchange-rate related
improvements in the rural terms of trade. During 1992, a temporary set-back in economic
momentum occumed due to expenditures associated with the transition to democratic rule, shortfalls in
cocoa revenues and due to substantial Civil Service wage increases. However, these set-backs are
e3xpected to be temporary as the Government, through its 1993 budget, has initiated corrective
maures. A substanti price increase in petroleum prices has already been implemented and
appropriate expenditure cuts are planned. These measures are likely to restore the budget balance.
Private Sector Develnmt Srtgy
6.    The basic conditions for economic growth having been firmly established, the Government
policies are now directed at increasing growth rates in the real sectors of the economy. The
Government is keenly aware that a cooperative partnership with the private sector is the only viable
basis for increasing savings and investments in the economy and for alleviatng poverty. Therefore,
the Govarnment is firmly committed towards improving the policy and regulatory environment for the
private sector. The broad goals underlying private sector development are to increase the rate of
private capital and private enterprise formation, enhance employment opportunities in the private
sector, diversify the export base of the economy, deepen technological capabilities of the private
sector, and diversify agricultural and industial activities in accordance with Ghana's comparative
advantage.
7.    Important steps in creating a stable regulatory environment for private sector growth have
already been initiated. In 1991, the Government set up a Private Sector Advisory Group (PSAG) that
brought together private sector and Government representatives with the objective of examining the
incentive and regulatory regime for the private sector. Based on recommendations made by PSAG,
the Government has already enacted important liberalization measures relating to investments,
taxation, technology transfer agreements, and price controls.
8.    A systematic approach to improving supply response in the real sectors has already
commenced. Based on a Medium Term Agricultural Development Strategy (MTAIDS), the
Government is attempting to improve productivity and investments in the agricultural sector. Under
this program, private sector participation in domestic cocoa procurement has been allowed. The share
of cocoa export receipts accruing to growers has been increased. Sale and delivery of agricultural
inputs has been substantially withdrawn from price determination. Rural finance programs have been
strengthened along with agricultural extension and research services.
9.    Future growth oriented private sector development initiatives contemplated by the Goverment
include assistance and support for export diversification, enhancement of technological capabilities,
and a continuing program to assist the growth and transformation of small and medium enterprises.
Investments in multi-modal transportation and container handling facilities are also proposed to be
increased. In order to ensure successful outcomes under these proposed initiatives, the Government
will strengthen the enabling environment through the following measures.



ANNBX2 31
Page 3 of 4
LbgoVn of h==seo Re"aion
10.   Success under he private sector development projects will require a signficant increase in
private sector Investments. The Governmet recognizes that a high rat of private capital foranion
will depend on institutng simple and transparent investment and Incentive procedures. Government
will take all actions neceary beginning ot later  an December 31, 1993 as follows: (a) eox-post
review rather than ox-ante approval, shall apply to all investments;@) fiscal invtment incentives
shall be obtained simultaneously with the filng of tax returns and; (c) commence imple on of
an action plan to eliminate within calendar year 1994, the regulatory functions of the Ghana
lvestment Center.
Financial Sector RelEs
11.   The Government recognizes that a competdve, privately managed, and effectively supervisid
banking system is the best way of keeping down the cost of intermediating financial flows between
savers and investors in the private sector and ensuring that the economy's scarce savings are used to
finance high return investments. In this regard, the Government is implementing a mber of specific
me_a . First, the Government is implementng a program of privatizing the baning system. The
divestiture of Goverment ownership in Ghana Commercial Bank and the other Goverment owned or
controlled bans, pursuat to actions being taken under the second Fiancial Sector Adjustment Credit
(FINSAC H), will be actively pursued during 1993. Second, the 1993 budget has also reduced
corporate income tax rates applicable to financial insttions from 45 percent to 40 perct. In due
course, the tax rate applicable to bank profits will be aligned with the genera corporate tax rate.
Third, in order to further improve the private sector's ability to finance its operations, and in order to
diversify sources of finance, the Goverment will take measures to improve regulations relating to
Leasing and Mutu  Credit Schemes. Fourth, in order to maintain the soundness of the financial
system, the Government wil ensure that the banks continue to comply with Bank of hna's capita
adequacy guidelines. Finally, the Goverment = i committed to containing the fal deficits so as to
mimize the crowding out of private investment.
P!rivadlzation Progun
12. The Government will also strengthen the private sector confidence by pursuing an aggressive
program of withdrawal from commercial sectors of the economy. As indicated in the Budget
Statement, during 1993, the Government proposes to accelerate the divestiture program. The
program enisages disposal of Government shares in important commercial entities such as Ashanti
Goldfields Corporation, Accra Brewery, Guinness Ghana Limited, Kumasi Brewery, Pioneer Tobacco
Company Limited, and Automotive and Technical Services.
Pjyat Sector Consultation
13.   The Govenment recognizes that its strategy to promote growth in the real sectors of the
economy wil benefit from ma_in g a collaborative relationship with the private sector. Iherefore,
the consultative process established under the auspices of the PSAG will be maintained and
strengthened. The Government proposes to use the PSAG forum for discussing and recommending
major private sector development policy initiatives relating to investments, incentives, taxes, labor
regulations, and commercial laws. The Private Enterprise Foundation (PEF) will also be involved in
the private sector consultation process.



ANNX 2-a
Page 4 of 4
Pfiyae jESepKs and lE=d Dwrg Emjec
14.   In order to maintin a viable external sector position, there is an urgent need to expand the
economy's expots beyond cocoa and gold. Therefore, the Government has decided to first
implement a program designed to put in place a famework under which the private sector can invest
in diversifying the export base of the economy. The Govenment will, In collaboration with IDA and
USAID, implement a comprehensive export development strategy. With the support of IDA, the
Government plans to fund export finance services delivered through the banking system. With the
support of USAID, the Government plans to eliminate transactional impediments in the conduct of
foreign trade, improve the duty drawback system, improve deUvery of export support and promotion
services and private sector involvement therein, and step up joint venture investment promotion
activities. The two projects are complementary. In order to ensure project success the Govemment
wfll implement the following specific meures.
15. Export diversification will require that private investments be stepped up and linkages with
foreign trade intermediaries and foreign firms be strengthened.
16.   To encourage export expansion and diversification, the Government will strengthen the
facia sector's capacity to provide export financing by asking the Bank of Ghana to formulate
guidelines and procedures for which the BOG will charge a designated level of fees for the delivery of
efficiently priced export finance and export credit guarantee services. While formulating these
guidelines, the Bank of Ghana wiUl ensure that participating financial institutions meet the capital
adequacy and prudential lending guidelines.
17.   To furher enhance the competitiveness of Ghana's exports, effos will be made to free
export from the burden of direct axation. Under the USAU) project, the duty drawback
mechanims will be streamlined in a timebound manner. A well finetioning duty drawback system
based on appropriate input-output norms will be in place in 1994. The Government is also preparing
a system of VAT. A committee Is now at work on its design and structure. Implementation of the
VAT commencing in 1995 will, additionally, assist in increasing the domestic content of exports.
18.   In order to free resources for fresh investmen, the Government is aware of the need for an
expeditious settlement of debts owed by firms to NPART either through asset sales in the context of
liquidations or through sale of companies to new prvate owners bringing fresh capital and new
management. In developing the legal and other modalities for implementing an action plan, the
Government will closely work with the private sector, and consult with IDA.
Sincerely yours,
Dr. Kwesi Botchwey
Minister for Finance and Economic Planning



PRIOR BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE TO PRIVATE SECTOR
Credit T3h            Credit Nph       (Million)    Date  Main characteristics & encd
1. DrgsTrW cR- Dm
National Ivestment Bank               11804H       10.00     1975  Line of credi for development of small and
medium enterprises with potenta for foreig
exchange eaing. Principal reported problem was
slow disbursement due to depressed economy.
National Investent Bank                901-GH      19.00     1979  Line of credit to futher increase enterprise
capacity tbrough provision of long-term capital and
technical assistae to NIB. Slow disbursement
reported due to continuing depressed economy.
Export Rehabilitation Project         1435-GH     93.00      1984  Stegthen institutional support through a nmber
of sector policy and institutional reform measures
Exort Rehabilitadon TA                1436-GH                       and support with technical assistance capacity
building in vanous export sector organ on.
Export Rehabilitation Special Fund      F9-4H
Second Reconstruction &               1573-OH      87.00     1985  Financing of inputs to build capacity in industries
Import Credit                          A-3-4H                       which had been included in the base import
program and whose prices had been libalized.
Public Enterprise Project             6881-OH      10.5      1987  Ihis credit was instituted to begin, on a limited
basis, the process of SOE reflrms by improved
management and performance assistance and to
support the divestiture program with advisory and
consulting servces. Project is stitl under
implementation and, after a slow initial phase, is
now considered to be meeting its objectives            i



Amount
bcad                   CreI   Number   ($MligW    P_O    Main CDarctets & Experien
rvate Smal & Medium                    1996-GH      30.00      1989  Line of crdit to finace thedevelopment of such
_nterise Crdt                                                        erises by increaing outpt, employmen* and
inme. This a continming project and
suevision repr indicate that tgets and
objece8 are being satdialy met. There is
some conern with the coontned  wealknss of the
baking sectr in admin          tese loas and
nical assistance i being provided.
ADMUNU
Indstrial Sect                         1672-OH      53.50     1986  Credit was aimed at increasing local production of
Adjustment Credit                     A-13I                              m        hwcras  inceives to lo3H
indusrisand strehening the necary key
insti   a  uwppot and the rehabilitation of
economicaly viae entapris. This project,
certai designl _umet, was
consideed to have successfally met its objecdves
On a sustained basis.
First Finncial Sector Adjustment       1911-GH     100.00     1938  This credit was designed to address resource
Credit                                                               mobilization and credit allocation and improve the
regulatory framework of the banking system and
assist in the restucturing of distessed bak. Ihis
credit has satisfactorily achieved its objectives.



Cr-fit Cn                        NuMilbrliD                 ain a     eristcs
Second Financia Sector                5659-OH      100.00     1991  Ihis credit was designd to follow on die work
Adjusm   Credit                                                     begun in FINSAC I, namey, trafer non-
pe.rng loans from the bank to a speAIa
reove t    (NPART), purse a course of
divestXiure of public ownership in the bao  and
contm  to  regt dte supervisory sector.
Additionally, vaious aset of the owbak
financil sector are being upgaded. This credit is
still under implem      and is considered to be
satisfacly meet  its objectives.
Program to Promote Privae           P-5499-OH      120.00     1991  This dtird structural adjustme  credit was
1nvestmen & Suained                                                 insed to promote prvae nvesent by
Deopment (SAC M)                                                    stregening the enabling environet,
undertakig various tax reform measures to
increase hcentives for priate inesmen, making
proress on state    prise divestte and,
generally, maintaing momentum on reforms
which would benefit the private sector. Thi credit
is still under impl ion but is considered to
be isfacorily meedng its objecves.



a4-1
9HAN  P REATIX E   MEIRM$ AND ENE=R DEVELOPNMEN  lOEC
EJgtiliitv Critera for Partiddaipne Finandal Institutions
1.    The following criteria would be used by lie BOG/supervising agency for assessing the
eligibility of the participatng financial instutions (PFPs) for participation in the PEED credit:
(a)    Compliance with monetary regulations and applicable banking laws and
membership of the Clearing House of Bank of Ghana;
(b)    Compliance with the capital adequacy ratio requirements of the BOG;
(c)    Favorable rating by BOG/supervising agency in its latest supervision of the
PFI, which would include the following:
Qi)    Compliance with liquidity reserves requirements as specified by
BOG/supervising agency;
(ii)   Adequate provisions for bad and doubtful accounts satisfictory to the
BOG/supervising agency; and,
(Mii)   Audited annual financial statements, including Income Statements and
Balance Sheets for its most recent financial year within a period
acceptable to the BOG/supervising agency; such accounts should be
certfied by an independent firm of accountants acceptable to the
BOG/supervising agency;
(d)    A consstent and diligent credit policy, asset review and loan recovery policy;
(e)    Have adequate technical, finanial and administrative capacity to manage
lending or be agreeable to training under the project, and have operating
policies, procedures, ornzation and professional staff, necessary to evaluate
and supervise such loans, acceptable to BOG/supervising agency and IDA;
(f)    Agree to adopt the specific terms and conditions for PEED credit components
under the project; and, to sign Participation Agreements with the
BOG/supervising agency;
(g)   Agree to fiunish all relevant information and documents requested by
BOG/supervising agency in connection with loans made under the project;
(h)   Abide by other regulations and guidelines issued from time to time by the
BOG/supervising agency.
(i)    Private sector shareholding of at least 51 perccat (no later than December 31,
1994).
2.    Ihe ongoing eligibility of PFIs, consistent with the parameters outlined above, will be
monitored by BOG/supervising agency annually and by IDA as part of its normal supervision.



-j  III~~ IIII~  III   III P1 Mu  SNB    ~4'
. _ . }}ElllE   10ill} 5 4 1    !§i  lt Ii'fi}  
b  B  $ !        !51. ! 1!
|   _  l%           tX               X      !515  I
g g | |  %!5 '                              ! 1!
c~~~5                                    15   #3§§
X   X  3 X          l#               X      !1 5  1
|~11                    11                      11!%S  X
0lX  9}ZX   Vt    }      }    }   !      l
13   §%  | !11     ~515 XE 
111  IIXI  S5il l 515!  15  1  SillS!
g j M  ;Xp  ii! jvil!hlaP Ij ft..: Ii; I



ANNEX 
Page 1 of 9
PRIVATE ENTEP8RE AN!D EXREWPMENT PROE
Export Credit Taining for Bankers and Non-Traditional Exporters
Rationale in the Ghanaian Context
1.    A significant proportion of new or relatively inexperienced exporters are having
difficulty accessing pre-shipment financing through the banks for non-traditional exports
(NTEs). Ihis is due to a combination of borrower-related and institutional factors.
2.    Detailed discussions held with banks and potential exporters during the Appraisal
Mission indicate that the pre-shipment financing constraint is the incapability on the part of
Ghanaian exporters to work with the export financing process. Related constraints are
difficulties experienced by the commercial banks in working with and mitigating some of the
risks involved in financing non-traditional exports (NTEs).
3.    In 1990, under the Companies Act, a specialized financial entity the Export Finance
Company (EFC) was established to redress this problem. Since that time, EFC has handled
the bulk of the pre-shipment financing for the less experienced and higher risk Ghanaian
export busine . After a profitable first year, indicators for 1992 are that the EFC has
begun to encounter credit problems. Analysis of EFC and other commercial banks during
appraisa has revealed that problems in the sector tend to fall into two categories, buyer
default and receivable collections, factors which sometimes are related and sometimes not.
4.    Many small and inexperienced exporters are trading with significant cross-border and
financial risk. Transactions are often done on the basis of open account without letters of
credit. In many cases, the exporter's knowledge of the buyer has been insufficient, resulting
in buyer defamlt on the payment for goods. There is presently no credit reference system and
no export credit insurance for commercial risk.
5.    Operating with inadequate knowledge of the export credit process, many exporters
cannot produce adequate documentation, including confirmed Leters of Credit (LC), verified
export orders or sufficient security. Many NTEs are unaware of the need to establish a solid
relationship with a bank, going from institution to institution without establishing a good
movement of account and creditworthiness.
6.    Many of the NTEs technically assisted through the GEPC do not have business plans
fbr their export operations, nor do they see the value in them. Also lacking are audited
accouts which would facilitate analysis of business performance against projections.
7.    NTEs are in many cases unaware of the full range of non-credit risks taken in the
export process, including transit perils. Shipments often spoil or are damaged due to use of
improper or inadequate conainers for perishables. Inexperienced NTEs often don't know
about or have access to proper containers. The Ghanaian insurance industry presently offers
very limited marine insurance coverage for transit perils.



ANNEX 4-
Page 2 of 9
8.    Under present conditions, commercial bankers are hesitant to extend pre-shipment
financing to exporters whom they don't know, who cannot produce LC and reliable buyer
information and who are not capable of flly insuring shipments against transit perils.
Foreign operations bankers cited buyer default and the lack of reliable information on NTEs
customers as the biggest risk in export finance. Ihe risk is increased by lack of any credit
reference system providing ratings on sellers and buyers.
9.    On the other side of the pre-shipment credit transaction, banks pose difficulties for
potential NTE borrowers. They are relatively inflexible as regards accepting collateral for
export credits, emphasizing real property where it can be gotten and cash collatera if it
cannot. Overcollateralized requirements are routinely applied without modification, even
when an exporter has established creditworthiness.
10.   Often, banks have not obtained sufficient information regarding the buyer and the
exporter's previous performance in meeting contracts and repatriating foreign exchange,
before making pre-shipment credit available. Aside from periodic Exporter's Forums held by
GCB and GEPC for NTEs and bankers, little progress has been made by either side in
identifying problems and mitigating risks in export credit transactions.
Demand for Supplemental Training in Export Credit Operations
11.   Provision of supplemental training for bankers in working with NTEs and export
credits must be considered in the context of ongoing taining conducted by banks themselves
for their foreign operations staff. Each of the three major banks providing export credit in
Ghana runs such training through an established in-house progrm or training school. For
example, Ghana Commercial Bank (GCB) runs foreign operations training four (4) times per
year out of the GCB Training School near Accra. Training is given for two levels of staff,
Managers and Junior Officers working in foreign operations. The core curriculum covers
operational aspects of banking (processing documentary credits, bills for collection, pre- and
post-shipment financing, foreign remittances and foreign exchange). Trainee materials used
during courses don't extend beyond a few handouts. Similar programs are run through
Barclays and Standard Chartered covering foreign operations.
12.   Each of these programs supplements operations skills to some degree with coverage of
related risks in export financing, notably credit risk and repatriation risk. Foreign Operations
Deparment Managers at all three banks generally agreed that more training was needed on
the nature of commercial or cross-border risk, importance of sound credit analysis on the
exporter and buyer and mechanisms for mitigatng risks invoived in financing NTEs and new
or inexperienced exporters. Two-sided or interactive training addressing gaps in export credit
knowledge and experience on the exporters side, was attractive to two out of three
commercial banks most active in export finance because it would (a) improve exportes'
capability to work with credit and credit processing and (b) give the banks a chance to bring
customers they would like to work with into credit training. Potential users of bank training
indicated clearly that training would have to supplement rather tham duplicate their in house
training, covering problems and techniques which their programs do not.
13. Management at each bank interviewed indicated that a 'process oriented' Export
Guidebook focused upon export risks, extension of credits to NTEs and risk mitigation would
be usefil, both in banks and as a training tool. To be effective tools for the lead export



Page 3 of 9
banks, both the Guide and supplemental export credit trWaning would have to be geared to the
Ghanaian market, with case materials and altemative techniques drawn from their context,
problems and constraints.
Credit TraM rogra for Bank EFn Qbnsm hsonel
14.   Training will be given four times per year in Years One and Two, and two times per
year in Years Three to Five, for an average of 30 bankers per session. Each banking
institution sending paricipants will pay a matching cost fee of 40 percent of the per trainee
cost. Course training would be strengthened through the use of site visits for participating
bankers to NTE business locations to give them a good look at the business operations and
constraints of exporters.
15.   Training will be provided for bankers in foreign operations departments of Ghanaian
banks in the following areas:
(a)    Conducting credit analysis on the exporter, including exporter's past
performance, capacity to handle export purchase orders, capacity to service
debt, repatriaton of foreign exchange and provision of reliable export sales
projections.
(b)    Support for customers by carrying out sounder buyer risk assessment;
seuring more reliable information for exporters on foreign market risks.
(c)    Assessing repatiation risk and mechanisms for mitigating or reducing it.
(d)    Advisory services for clients on potental non-financial problems with exports
and bank-related resources available for mitigating or resolving them.
(e)    Exposure to non-credit risks faced by many NTEs and not well understood by
the banker or the less experienced exporter; particular emphasis upon "transit
perils" including spoilage, theft or breakage due to improper packing, cooling
and other factors; commercial insurance coverage available in Ghana and
offshore; how to advise borrowers in securing it and what it costs.
(f)    Understanding the use of credit guarantees, their purpose and processing;
eligibility requirements; processing a claim and recovery.
(g)    Working flexibly with security requirements; applying comparable standards
to a creditworthy NTE to those aipplied to a proven traditional export
borrower.
(h)    Marketing the bank's foreign operations services to attract viable NTE
customers and generate increased export fincing for these sectors.
16.   In order to render banker training more cost effective, transfer of skills from
consultants to counterpart trainers will be accomplished as early as possible in the project
cycle. To achieve this objective, the proposed project will field during Years Two and Three



AS=B 4-3
Page 4 of 9
an banker in foreign operations to provide up to one week's Training of Trainers for
Ghanaian bankers working in foreign operations.
Eiport Credit Training for NIMa
17.   As indicated above under "Problems in Financing NTEs", Ghanaian expoes are
facing a significant number of difficulties in accessing export finance through a bank. These
stem from lack of knowledge of the export process and related risks, as well as lack of
experience in working with banks and the process of financing an export.
18.   In order to improve exporters capability to access and use export finmce, focused
training should be provided at two levels:
(a)    Existing exporters with some exposure to the financing process and banks
(b)    New exporters who have recendy registered with the GEPC and have no
experience with bank-provided export financing and little or no experience
with export processing
GEPC registered exporters who meet the criteria to be classified as 'existing exporters' are
estimated at about 400. New or recent registrants meeting the criteria for 'new exporter' are
estimated at about 300 for the first six months of 1992.
19.   To be effective in building exporter capacity to secure export financing, training will
be provided to exporters on a cost-sharing basis (exporters will pay approximately 40 percent
of the training costs) at both levels with adaptations for level of experience and export
knowledge at each level. Training for exporters will make frequent cross reference to the
Export Guidebook. This will be provided for each trainee and wil be specifically designed tD
help them understand the export process and the procedures and requirements for obtaining
export financing through a bank. To increase training relevance, training courses will rely
heavily upon the preparation and presentation of case studies illustrating problems in working
with bankers (or borrowers). Cases wil address identification of credit and non-credit risks
and reduction of risks through better buyer information, appropriate shipping arrangements
and sounder finmcial management. Case examples will be drawn from actual experiences in
the Ghanaian market and will be presented wherever possible by the exporter (or banker)
involved. The Ghanaian Export Promotion Council (GEPC) will carry out the training
courses.
20.   Training for existing exporters will address the following areas where improvement of
exporter skills in working with export finance and banks is needed:
Training For Existing Exporters
(a)    Establishing a sound relationship with a bank and a stable account and
deposits relationship; providing adequate and timely information on the
company's export business, past performance and capacity to meet debt
service.



ANNE 1
Page 5 of 9
(b)    Prepaing and present  a clear business plan for the export activity, with
accurat assessments of manufuring capacity, input needs, contins and
projections of export sales.
(c)    UnderstandIng the importance of and providing audited accounts for the
business.
(d)   Financing an export tirough a bank, the insruments involved, how they are
used and requiremens which the borrower must meet to secure financing;
financing through LC; securing pre-shipment credits.
(e)    Underding the difference. between using an LC and exporting on open
account or through prepayment; relative risks involved.
(X)    Financing the import component of an export through a bank; LC and foreign
exchange requirements.
(g)   Working with documentation requiements for securing pre-export financing;
use and importance of each documen
(h)   Providing collateral for a pre-shipment credit; types of collateal required by
banks; negoating collateral with a bank and using borrower's leverage to
secure more flexible collateral terms when the business has established
creditworthiness.
Q)    Working with the obligation to repatriate foreign exchange earnings; retention
regulations; penalties for not repatriating; sound financial management and
repatriation of foreign exchange.
O)    Assessing the buyer and the likelihood that he will default on payment; taking
sps to reduce this risk; communicatg or seeking better information on the
buyer from the bank.
(k)    Understanding non-credit risks related to the export; transit peris which could
result in theft, breakage or spoilage of the shipment; securing insurance to
cover these risks; working with the buyer and insurer to settle claims.
(I)    Financing with export insurance; purpose and nature; covered risms.
(m)   Nature, use and processing of export credit guarantees.
TIdn}n  for New or Inexpeina  E sporte
21.   Exporters who are just entedng the export process will receive instruction in the
above areas to build working familiarity with the instruments and process related to financing
the export. Emphasis will be placed upon the following areas:
(a)    The export process and the need for outside financing for NTEs when the
need arises; role of the bank in financing pre-shipment cosu and helping the



ANNEXA4-
Page 6 of 9
exporter to secure payment (LCs); building a sound relationship with a banker
before approaching him for export credit.
(b)    Use of letters of credit, vs. exporting on open account or through prepayment;
risks which the exporter runs in btsacdng on open account.
(c)    Bank collateral requirements for pre-shipment financing; how to negotiate
collatera as a new exporter.
(d)   Investigation of the buyer before entering into a contract of sale; obtning
information needed on his prior business dealings and payment of suppliers
and financial obligations.
(e)    Foreign imports standrds on packaging, product specifications and
certifications.
(t)    Arranging for shipping and handling of the product; detrmining in advance
the risks which may be encountered in terms of theft, breakage or spoilage of
the shipment; finding out what containers and packing methods are best for
the product; wMking with freight forwarders to make sure t the product is
properly handled; securing commercial insurance against in-transit and
handling risks (transit perils).
(g)   Knowing the legal requirements on repatriation of foreign exchange earnings
from the export; financial management and meeting the repatriation
requirement; penalties if not done.
H       LIAng Ex   k Credit lhWinim to ftgod
22.   Discssions held with maagement of the foreign opeations departments of major
banks involved in export credit, indicate hat Managers and Junior Officers receive frequent
inquiries from business owners seeking information on export marketing and other technical
issues. Provided with appropriate information on available technical services for exporters
and with brochures explaining the objectives and content of the Exporter Credit Training,
banks themselves could play a role in marketing such taining by distibuting materW to
customers and refeing them to the course. Following discussions of potent  content for
training, Barclay's Bank foreign operations management expressed interest i acting as a
referra agent for training and in providing trainers to co-teach the exporters course with
GEPC.
23.   As a technical assistance resource for Ghanaian exporters and designated agency for
delivery of the Exporters Credit Training, OEPC will have an important role in markeing the
training. Many of the participants will be drawn from GEPC's contimnuly updated registry of
new and existing exporters and wiUl have received technical advice from GEPC officers on
product marketing, establishing overseas contacts and other steps in the export process.
Active marketing of the training program will help in attaining the goal of providing training
to approximately 1,000 exporters over the 5-year implementation period.



ANNE 4-3
Page 7 of 9
24.   USAID's Trade and Investment Project (IP) will also be a prime source for
marketing the taining and related Guidebook. Throgh pre-agreement with USAID,
businesses which receive technical services in export development under their project will be
referred to the World Bank fimded Exporter's Credit Training for assistance in working with
the export fiacing process. Likewise, the Export Guidebook wiUl be made available to
exporters under the USAID Program.
NOW Guidebook
25.   Over the years 1993 through 1997, the Private Enterprise and Export Development
Project will endeavor to provide such training to existing and new exporters to build their
capacity to work with banks and establish creditworthiness for securing pre-shipment credit.
The central focus of training will be an Export Guidebook, a guide of about 100 pages which
will as noted be distributed to exportes and to foreign operations bankers. The Guide will be
available for a charge which covers 40 percent of the production cost. It will take the form of
a loose4eaf binder with color-tabbed inserts, to allow users cum training participants to insert
periodic updates and releases on training, changes in regulations and other issues affecting
export and export financing.
26.   The Export Guidebook will be designed to serve as a reference tool and guide to
decision-making for the exporter. It will also serve as a process oriented reference tool for
the banker as provider of flnancing to NTEs. As an aide to both sides of the credit
transaction the Guide will carry step by step descriptions of the export process and required
actions at every stage in exporting (development of the product offer, securing of offshore
buyers, assesment of export risks and taking steps to mitigate them, negotiating confirmed
orders, obtaining export and commercial insurance, financing the export, preparing to ship
and realizing payment).
ankrs Ovm              et fagm
27. The Ghanaian banking system is presently in transition, due to requirements for
systems improvement under recent sector restructring and increased demands for export
finance under foreign operations. In this context, improvement of the capabilities of Ghanaian
bankers to manage foreign operations will require application of a number of learning tools,
including on-site observation of use and management of improved foreign operations systems.
28.   To enhance the capabilities of Ghanaian bankers to manage foreign operations, the
project will provide a Bankers Overseas Attachment Program enabling four (4) Ghanaian Line
Managers to observe and work with the foreign operations of Standard Chartered Bank in the
U.K.
hnIuml    ng AdenA
29.   The implemeating agency for the export credit training for bankers component and the
development of the accompanying Guidebook will be the Export Finance Office, Bank of
Ghana. GEPC will implement the export credit training for exporters. The implementing
agency for the Bankers Overseas Anachment Program will be the Standard Chartered Bank in
London, Financial Instittions Group. As such, Standard Chartered Bank will assist in
arranging for overseas accommodations for four (4) Ghanaian bankers. Participants will be



ANX43
Page 8 of 9
offered comprehensive exposure and experience within the Bank's foreign operations over a
two month period for each attachment. At the end of the attachments program, Standard
Chartered management wi}l participate with the EFO in evaluaing the results of attachments
for Ghanalan bankers, hi tem  of exoure to Improved banin tool and absorption of now
skills. lhis will be demonstrated through carrying out of selected fiucdons at Standard
Chartered during the attachments.
Trar"0r of Sulk to Cutrrl
30. The relative impact of export credit train1ng upon bankers will depend upon early and
effective transfer of trainig skills from the banker brought over in Year One, to local bankers
as trainers.
31. During the implementation of the export training component, transfer of skills to
Ghanaian counterpart bank trainers will be accomplished tdrough development of a Trainn
Plan which specifically does the following:
(a)    Defines specific tasks required to carry out training of bankers to work with
credit analysis, risk management and documentation for pre-ipment credits
for Non Traditional Exports under the Bankers Export Training Course.
(b)    Specifies level of competency to be reached in teaching each step by the end
of the Trainer of Trainers course, and gives a date for the takeover of the
training task by the local counterpart as trainer.
(c)    Requires that the trainer be tested by a committee of his peers, to be selected
from among the bankers trained with him/her in Year One, in order to be
certified as a bank trainer under the course.
(d)    Sets out written evaluation criteria for the banker's peer evaluators to follow
in evaluating his progress as an instructor on each assigned training task,
under the Bankers Export Credit Training Course.
32.   In this way, bankers as Trainer of Trainers will be responsible for the task of teaching
material to be covered in the course. Ihey will also be scored on the degree to which they
have absorbed the skdils needed for traimng other bankers, by a committee of peers who are
familiar with the material after having received the training.
Monitorlng anW Ealuatfon
33.   Year-end and mid-tem monitoring and evaluation will be joindy carried out by the
EFO and IDA. As indicated in the SAR, an impact evaluation will be done at the end of
Year One of training project implementation to determine extent of the demand for and
measure impact of the export training (evel of the banker and the exporter).
34. Amnual monitorig factors for the Export Credit Training Component will be
established so that evaluators can determine the following key measures of impact using 1993
as the base year: (a) whether bankers and new or inexperienced exporters as users of pre-
shipment finance have been brought to the point of being fully capable of identifying and



ANNEX 4-3
Page 9 of 9
mitigatig the risks involved in such financing and (b) the extent to which great access to
prt-spment credit has been opened for NTEs at banks. The fllowing set of measurable
annual moniboring factors will be used to gauge impact of the component after one yeares
ftaining:
kat Un            E Capabi  to Extend Eort FInance t  MA
(a)   Increase of at least 20 per wet in the number of NTEs financed by
participating banks at pre-saipment stage, over the numbers fnanced before
ning.
(b)   Increase of 5 percent per annmm in the acWal export sales consumated by
exiig  exporters.
(c)   Increase of 20 percent or more in the average recovery rate for pre-shipment
credits to NTEs, at five or more banks participatiAg in the first year's
trg.
(d)   Reduction in the average time taken by banks to analyze and extend a pre-
shipment credit to an NTE.
(e)    Number of docmented uses of export guarantees during the year as part of
NTE financing.
hma"t PM   NTE Capabiity to Work With Exuor Finnc
(a) Ilcrease of 20 percent or more in the number of NTEs which have
sccesafuilly obtained prehipment credits from commercial banks, at an
average transaction size which is equivalent to $10,000 or more, over available
statistics before training began.
(b)   Increase in the proportion of NTEs to total NTEs applying for pre-shipment
bank credit, who have produced the necessary documentation for securing
such credits (including confirmed LC, adequate information on buyer
performance and other requirements) at five or more participaing banks.
(c)   Increase in the proportion of NTEs applying for export credit which are
routinely securiDg adequate commercial insurance to cover related risks in
shipping and handling their exports (transit perils), at five or more banks.
Impact Upon Access to Comunercial Bank Credit for NTEs
(a)    Dollar increase in pre-shipment credits extended to NTEs by commercial bank
foreign operations departments, following one year's truaning delivery (four
sessions for 130 bankers from 13 banks).
b)  hIncrease in the number and type of NTE sectors receiving pre4shipment credits
through banks, after one year's training.



ANNEX 4
MU             N P WSE ANDEQ REDEPM plmTna  PROS£C
hm unonal    sment &m
1.    Ihe Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication S.C. (SWUIi) is
one of a number of specialied inteational payments systems linking the international
banking network and facilitating the electronic transfer of funds between subscribing members
by means of an intenational computer network. SWIFT is located in Brussels and is a
commercial company. The only SSA countries presendy linked to SWIFT are South Africa
and the Ivory Coast. Because of the expense of setting up and operaing such a system,
SWIFT has developed a sliding scale of costs which are tied to the number of sabWiers.
2.    In 1992 Bank of Ghana initiated discussions with SWIFT and to date 7 banks have
agreed to subscribe. However, a number of the smaller banks have objected to the fixed and
operating costs of the system and have not so far committed themselves. Iherefore, overall
costs for the system have not been finalized until it is cdear how many and on what basis the
subscribers will participate.
3.    Cost estimates ta have been provided by SWIFT to the BOG have been vey
provisional, but it appears that a position is being negodated which will create a single
standardized system of between US$350,000 - US$500,000 to which all the banks can be
linked. Following that, there are furtier costs related to specific subscriber hardware,
software and operatng fees which are still being negotiated.
4.    A technical assistance component has been incorporated into the project to support the
development of this key area of strengthening in the banking system and which when
implemented will be an important feature to improving Ghana's international remitances, a
matter of particular significance to exporters.



Page 1 of 2
GHANA
PRIVATE ENl RPRLSE AND E;POt 1)}3VELPMENTROJC
Tenms ot Referenc for a SlWdy of EowydA E2°rdiM ExcchAT19 Oger19on
1.    Companies wishing to secure foreign exchange for imports as a component of export
are faced, particularly in the contxt of a devaluing domestic currency, with the dilemma of
obtainig the settlement funds at matching prices.
2.    There is presendy no forward foreign exchange market in Ghana. This is due to
several fctors. Bank of Ghana has not yet approved establishment of such operations.
Discussions with senior management in BOG Foreign Operations indicate that lack of
approval stems from the BOG's need to see how a forward foreign exchange operation
functions and beter underd the potential impact.
3.    One foreign-owned bank doing a maJor volume of business with traditional exports
has a forward foreign exchange facility in the works at feasibility stage. Other banks would
be in a position to utilize such a facility but have taken no visible action to establish one.
4.    At the same time, banks indicate that establishment of such a facility as a hedging
meChanism must be done with close attenon to several major constraints. These include:
(a)    Size of the market in terms of nunbers of actual users and weeldy volume, is
yet to be verified as an indicator of likely transaction level and feasibility.
(b)   Exchange rates are continuing to slide in the opposite direction from European
currency movements, placing limhs on the margin for forward transactions.
(c)    Lack of specific BOG approval and finalized procedures for set up.
S.    A study of the Ghanaian foreign exchange market, levels of demand for forward cover
and likely feasibility of establishing a facility and providing it to various banks and company
users will be conducted under this project. The study wil require delivery of one month of
consulting services in Ghana by an Foreign Exchange Advisor from the banking sector.
6.    As part of the Terms of Reference for the study, the Advisor will do the following:
(a)    Conduct an in-depth market analysis with the commercial and merchant banks,
indicating the liely average weekly and monthly volumes of foreign exchange
transactions, average transaction sizes, present availability and priing of
foreign exchange and potentia altenative mechmisms to the current interbank
market and forex bureas.
(b)   Analyze in cooperation with domestic public accounting firms or banks, the
size and frequency of foreign exchange losses/gains recorded by Ghanaian.
companies. Ibis will at a minimum demonstrate a sample indication of the
size of the problem.



ANNEX
Page 2 of 2
(c)    Based upon the findings on market demand, examine with Bank of Gha
officials their views as concerns alternative mechanisms for satisfying foreig
exchange needs, the step by step functioning of a forward foreign exchuange
facility and BOG's understanding of the mechanism.
7.    If levels of demand of losses indicate that such a facility would be feasible, based
upon transactions levels and margins, and agreement on terms is reached with BOG, the
outputs of the proposed study will be:
(a)    Finalization with the BOO of policy guidelines and procedures for the set up
and regulation of a forward foreign exchange operation in this market.
(b)    Development of Terms of Reference for a Foreign Exchange Advisor to assist
the BOG and financial sector in setting up such an operation. Actua set up of
such a facility would be funded by the Bank of Ghana.
S.    The study will take place during the fourth quarter of 1993. Impleme   agency for
the study will be the BOG tirough the EFO. Results and recommendaions from the study
Wi be jointly evaluated by the EFO, BOG management and the World Bank supervision team
at completion of the study.



ANN13X 46
Page 1 of 9
PRIVATENTESE AND EXORtT D13EVEMLPMNIT
Terms of Reference for the Stud! on Ghana's Lang Tenm Debt Market
1.    The Ghana Stock Exchange (GSE), a regulated but commercial entity, represents the
best fous for the development of a strategic and tactical approach to the analysis and
determination of the exigencies of developing an institutional debt market in Ghana. The
exchange itself Is only a market, but In the absence of a demand driven initiative for a
publicly traded debt market, the GSE is interested in cooperafing with the Bank in
coordinating and developing a feasibility study on establishing such a market. A collatera
benefit to the GSE is that this will enable it to broaden its revenue base.
2.    GSE is experiencing contious cash flow problems, due to the limited receipts from
low trading turnover and limited long term income generating products. GSE was set up by
staute to tade In equities and debt instruments. While potial roles include those of market
development facilitator and trader in corporate bonds and debentures and public bond issues,
none of these instruments have been introduced in this market to any significant degree. The
potentidal for a market activity in long term securities is not only a sound opportunity to
expand GSE's services, but it also has broader ramifications for the Ghanaian capital markets
as a whole.



ANNEX4 6
Page 2 of 9
regulations also prohibit the issuance of debt or equities as "beuer instruments". (A
comprehensive policy review under the proposed USAID Trade and Investment Project will
examine the impact of these and other policies).
5.    Government monetary policies impact trading activity among companies and
institutional investors through a large weekly tender of Treasury Bills (30-090- and 10
day), repurchased at a discount. Bank of Ghana one-, two- and three-year bonds are
preferred investments for banks and large institutional investors over longer term corporate
paper.
6.    A final and significant constraint is the lack of a Rating Agency for LTD securities in
the Ghanaian market. The IFC has taken steps to install one with a LTD market study and
solicitation of a first tier technical partner to organize and operate the Agency. Thus far, a
technical partner has not emerged from among second tier, competent rating agencies in
markets solicited. A related constraint is lack of a reliable data base on company performance
for pricing and/or purchasing securities.
7.    Interviews with six corporations raising debt for expansion or equipment replacemnt
indicate that they are for the most part raising funds through conventional bank financing
packaged at best available rates both domestically and offshore. Due to internal investment
needs, most companies outside the insurance industry are not investing in medium term
bonds. However, there is an active market in short term commercial paper (90 to 180 days),
issued by companies through Ghana's two discount houses to generate worcing capital.
S.    Mission discussions indicate that despite low levels of market activity, market
awareness of and interest in long term securities is beginning to develop among potential
issuers as well as investors. Interest in issuing has been spurred by longer term capital needs
for expansion. Options are being discussed with banks as brokers. Instaumen  being
considered include 3 to 5 year bonds indexed to inflation or increases in comodity prices
and convertble debenures. Actual realization of LTD issues continues to be constrained by
lack of underwriting capacity, lack of demand and rating capacity.
9.    On the demand side several large corporations and institutions with surplus capital to
invest and equity portfolios in other companies, have indicated interest in longer term
investments in projects in tourism, food processing, telecommunictions and real estate.
10.   Discussions with OSE, banls and private companies indicae that for the foreseeable
fiture, development of both a supply and demand side of the institutional market is key to
development of the LTD market. Presendy, the Social Security National Investment Trust
(SSNrl) makes up 85 percent of the LTD market, investng in real estate, company equities
and one-, two- and three-year Government bonds. In order to stimulate supply and demand
for longer term securities, much work remains to be done to familiarize corporations as
poteni ssuers and companies and institutional investors as potential buyers, with a vaiety
of LTD inuments, yields and pricing mechanisms as well as the step by step process of
ssing, marketing, selling and redeeming them.



ANNEX 46
Page 3 of 9
Potential Role for GSE In Deveoping LTD Market Opportunities
11.   Presendy, GSE has neither the institutional nor the financial capability to become a
primary force in the LTD markret. In view of the current market and GSE's other roles in it,
it will be more productive to build the exchange's technical capability to educate and work
with the various constituencies in the LTD market, i.e., to become a facilitator in market
development over the medium to long term.
12.   In response to that potential, GSE has set as its primary short to medium term
objectives the following: (a) reaching sustainability as a commercial operation supported by
technical assistance under the Bank's Financial Sector Adjustment Credit and (b) promoting
dlversificotion of its operations, with emphasis upon development of a long term bond market.
13.   The missing link in the GSE program Is focused technical assistance in working more
effectively with the various constituencies in the LTD market, including the merchant banks,
brokerage houses, institutional and corporate communities, to increase supply and demand for
LTD instruments.
Terms of Reference for a Debt Market Develonment Study
14.   So that it may play a stronger role as facilitator of market development in the LTD
securities, it is recommended that GSE receive fimding and technical support for an in depth
Market Development Study, addressing current and future instruments, its roles and the
potential roles of brokers (including banks) as direct market-makers. Institutional objectives
of this study will be to assist GSE to:
(a)    Develop a formula for becoming financially sustainable;
(b)    Diversify its products and services; and,
(c)    carve out a more effective role in developing the long term debt market.
Another institutional objective will be to identify roles and means for strengthening the
brokerage community (including banks) as direct market-makas.
15.   Market objectives of the study will specifically address:
(a)    Generation of a better understanding of the process of issuing and selling
securities in Ghana;
(b)   Identfication of new LTD instumen  which could be introduced with
adaptations; and,
(c)    Generation of recoendations for longer term technical assistance to GSE
and the brokerage community in market development.
16. It is recommended that the study be funded and carried out through the USE in
Ghana, utilizing the services of a bond trader with direct experience in worldng in emerging
markets, preably in developing countries. He/she will work closely with GSE management



A,NNxA
Page 4 of 9
and trag staff at every step In developing the study, to accomplish maximum transfer of
malket analysis  d development skill to Ghanaian securities experts.
17.    he Study will be caried out over a two month perW  in Ghana and will address the
following:
(a)    Examination of present activity in short term securities and LTD and equity
instuments in Ghana and how instruments have been strucured, priced and
markceted. To the extent possible, the study will address individual private
and public issuances, the roles of licensed brokers, investment advisors and
merchant bans in pricing and selling of issue and factors constaining
iae  ;nd marketn of more LTD securities.
(b)   Legal Issues, including implications of the Exchange Control Rqulations
restricti  feig controlled companies from raising debt and equity in
Ghana, and required revisions to existing legislation to generate greater
market activity.
(c)    Tax implications for the Ghanaian buyer of a bond or convertible debentur
and for the foreign investor buying bonds or other secies (comparative
rer  In other African and non-African markets).
(d)   Needs for long tetm capital and level of   tndg of LTD securities,
their use, issuance, marketin and redemption by potent  issuers within the
priato awd public corporations; need for furither education and training for
issuers.
(e)    Preferences, tem  and expected retums for potena investors in LTD
securiis in Ghana; level of unders ing of fixed rate bonds, negotiabl rate
bonds, converdbles and other instruments, pricing, marketng, purcbase and
redemtion or conversion; needs for investr education in the institutional and
corporate markets.
(t)    Needs for longer term in country  aiing and technical assistance for the key
consttuencis in development of the LTD market. Primary emphas;s will be
placed upon Q) GSE as a aiitaor of market development and (ii) bans and
other brokers as direct market-makers for LTD Instruments. Scope will cover
ds for technical aste  through a Resident Advisor as well as follow up
after his deparure.
(g)   Ptogr  made in establishing a Rating Agency and alteratives for removing
remaining oonstraints.
18.   Outputs of ths two-month study will be the following:
(a)    Recommendations for specific short term and long term debt and equity
is which could be offered in Ghm with indicative conditions for
pacaging, issuing nd mareting.



ANNEX46
Page 5 of 9
(b)   Reco        ns for institutional capacity k ilding in LTD securities;
training for issuers in working with this process; education for ins"tional
and corporate investrs as potential buyers; technical assistance and training
for broker to Improve their effectiveness as direct market-makers and for
GSE staff as facilitators of market development.
(c)    dfication of additonal services which could be developed and offered by
GSE to stimulate more listings, a wider diversity of LTD instruments and
greater levels of market activity in LTD and equities.
(d)    Recommendations as to revisions needed in existing legislation governing
investment and foreign exchange control to facilitate issuance of debt and
equities by private and public companies in Ghana.
Term. of Refae of a One-Yea Securities Mark  Advisor
19.   As a follow on to the study, It b recommended that GSE and the securities industry
reoeive up to one year's technical assistance from a Securities Market Advisor. This Advisor
will be fielded to the OSE as implementing agency for the technical assistance component.
As part of the Terms of Reference, he/she will provide technical services including the
following:
(a)    Technical assistance to GSE and Ghanaian brokers and investment advisors in
development &nd introduction of LTD instruments in Ghara.
(b)    Simultaneous assistance to the GSE in securing necessary legislative changes
and instlation of a Rating Agency.
(c)    Day-to-day technical assistance to the GSE staff, issuing companies, banks and
other brokers and potntial purchasers of LTD securities, in working with
long term securities. Particular stress will be placed upon working on a fee
basis with brokers to increase their capacity to serve as market-makers, i.e.,
work with capital needs of potential issuers and the investment market to
package and market seauties.
(d)   Trouble-sootg and problem-solving assistance to GSE, issuers and brokers
in areas including gettig issues rated, bond pricing, underwring of shares,
using the right insumen, problem-solving via networking with other
agencies and outside technical resources.
(e)    Assistance to GSE in designing and delivering investor education sessions for
actual and potental purchasers of LTD instruments, including the institutional
and corporate investors.
(f)    Technical advice to GSE in developing new products and services to generate
more diversity in long term securities and greater levels of market activity.
20.   As part of his TOR, the Securities Maret Advisor will be required to bring in
wherer possible technical expertise of Ghanaia experts, to assist in structuring and



ANNEXA6
Page 6 of 9
developing technical assistance and training for the industry. To be stipulated in his conact,
the Advisor will be required to draw upon Ghanaian securities market experts, brokers,
bankers, accountants and lawyers. This will be done to assure that instuments and
approaches to institution building are adapted to Ghanaian business and cutural practices,
which will in turn affect skills trasfer and their own development of the securities m^rket.
21.   Technical assistance to the industry in development and introduction of new LTD
instrumens, problem-solving and development of additional GSE services to the industry, will
require a period of twelve months.
22.   During his one year advisory contract, the Securities Market Advisor will provie to
the GSE specific technical assistance in developing new services and initiatives, enabling it to
play a more effecdve role as market facilitator. Services which wil be provided will include
but not be limited to the following:
(a)   Investor Education Programs for generating new issues from private
companies outside the Exchange (bonds, debentures) and higher levels of
wareness of advantages of LTD securities among potential purchasers.
(b)    Public Securities Market Services assisting the Government and Bank of
Gjhana in issuance of bonds and other securWities and faciliting surWzation
of Government held assets (SOE shares, equity in PLCs).
(c)    Development of Accommodation Desks enabling Ghanaian investors to place
securities orders in outlying areas (split commission basis).
(d)    Securites Industry Forums for information sharing and development of
improved standards.
(e)   Investor Resource Center offering continwally updated reports on market
activity, securities market programs in other countries, new instruments, their
use and pricing.
(f)    Liaison with and technical assistnce to the Rating Agency to be set up to
serve the Ghanaian securities market.
23.   The imple           agency for the Technical Assitance Program for Ghana's Long
Term Debt Market will be GSE. As such, the GSE will be responsible for the following:
(a)    Provision of workspace and logistical support for the Securities Maket
Advisor during his year-long advisory services to GSE and the securities
industry.
(b)    Development and implemention with the Securities Market Advisor of a
Management Plan for Technical Assistance to all participants in the securities
industry, with implemetaion criteria, definition of tasks for GSE as client
agency and the Advisor, targets and definive schedules for transfer of



Page 7 of 9
responsibility for certain technical assistance tasks to GSE, evaluation criteria
and structure for follow on visits by the Advisor after contrut end.
(c)    Development with the assistce of the Securities Advisor of LTD securities
not currenty being offered in Ghana.
(d)    Technical assistance to potental issuers and brokers in packaging and
marketing such new securities.
(e)    Development and implementaton of a Five-Year Plan for GSE Services to the
Securities Industry, including market information services, industry education,
accommodation desk facilities and other services determined to be needed
during the course of the year-long advisorship.
(f)    Development with the Advisor of a reasonable Transition Plan at year end for
the optimal use of the Advisor's services on a Training and Visit basis after
the end of the advisory contract.
Tras er of Sh ls to CouJ|gffl2
24.   The objective of the Long Term Debt Market Technical Assistance Program is to
asW Ghanaims in developing a fully functional securities industry, capable of continually re-
asessing its needs and developing and marketing long term debt and equity instruments in
response. The agency targeted specifically for capacity building is OSE. To meet program
objecives, it is essential that expertise and knowhow which the Securities Advisor brings to
the program be transferred to local counterparts at GSE as fully as possible within a
reasonable period of time.
25.   During Implemention of this component, transfer of skills to GSE counteparts will
be accomplished through the development of a detailed Plan of Action for doing so by the
Project Manager at GSE and the Securities Market Advisor. To be implemented by this
expert and his Ghanaian countrparts, the plan will be based on four (4) elements:
(a)    A complete list of tasks required to carry out the program assigmnent,
including development and introduction of new securities and preparation and
implementation of a Five-Year P-an for GSE Services to the Securities
Industry.
(b)    A program for transferring responsibility for each task to GSE staff, including
definition of the level of competency to be reached and target dates for the
takeover of each task initially assigned to the Advisor, by a local counterpart.
(c)    Definition of the back-up support which will be provided by the Advisor as
GSE staff takes over these tasks or functions.
(d)    A written set of procedures and criteria fr evaluating progress of each
assigned task.



ANNE) 4-
Page 8 of 9
26.   Year-end and mid-term monitoring visits will be carried out jointly by GSE and Ibo
World Bank. An in-depth impact evaluation will be carried out at the end of the 12-mouth
contrat of the Securities Market Advisor, to detemie that the Sec:urites Market Study bas
been completed with expected outpu  and to evaluate the extent to which tchnical si  in
securities market technical counselling and packaging and diversification of GSE services have
been transferred to Ghanaians. The following set of measurable annual monitoring indicators
will be used to gauge the extent of skills absorption by key players in the securites market:
Impact Upon GSE's Capability to FAd litate Market Development
(a)   Increase in the types of LTD securities introduced into the market with
assistance from GSE, from virtually none at project start to three or more at
project end.
(b)    Number of companies directly assisted by GSE staff in developing and isuing
LTD securities.
(c)    Number of brokers or investment advisors assisted by GSE staff in packging
and marketing LTD securities.
(d)    Number of participants and agencies in the securities ma&-et receiving trainig
tirough ongoing GSE securities courses to carry out steps involved in the
LTD securities process.
(e)   Increase in the dollar volume of LTD securities issued in Ghana in support of
industry expansion, over the volume issued in the year previous to program
start (private and public issues included).
(f)   Increase in the number and volume of Government LTD issues assisted
through the efforts of GSE (BOG Bonds as example).
(g)   Increase in the number and type of services available to the securities industry
through GSE, relative to the identfication, packaging, pricing, issuance and
marketing of LTD seurities, from the present two (training and general
market advisement) to five or more.
(h)    Number of regulations affecting the development of or investment in securities
which have been successfilly revised to facilitate the market development
process, with GSE assistance.
Imnct Upon Brokers (Ucensed Dealing Members Induding Banks
(a)    Number of brokers who have packaged and successfully marketed one or
more LTD securites (fixed yield bonds, negodable rate bonds, convertible
debentures) for private or public sector clients during the project
implementation period.



Page 9 of 9
(b)   Increse in number and type of brokers which have enterd the murket and
begn packaging and marketing LTD securities in Ghana since preject start.
(c)    Number of brokers which have demonsaed that they are fily capable of
pricing and marketdng LTD securities without outside asistance from a OSE
or advisor by project end.
(d)    Number and tpes of end purchasr for fixed yield bonds and other LTD
secrities, assisted through brokers in the Ghanaian market during the project
period.
(e)    Number of broker staff trained through GSE's existinp securities market
courses to work more effecdvely with their role in market development.



ANNEX 4-7
Page 1 of 7
GHANA
PRIUVATE EN RISE AND KUMt D-EELME  PROJECr
Terms of Rdferene       mor tds of Commereal InurceM are
and Long Term Advio In DIvelopment of Insurance  mQdUCts
Rationale In the Ghandan Contedt
1.    The Ghanalan insurance industry is made up of 21 companies and over 3,000 brokers
and agents. It is regulated under the Insurance Act of 1989 and supervised by the National
Insurace Commission, recently reconstituted as an independent body operating outside the
Mnisty of Finance.
2.    The industry has developed largely as insurers of property and casualty (P&E),
offering only a limited range of export cargo insurance products.
3.    Significant yearly increases in the volume of Ghanaian Non-Traditional Exports (now
at about US$65 million per year), have focused particular attention upon the lack of
commercial insurance products providing coverage for exports against a variety of transit
peris". At present, the Ghanaian insurance industry is providing limited insurance coverage
against spoilage, breakage or daunage in transit for Ghana's non-perishable NTEs, but limited
to no 'special exposure" coverage for perishable commodities like pineapples, fish and yams
bound for regional or overseas markets.
4.    While several of the established insurance companies will write "open policies" for
non-periS les exported (timber, broken down furniture, veneers) with *all risk cover" for
loss, theft or damage in transit, definitions of covered perils are restricted largely to damage
from ship movements (i.e., denting or chipping from such freight movement, an integral part
of such risk, is not covered). This and other examples indicate need for technical assistance
to the insurance industry in defining common risks and various components of risk.
S.    Lack of coverage for deterioration, spoilage or damage due to improper containers or
cooling for fresh commodity shipmets is inhibiting Ghanaims from exportng such products
from a growing economy which is largely agricultural based. One large insurance
underwriter also indicated that exporters are in many cases uncovered by existng forms of
insurance for transit perils because (a) they don't buy insurance thinking they don't need it or
(b) they cannot affbrd the insurance. Ihis suggests the need for more effective buyer
education on the part of existing underwriters.
6.    Lack of reinsurance facilities is preventing insurers from writing policies on fresh
pineapples. Unfamiliarity with proper temperature controlled containers has constrained the
ability of the Ghanaian insurance industry to develop standards for underwritable risks,
reinsurance and proper storage and transit for growing fresh exports.
7.    The limited size of the market for commercial insurance coverage for NTEs will be a
factor in appraising and developing new products. At the same time, lack of needed
assignable insrance products is contributing to the unwillingness of commercial banks to
accept these risks.



ANNEX+7
Page 2 of 7
8.    A frther growth constraint is posed by a provision In the Inurance Act of 1989
which requires tht all imports to Ghana be ied by a Gbanaian insurance company. Ihis is
prohibiting Ohanali buyers from importing on a CIF basis and slowing development of
cross-border arrangements to cover risk. To meet the reuiement, Ghanalan importers take a
wmina inra    coverge In country, but presence of the regdation has discuraged foreign
insurers from writg cover in Ghana. A recent circular from the Shippers Council may
reverse the prohibition against buying CF.
Reconmended TOt for a Study on Ghanalan Commercial Insuance Market
9.    In order to support the growth of NTEs, the Ghanalan insurance Industry will require
a comprehensive study of existing commercial insurance products, with a view toward
recommending new commera products to support export development and structuring
tecbhical asst    for the industry In developing, pricing and marketing them. It is
mmended that such a study be carried out over a two-month period in Ghana, by an
Insuramce Advisor working with the National Insurance Commission (NIC).
10.   Oljectives for study wil! be to: (a) identify and define covered and uncovered
commercial risks with the Ohanaian insurance industry; (b) define products which could be
offered to cover those risks based upon level of demand and regulatory environment; and (c)
develop the Terms of Reference for a technical assistance program enabling the insurance
ndusty to develop and offer such products.
11. As part of the TOR for this study, the Insurance Advisor will do the following:
(a)   Identify with the marine underwriting and shipping industries covered and
uncovered risks and insurance products which would provide needed cover for
Ohanalan NTEs;
(b)   Esimate the size of the market for needed products;
(c)    Examine the legalities of extending insurance coverage in Ghana and
recommend needed waivers or changes to legiation;
(d)   Recommend products which could be developed in Ghana based upon level of
demand and legal considerations; and,
(e)    Develop the Terms of Reference for an International Isurance Advisory
Program for the National Insurance Commission for the development and
marketig of needed commercial insurance products.
12. In respoDse to the current needs of this industry, the Advisor will focus particular
Attention in the study upon the following issues:
(a) Examination of the need for *specific exposure* coverage for perishble
exports, vehicles for reinsurance where necesary and indicative terms and
conditions;
(b)    Assesnt and definition of other uncovered losses, including loss from
oxidation (iherent vice),  rfae  dmage from movement in shipping,
Zconsequential loss arising from late arrival of goods needed to fulfill



AM=E 4-7
Page 3 of 7
contracts (constuction industry, etc.) and idefation of possible Insura
produicts;
(c)   Identifc  of reliable sources of teciall assistance to exporers and
insues an securing proper oontainers for perifsable exports and developing
stndards for underwritable risks and proper stoge and handling;
(d)    Examination of insce legislation, existng roadblocks to developing better
cross-border insurance arrangements and needed legiative meisions;
(e)    Preration of recommendations for the Insunce industry for developing
cross-border arangemens to better cover risk with foreignl isurers on
Ghanaian exports and imports.
13.   Outp  of the study will include a comprehensive report providing reco ions
on commercial insurance products which can be offered in Ghana and structure for an
International Insurance Advisory Program for the NIC and the industry on product
development and implementation.
Reconm_nd ona                rance "lb=& MM for sh NIC
14.   Discussions with insurance companies, marine undwrites and NIC officials indicate
tha the Ghanaian insurce industry would significandy benefit from an Inerational
Insurance Advisory Program assisting iustry specialists in developing, pricing and
marketinginsurance products needed but not provided in Ghana today. Deveopment and
fuding of such an advisory program is recommmended, to provide to the NIC and the industry
fcusetd technical assistance in creating both commercial insurance products and life products
and marketing them to Ghanaians in a changing economic environment.
15.   To be fuiher defined as part of the Market Study, the International Insuroan
Advisory Program will provide assistance of an in-ountry Inance Technical Advisor for a
period of about one year. lbis Advisor wDl work direcdy wih the NIC. Through the
commision, he will provide schnical assistace to individual member insurace companies
on an as needed basis.
16.   As part of his year long consultancy, the Advisor will provide technical assistance to
the industry in doing the following:
(a)    Defining key iurance risks (covered and uncovered);
(b)    Developing specific commercial insurance products which are needed in
Ghana and can be offered under cuet legislation, with special attetion to
products covering "specific eWposures" for peishable and non-perishable
shipments;
(c)    Establishing twms and conditions and tie basis for setting premiums and
deductibles;
(d)    Madrket  insurance products to exporters with imperfect knowledge of the
commercial risks involved and introducing such insurance products to bankers
who are skeptical of financing higher risk NTEs;



ANNEX-4X7
Pag 4 of 7
(e)    Risk m     ent and loss prevention methods for underwriters, Icludiug
obtig assuran  of proper               temperature-controlled
shipping, etc.;
(t)    Developing more effective cross-border arrangemenS with insurrs in
couaties receiving Ganan exports or exporting to Ghan
(g)   Establishing reinsurance facilities for higher rsk exports such as peri lo
commodities; and,
Oh)   Developing sandards for underwriable risks and proper stoage and handling
of insured exports.
17.   Delivey of the innationl technical assistance program will bo combined with
overse  attachments for tiree Ghanaian insurmce professionals, enaling them to observe the
brokage and undwtg industies, and stat of the art containerization and handling
systems for pershable exports. Each attachment will be of two weeks duration and
underwriters may tab their atchments singly or in a group. Ihe host company woud in
turn anrge visits as required to other brokers, insurers and shippes.
18.   lhe atachmen proga  wil be designed to give Ghana;an undewrites broad
expowro to maine insurnce, various rish involved and coverage wrteL  It is aipated
that hanaa  will tro ughme   develop a beer und anding of the brokes role In
packng and placi  insurance, the -all risk- cargo policy, coverage written for speclfic
exposu   (porisble commodities), named perils and other risks (nherent vice,
conseqnia bloss). The attacm  experience should include exposure to the process of
seting tems and conditions and establishing premhm  and deductibles.
19.   Ghanaians will be selected for the atachment program by the National sranc
Commission N(C) from among its 21 member companies. They wil include expeiencd
marine underwrirs from several of the largest insurance companies insuring Non-Traditional
Exports. Undewtes will observe how marine insuace can be writen for the exporter or
importer and receive guidan  on working with U.S. insurers to cover export to and from
Ghana.
20.   It is also anticipated that the atahmen program will provide exposure to state of the
art co-on, cooling and handling facilities for perishable and other co.mmo.
This will assist Ghana"an underwiters to work with the Insuce Industry Advisor in Ghana
to set stadards for underwItble risks, proper containers and handling.
21.   lhe implementing agency for the Commercial Insurance Market Study and the
hnatnl Insurance Advisory Program will be the National Insura    Commission (NIC).
The NIC will be responsible for the doing the following:
(a)    Work with the shott term Isurae Advisor to develop and prqare the
commercial insurance study;



ANNE 4-7
Page 5 of 7
(b)    Provde workspace, logistical support and oversight for the work of the
Insuramce Technical Advisor fielded to cary out the Interatonal Insurance
Advisory Prgram;
(c)    Serve as liaison between member insurance companies and  e Insurance
Technical Advisor for delivery of technical assistace in insurance product
development, pricing and marketng under the program;
(d)    Work direcy vith the Insurance Technical Advisor and individual Ghanalan
insurane companies to assist the latter in developing and marketing new
insurace products for exports;
(e)    Steve as scheduling and support agency for the Insurance Atachment
Program, liaising with the host insurance underwriter or broker;
(f)    Provide assistance to the industry in developing improved standards in
undewritg export risks, conainerization and handling of insured exporters
and other areas;
(g)    Provide assistance to The World Bank Team in evaluating the impact upon the
industry of the year-ong Advisory Program;
*p)   Develop with the lIsurance Technical Advisor a Five Year Plan for NIC
services to the insurance industry; and,
(I)    Develop with the Advisor a reasonable Transition Plan at yea end for optmal
use of the Advisor's Services on a Training and Visit basis after en of
contract.
22.   The implementing agency for the Insurance Attachment Program will be an
inttional insurance broker or underwriter working with the full range of marine insurance
products. Ihe firm will be responsible for hosting three Ghanaia= marine underwriters,
providing for them basic exposure to insurance brokering and underwriting and arranging
visits with other brokers, marine underwriters, shipping companies and providers of shipping
containers.
er of SdB X Coun
23.   The objectives of the year-long International Insurance Advisory Program wiU be to:
(a)    Strengten the capacity of NIC to provide tecbnical guidance to the industry in
new product development, improvement of industry standards and other areas;
and,
(b) build capacity of Ghanalan insurance comnpanies to develop and implement
new commercial insurance products addressing previously uncovered export
risLs.
The Implemeing Agency targeted for capacity building is the NIC. To meet program
objectives, it is essential that the expeise and knowhow of the Intenional Insurance



AIN=R 447
Page 6 of 7
Advisor be transferred to his counterparts at NIC as fidly as possible, within a reasonable
period of time.
24.   During implemention of this progm, transfer of skills to the NIC counterpart will
be accomplished hough the development of a detailed Plan of Action for doing so by the
NIC Project Maager or counterpart and the Insurance Advisor, to be implemented by the
Advisor and counterpart. 'he Insurance Industry Plan of Action will be based upon four (4)
elements:
(a)    A complete list of tasks required to carry out the insurance industry program,
to include (i) establishment of terms and conditions, (ii) development of
marketing strategies, (iii) assistance to the industry in product marketing, (iv)
improvement of risk management and loss prevention methods, (v)
development of reinsurance facilities, and (vi) establishment of iustry
standards for underwriting;
(b) A program for transferring responsibility for each task to the NIC counterpart,
including definition of level of experise to be reached and target dates for
takeover of each task or industry fimction by the counterpart;
(c)    Definition of back-up support which will be provided by the Advisor as the
counterpart takes over each function; and,
(d)    A written set of crteria for evaluating progress in taking over each function.
KMoing and Eviuatdon
25.   With 1993, as the base year, the following set of me=urable annual montoring
indicators wJIl be used to detrmine the impact of the progara.
Imnact Uon MC's Instltutional Capadty to Serve the Indushrv:
(a)   Increase in the number of marine insurance products introduced with MC
assistance, from two available in the market before project start to five or
more;
()    Increase in the mnmber and type of services available through NIC to the
insurance industry, relative to the design, pricing and markeig of insurce
products;
(c)    Number of legislative and/or policy revisions which have been developed and
promulgated to facilitate provision of commercial insuramce for NTEs, with
NIC direct assistance; and,
(d)    bce   in the number of insurance product lines for which NIC is capable of
delivering technical assistance to member insurance companies from three to
five or more, Including life as well as marine insurance products.



Page 7 of 7
(a)   Incras in the number of marine Imurance products aiable to exporters
and Importe in Ghana, fom the presen two to five or more ready by
pogam  year end;
0)    Increase in the number and typ"s of risks covered by Ghanaian undewriters
under 'all risk* policies for non-perishables, *specific epesur' for
perishable shipments and 'open policier.' for products with special
chdacteristics or deductibles;
(c)   Increase in volume of insurmce transactions handled by Ghanalan brokers,
requiring packgg of insce with 'specific exposu" which were not
previously avaible to Obanaian exporters or importers;
(d)   Increae in the number of insurance companies offering commercial isurance
products to exporters and importers by progam yea end (competition within
the in  y), from the present miber of hee to four companies to six or
more; and,
(e)    Decrease by 10 percent or more by program year end in the dollar value and
tonag of uncovered losses in export trade, due to 'transit perils' ot
prwiosly covered by the Ghaan insurance industry



Page 1 of 7
1!EA EN gum=IS ANiD EX(PORtT DZVELOPA4ENT IIOE
A Credit Reference Agec for Gha
iGCont
1.    Amid signs of diversification and deepening in Ghana's capital market, access of
Ghanaian business to financial resources including medium term credit, long term debt and export
finae remains limited. One of the primary ccnstraints is lack of a Credit Reference Agency
(CRA) providing vital operating and management information for businesses, banks and
instiutional investors.
2.    Poor credit information and analysis has led to bad lending decisions and poor asset
quality in Ghana and other counes with formative credit markets. According to results of a
recent Feasibility Study commissioned by the IFC on a CRA for Ghana, the banks themselves are
interested in protecting asset quality, and have drnonstra   at the middle level willingness to
incorporate independaent credit assessments on their largest borrowers into their internal credit
apprais and approval process.
3.    Recepty may be linked in part to recent experience of Ghanaian banks with massive
Ievels of non-peforing loans, many of which have been tured over for restructuing and
collection by the Non-Pedroming Assets Trust (NPART). The crisis in asset quality has also
rised investor concerns that may persuade banks to get independent credit references.
_d  for Credit Refeme S
4.    With the gradual opening up of the Ghanalan capital market, beneft of a CRA have been
cited by both private sect companies and State Owned Enterprises. A number of these
companies were interviewed as potenial borrowers and investors as part of an IFC commissioned
study in September 1991, io dtermine feasibility of a CRA for Ghana.
5.      he need for an Agency, run on a commercially sustainable basis, has also been cited in
appraisals for sever recen iDA projects in Ghana, including those for FINSAC I and the Private
Enterprse and Export Development Projec.
6.    The recet IFC commisioned study established the need for a CRA as wei as some of
the              and f cial peimets for its developmenL Conductod by an outside
consutant, the study cited several market trends as evidence that demand for credit reference
services in Ghana will increase. Among these are the gradually developing markets for negotiable
certificates of deposit, short tem commercial paper (CP) and baner's aceptances (BA). At
prest, the BA and CP markets are active but essentily illiquid, although intermediaries
including two discount houses do sometimes place CP with nonbak       investors.
7.    Various      es  and non-bank istdonal investrs inteviewed as part of the IFC
study indicated that independent credit infomation would foster liquidity in these markets by
genratig more acivity. Many participants indicated that they would be more active in the



Page 2 of 7
market as bonrowers and investors if such information was available. Ghanaabanks continue to
hesitate to extend pro- and post-shipmert credits to Non-Traditonal Expoi.as due in part to lack
of reliable management and operating information and company credit data. For those busnesses
udertakig expansion for export, lack of reliable credit information has also been a factor
limiting access to medium term bank credit.
8.    To date, the primary obstacles to development of a CRA have been the following:
(a)    Commercial viability of the facility, based upon sustning anmnu levels of user
volume and realistic reference and subscription fee structures;
(b)    Potential credibility of a CRA with Ghanalan businesses, traditionally hesitant to
disclose operating information to other businesses because of previous experience
with its impwper use and cultr factors;
(c)   Inadequacy of the accounng standards followed by the largest segment of the
business market, or small to medium scale non-listed companies using primarily
short form accounting.
9.    Propects for a CRA achieving commercial viability in the Ghanaian market are
constraine by the limited size of the market among potental providers and users of credit
information. At present, the only predictable group of users are some 10 to 12 large public
companies which are listed on the Ghana Stock Exchange and have provided sufficient
information to be rated.
10.   A related issue is the likely credibility of Credit Reference Services among medium to
large scale, Ghansian owned and managed companies which presently provide little or no
information to third party agencies. Many of these companies have tradiionally been reluctant to
discdose operating and management information to third parties or other companies, due to prior
bad expeience with release of such information to competition and other adverse business acdons.
11.   Traditiofially the largest companies have been able to secure ban finance and other
financial resources and have had clear incentives to get references. Smaller companies have no
such incentives. Successfilly marketing a CRA to such companies will require an blended
approh including (a) aggressive and carefully focused marketing adapted to the Ghanaiam
business culture and (b) direct incentives such as a requirent of a credit reference for access to
credit.
12.   In a country at Ghana's stage of development, the market is going to be limitd at agency
start up. Building of a sustaining anmnal market among companies as providers and users of
business information is likely to take two to three years. During this time, a CRA may require an
opeating subsidy unDti a break-even volume is reached.
13.   Financial rxortg  and accunting standards in Ghana are not fully developed. As noted,
the vast majority of businesses are non-listed companies using short form accountng and
producing annual operatig figures which are someimes incomplete or of doubtfil reliability.
Ghanaian disclosure practces are inconsistent and financia reports for businesses as well as banks
are often lacking sufficient detail or timeliness or both. Public information on borrowers is often



ANN-4:8
Page 3 of 7
inadequate for bankers and investors. To  yccessbAy addres these cons , a CRA must be
supported v.ith adoption of minimum accounting standards and clear disclosure requirments.
LAmred from Oter Markets
14.   Discussions with innational credit reference services, and experience cited from other
markets In the IFC commissioned study, indicate that a successful CRA must meet the fo:lowing
requirements or tests:
(a)    Establishment of an independent and reliable information base on domestic
companies, their operations, management and credit records;
(b)    Idependence from banks, borrowers, intermediaries and Government regulatcr
in order to assure imparial references and fair disclosure;
(c)    Financial sustainabiity based upon operating revenues from both credit reference
services and subscriptions to reference reports, so that adequate management talent
and other resources can be attracted;
(d)    An adequate disclosure law, according the CRA the right to hold certain
information provided in confidence and providing reasonable data protection for
companies supplying the information;
(e)    Education for the key participants on the use and importance of reference
services, the agency's credit evaluation criteria and reference rationale; and
(f)    Acces to technical assistance from an Iternationa reference agency experienced
n Africa, providing lessons learned from design and operation of facilities in
other markets.
15. Experience of the international rating services in working with information coltection and
procesing in over 160 on line markets (including African countries), indicates that building an
Inlomation base on local businesses is the most difficult and costly step in establishing a CRA.
Ihe biggest constraint is reluctance of prvate companies to disclose market and operating
information to a service whose ditbuton they caot control. According to international
analysts, effective responses are: (a) an education program for local businesses on the use and
importnce of references and (b) adequate disclosure laws enabling the credit reference agency to
keep infomaon confidential.
BM= Rentsm
16.   Findings of te IFC commissioned study indicate da imortt initial tasks in seting up
an effective and sutanable CRA include the following: (a) structring of Government
endorsements of the Agency's independence and (b) setting in place of a regulatory framework
which wll induce companies to obtain references, and at the same time safeguard the quality and
confidentiality of ifrmaton provided by banks, private companies and other rated enities.
17.   While the findings of the refeced study suggested creating a legal requirement for
larger companies to be lndepently rated, this is contary to the spirit of private sector



ANEX 4-8
Page 4 of 7
development Guvwnment control being limited to requiring that under the proposed Financial
Services Jndustry Law, Investments by any hnstiton with fiduciary responsibilides such as
pensions or trusts would be limited to companies (mcluding public companies) hat had achieved
an investment grade rating. It might also be considered that the Bank of Ghana would include in
its supervisory criteria of commercial b k asset evaluations, a positive indicator for banks hat
have obtained independent credit reference input.
18. In order to safeguard quality and confidentiality of information provided by companies
and banks to be rated, it was recommended that the following actions be taken:
(a)    Ptomulgation by the Government of a disclosure law which allows credit
reference agencies to treat confidentially information provided in audited financial
staements and discssions with management;
(b)   Requirement by the reference agency that where appropriate, critical financial
information supplied to the Agency, including confidential iformation provided in
discussions with management, be audited by reputable accounting firms whose
audis are acceptable to the Agency; and
(c)    At its discretion, Agency acceptance from the company seeking a reference
disclosure of information provide4 to the Stock Exchange, in addition to any other
information required for reference purposes.
19. Ihe CRA would have the following role:
(a)    Publishing for the benefit of banks and non-bank investors of consistent
information, opinions and analytical commentary on a significant number of
important companies in Ghana;
(b) Assisfingt regulators and the accounting profession in setting standards for financial
reportng;
(c)    Begining to build data bases on potential users and preliminary credi
asswm;
(d)   Developing reference criteria in conjunction with issuers, investors and
ntermediaies;
(e)    Conducting fee-based educational seminars to familiarize the market with
reference crteria and analysis; and
(f)    Mantaining close contact with key regultory authorities to make sure they
understand directions at the reference agency.



ANNEXAS
Page 5 of 7
~~~~~ redmfr a Creli Riefence Agenc
20.   The key or onal needs for a successfMl Ghanalian reference agency are
independence and credibility among suppliers and users of inforation provided. These factors
are necessary so that references are viewed as the result of objective and professional assessment
of reliable information.
21.   The CRA should be commercial and if possible be linked to an interationally recognized
CRA. The IFC study recommended institutional ownership of 75 percent or more, split among
teon to fifteen nstitions to ensure a diverse group. The following indicative capital ownership
split was given:
(a)    Banks witb at most 30 percent of institutional capital;
(b)    Non-bank institutional investors such as corporations, SSN1T, pension funds and
insurance companies with at most 30 percent of capital; and
(c)   Investors (including foreign CRA) with at least 40 percent of capital;
TM           hte         Reference Process
22.   An inportant consideration in Ghana is the level of expertise within existng operations to
do the kind of financal analysis required in developing a CRA. Currently there is a stock
brokerage house which does internal analysis of some 28 firms and a private financial advisory
firm with growing experience in local securities analysis.
23.   Assuming utilization of the existg skills base, overseas technical assistance will be
required for at least one to two years. Lessons learned from other markets indicate that such
tkeal assistanco should covew all aspects of establishing a reference agency. These are
inorporated in the terms of reference for a full feasibility study.
Reuts  bdientie Jraken Aalxs
24.    The consultant for the IFC study conducted a Preliminary Breakeven Analysis for a
Credit Refrence Agency. Under certin assumptions regarding amnual usage levels and fee
strucure, the analysi indicated that such a facility could be viable in Ghana, but not before year
two at the earliest.



ANNEX
Page 6 of 7
25.   At an annual budget of C 170 million (estimated by the SDC and assuming techical
assistance), and the following fee structures/rates of utilization, the local consultant estimated that
a Ohanalan Credit Reference Agency could be sustnable based upon operating income in Year
Two, reaching an annual gross income of C 175 million:
Credit Reference Services at reference fee of C I mfllion ($2670) per annum and 50
references during first year
Income       ¢ 50 milion
Annual subscription fees to references aad analysis report of C 200,000 and 100 users
during first year
Income       C 20 million
First Year Income    C 70 million
Credit Reference Services at reference fee of C I million ($2670) per annum and 125
references during second year
income       C 125 million
Annual subscription faes to references and analysis report of 200,000 and 250 users
during second year
Income       C 50 million
Second Year Income   C 175 million
terms o Rerence for Final Feasibihlit Studv
26.   In order to ensure that a Credit Reference Agency can be established in Ghana, with
operational independence and good prospects for achieving financial sustnability, it is
recommended tgat BOG receive funding for conducting of a detailed feasibility study firmly
establishing the market, operational and investment perimeters for such an Agency. Institutional
objectives of the study will be to: (a) establish the financial and operational feasiblity of a
commercially operated CRA, (b) develop a realistic operational structure in the Ghanaian conte
and (c) provide a five-year Business Plan and operadng projection.
27.   Using the IFC-commissioned feasibility study as base, further study must be carried out in
Ghana on a number of factors using the services of a consultant experienced as a references
analyst in an international reference agency or a similar instiution. Preferably, the consultant
wiUl have done references analysis in Africa and/or will be familiar with the COntra    presented
by African markets.
28.   The study will be carried out over a eight-week period, including fur weeks in Ghana.
The study will address the following:
(a)    A closer asssmeat of the willingness of private and statowned companies and
banks to cooperate with the credit reference process, by providing access to
financial and non-financial information and management, and by paying both
references and subscription fees for regular agency publications.



ANNEX A4
Page 7 of 7
(As noted in the IEFC study, ful11 feasibility assessment should address a wider cross-
section of Ghanaian corporations, more senior bank management officials and more
institutional inestors including isurace companies and pension flmds);
(b)    A capacity assessment of the exing Ghaaian companies and their ability to
conduct credit analysis, rate and monitor companies and deliver related market
services, with attention to qlity of information provided and ways to improve it;
(c)    A comparison of ownership structures of reference agencies in other counties
with formative credit markets, to identify alternative structures and lessons
learned;
(d)    An analysis of the Ghanan legal framework with respect to corporate law and
.ppropriate recommendations to modify such regulations; and
(e)    Cost analysis for establishing and running a CRA, under given market condidons
in Ghana and different scenarios for technical assistance delivery.
29.   Outputs of the eight-week study will be the following:
(a)    A working estimate of the size of the annual market for reference and analysis
report services in Ghana, indicated volume of sales by product and thresholds for
reaching financial sustainability based upon user fees (breakeven analysis).
(b)    A mix of products and market activities and an operational and ownership
structure for the CRA, if a sustaining arnual market has been established.
Ownership structure Flaould indicate percentages of stock ownership by sector
(baniks, non-bank institutional investors, other), structure of the iKeference
Committee and mechanisms for maintaining impartality and credibility in
references operation.
(c)    Design and costing of the technical assistance plan, according to the recommended
delivery mechanism (tenational reference agency contract, advisor or both).
Plan should specify level, cost, qualifications and Terms of Reference for an
outside Advisor and/or advisory services. It should cover all aspects of
establishing a CRA (organization and personnel, reference categories and
definitions, reference criteria for banks and companies, internal reference
presentation structure, Reference Committee process, monitoring and reference
reviews and marketing to issuers, investors, intermediaries and regulators).
(L)    A detailed five-year Business Plan as basis for presentation to potential investors.
This should reflect the proposed technical assistance package and capital structure,
a closer estimation of annual sales for credit references and reports, a realistic fee
structure, indicated cost structure for daily operation and technical assistance
oomponent and a five year forecast of investment returns to attract investors. IThe
Business Plan should also reflect indicated need for time-bound operating subsidy
during start-up period.
(e)    A detailed plan for delivery and monitoring of user education and other
incentives.



ANNEC 449
GHNA
PRIVATE ENRI tSE AM IMORT DEVEaa     nRO
DOCUMEM IN TIRE PROJECT FILE
Ghana Copoat1iemkIizRestntc ,M   m, Resach on Economic Policy Implementaton and
Maagement Ltd., (REPIM) and J. S. Addo, Consultants, Accra, Gbana, lune 3l. 1992.
ftWctAsgM    Avd  Document MPA=D  - G;ba Taea son                         r
M5D. United States Agency for Intnational Development.
ort on R"QSMr  C         ,         and E]MM =  Guarantee PasSities forU Gh. First
Waington Associates, Ltd., Alington, Virgini USA, Septmb  1992.
Stdies under the Technical Assistance Component, Private Entprise and Export
Development Project, Ghana, Tamara Duggleby, Duggleby and Associates, Inc., Washingto,
D.C., January 1993.



GHANA - PRIVA1T7E   am=RIS AND EXIPORT DEhOFfET*B   PROJECT
Roles and Iteswbides ot the PrWiec  mg_im nz Unt
1.    The roles of the export finance office (EFO) and the Project Implt ion Unit
(PIU)     generally to ensue that the various components of the Project are imple  In a
timely, coordinated, ad coherent manner in order that the stated objeotves of the project are
met at a rapid pace, Specifically, the EFO at the BOG wil oversee the ili n of the
Export Credt Refinncing and Credit Guarantee Facilty, the training programs for the EFO
staff, bankers and expe s, devebpment of the international paymens settement system,
and studies on the forward foreign exchange operaion and the credit refice agency. Ihe
PIU at the MFEP will oversee the development of the cporat enterprise restucturing action
plan and the stjdies on the long-term debt market and the commercial insace market.
2.    To enable them to Amffi is objective, the EFO and NU will specifically undertae
the following actions for the componets they supevis:
i)   define, on an annual basis, a program and a schedule for
Implementation of the various component of the Project, ncluding the
targets and the ways of monitoDring imp
(i)   review, on a quarterly basis, the status of implementation of the
Project with a view to adopting corective measures if necessary, and
binging to th6 attention of IDA any problem/isses arisng therefirom
which may impede, in a substant  manmer, the implementation of e
Project;
(iii)  ensure that records re up-to-date regading the sts of
Implementation of the Project wih a view to faciliatig problem-
solving, and prepaing quartery progress reports and making them
avaiable on a timely manner to the institutions involved in the Project
as well as to IDA. 'he heads of the participating agencies will be
responsible to prepare quaerly and other reports for submission to
the EFO or the PNU manager.
3.    In addition, the EFO will:
(i)   ensure that all the components are carried out in an action-oriented
manner with a view to generating a steady flow of viable investment
projects eligible for financing under the refinacing facility and the
export credit guarnee program, and enhancing the growth of export;
(i)   assist the participating banks in defining a strategy for publicizing and
marketing the line of credit;
(iii) ensure that the participating banks work closely with the support
institutions in general, and with those supported under the Project in
particular, while identifjing, promoting and financing investment
projects.



is0l   B  S^ ^-JFA
2 i N    !  Ike
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_ | K | ts @ ts~~~
|~   i                ..      b  :fJS Ii:j
,~~~~                      4 



ANNEX6L2
Implementation SchedWe                                                 p  2 of 3
himim    m~ im                                TOW
c. Banke  and exports
tginIng                                                                    48S,432
(I) Appobinment of
Consuitaut                         Oct
Oi) Trai     tiI                       Doc
(il) Bankers' traing                   Nov   Feb   Jun    Jun   1un1
Dec   Apr   Dec   Deo   Doc
Jun
Aug
Oct
Dec
(iv) Exprte' traiing                   Nov   Jan    Jan    Jan    Jan
M      Mar   Apr   Apr
May   May  Jul    Jul
Jul    Jul    Oct   Oct
Sep    Oct
Nov
(v)  Prepaatdon of an
Export Guidbook                   Nov
(vi) Acion plan-tUaIning               Oct   Oct   Oct   Oct   Oct
d. Intentional payments
settlment system
development and implem on                     Jan                         3,727,170
5. Forward foreign exchange
mazket study                                                                128,000
(i)  Appo_in t of
consulant                          Oct
(Si) Completion of the
study                                     Jun
f. Lng-term debt market study
and taning                                                                  275,200
(i) Appointment of
consultant for
study                              Oct
(ii) Compledon of
study                                     Jun
(I) Appointmeut of
adviser                                   Jan



ANNEX s2
Implementation Schedule                                 Pago 3 of 3
pAcity p~Pmj#t 1993 19 1995 1996TOW Cost
g. Comm_o   Insurance _ madte
sudy ad tIning                                                              197,200
(I)  Appointen of
consultAn for
study                              Nov
(1) Completion of
sudy                                      Jun
(i) Appointmen of
advise                                   PFb
(lv) Completko of the
attahmentprogam                           Sep
h. Credit Refrence Ag8ny                                                        44,300
(i) Appointment of
consultan for
study                              Doc
(i) Compledon of
study                                    Jun
a. IDA supervision mission                Aug   Jun    Jun    Jun    Ju
Dec   Doc   Deo
b. Status report on all the project
comp        to be set to DA by
the EFO and PIU                                      Jul
a. IDA/GOG mid-term review                              Jul
hiegomple-L Ima
a. Commence prepartion of the
report                                                             Doc
b. Completion of the report - June, 1998
I/ Funded under the Agiutal Divrsdficadon Project.



ANNE   -
Page I of 2
EREAE MM A 3W1RT DhOIPNMEN RJ
KEY INDICATORS FOR ]PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
AND REPORTING REQUIREMNTS
A. K
For monitoring purposes, the following indicatorn would apply:
By mld       By mid-       By mid-      By mid-
1994          199S         1996.        1997
Export Crd Refinance and
Guarantee Facility commitments   10%          40%           75%           100%
The echnical assistance budget and corresponding requirements and activities are at
Annes 3-2 through Annex 34. Studies should be completed by mid-1994.
B. RNedng Rmdirmlents
To enable IDA to monitor the fidfillment of the project objectives during project
implementation, the EFO would, through inputs from the PFIs and concerned agencies,
prepare the following minimum information on the refinance facility and export credit
guaantee scheme:
- Sub-project Lending Performance (semi-annually):
* Number of subprojects and their tota  an size
* Number of reinances and average term
* Number of guarantees requested
* Number of guarantees granted
claims
* Imple    ion delays
* Cuntv pie   of (a) refinane facility and (b) guaratee requests
* Classification by loan and guarantee size
Commiment of the IDA credit, disbursements, repayments and canceltions
* Guaantee settlements
* Guaantee recoveries
* Foreign excange dominated
* Cedi denominated



Page 2 of 2
Soclo-econonic hmpact (semi-anuly); ommmitmet an disbunts by
* Total reinan      grnted to direct exportrWs
* Total refinag granted t    ire  exporters
* Entpris size (esl, ales, exports)
* Sector, subsector
* Region
* PFI
* Total exports recorded
*  Jotd iqputs
* Domestic inputs
Pro9res Reports (sem-ually) on the use and experience of the:
* Refinance Facility
* Export Credit Refnamce and Credit auarntee Facility
 ITe EFO will prewe stat  reports on the activites under the technical assistance
component, including procurement actvities (as provided under the Imple aton
Schedule, Annex 6-2), for training programs for bankers and exporters, development
of the itational payments settement sysm, and studies on the forwad foreign
exchange operation and the credit reference agency.
- ITh PW will also submit semi-anual progs reports on the tical assistance
compoents it coordiat, includin proes on premnt atvides (as provided
under the Implementation Schedule, Annex 6-2), for the commercial insurance and
long term debt market studies and the corporate restucuring componen.



*  GHANA
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE AND EXPORT DEVELOPNMNT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PRPOSED PROCURMENT AIRRANGEMENTS
Total
(IDA-financed)
Export Credi Refinace
and Guaantee Facilty               34.0 I/              7.0           41.0
Technical assistance:
Personal compus, vehicles
and office eqipment               4.1 bl                             4.1
Consultant's sevces               0.8 ;/               1.1            1.9
Trainn, others                    0.4 I/               0.4           0.8
Unallocat                          JLZ                 _LU
Total                           40                    ,             Au
NIP - Not IDA-fianced
a/    Bid pacages exceeding US$100,000 equvat would rquire thre price
uotions; 1CB would be reurd for bid packages exceeding $1 mihion  AU
procuemaent docment and arragements will be subject to prior review by
IDA.
h/    Bid packages less than $75,000 would be made accordn to local shopping
procedus. Bid packaes over $75,000 and less dtm $200,000 would follow
LCB procedures while those $200,000 and above would follow ICB pocedur.
Al LCB and ICB prcement docuents and arragements wfll be subject to
prior review by IDA.                                           I
Procrment of srvices will be according to IDA Guiddi  for the Use of
Consltants. Terms of refeence for all contat, employmt of individuals,
singleourcehirng of firms, assgments ofctical  ue  (as determined by
IDA), and procurement         *onIand amagements for contacs aounting
to US$100,000 or more wil be subject to prior review by IDA. Amm of
contrcts raing the conOac value to USS100,00 or above will also requie prior
review by IDA.



ANX 6
GHRANA
I!IUATEC IZI SE ANID EXlORT DEVELOIT N                   lOE
SUtMMARY OF PROCUREMEN FOR GOODS AND SERVICES
LcalForign            LCB i/               ICB a/
Shopping
Epo Credit
Refinance and
Guaratee Faciity      US$100,000 and                          US$1 million
more b/                                or more 2/
Technical Assistance d/  US$75,000 and less   Between US$75,000  Greater than
and US$200,000     US$200,000 l-
At Subject to prior review by IDA.
fr  In the case of standadized equipment as proprietary items that are needed for
compatility with existng equipment, direct contracting may be allowed.
si  Limitd intnational bidding or direct concing may be allowed subject to prior
approval by IMA, if equipment is available only from a limited number of suppliers
worldwide or stadard equipment or proprietary items are required for compatibility with
eXit  equipment.
V  Pcurment of services witl be according to IDA Guidelines for the Use of Consultans.
Terms of referece for all contracts, employment of Individuals, single-source hiring of
firms, assignments of critical natre (as determined by IDA), and procurement
n and agemens for conacts amouing to US$100,000 or more will be
subject to prior review by IDA. Amendments of conacts raising the contract value to
US$100,00 or above wfll also require prior review by IMA.



GHANA - PRIVATE BNTE11! AND ET                     MLMO  PROJEC
C~~~~~~~~~~Au                                  DisIU_en
(US$ M)
A.  IN=   RIA            FaPifift     34.00              100% of the suldoan
B.  T3^mied  ¢
i)  Consultant servieso, tain,         0.57              100% of Oxpnditures
equipment and vehicle for EPO
(BOG)
ii)  Equipnt and sWlies, vehice        0.07              100% of exiturs
and taining for PIU (MP)
in) Con_utnt sevieo, equimnt,          0.30              100% of exenditures
aD8 for cofporate
iv)   oant¢ services for the           0.3S              100% of ep iture
export finance buining
v)  Coultn svices sd                   0.13              100% of etures
eq !mnt for the frwad
foign ex_cag mm" study
vI)  c    tt srvics, traig,            0.28              100% of exndibt
ofice equiment, veles for
the long-tem debt nizke study
vii) Consultnt servics, equpmo         3.47              100%ofqpen
-in  and vehicle for to
W mintrntonlpaynmita
seaunm 
viii) Cosult sevices equimuent         0.20              100% of expenditurs
tsining and vehicle for dIe
commercainsurance study
xi)  Consultat sernce for du           0.04              100% of exdiures
crei refrence agency study
Total                           41.0
WT  Oth:r intttoappo and tudis.
UIThAIIDE5MU       DUMM: (USS ujivion equivale)
IMA Piscal Year
Annual                          4.0      14.S      13.7       5.6       3.2
Ctumavo                         4.0      18.5      32.2      37.8      41.0



ANNB 67
Page I of 3
GHANA
lERu           RPIRLSE AND 7,WORT DEOIPMENTPRJC
SUPERVISON PLAN
1.    Bank uwesion lama. The input indicated in the table below refers to total staff
and IDA consultant resources estmaed to be required for the review of progress reports,
procurement and disbursement action, correspondence, donor coordination, and in-country
supervision of the PEED project.
Fiscal       Export Financing           Studies & TA
Year          CmComoo
I               (weeks)                  l
1993               8                        4
1994               8                        5
1995               8                        5
1996               8                        5
1997               6                        4
1998               4                        2
In addiion to the Task Manager who will have overall supervision responsibility for the
project, specialized resources would be required in the first two years to supervise export
finance and tecic assistance and export infrastructure components. Supevision missions
will normally be composed of the Task Manager, and financial/trade specialists.
2.    Borwees Cont tion toSupervision. The Export Finance Office (EFO) and the
Project Impleng Unit (PIU) are responsible for overall project implemenAtion in matters
rg    to f    l control, implementation, procurement, and   ice of records on
tasctions on all the project comonents. The EFO and the PIU will be required to submit
or to contribute to the following:
(a)    Quarterly and semi-aual progress reports should cover utilization of the
export credit refinance and guarantee facility and status of completion of the
stdes and implementation of recommendations made under these studies.
The information contained in these reports will be used to formulate specic
terms of reference for each supervision mission.
(b)   Project review meetig with the partcipation of the various project agencies
to be held during the semi-annual supervision missions each year.
(c)   IDA supervision missions and overall coordination information required by
missions. The heads of dpartmentsbneficiary agencies would be
responsible for coordinating information and supervision pertaining to the
implementaion of their component. Mission briefing on arrival and wrap-up
meete will be attended by the EFO and PIU mnagers and heads of the
indivi  beneficiary agencies and other agencies as requied. The Secetary,
Ministy of Finance, will be bried susquent to such meetng.



ANNEX 6-7
Supervision Plan                                                          Page 2 of 3
(d)    Audited reports on the special accounts, statements of expenditures and
financial statements of PFIs, CERF, EFO to be submitted within six months
after the end of each fiscal year by the Govenument.
3.    Major Supervision Issues
(a)    Size, quality and implementation experience of the export credit refinancing
and guarantee facility;
(b)    Progress on the restructuring effort and assessment of the impact of the
technical assistance component on the restructured comranies.
(c)    Review of selection of consultants, content of studies and scope and timing of
action plans resulting from recommendations.
(d)    Coordination with donors, USAID on sharing iformation from IDA and other
donor-financed studies and formulating action plans to assist in the
implementation of the Government's export development strategy.
(e)    Review of agreed procurement procedures.
(t)    Review of disbursements made under the Credit, including examination of
back-up documentation for SOEs and other accounts.
(g)   Review of annual audited accounts.
4. Content and Tuninis of Supervision Missions
Approximate                                                                      Staff
Date                 Activit                           Resources               Wee&
July                   Preffectiveness and project       Task Manager,           6
start-up mission; review of      TradelPinancial
conditions of effectiveness;     Specialist, Export
annual work program for the      Specialist
fist year of project review;
review of procurement
documenrts.
December               Items 3(a)-3(f) above             Task Manager,           6
Trade/Financial
Specialist



ANNEX-Z
Supevision Plan                                                            Page 3 of 3
Approximate                                                                       Staff
Date                     AcLhtiv                        Resmrces                 F-eks
1994
June                   Items 3(a)-3(g) above              Task Manager,           5
Trade/ Financial
Specialist
December               Items 3(a)-3(g) above              Task Manager,           5
TradelFinancial
Speciist
i22
June                    Mid-term review (see Annex 6-     Task Manager,           5
8); mid-course project            Trade/Financial
adjustments, if required          Specialist
December               Items 3(a)-3(t) above              Task Manager,           5
Trade/Financial
Specialist
1996
June                   Items 3(a)-3(g) above              Task Manager,           5
Trade/Financial
Specialist
1997
June                   Items 3(a)-3(g) above. Initiate    Task Manager,           6
preparation of the Project        Trade/Financial
Completion Report.                Specialist



ANNEX 68
PRIVATE ENTERPIUSE AND EXPORT D-EVEIAPMENT PROlECT
ITEMS FOR MID-TERM REVIEW
1.    Progress on the implementation of the Export Refinance Credit and Guarantee
Facility.
2.    An assessme ,f the refinancing rates and the evolution of PFIs interest rate spreads.
3.    Achievement in meeting the targets provided in the Letter of Strategic Development
Policy, i.e., the enactnent of a new Investment Code, divestiture of government
ownership in banks, alignment of tax rates applicable to bank profits with the
corporate tax rate, improvement of regulations on leasing and mutual credit guarantee
schemes, acceleration of the divestiture prog.-am, streamlining the duty drawback
scheme, and implementation of the VAT system.
4.    Progress with implementing the Government's strategy for corporate restructuring.
5.    Ihe adequacy of institutional arrangements and implementation of the various
components of the project.
6.    A discussion of the findings and recommeudations of all studies financed under the
project and completed as at the review date, and agreement on follow up actions.
7.    Progress with implementing all components of the project. Progress will be viewed in
relation to established monitoring indicators.
8.    Review of procurement status for all project components.
9.    Progress in conducting training programs.



IBRD 24755
3.9
BURKINA FASO 
GHANA
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE AND EXPORT
VPPER TO                                      DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
< ~~UPPER   eb  
WEST                                                                            PRIMARY ROADS
SECONDAY ROADS
TERTlA'R ROADS
0      G .i.Ro '\                   RALWAYS
>    />   to    Sbb.   RGION HEAQUATRS
NORTHERN                         .                  ®      TONAL CAPITAL
REGION BOUNDARIES
( 1  >o  pINTERNATIONAL SOUNDARIES
{oChO   <                 O   w           a I                    S 0
C6TEE \Ey'<                                                                  -H
D'IVOIRE  4                                                      ;                      2
|           g     /  ~~~~~BRONG-AH~                                                 0  10 )0 o0  so ,o,   f
VUrA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
07o.      do 90   soW(I$ o b.o,
~~r  /   X 8&iK    \    O um>s                              >,  ff      /                                     r -~~~or 
t   '   KU \                          8               j ^>                  TOGO
o 5 "o, I W>AS~~~~TERN  { 
\,       .< 7                  §      Da  ~~~~~~~~ ~~KOFORtt)@f
WESTERN          >      x                             /' C          R
tj~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i v. .1 di\ / 
6uaF OF GUfINEA                           such bour4ane
s  *  §                 l                                                                   bF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARCH 199



