Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18520
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 2502-GH)
October 29, 1998
Private Sector & Finance
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Cedi
US $1.00 = Cedi 2,325 (September 9, 1998)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOG         Bank of Ghana
EAP         Environmental Action Plan
ECRGF       Export Credit Refinance and Guarantee Facility
EFC         Export Finance Company
EFO         Export Finance Office - BOG
ERP         Economic Recover Program
FINSAC      Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
GEPC        Ghana Export Promotion Council
GIC         Ghana Investment Center
GSE         Ghana Stock Exchange
IDA         International Development Association
MFEP        Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
NIC         National Insurance Commission
NPART       Non-Performing Assets Recovery Trust
NTE         Non-Traditional Export
PIU         Project Implementation Unit - MFEP
PFI         Participating Financial Institution
PVE         Potentially Viable Enterprise
SCB         Standard Chartered Bank
SOE         State-Owned Enterprise
SEC         State Enterprises Commission
SME         Small and Medium Scale Enterprise
TIP         Trade and Investment Project
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
Vice President              :J. L. Sarbib
Director                    :P. Harrold
Acting Sector Manager       :G. Byam
Staff Member                :M. Manalo



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2502-GH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface
Evaluation Summary                                                           i
Part I Project Implementation Assessment
A.  Background                                                        I
B.  Project Objectives and Description                                I
C.  Implementation Experience and Results                             3
D.  Major Factors Affecting the Project                               8
E.  Project Sustainability                                            9
F.  IDA's Performance                                                 9
G.  Borrower's Performance                                            9
H.  Assessment of Outcome                                            10
I.  Future Operations                                               10
J.  Key Lessons Learned                                              II
Part II Statistical Annexes                                                 12
Table I     Summary of Assessment                                    12
Table 2     Related Bank Loans/Credits                               13
Table 3     Project Timetable                                        14
Table 4     Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements            15
Table 5     Key Indicators for Project Implementation                16
Table 6     Key Indicators for Project Operation                     16
Table 7     Studies Included in Project                              17
Table 8A    Project Costs (US$m)                                     18
Table 8B    Project Financing (US$m)                                 18
Table 9     Economic Costs and Benefits                              18
Table 10    Status of Legal Covenants                                19
Table I I    Bank Resources - Staff Inputs (Staff Weeks)             21
Table 12    Bank Resources - Staff Missions                          22
Appendix:
I          Final Supervision Mission's Aide Memoire
2           Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
3           IDA's Response to the Borrower's Evaluation
4           Exporters Assisted under the Project
Map
.This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oaly in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 2502-GH)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Private Enterprise and Export
Development Project in Ghana for which IDA Credit 2502-GH in the amount of SDR 29.6 million
(approximately US$41 million equivalent at appraisal) was approved on July 26, 1993 and became
effective on December 21, 1993.
The credit was closed on March 31, 1998, as originally scheduled. As of October 25, 1998,
approximately SDR12 million (aproximately US$17 million) was disbursed; final refund of the
special account was still taking place when this report was finalized.
This ICR was prepared by Marilyn Manalo, Private Sector Finance Group of the Africa
Region and reviewed by Gerard Byam, Sector Manager, Private Sector Finance Group and Jerome
Chevallier, Project Adviser, Operations Support.
Preparation of the ICR began during IDA's final supervision mission in January 1998. The
Borrower contributed to the ICR by providing its views as reflected in the mission's aide memoire of
February 6, 1998 (Appendix 1), furnishing information incorporated in the report, and providing
their own evaluation of the Project's preparation and execution (Appendix 2). A response by IDA
on some of the Borrower's comments in their report was necessary and is attached as Appendix 3. A
list of private sector beneficiaries under the Project is found in Appendix 4.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PEED)
(Credit 2502-GH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives and Description
1.    The objective of the PEED project was to foster the growth of private Ghanaian
non-traditional exports (NTEs). Project components supporting this objective included:
(i) an export credit refinance and guarantee facility amounting to about US$34 million to
provide short-terrn pre- and post-shipment finance to participating financial institutions
(PFIs) for onlending purposes; and (ii) a technical assistance component amounting to
about US$7 million to finance the development and implementation of an international
payments settlement system; studies and advisory support for a forward foreign exchange
market, an institutionalized short- and long-term debt market, commercial insurance, a
credit reference agency; training and development of bankers and exporters; and
development of an action plan for a pilot corporate restructuring program. Additionally,
following Government's request, assistance for international trade and investment
promotion was provided for its London, Geneva, and Washington, D.C. missions.
Complementary support to the Project's financial sector focus was provided through the
Trade and Investment Project (TIP) of the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID).
2.    The project focused on the private sector development objectives of the
Government and IDA's lending assistance strategy, the thrust of which was to increase
private enterprise formation, employment opportunities, and the export base of the
economy. The project was justified in that many weaknesses and constraints in the
export and financial sectors required catalytic forces that would provide the necessary
initiatives in trade finance, develop an ongoing and sustainable capacity among the banks
and their corporate clients, and increase direct and indirect employment potential by
promoting a supply response in the real sector.  While the project incorporated
components that were to facilitate the commercial and exporting process, it inadequately
addressed subproject repayment as a risk to sustainable banking.
3.    The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement included
covenants intended to enhance the business environment and boost the growth of private
and exporting enterprises. These included: (i) modifications in the Ghana Investment
Center's investment and incentive procedures and elimination of its regulatory functions;



ii
(ii) eligibility criteria limiting participation in the refinancing facility to private financial
institutions after end-1994; (iii) a requirement that the Government employ the proceeds
from the repayment of sub-loans to finance export credit needs; and (iv) up-front funding
of the export guarantee facility by the Government.
Summary of Findings and Future Operations
4.    The project was approved at a time when Ghana's macroeconomic performance
started to decline (brought about by a slippage in balance of payments and fiscal accounts
and substantial wage increases). IDA anticipated that the Government would be able to
implement in a timely manner the corrective measures incorporated in its 1993 budget
plan. These included: (i) a substantial increase in the petroleum tax; (ii) a marked
acceleration in the divestiture of public enterprises; and (iii) increases in the rates of
collection on domestic and import taxes. However, implementation of these measures
was protracted and fiscal deficits reached high levels leading to macroeconomic
instability, large public debts, and the crowding out of private sector borrowers from the
financial markets. Implementation of the project was adversely affected by these
developments. Adjustments were made to the design of the project to improve the
performance of the credit facility, but these efforts proved futile.
5.    The implementing unit, the Export Finance Office (EFO), at the Bank of Ghana
(BOG), provided a mechanism that fostered the participation of eight banks (50 percent
of all banks) and developed their capacity to provide trade financing to direct exporters.
About 41 percent of the original allocation of the credit facility, approximately US$13.8
million, financed 84 loans to a diverse (relative to industrial sector and geographic
location) group of 65 exporters. Support under PEED and TIP projects contributed to the
results summarized below:
1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
Total exports ($m)      1,098    1,105    1,208    1,227    1,431    1,571    1,511
Non-traditional exports ($m)    63  68     72      119     160     276      329
Non-traditional exports    2       8        6      65       34      73       19
growth rate
Non-traditional exports as %                                                 226  6  6  10  11  18
of exports
The main objective of the project, which was to expand nontraditional exports, has been
achieved beyond appraisal expectations. The contribution of the project to this increase is
not clear, however. On the basis of assumptions made during appraisal, the line of credit
might have helped about 1 1 percent of these incremental exports to materialize. The
objective of improving the efficiency of participating banks was not achieved as they were
plagued by high default rates and the continued erosion of their financial resources. The
envisaged benefits of the TA components did not materialize fully because of protracted
implementation, postponement, or cancellation of some TA components. The outcome of
the project is unsatisfactory.



iii
6.    The approximate total project cost was US$29.5 million with IDA providing
about US$16.8 million, the Government and PFIs contributing about US$0.2 million and
US$2.9 million, respectively, and the beneficiaries investing about US$9.6 million.
Approximately 41 percent of the credit was disbursed. The project closed as originally
scheduled.
7.    The key factors that affected project execution were the unfavorable macro-
economic conditions, problems in the banking system, and the participation by under-
developed and under-capitalized enterprises.
8.   IDA's performance was deficient. In hindsight, IDA was too optimistic in its
judgment that the deterioration in macroeconomic performance in 1992 would be
resolved in the short term. Also, as designed, the project did not address credit discipline
and repayment performance as major risks to sustainable trade financing and reflected too
conservative an estimate of the banking system's contribution to export financing
(particularly for cedi-denominated requirements) and an optimistic assumption of PFIs'
receptiveness to new, non-traditional exporters.  When macroeconomic instability
persisted and conditions for the development of the financial sector remained
unfavorable, IDA should have canceled the project earlier rather than letting it run its
course.
9.    The EFO provided coordinating support for the implementing agencies and
demonstrated persistence at getting the components off the ground. It was particularly
challenged, however, in balancing the need to meet the export objectives of the project,
while working to maintain consistent and sustainable banking sector policies. It submitted
progress and audit reports on a timely basis. However, its delayed attention to the
performance of PFIs and repayment capacity of exporters provided less opportunities for
all players to positively influence the outcome of the project. The performance of the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) at the Ministry of Finance (MOF) was unsatisfactory.
The MOF staff were under stress, overstretched, and lacked the commitment and capacity
to meet the demands of multi-level responsibilities.
10.   The limited achievements under the project will be maintained and improved only
if the Government rigorously implements policies that consistently support a
development strategy guided by the need for macroeconomic stability, a business
environment conducive to private investment and export growth, and a disciplined
financial system. Also, BOG and PFIs need to recognize that an efficient and competitive
financial system is indispensable to export development.
11.  In discussing a future operational plan, the Government, BOG and IDA agreed
that there were a number of important issues which continued to negatively affect the
sustainability of the achievements reached under this Project and other recently
completed IDA-supported financial sector development projects. The critical issues
which require immediate attention to protect the soundness of the financial system and to
address constraints to the provision of term finance for private investment include: (i)



iv
Government's high fiscal deficit; (ii) the improper functioning of the treasury bill market;
and (iii) serious problems in the banking system including an increasing dependence on
investments in Government instruments, growing portfolio problems, imprudent levels of
foreign exchange risk, banking system inefficiency, unaddressed problems in specific
banks and an inadequate exit policy for insolvent banks. These issues have been
examined in a Financial Sector Assessment Report (1998), which serves as the basis for
dialogue between the Government, BOG and IDA on the most immediate financial sector
needs and the appropriate programs to address these areas and reduce risks.
Key Lessons Learned
12.   The key lessons are: (a) in the absence of a stable macroeconomic environment,
financial sector operations are not likely to succeed; (b) broader achievements under
financial intermediary loans are unlikely within an undisciplined credit environment; in
this case, measures should be included to address issues relating to governance,
management, financial policies, collection performance, appraisal and supervision
techniques, and credit risk management policies of PFIs; and (c) when erroneous
decisions are made and these mistakes are realized, countermeasures, including project
cancellation, should be taken as soon as possible to minimize their cost.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT (PEED) PROJECT
(Credit 2502-GH)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background
1.    The Private Enterprise and Export Development (PEED) Project was designed to
assist the Government of Ghana (GOG) in implementing its development program,
characterized by a shift in focus from economic recovery to policies and investments
needed to accelerate economic growth. The Project was designed to build on past
achievements and complement projects that aimed at developing the policy and
regulatory framework and the financial sector.  These projects, funded by the
International Development Association (IDA), included the: Export Rehabilitation
Project (1435-GH, 1436-GH, F9-GH, 1984), Second Reconstruction and Import Credit
(1573-GH, A-3-GH, 1985), Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit (1672-GH, A-13-GH,
1986), the First and Second Financial Sector Adjustment Credits (FINSAC, 1911-GH,
1988, and 5659-GH, 1991), and the Private Small and Medium Enterprise Development
Credit (SME, 191 1-GH, 1989).
2.   In targeting the development of an enabling business environment, some of the
important areas covered in the above credits included exchange rate and price
liberalization, import liberalization, export development, technology transfer agreements,
removal of price controls, and taxation reforms. In the financial sector, the adjustment
credits addressed resource mobilization and credit allocation in the financial system,
banking system regulations, restructuring of distressed banks, development of the capital
markets, establishment of an institutional framework for non-bank financial institutions,
and capacity building in the banking, accounting, and insurance professions.
B. Project Objectives and Description
3.    The objective of the PEED Project was to foster the growth of non-traditional
exports (NTEs). The project components included: (i) an export credit refinance and
guarantee facility amounting to about US$34 million to assist exporters in obtaining
short-term pre- and post-shipment finance from participating financial institutions (PFIs);
and (ii) a technical assistance component amounting to about US$7 million to finance:
(a) setting up the Export Finance Office (EFO) at the Bank of Ghana (BOG) that would
implement the credit refinance and guarantee facility; (b) training and development of
bankers and exporters in the financial methods and practices of export finance; (c)
development and implementation of an international payments settlement system; (d) the



-2 -
investigation and advisory work on the establishment of a forward foreign exchange
market; (e) a study and training program for the development of an institutionalized
short- and long-term debt market; (f) an in-country study of commercial insurance
products to support commercial companies, establish recommendations and implement
appropriate advisory programs; (g) a study on the feasibility of establishing a credit
reference agency; and (h) development of action plans to begin identifying legal and
business issues necessary for a market-driven pilot corporate restructuring program for
potentially viable enterprises within the Non-Performing Asset Recovery Trust (the
statutory organization serving as a recovery agent on the non-performing assets of
commercial banks).  A component to support international trade and investment
promotional activities of the Government's missions in London, Geneva and Washington,
D.C. was later added in response to the Government's request.
4.    The focus of the Project was in line with the private sector development
objectives of the Government and IDA's lending assistance strategy, the thrust of which
was to: increase the rate of private capital and private enterprise formation; enhance
employment opportunities in the private sector; diversify the export base of the economy;
deepen technological capabilities of the private sector; and diversify agricultural and
industrial activities in accordance with Ghana's comparative advantage. The Project was
justified in that many weaknesses and constraints in the export and financial sectors still
prevailed and required catalytic forces to provide the necessary initiatives in trade
finance, develop an ongoing and sustainable capacity among the banks and their
corporate clients, and increase direct and indirect employment potential by promoting a
supply response in the real sector.  While, as designed, the Project incorporated
components that were necessary to facilitate the commercial and exporting process, it
inadequately addressed subproject repayment as a risk to sustainable banking.
Complementary support to the Project's financial sector focus was provided through the
Trade and Investment Project (TIP) of the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID). The TIP focused on supporting the manufacturing and export
sectors and committed grant funding to the development of production capacity, technical
improvement, design, export systems and foreign twinning arrangements.
5.    The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement included loan
covenants intended to enhance the business environment and boost the growth of private
and exporting enterprises. The key covenants included: (i) modifications in the Ghana
Investment Center's investment and incentive procedures instituting a shift from an ex-
ante approval process to an ex-post review on all investments, eliminating its regulatory
functions, and providing fiscal investment incentives simultaneously with the filing of tax
returns; (ii) eligibility criteria that would limit participation in the refinancing facility to
private financial institutions after end-1994; (iii) a requirement that the Government
employ the proceeds from the repayment of sub-loans to finance export credit needs; and
(iv) up-front funding of the export guarantee facility by the Government.



-3 -
C. Implementation Experience and Results
6.    At the time of project approval, there were concerns with a deteriorating fiscal
situation in Ghana, but corrective measures announced by the Government in its 1993
budget were expected to reduce the deficit. These measures included: (i) a substantial
increase in the petroleum tax; (ii) a marked acceleration in the divestiture of public
enterprises; and (iii) increases in the rates of collection on domestic and import taxes.
Implementation of these measures was protracted, however, and fiscal deficits reached
high levels leading to inflation, fast increasing public debt, and the crowding out of
private sector borrowers from the financial markets. These developments negatively
affected the implementation of the Project. Adjustments were made to the design of the
Project to improve the performance of the credit facility, but these efforts proved futile
and the tangible objectives described in the appraisal report were only partially achieved.
7.    The Export Finance Office at the BOG, provided a mechanism that fostered the
participation of eight banks (50 percent of all banks) and developed their capacity to
provide trade financing to direct exporters. Financial assistance was extended to a
diverse group of exporters relative to industrial sector and geographic location. At
appraisal, the expected tangible objectives of the Project included a doubling of private
sector exports with the share of cocoa and gold progressively reduced as a percentage of
total exports; and banks operating competitively and providing viable support to the
export sector.  Support under PEED  and TIP projects contributed to the results
summarized below:
1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
Total exports ($m)      1,098   1,105    1,208   1,227   1,431    1,571    1,511
Cocoa as % of exports     35      31       27      26       27      35       32
Gold as % of exports      31      35       41      44       45      39       37
Non-traditional exports   63       68      72      119     160     276      329
($M )                                   __ _ _    __ _ _ _ _ __    _ _ _
Non-traditional exports    2        8       6       65      34      73       19
growth rate                                                 _
Non-traditional exports as  6       6       6       10      11       18      22
% of exports          I                         I       I     _I
While the expansion  of non-traditional exports was achieved  beyond  appraisal
expectations, it did not contribute materially to reducing the share of cocoa and gold as a
percentage of exports. The contribution of the Project to the increase of non-traditional
exports is not clear. On the basis of assumptions made during appraisal, the line of credit
might have helped about 11 percent of these incremental exports to materialize. The
objective of improving the efficiency of participating banks was not achieved as they were
plagued by high default rates and the continued erosion of their financial resources. The
envisaged benefits of the TA components did not materialize fully because of protracted
implementation, postponement, or cancellation of some TA components. The outcome of
the project is unsatisfactory.



-4 -
Export Credit Refinancing and Guarantee Facility
8.    The export credit refinancing facility was designed to provide only short-term
(maximum 360 days) pre- and post-shipment financing through PFIs for dollar or cedi-
denominated sub-loans to direct and indirect exporters. While the need for medium-term
financing was known early on, it was not incorporated in the line of credit in support of
the Government's position that it would not assume the foreign exchange risk and in
recognition of the banks' lack of interest in a medium-term facility without this support
from Government. The reference interest rate (RIR) for PFIs on dollar-denominated sub-
loans was calculated at 2.625 percentage points above the prevailing Eurodollar London
Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). On cedi-denominated sub-loans, the RIR for PFIs was
based on the commercial banks' average 180-day deposit rate reported to the BOG and
calculated quarterly. PFI sub-loans to exporters were made at interest rates based on the
PFI-determined spread above the market-determined RIR. The facility was available to
all banks that met the eligibility criteria including: compliance with the monetary
regulations and banking laws of the BOG; maintenance of a sound financial, institutional,
and operational structure and a healthy loan portfolio; and at least 51 percent private
ownership starting after December 31, 1994. PFIs assumed the credit risk.
9.    The export credit guarantee fund was designed to cover 65 percent of the pre-
shipment credit subject to a fee, amounting to 2 percent of the face amount of the cover,
paid by the exporter. During project preparation, the development of cross-border
guarantees to cover post-shipment risk was rejected based on technical advice provided
by the US Export Import Bank, Export Credit Guarantee Department (UK), and
COFACE (France). In their opinion, Ghana's export market was too small and had to
reach a critical size of at least $1 billion before export credit agencies would find it cost
effective to underwrite these risks.
10.   Beneficiary exporters (those in the export business, directly or indirectly, for at
least two recent years) were required to: submit either an irrevocable documentary letter
of credit issued by the importer's bank and relating to the export of goods or services to
be funded by the sub-loan or sufficiently documented and verified purchase orders;
contribute at least 15 percent of the cost of the investment project from internally
generated resources; be financially and technically viable; and have an investment project
that did not involve the export of gold, diamonds, cocoa, electricity or raw timber. The
maximum size of any sub-loan was set at $500,000 equivalent and maximum sub-loan
exposure to any exporter at one time was established at $500,000 equivalent.
11.   Commitments under the credit facility was below the rate projected at appraisal
prompting country-wide promotional efforts and adjustments to the design of the Project
in response to requests made by beneficiaries, PFIs, and BOG. Key modifications
included: (i) the replacement of the mandatory 15 percent exporter contribution to the
project with the maintenance of a total debt to equity ratio of not more than 4:1; (ii) a
waiver on the eligibility criteria for PFIs requiring at least 51 percent private ownership



-5 -
after 1994; (iii) inclusion of new banks subject to an initial credit limit based on their
capital and reserves; (iv) increased guarantee ceilings and coverage from $125,000 to
$500,000 and from 65% to 75%, respectively; (v) decelerated build up of the guarantee
facility to provide medium term funds for export lending based on BOG- and IDA-agreed
eligibility criteria which included a gradual decrease in non-performing loan portfolio;
and (vi) decreased reference interest rate for dollar-denominated loans.
12.   Although the modifications doubled the utilization rate of the credit facility in
1996 (34 loans, $5.8 million; compared to 14 loans, $2.4 million in 1995 and 4 loans,
$350,000 in 1994), only about 41 percent of the original allocation of the credit facility
was disbursed when the credit closed. Approximately US$13.8 million financed 84 sub-
loans to 65 exporters (see Appendix 3 for the distribution and characteristics of these sub-
loans). About 83 percent of the sub-loans were dollar-denominated. Utilization of the
funds remained low because: banks were unwilling to take risks on smaller and new,
non-traditional exporters in the absence of post-shipment guarantees and also preferred
investing in risk-free BOG and Government paper; there were few viable export projects
that banks could not sufficiently support given their liquid positions, except for those
having large foreign currency requirements; market interest rates were high; exporters
were increasingly requiring medium-term funds; and the Ministry of Finance provided
funds to selected PFIs for similar purposes and at below market rates.
13.   Under the guarantee facility, nine banks sought cover for 47 loans totaling $4.8
million (ranging from 40 percent to 75 percent of the loan amount). While it was funded
up to about $2.5 million in 1997, no claims were granted as these were based on post-
shipment problems which did not qualify for coverage. Prior to the credit closing, IDA
agreed that these funds could be made available for other export credit needs if BOG
decided to implement the EFO's recommendation to abolish the guarantee facility.
14.   PFIs (particularly some state-owned banks) have experienced losses because
exporters were remiss in servicing their debts. In 1997 when a large number of loans had
reached their maturity date, of the over $10 million due, 40 percent was yet to be
recovered from about 30 defaulters (65 percent of borrowers who should have been
servicing their loans). IDA recommended to the EFO that a PFI continue to be
considered eligible only after it could officially document high loan recovery
performance under the Project as measured by two criteria: (a) at least a 90 percent
recovery rate on the loans due; and (b) at least 90 percent of borrowers servicing their
loans on schedule. At this time, only three banks (whose combined participation was
about $2 million) were eligible to continue to participate. At end-May 1998, 19 percent
of the over $11 million due was yet to be recovered from 22 defaulters (34 percent of the
borrowers).
15.   With commitments remaining low, following the mid-term review in January
1996, IDA recommended to the Government a phased cancellation of unutilized funds
subject to disbursement performance.  The Government and BOG rejected this
recommendation on the grounds that the export sector was demonstrating very promising



-6 -
growth and continued to require support particularly with medium-term funds. A
proposal was made to this effect and was seriously considered, albeit belatedly.
However, it became prudent to reverse this decision when data (received later) on the
existing credit line showed unacceptable levels of repayment. In addition, the prospects
of sustainably achieving the Project's objectives was not promising as, historically, the
utilization rate of financially sound banks was low under this Project. Also, IDA and the
Government agreed that, despite recent reforms and restructuring efforts in the financial
sector, a number of issues still needed to be assessed before further investments in the
financial sector could be made. These issues continued to threaten the soundness of the
financial system and to constrain the provision of term finance for private investments.
This is discussed further under the Future Operations section below.
Technical Assistance Component
16.   This component was designed to finance a program aimed at overcoming
deficiencies in the financial and export systems. Assistance included management and
technical training, consultant services, equipment and materials to strengthen the export
finance infrastructure and build the productive capacity of viable private enterprises.
Specifically, the experience and results include the following:
17.   Forwardforeign exchange operation. Given the foreign exchange risks faced by
exporters on inputs and the absence of a forward foreign exchange market operation, the
Project financed a study that determined the level of demand for forward cover, the
feasibility of establishing a forward foreign exchange operation, and policy guidelines
and procedures for its set up and regulation. Agreements were reached on its importance
and mechanisms and BOG commenced preparation work incorporating it in its
operations.
18.  International payments settlement system. With the subscription of BOG and
other banks to the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunications
system by March 1994, their capacity to handle foreign remittances. shorten financial
processing and repayment time, and reduce risk has greatly improved. The Project
funded some costs for hardware, software, and other general common purpose
requirements by means of an innovative sale-leaseback operation arranged by BOG.
19.   Credit reference agency. A study was conducted to determine the feasibility of
establishing an agency that would support the development of credit information on
Ghanaian companies and build on the limited capacity of the existing interbank credit
information bureau. Following the completion of the feasibility study and based on the
recognition that establishing an agency was needed and a viable proposition, the BOG
and IDA agreed to implement the second phase of the study. This included the
preparation of detailed budget estimates, determination of firm commitments from
interested investors and donors, survey of core capabilities of potential management
companies, among other requirements, prior to establishing the agency. It was agreed
that further support from IDA and the Government could be forthcoming under another



-7 -
project if a group of private, independent shareholders and a technical partner formally
commit to supporting it.
20.   Long-term  debt market.  This component was completed following the
finalization of a long-term debt market development study and the provision of securities
market training services to the Ghana Stock Exchange (GSE), brokers, investment
advisors, BOG, and MOF in the development and introduction of long-term debt
instruments. Further development of long-term debt instruments, a bond rating agency,
and new products and services to generate diverse long-term securities was not pursued
during the Project implementation period because macroeconomic conditions did not
provide a conducive environment for these initiatives to successfully take off.
21.   Commercial insurance market. Following the completion of the commercial
insurance study, a working committee composed of key stakeholders in the insurance
industry agreed that the services of a Technical and Product Development Specialist and
a Loss Control and Market Development Specialist was needed to advise the NIC.
However, because of implementation delays at the Project Implementing Unit (PIU) at
the MOF, office relocation problems faced by the National Insurance Commission (NIC),
and other established priorities of the NIC, the Commissioner suggested, and IDA agreed,
that the provision of the advisory services be temporarily put on hold and later supported
under another ongoing IDA-financed project.
22.   Training for bankers and exporters.  Over 85 bankers and over 200 non-
traditional exporters received training on trade finance and export processing from
expatriate and locally trained trainers; also four bankers (one from NIB, one from GCB,
two from BOG) participated in the Bankers Overseas Attachment Program with the
Standard Chartered Bank in London. In addition, consultants in collaboration with the
Ghana Export Promotion Council, local bankers, and representatives of exporters and the
Federation of Ghanaian Exporters prepared an export credit guidebook. It has been
finalized and is ready for publication and subsequent distribution to NTEs and bankers as
a reference and decision-making tool.
23.  International trade and investment promotion support. The Project supported
trade promotion campaigns in Washington, Geneva, London and the domestic market and
the design and development of a trade and investment brochure to be used by all trade
and embassy representatives.
24.   Corporate restructuring. Given the protracted passage of time to implement this
component, the business conditions of many of the 20 targeted potentially viable
companies with the Non-Performing Asset Recovery Trust (NPART) had changed. By
the time the PIU completed the procurement process for consulting services, some
companies managed to build up their operations and return to productivity while others
ceased to exist. Diagnostic reports for 14 businesses then with NPART were prepared
and sent to the respective management for information and consideration of the
recommendations made.



-8 -
25.   The approximate total project cost was US$29.5 million with IDA providing
about US$16.8 million, the Government and PFIs contributing about US$0.2 million and
US$2.9 million, respectively, and the beneficiaries investing about US$9.6 million.
Approximately 41 percent of the credit was disbursed.
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project
26.   Macroeconomic conditions.  The performance of the Project was negatively
affected by the adverse macroeconomic conditions prevailing in Ghana from 1993
through 1997. High fiscal deficits and the associated Government funding requirements
led to high inflation, sharp currency devaluations and high interest rates. These had a
pervasive negative impact on the financial sector and resulted in the banking system
holding large amounts of Government debt, crowding out private sector borrowers from
obtaining credit from the financial system, and jeopardizing their ability to meet debt
repayment obligations and to develop and expand their export businesses.
1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
Budget deficit (%of GDP)    -5    -13     -15    -13    - 10   - 13   - 10
Consumer price index,
1987=100                  18      10      25       25      60      46      28
Exchange rate (Cedi/JS$)    375  437     649      957    1,200   1,637   2,053
Interest rates, end of year  20   30      35       33      45       45      45
Treasury bill rate       29.2    19.4    30.9    27.7    35.4   41.6    42.8
Domestic debt - Gov't.,  372     535     829      937    1,420   1,535   2,645
public ent. (Cedi bn)
Domestic debt - private   89     139      187     273     393    681    1,071
enterprises (Cedi bn)
27.   Problems in the banking system. As long as returns on low risk GOG paper was
very attractive, banks continued to rely heavily on them to improve their bottom line. As
a result they had very little incentive to compete beyond the blue chip market and build
their client base, improve financial service delivery, and develop and maximize the use of
management and staff banking skills. This translated, among others, to an increasingly
non-performing portfolio which more than doubled to about 26.5 percent of loans
outstanding (including non-performing loans for government-owned banks at 34 percent
compared to foreign-, and privately-owned banks at 10 percent and 13 percent,
respectively) in 1997. In addition, high intermediation costs in the banking system (at
22.7 percent of average total assets, inclusive of 3.8 percent profit, in 1997) added to the
already prohibitively high interest rates.
28.   Participation by developing, under-capitalized enterprises.  These enterprises
required fturther financial, management and operational assistance to develop and expand
their export business and meet bank requirements. With the high interest and fee rates,
exporters faced difficulties obtaining funds (for working capital requirements or term



- 9 -
loans) for viable export projects, producing and timely delivering quality products, and
servicing their debts. Although non-payment was sometimes wilfull, defaulting exporters
often rolled over their funds for short-term business needs or for capital expenditure to
retool and add value to products in response to changing market demand and regulations
(mainly environmental laws for the timber industry) and delayed repayment.
E. Project Sustainability
29.   Capacity building in the export and financial sectors is a long term process that
requires intensive work and commitment from all key players. It is uncertain that the
limited achievements under the Project will be sustained unless the Government
rigorously implements policies that consistently support a strategy guided by the need for
macroeconomic stability and a business environment conducive to private investment and
export growth. Also, a concerted and well-directed effort by BOG (and the EFO) and
banks is required in the development of an efficient, competitive, and disciplined
financial system. In managing the reflows from the credit line, BOG and the EFO will
have an opportunity to demonstrate their leadership role in allocating these resources
following market-driven policies and their commitment to building efficient and
sustainable financial institutions.
F. IDA's Performance
30.   IDA's performance was deficient. In hindsight, IDA was too optimistic in its
judgment that the deterioration in macroeconomic performance in 1992 would be
resolved in the short term. Also, as designed, the Project did not address credit discipline
and repayment performance as major risks to sustainable trade financing and reflected too
conservative an estimate of the banking system's contribution to export financing
(particularly for cedi-denominated requirements) and an optimistic assumption of PFIs'
receptiveness to new, non-traditional exporters.   During implementation, IDA's
intervention was insufficient in that, when macroeconomic instability persisted and
conditions for the development of the financial sector remained unfavorable, IDA should
have cancelled the credit earlier rather than letting it run its course.
G. Borrower's Performance
31.   The EFO cooperated with PFIs and IDA and provided the necessary support to
implement the credit and guarantee facility and the technical assistance components
under its charge. However, its performance was deficient in that insufficient attention
was given to the non-performing portfolio of PFIs and the inability of exporters to service
their loans. As a result, there were less opportunities available for all players to
positively influence the outcome of the Project.
32.   The performance of the PIU at the MOF was deficient. The MOF staff were
under stress, overstretched, and lacked the commitment and capacity to meet the demands
of multi-level responsibilities. While IDA repeatedly raised this issue with the MOF,



-10-
their lack of commitment to the commercial insurance and the corporate restructuring
components managed by the PIU was evident in their failure to change the management
of the PIU despite the knowledge that delays were contributing in a major way to
objectives of the Project not being met. In addition, the provision of about Cedis 9 billion
(from other sources) to two commercial banks for on-lending to exporters at fixed and
negative interest rates (22 percent) was erroneous and sent signals that were contrary to
market-determined financial policies.
H. Assessment of Outcome
33.   The Project outcome is unsatisfactory because: (a) although benefits were derived
from the availability of the export credit refinance and guarantee facility, the
establishment of an international payments settlement system, training for bankers and
exporters, and support for international trade and investment promotion, which
contributed to the growth of non-traditional exports (fivefold compared to the $62 million
level in 1992), default rates were high; (b) although the BOG, the EFO, and PFIs are
interested in utilizing mobilized funds, reflows from this Project, and other credit lines to
extend credit for non-traditional exports, the credit management capacity of some banks
remains weak and the low recovery rates will continue to erode their financial resources;
and (c) the objectives of some technical assistance components, designed to provide
business assistance to exporters and PFIs, were only partially realized.
I. Future Operations
34.   A number of areas which continue to negatively impact the potential sustainability
of the achievements reached under this Project and other recently completed IDA-
supported financial sector development projects have been identified.  These areas
include the macro-economic framework, banking system and its supervision, the credit
disciplinary environment, financial markets development, and formal financial sector
outreach. The critical issues which require immediate attention to protect the soundness
of the financial system and to address the constraints to the availability of term finance
for private investment include:
* Government's high fiscal deficit position. In recent years this has led to high
inflation, high interest rates, sharp currency devaluations, and large public sector
borrowings. These have negatively affected the functions of the financial sector so
that the availability of credit to the rest of the economy is limited, savings in domestic
currency is stagnant, borrowers' ability to service their loans is jeopardized, the
growth and development of the equities and debt markets is constrained, and
increased dollarization is occurring in banks;
* the improper functioning of the treasury bill market. BOG is often unable to sell its
weekly auction offering, yields in auctions are unnaturally stable and, like the



interbank market in overnight funds and the wholesale secondary market in Treasury
bills, show no sensitivity to the level of excess reserves; and
serious problems in the banking system. These are: (i) an increasing dependence on
investments in Government instruments, (ii) growing portfolio problems; (iii)
imprudent levels of foreign exchange risk; (iv) banking system inefficiency; and (v)
unaddressed problems and inadequate exit policy for insolvent banks.
35.   Over the medium term, other issues that will require attention include an
inadequate court system which inhibits security and contract enforcement, and an
inadequate credit information system. Without well-functioning systems, viable banking
is not developed, bankers have little incentive to increase lending activity and the credit
decision making process cannot be effectively implemented. These issues were examined
in a financial sector assessment report which would serve as a basis for dialogue between
the Government, BOG and IDA on the most immediate financial sector needs and the
appropriate programs to address these areas and reduce risks. In the meantime, however,
because Ghana must continue to develop its trade inflows, there remains the challenge of
supporting a policy of export development while systemic weaknesses in the financial
and export sectors prevail.
J. Key Lessons Learned
36.   The key lessons are: (a) in the absence of a stable macroeconomic environment,
financial sector operations are not likely to succeed; (b) broader achievements under
financial intermediary loans are unlikely within an undisciplined credit environment; in
this case, measures should be included to address issues relating to governance,
management, financial policies, collection performance, appraisal and supervision
techniques, and credit risk management policies of PFIs; and (c) when erroneous
decisions are made and these are mistakes realized, countermeasures, including project
cancellation, should be taken as soon as possible to minimize their cost.



-12-
GHANA
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2502-GH)
TABLE 1: Summary of Assessments
A}ACSHIEVE     T OF~ Substane t0 ial;; Partial    0 Negligible                  N       icable
Macroeconomic policies        _______
Sector policies                                                _
Financial objectives          _
Institutional development                                      _
Physical objectives - exports        <
Poverty reduction
Gender concerns
Other social objectives       _
Environmental objectives                   _  _
Public sector management       _
Private sector development                    _     __
Other (specify)
Likely   Unlikely             ~~~~Uncertain
C. RAN PERFOMA~CE  ~   1ighl Satifactr       SaifcoyDeficit
Identification
Preparation assistance_________
Appraisal_______________________________
rSupervision__                     _ _ _ _  _ _ _   __ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _  _ _ _  _ _
Preparation                                                                       -
Im plem entation__                _ _  _ _ _ _  _   __ _ _ _  _ _ _ _   __  _ _   _ _ _  _ _ _
Covenant Compliance__________ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
~SI I 4N
E. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME  HighlYSatisfactorY~~~~~~   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory~~~
d~~~~                                      1:;                    _________________ mSi'<SSE 06K< E *   t t; 



GHANA
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2502-GH)
TABLE 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
INVESTMENT CREDITS
National Investment Bank (Cr. 1180-GH)    Development of SMEs, strengthen National Investment Bank (NIB)  1975     Completed
National Investment Bank (Cr. 901 -GH)  Development of SMEs, develop a restructuring program for NIB     1979      Completed
Export Rehabilitation Project, Export   Export sector policy and institutional reform, capacity building of key    1984  Completed
Rehabilitation TA, Export Rehabilitation  organization and industries in the export sector.
Special Fund (Cr. 1435-GH, Cr. 1436-GH,
Cr. F-9-GH)
ADJUSTMENT CREDITS
Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr.  Finance the development of the industrial sector.              1986      Completed
1672-GH)
First Financial Sector Adjustment Credit  Address resource mobilization and credit allocation, improve the  1988   Completed
(Cr. 1911-GH)                           regulatory framework of the banking system and assist in the
restructuring of distressed banks.
Second Financial Sector Adjustment Credit  Removal of remaining policy distortions, further development of the  1991  Completed
(Cr. 2318-GH)                           financial sector.                                            __



-14-
GHANA
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2502-GH)
TABLE 3: Project Timetable
Identification                          12/92                        02/92
Preparation                             03/92                        03/92
Appraisal                               06/92                        07/92
Negotiations                            04/93                        04/93
Board Presentation                      05/93                      05/25/93
Signing                                 07/93                      07/26/93
Effectiveness                           08/93                      12/21/93
Project Completion                      12/97                      03/31/98
Loan Closing                           3/31/98                     03/31/98



-15-
GHANA
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2502-GH)
TABLE 4: Cumulative and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY 1994                   4.0                    1.7                   43
FY1995                   18.5                    4.1                   22
FY 1996                  32.2                    6.9                   21
FY 1997                  37.8                   12.6                   33
FY 1998                  41.0                   16.8                   41



-16-
GHANA
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2502-GH)
TABLE 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key00X;d t0000 :Q;i     Ind0>tIicacor0000u00SS0  : g 000Estimated   0;Actual
Export Credit Refinance and
Guarantee Facility Commitments
10%
40%                            Mid-1994                  1%
75%                            Mid-1995                  8%
100%                           Mid-1996                  28%
Mid-1997                  52%
International payments settlement  Early 1994            Early 1994
system
Long-term debt market study    6/30/94                   05/95
Forward foreign exchange       6/30/94                   11/97
operations study
Credit reference agency        6/30/94                   Phase 2 (business plan,
prospectus, solicitation of
investors) - on-going.
Commercial insurance study     6/30/94                   11/94
Corporate restructuring plans  4/30/94                   1997, 1998
Export guidebook               07/31/94                  On-going (publication)
Bankers training               Training plans - annually  October, 1995; April,
(October)                November, 1996; August
1997
Exporters training             Training plans - annually    June, September, November
(October)                 1996; April, October 1997
TABLE 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
There were no specified indicators for project operation.



-17-
GHANA
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2502-GH)
TABLE 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                 Purpose               Status                Impact
Forward Foreign      Determine feasibility of  Completed -      Development of FFE
Exchange Operations   establishing a forward   November 1997   mechanism, operational plans
foreign exchange facility,                 under preparation at BOG
draw operational guidelines,
procedures
Long-Term Debt       Develop long-term debt    Completed - May  Development of long-term
Market Study        instruments, review        1995             debt instruments not possible
legislative framework                      given unfavorable macro-
economic conditions;
preliminary recommendations
made on establishment of a
regulatory commission, Ghana
Stock Exchange's role in the
financial sector, optimal new
products and services,
amendments to regulations
Commercial Insurance  Develop commercial       Study completed, Areas requiring expert advice
Market               insurance industry and    November 1994;  identified for future support:
products.                 advisory         (i) technical and product
assistance and  development; and (ii) loss
product         control and market
development     development
postponed
Credit Reference     Re-evaluate issues and    Phase 1          Phase 2 of the study is under
Agency               constraints in the        completed - June  implementation (including
development of a CRA;     1995;            preparation of a business plan
create basis for international  Phase 2 ongoing   and prospectus to solicit firm
credit information                        investor interest).
Corporate            Development of market-    Completed -Nov.  Plans under consideration by
Restructuring        driven restructuring plans    1997         enterprises.
for 20 viable enterprises
under NPART.



-18-
GHANA
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2502-GH)
TABLE 8A: Estimated Project Costs
(US$ million equivalent)
~AppraslEtmt           ___Ata
Component             Local  Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign  Total
__________________________    _   .: Costsit  C osts   Costs  Coots  Costs  Co: st
Credit Facilities:                      _                                         .
Export Credit Refinance and
Guarantee Facility              15.00     26.00    41.00  12.50   13.28    25.78
Technical Assistance:
(a) Export Finance Facilities     0.08     0.57     0.65           0.35     0.35
(b) Financial Infrastructure      0.42     4.43     4.85   0.10    1.77     1.87
(c) Corporate Restructuring       1.00     0.30     1.30  0.10    0.17      0.27
(d) Other Institutional Support and  1.50  1.70     3.20  0.03    1.25      1.28
Support_Studies             _       _         .
TOTAL               118.00    33.00    51.00 12.73   16.82    29.55
TABLE 8B: Estimated Project Financing
(US$ million equivalent)
Source              Local  Freign  Totanl  Loal  ForegLn  Tfotal
IDA                               8.00   33.00    41.00            16.82   16.82
Government                        2.00             2.00   0.23              0.23
Exporters                         6.00             6.00   9.60              9.60
Local Banks                       0.20             0.20   2.90              2.90
Other Commercial                  0.30             0.30
Institutions                      1.50              1.50
TOTAL                18.00'  33.00    51.00  12.73    16.82   29.55
TABLE 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Data for beneficiary enterprises are not available.
Net of duties and taxes.



-19-
GHANA
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2502-GH)
TABLE 10: Status of Legal Covenants
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
Section             Description           Class    Status    Original    Revised Date
.________     Date
2.03          Closing date                   10      C           03/31/98
2.0           Credit terms and conditions    2       C C                    On-going
3.01           Subsidiary agreement          2, 3, 5   C
3.01          Commitment to project          2, 5    C                      On-going
objectives; continued utilization
of project reflows for export
credit.
3.04          Revision of the investment    12       C          12/31/93   9/94
policy (ex-post review; fiscal
investment incentives)
3.04(b)       Elimination of regulatory      12      C           12/31/93   9/94
functions of the Ghana
Investment Center.
3.05          Mid-term review, action plan,    9     C           9/30/95,   12/95,
report                                            7/01/95    1/96
4.01          Annual audited financial       1       C           Annually
statements, SOEs, special                         (6/30)
accounts.
6.0           Effectiveness conditions, legal   5    C           12/21/93
opinion                                           (effective-
ness)
Schedule I    Withdrawal of credit proceeds    2, 5  C
Schedule 4, 2   Training program             3       C           10/30 of
______           _each year
Schedule 4, 3   Completion of the long-term  3       C           6/30/94    5/95 - long-term
debt market and commercial                                   debt;
insurance studies.                                           11/94 insurance
Schedule 4, 4   Action plans for corporate   3       C          4/30/94
restructuring component.
Schedule 4, 5   Implementation of the credit  3      CP          5/97
reference agency
Schedule 4, 6   Implementation of the long-term   3  C           10/95
debt component
Schedule 4, 7   Implementation of the        3       CP
commercial insurance
component    _
Schedule 5    Special accounts               1       C



-20-
TABLE 10 (cont'd): Status of Legal Covenants
PROJECT AGREEMENT
Sectio""' Qni 0               Descrip ion                       'Class    Status   Origial   Revised
Date        Date
2.01             Management and execution of project,             5           C
implementation procedures.
2.02             Participation agreements                         2, 3, 5     C
2.02             Sub-loan administration                          2, 3, 5     C
2.06             Subsidiary Administration Agreement              2, 3, 5     C
2.07             Export Finance Program, interest rates,          2, 3        C
market conditions
2.08             Mid-term review of the project; action plans    2, 5         C        07/31/95;   12/95;
9/30/95     1/96
3.01             Audit of project financial statements, SOEs,    1            C
special account
Schedule 1       Procedures, terms, conditions for sub-loans      2, 3, 5     C
Schedule 2       Principal terms, conditions of PFI Subsidiary   2, 3, 5      C
Loans and Participation Agreements
Schedule 3       Procurement procedures.                          3           C
Schedule 4       Implementation Program for the credit            2, 3, 5     C
refinancing and guarantee components
Schedule 4, 5    Training program for bankers, exporters          3           C        Oct (ann.)
Schedule 4, 6    Preparation, distribution - export guidebook     3           CP       7/31/94      Ongoing
Schedule 4, 7    International payments settlement system.        3           C
Schedule 4, 8    Completion of the following studies:             10          C        6/30/94      11/97
(i) forward foreign exchange operation; and
(ii) Credit Reference Agency                                On-       6/30/94     Phas 1:
going                 6/95
Phase 2:
Ongoing
Covenant Types:                                                                     Present Status:
I - Accounts/audits                      8 - Indigenous people                      C  - complied
2 - Financial performance/ revenue       9 - Monitoring, review, reporting          CD - complied with delay
generation from beneficiaries   10 - Implementation not covered by cat. 1-9  CP - complied partially
3 - Flow and utilization of project funds  11 - Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or  NC - not complied
4 - Counterpart funding                         other resource allocation
5 - Management aspects of the project   12 - Sectoral or cross-sectoral
or executing agency                     policy/regulatory/institutional action
6 - Environmental covenants             13 - Other
7 - Involuntary resettlement



-21-
GHANA
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2502-GH)
TABLE 11: Bank Resources
Staff Inputs (Staff Weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual
Through appraisal (preparation, pre-appraisal)            43.9
Appraisal through Effectiveness                           55.3
Supervision                                              132.4
Completion                                                 7.0
Total                                                    238.6



GHANA
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2502-GH)
TABLE 12: Bank Resources
Missions
Performance Rating
Number of  Number of  Special Staff Skills Represented                  Performance
Month/Year     Persons      Field                                                         Rating
Days
Through                02/12/92-      4          80      Financial Economist, Finance                                                           Number of Persons
Appraisal               03/12/92                          and Private Sector Specialists  Stage of Project    Month/Year
Cycle
05/11/92-     3           21      Financial Economist,
05/17/92                         Consultant
Appraisal -
Board
06/26/92 -     7          154      Financial Economist, Finance                                   Potential disbursement problems due to extremely high interest rates for    k
07/17/92                          Export and Private Sector                                      small- to medium-sized borrowers; govemment support for the corporate
Specialists                                                    restructuring strategy.
11/28/92 -     3          36       Financial Economist,                                           Guarantee coverage for post-shipment risks.
12/10/92                         Operations and Project Officers
Board -                   06/93       1          10       Sr. Financial Economist
Effectiveness
Supervision           06/18/94 -      2          14       Senior Financial Economist,  HS                 HS             Reference interest rate for cedi-denominated loans, export credit
07/09/94                         Operations Officer                                              guarantee cover, de-regulation of the Ghana Investment Center, selection
of viable enterprises, NIC office re-location.
11/02/94 -     2           5       Financial Economist, Projects    S              S              Delays in privatizing state-owned PFIs, deteriorating macro-economic
11/18/94                         Officer, Consultant                                             conditions have been negatively affecting commitment rate.
09/25/95 -     3           10      Financial Economist,          U                 S              Slow commitment under line of credit component; deteriorating macro-
10/13/95                         Operations Officers                                             economic conditions; slow progress under the technical assistance
components due to capacity constraints in the Ministry of Finance and
the Bank of Ghana, request by government for assistance on a trade and
investment promotion program from three embassies: Geneva, London,
Washington, D.C.



TABLE 12 (cont'd): Bank Resources
Missions
Performance Rating
Number of  Number of  Special Staff Skills Represented
Stage of Project    Month/Year   Persons      Field                                  Implementation    Development                      Type of Problems/Remarks
Cycle                                     Days                                                     Objectives
01/29/96 -    4           60      Financial Economist, Financial   U            S              Deterioration in the macro-economic conditions, liquidity in commercial
02/26/96                         Specialist,                                                  banks and lack of viable projects were negatively affecting project
Projects and Operations                                      implementation; need for medium-term resources; modification required
Officers,                                                    for interest rates, guarantee fees; eligibility criteria for new banks and
state-owned PFIs, delays in long-term debt, commercial insurance
components.
05/23/96-     3          15      Financial Economist,         U                 S              Slow commitment and implementation delays under the TA component;
06/07/96                         Project and Operations Officers                              BOG's role as implementing agency for lines of credit; cancellation of
unutilized resources; use of reflow for medium-term credit line;
comprehensive plan for commercial insurance for NTEs which is
unacceptable to IDA; problems with the consultants for the guidebook.
02/03/97 -     3          25      Financial Economist,         U                 S             Implementation for the project continued to be slow; Govemment
02/14/97                         Economist, Operations Officer                                funding a small line of credit following practices contrary to market-
determined financial policies; interest rates on cedi-dollar-denominated
loans; non-receipt of an action plan from MOF; upgrading the SWIFT
system; delays in the production of the guidebook; eligibility of state-
owned PFIs.
05/08/97 -     2          30      Operations Officer, Banking  U                 U             Project restructuring.
05/24/97                         Specialist
Completion            01/26/98 -     7          83      Economist,                   U                 HU             Poor performance of loans under line of credit; recommendation to
02/07/98                         Financial Sector Specialist,                                 reverse decision to restructure project because of poor loan repayment
Operations Officer                                           performance; support for some on-going components to be provided
under Non-Bank Financial Institutions Project: commercial insurance,
international payment settlement system, credit reference agency and
other TA for the financial sector.



Appendix I
GHANA
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AIDE MEMOIRE
An International Development Association (IDA) supervision mission,
comprising Messrs/Mesdames Manalo, Byam, Ferencz, Mozes, Murgatroyd, Paulson,
and Wilton, was in Accra from January 26 through February 6, 1998 to discuss the
Private Enterprise and Export Development (PEED) Project (Credit 2502-GH). Mr.
William Steel, who was in Accra on a separate mission, also supported the work of the
mission. We would like to thank the officials at the Bank of Ghana (BOG) including the
Export Finance Office (EFO), the Ministry of Finance (MOF), participating financial
institutions (PFIs), and various other government and private agencies for the assistance
and courtesies extended to the mission.
The main objectives of the mission were to review the implementation progress of
the Project and to assess the Government's request for additional assistance for the
financial sector in light of the upcoming project closing date set for March 31, 1998. A
summary of the recommended next steps followed by supporting information on each
project component is provided below. These reflect the mission's findings and
suggestions at the wrap-up sessions held with the EFO and Dr. Kwabena Duffour,
Governor, BOG, and presented to Mr. Victor Selormey, Deputy Finance Minister, MOF.
Agreements were not reached during the wrap-up sessions as both Dr. Duffour and Mr.
Selormey requested additional time to consider the issues raised and the
recommendations made herein.
Suggested Next Steps
1. Export Credit Refinance and Guarantee Facility - EFO to allow additional
commitment of funds under the line of credit to PFIs that document compliance with two
additional eligibility criteria: (i) at least a 90 percent recovery on their PEED loans that
fall due, and (ii) at least 90 percent of their borrowers servicing the PEED loans on
schedule. EFO to ensure disbursement on approved loans occur on or before the March
31, 1998 project closing date. Funds under the Export Credit Guarantee Fund to be made
available for other export credit needs if BOG decides to implement the EFO's
recommendation to abolish the Export Credit Guarantee program.
2. Technical Assistance
a. Credit Reference Agency - as the consultant's contract calls for completion of
the assignment in April, the EFO will pay for work satisfactorily completed by March 31,
from the Project funds and charge the remaining cost of services to the NBFI Project. If



2
agreement is reached on the establishment of an agency, support could be considered
under the IDA-financed Non-Bank Financial Institutions (NBFI) Project.
b. Forward Foreign Exchange Operation - enhance the efficiency and stability of
the market so that (i) pricing of forward foreign exchange is at the lowest cost possible
and (ii) BOG prudential supervision of both banks and non-bank financial institutions
adequately examines the risks created by forward positions.
c. International Payments Settlement System - BOG to provide IDA information
on system requirements and cost details for funding consideration under the NBFI
Project.
d. Export Credit Training for Bankers and Non-Traditional Exporters (NTEs) -
the Government to continue financing the training program and the publication of the
export guidebook possibly from the reflows of the Export Credit Refinance Facility.
e. International Trade and Investment Promotion Support - Information Services
Department of the Ministry of Communications and the EFO to coordinate the
implementation of the eligible activities and ensure that the related goods are delivered
and services completed prior to the Project's closing date to ensure these are funded
under the Project.
f. National Insurance Commission - The Project Implementation Unit at the MOF
will not issue any letters of invitation to consultants and will now consider this
component completed.
3. Project Implementation
a. EFO and the PIU to submit the progress reports for 1997 as soon as possible;
b. The Government and IDA to close the Project on March 31, 1998;
c. IDA to cancel resources (approximately $20 million) that have not been
utilized as of end-July 1998.
4. Assistance for the Financial Sector
a. As the mission indicated IDA can support the following proposals under the
NBFI Project, the Government will request IDA to modify the legal documents of the
NBFI Project to cover support for the following: (i) BOG - the computerization of the
on- and off-site monitoring function of the Banking Supervision Department, capacity
building in the Monetary Policy and Treasury Management Department and in the
Internal Audit Department; (ii) Institute of Chartered Accountants of Ghana
b. the Government to request IDA to amend the Public Enterprise and
Privatization TA Credit Agreement to include funding for the privatization of banks by
February 27, 1998; the Government to provide IDA with terms of reference for the



3
preparation of a privatization strategy for banks and action plan for COOP Bank by
February 27, 1998; IDA to provide its comments to the TORs by March 6, 1998; the
Government to recruit consultant(s) to implement the strategy and action plan, March 20-
April 30, 1998.
5. Recommended Financial Sector Assessment - The mission proposed that IDA send
a mission to Ghana within the next several months to do an in-depth assessment of the
financial sector issues (identified below) and associated issues, their underlying causes,
and, to some extent, their costs. IDA would send a mission planning document in
advance of such a mission for the Government's review and to actively seek Ghanaian
counterpart participation in the financial sector analysis.
PEED Project Status
Export Credit Refinance and Guarantee Facility
Eighty-two sub-loans from eight PFIs were approved under the refinancing
scheme for a total of approximately $14.3 million (42 percent of the original allocation
for this component). Eighty-six percent of the sub-loans were dollar denominated.
Commitments under the line of credit remains low despite several modifications to the
project design made in the past in response to market changes. These modifications
included: changes in the reference interest rates, equity contribution of beneficiaries,
credit guarantee cover, utilization of reflows, and eligibility criteria for new banks. While
these changes resulted in some improvements, utilization of the funds continued to be
low due to the following reasons: a relatively liquid position of the commercial banking
sector, unwillingness of banks to take risks on non-traditional exporters in the absence of
post-shipment guarantees, banks' preference for higher returns on BOG paper, provision
of funds by the Ministry of Finance to selected PFIs for similar purposes and at below
market terms, the general high level of interest rates, and non-traditional exporters'
increasing demand for medium-term resources rather than short-term resources.
In reviewing the repayment performance under the Project, it is clear PFIs have
been experiencing losses because of difficulties in recovering on a timely basis some
funds lent. There are many reasons for this poor performance. In the banking system,
key weaknesses are reflected in the poorly timed or structured delivery of financial
services to the exporters (leading to, for example, the availability of funds when these are
no longer needed, utilization of fumds for purposes other than pre-export finance, the
exporter's inability to meet the stipulated quantities of an export order) and poor credit
management (appraisal, supervision, loan recovery). On the part of the NTEs, though
knowledgeable about product sourcing and selling, they are undercapitalized, lack the
sophistication in dealing with bank requirements and overseas buyers, and experience
difficulties in generating sufficient working capital to keep their export process going
when short-term pre- and post- shipment delays occur. Others who decide to respond to
changes in regulations (environmental laws, for example) and market demands require
longer term funding for capital expenditure to expand or retool and add value to their



4
products and to compete in the export industry. Of the over $ 10 million due at the end of
1997, 40 percent are yet to be recovered. There are about 30 defaulters (about 65 percent
of those that received funds and should have been servicing their loans). This is very
much in line with the decline in recovery performance of many banks over the years (for
example, a sample of six banks showed a recovery range for all loans of 24 percent to 93
percent in 1993 declining to 21 percent to 73 percent in 1996).
Given these high default rates, IDA recommended in November 1997 that
continued commitments under the line of credit be allowed only after a PFI applying for
additional commitments can document that their loan recovery performance under the
Project has improved as measured by two criteria: (i) at least a 90 percent recovery on
the loans due, and (ii) at least 90 percent of borrowers servicing their loans on schedule.
The basis for this recommendation was an understanding reached by the EFO and IDA in
1996 that the reflows from the line of credit would fund a medium-term facility to be
made available to PFIs who performed well in related term loan facilities. Performance
would be measured by a recovery rate that was at least 70 percent the previous year and
increased by 10 percent annually thereafter leading to about a 90 percent recovery rate by
late-1997. In reviewing the performance of PFIs in 1997, only three banks (whose
combined utilization was about $2 million) would be eligible to continue participating.
Also, because of this poor performance, IDA did not approve an earlier request by the
Government to expand the line of credit to include medium-term loans to NTEs given the
higher risk normally associated with such loans.
Based on the slow commitment of funds and the high default rates, the mission
discussed with the EFO and the Government its recommendation to close the Project as
originally planned in March 31, 1998. Provided PFIs meet the additional eligibility
criteria discussed above, it is suggested that commitments under the line of credit
continue on the basis that disbursements on loans approved can be completed by the
March closing date. The EFO suggested that the closing date be deferred until December
31, 1998 to allow the facility to be available to PFIs for a full five years. The EFO also
suggested that the eligibility criteria be reduced to 75 percent recovery. The mission
indicated it cannot support these suggestions as there are no market indications that doing
so would significantly contribute to the improvement in the overall performance of the
Project and the achievement of its objectives.
Under the Export Credit Guarantee component, nine banks sought cover for 44
loans (ranging from 22% to 75% of the loan amount) totalling $5.2 million. There were
no claims made against the fund as NTEs experienced post-shipment problems which did
not qualify for coverage. Given this performance, the EFO informed the mission that it is
recommending the abolition of the Export Credit Guarantee program and to make these
resources, approximately $5 million, available for other export credit needs. The mission
had no objection to this recommendation if BOG decides to discontinue extending
guarantees and there are no outstanding guarantees requiring coverage.
TechnicalAssistance Component



5
Although overall delayed, there is progress in the implementation of the technical
assistance component of the Project.
Forward Foreign Exchange Operations
The final draft report prepared by the consultants on establishing a forward
foreign exchange market operation was sent to IDA for comments. Since the report was
written, it is pleasing to see that forward trading has begun in Ghana. The need now is to
enhance the efficiency and stability of the market so that (i) pricing of forward foreign
exchange is at the lowest cost possible and (ii) BOG prudential supervision of both banks
and non-bank financial institutions adequately examines the risks created by forward
positions.
The mission suggested the following observations be used as a guide to future
market development:
(a) BOG should ensure its existing supervision of banks and non-bank financial
institutions adequately assesses the risks to forward market participants of (i) open
positions and (ii) failure to deliver currency by a party to a forward contract. IDA
will be happy to send examples of practice in other countries, if required.
(b) Participants in the forward market should be limited to institutions already covered by
BOG supervision of banks and non-bank financial institutions. There is no need for
the BOG to create any further administrative body to license or regulate participation
in, or the structure of, the forward market.
(c) The BOG should encourage the efficient development of the market so that (i)
forward cover is provided at lowest cost and (ii) market participants can cover
positions with ease. To this end, the BOG should examine: (i) developing secondary
trading in cedi instruments; (ii) the extent to which regulations on banks' ability to
have foreign currency assets or liabilities limit banks' ability to cover open forward
positions.
(d) The BOG does not need to, and should not become, a market maker in forward
foreign exchange. If it sees an advantage to doing so, the BOG could enter into
covered forward contracts on the same basis as it now enters into spot contracts.
Before entering into any forward contracts, the BOG should have a clearly stated
policy designed to avoid losses by ensuring (i) avoidance of open positions and (ii)
fully commercial market-based pricing of forward contracts.



6
Since additional funding resources to implement the forward foreign exchange operation
is not necessary, support for this component would be considered complete with the
finalization of the consultant's report.
Credit Reference Agency
Subsequent to the completion in June 1995 of a study to deternine the feasibility
of setting up a credit reference agency (CRA) and the recognition that establishing one is
suitable and needed, consultants have commenced the second phase of the study. Under
this phase, firm commitments from interested investors and donors will be determined,
core capabilities of potential domestic credit reference companies surveyed, budget
estimates prepared, and a detailed action plan for setting up the CRA developed. As the
consultant's contract calls for the completion of the assignment in April, it is
recommended that funds for this component under this Project be used to pay all services
satisfactorily completed by end-March. The completion of the study and support required
for establishing the agency could be considered under the NBFI Project, following
agreements between IDA and BOG.
International Payments Settlement System
In response to SWIFT's advice to BOG that technical support for the ST200
system will be terminated effective end- 1998, BOG examined their hardware and
software system configuration and the need for system updates to ensure reliability and
cost effectiveness in international settlement and telex services. BOG informed the
mission that it would need IDA's assistance for the upgrade but was not yet in a position
to provide information on system requirements or cost details. The mission indicated that
when this is available, a request could be sent to IDA for financing under the NBFI
Project.
Export Credit Training for Bankers and Non-Traditional Exporters
Training sessions for NTEs and bankers were offered by GEPC and BOG,
respectively, during the third and fourth quarters of 1997 in which a total of 58 NTEs and
16 bankers participated. The objectives of building up the knowledge base of NTEs and
bankers and training trainers to continue implementing the program is progressively
being achieved. Reports from the expatriate consultants, who have completed their
consulting assignments, indicate the courses have been well received and provide useful
suggestions on making the program more responsive to customer requirements. On the
export guidebook, the mission and the EFO agreed that the latest draft would be reviewed
by the Ghana Export Promotion Council before it is transmitted to IDA for comment. In
the meantime, the EFO will commence the procurement process for the publication of the
guidebook and will make every effort to publish it after IDA's review and prior to the
Project closing date.



7
International Trade and Investment Promotion Support
In November 1997, IDA approved the trade and investment promotion program
submitted by the Information Services Department (ISD) for implementation by Ghana's
diplomatic missions in Washington, London, and Geneva. The mission recommended
that ISD and the EFO coordinate the implementation of the eligible activities and ensure
that the related goods are delivered and services completed prior to the Project's closing
date to ensure these are funded under the Project.
Corporate Restructuring
The consultants have submitted their draft reports for the individual companies
that were selected for review under this component. The PIU is reviewing these reports
before sending them to the companies concerned for their consideration. With these
reports, the component is now considered completed.
Commercial Insurance Study
The mission discussed with the National Insurance Commissioner the
recommendations presented in the commercial insurance study providing the
Commission with a loss control and market development specialist and a technical and
product development specialist. Because the implementation of this component was
delayed by the need for NIC to move to its new premises (a condition for implementing
support under the NBFI Project), the Commissioner advised the mission of the need to
reconsider this component. He indicated that the Commission has other higher priorities
relating to insurance laws, regulations and supervision issues supported by the NBFI
Project, which it wishes to implement first. The mission accepted the proposal and
suggested, if necessary later on, a request for assistance could be made to IDA for
funding under the NBFI Project. The PIU at the MOF was also advised not to issue any
letters of invitation to consultants and to consider this component completed.
Other Matters
The mission requested the EFO and the PIU to submit their progress reports for
1997 as soon as possible. The mission discussed its recommendation to close the Project
on March 31, 1998, as originally scheduled, and to cancel the resources (approximately
$20 million) that will remain unutilized as of end-July 1998.
Government's Request for Assistance to the Financial Sector
a. BOG
i. Banking Supervision Department (BSD) - BSD requested IDA's
support to finance computerizing its off-site and on-site monitoring function and provide
related training for its inspectors. In reviewing this request with BSD, the mission noted



8
that BSD continues to monitor the condition of individual banks and the banking industry
reasonably effectively. It performs its supervisory function through periodic off-site
analyses and annual on-site examinations for both the 17 larger commercial banks as well
as the numerous smaller rural banks. Written reports, which cover a broad array of
supervisory issues, are generally appropriate in scope and depth and reflect an adequate
understanding and perspective of risks facing individual banks. While B SD's response to
the problems uncovered is unsatisfactory in important respects, the monitoring function
nonetheless adds substantive value although it remains undesirably resource constrained.
Many of the analytic and reporting functions are now done manually which is time
consuming and creates a potential for hurnan manipulation of data and hence, fraud. The
mission and BSD agreed that computerizing the data bases, the mathematical ratio
analyses and data flows from the banks to the supervisory function will allow for
increased efficiency through improved data management and enhanced analytical ability.
It is suggested that this assistance, amounting to approximately $856,000, be provided
under the NBFI Project.
ii. Monetary Policy, Treasury Management, Financial Markets
Departments - BOG advised IDA that it required support in developing targeted open
market procedures apart from the auction. This support would include (i) advisory
services for three years to oversee the technical and analytical work of the Research and
Treasury Departments and (ii) assistance for Monetary Policy Management: Research
and Treasury Departments. In addition, it sought support for the establishmnent of a
Financial Markets Department to develop BOG's capacity to understand, interact with
and develop financial markets in Ghana and provide an independent check on the impact
of BOG's actions and policy on the market. In discussing these requests, the mission
expressed the importance of BOG adopting a considered approach in defining the
advisory assignment and suggested that this should include the definition of performance
targets that demonstrate skill transfer to avoid the creation of a void in BOG's skill set
upon completion of the assignment. Projected to cost around $500,000 over three years,
it was suggested that this request could be met under the NBFI Project. In reviewing the
request for the Financial Markets Department, the mission advised that BOG integrate the
proposed functions with the existing Research and Treasury Department and that support
be provided for staff training (attachment programs, course work) and computers (as part
of BOG's integrated computerization program). Projected to cost about $520,000, it was
recommended that this request be provided under the NBFI Project.
iii. Internal Audit Department - The request for technical assistance for
BOG's Audit Department included support for consulting services, computers, library
material, training, and procurement of a modem incinerator for discarding torn and
mutilated notes withdrawn from circulation. Based on an assessment of the Departmnent's
request, the mission recommends support for locally-conducted training programs for its
staff, computers, library material and consulting services necessary to update the
Department's operational manuals. It was suggested that full advantage of the
consultant's advisory services would be attained only if this would be requested and
provided after BOG is fully computerized and new hardware and software are installed in



9
all of BOG's departments. The mission also suggested that the Department's
computerization requirements should be defined by BOG's Information Technology
Department as part of BOG's integrated computerization plan. In addition, the mission
recommended that a separate library for the Audit Department should not be created and
that the procurement of library materials be done in conjunction with BOG's central
library requirements. It was suggested by the mission that funds for the incinerator be
covered under BOG's budget. It was recommended that the Audit Department provide
IDA with cost estimates for their component for funding consideration under the NBFI
Project.
b. Privatization of state-owned banks - The Government has requested technical
assistance for: (a) post-divestiture activities concerning GCB; (b) the conclusion of the
NIB divestiture; (c) the privatization of ADB and COOP Bank; and (d) the restructuring
and divestiture of BHC. In principle, IDA agrees to this request. The mission proposes
that technical assistance funding would be provided in two phases. Under Phase 1, the
technical assistance will be provided to develop a strategy for privatizing the banks and
an action plan to address the particular requirements for the COOP Bank. In Phase 2,
technical assistance will be provided to implement the strategy and action plan. IDA
funding of phase 2 will require IDA's agreement on the implementation strategy
developed in the first phase. Also, given that divestiture of the banks is the main
objective, IDA proposed to accommodate the funding of this activity under the Public
Enterprise and Privatization Technical Assistance Credit (PEPTA).
Issues relating to this component which require further consideration include:
(i) Implementation Arrangements. The privatization of all non-banking enterprises is
currently conducted within the policy framework created by the Divestiture
Implementation Committee Act (1993). Consequently, these divestitures are
administered by the Divestiture Implementation Committee (DIC). However, for banks,
the administering agency has been the FINSAP Secretariat (FINSEC). The issue here is
whether the privatization of those banks that remain state-owned should be brought under
DIC. This question remains open for discussion. FINSAP has the advantage of having
some experience from attempting bank privatization over the last two years. DIC does
not have that specialized experience, but it should be noted that DIC lacks expertise in
most sectors, and hires the required expertise (by 'outsourcing') as needed.
(ii) GCB Privatization. When the Government's request for technical assistance from
PEED was provided to IDA, the expectation was that funds would be required for the
post-divestiture "due diligence" of GCB. However, the deadline for the sale of GCB to
the Malaysian conglomerate has past without successful resolution. As prospects for
successful resolution within a short period seem unlikely, the mission strongly
recommends the deadline should not be extended. If this recommendation is accepted,
technical assistance will be required to devise and implement a new divestiture strategy.



10
(iii) Availability of PEPTA Funds. Are there sufficient funds available under PEPTA to
accomodate bank privatization as well as the other correctly structured privatization
efforts currently planned? At this point it is difficult to project whether there will be a
surplus of funds since over 75% of the credit remains uncommitted and the credit is seven
months away from its mid-term. However, in the event that a determination is eventually
made that the credit is likely to be short of funds, a case could be made to supplement the
credit since a major reason would have been the technical assistance requirements caused
by exogenous events such as the financial crisis in Malaysia, and its impact upon the
privatization of GCB.
c. National Bankers College - NBC requested support in updating and expanding
its curricula, by using foreign experts for well defined, short duration courses. The
mission and NBC agreed additional support for this purpose, once fully defined, would be
possible in addition to that already provided under the NBFI Project.
d. Institute of Chartered Accountants of Ghana - ICAG discussed with the
mission its plan to set up a school of accountancy in collaboration with a foreign institute
of accountants and to establish postgraduate accountancy studies in two universities. At
an estimated cost of $300,000, the school will provide students with formal education in
accountancy necessary to prepare them for the ICAG qualification examinations and for
post graduate studies. The mission recommended that this proposal receive serious
consideration and suggested that IDA would be interested in supporting this effort under
the NBFI Project but limiting the effort to the creation of one accountacy school in one
university, which will prepare students for their qualification examinations and provide
post graduate studies. The Institute also submitted a request for funding of consultancy
services, training, technical manuals, computers, teaching aids and a vehicle. While it is
the mission's recommendation that most of ICAG's ongoing activities be financed from
membership fees and possible assistance obtained from the large established accounting
firms in the country, it would recommend that IDA provide funds on a one-time basis and
on a 60 percent (IDA):40 percent (ICAG) cost-sharing arrangement. It was suggested
that ICAG would send to IDA, for funding consideration under the NBFI Project, a more
detailed proposal documenting the need for consultancy services; post qualification
training activities; training (including technical materials); computer equipment, and
teaching aids.
Financial Sector Analysis
As the mission undertook to review the Government's request for additional
assistance to the financial sector, it noted that substantial progress in strengthening the
financial sector has been made over the past decade. A number of policies with respect to
the regulatory and enabling environment have been reformed and, while there may be a
need for some additional refinements, commercial financial institutions find Ghana a
satisfactory, if not attractive, environment in which to do business. The Central Bank and
its banking supervision function have become stronger and more effective. At the present



11
time, Ghana's major domestic banks are reasonably solvent, liquid, and profitable.
Considerable progress is being made in strengthening nonbank financial institutions.
However, as the performance of the PEED Project illustrates, some important
PFIs are experiencing financial losses on their line of credit onlending because of poor
recovery rates. The mission conducted a brief survey of the financial sector to identify
factors that contributed to the disappointing PEED results together with remaining
financial sector issues that might represent serious risks and/or significant potential future
costs to the financial sector in the future or provide possible opportunities for the Bank, if
requested, to provide support for Ghana's on-going financial reform efforts. The survey
suggested there are still a number of significant financial sector issues that need to be
examined in some depth. Key areas identified by the mission as needing early attention
are issues relating to long tenn credit for productive investment, macro-economic
financial sector environment, the banking system, and formal financial sector system
outreach.
Highly constrained availability of long term credit is affected by many factors
including i) high real interest rates and volatile inflation; ii) inability of banks to mobilize
significant long term deposits; iii) investment policies and practices of institutions such as
SSNIT that have substantial long term investable funds which are largely unavailable for
banking system intermediation; and iv) inadequate market mechanisms relating to
secondary markets for government paper, pricing and yield curves, corporate debt
instruments, etc.
In the macro-economic arena, the high fiscal deficits of the last several years, and
the associated government funding requirements, have led to high inflation, sharp
currency devaluations, and high real interest rates. These have a pervasive negative and
widespread impact on financial sector functioning, which in turn undermines the financial
sector's effectiveness in supporting economic objectives. For exarnple, it has:
* resulted in the banking system holding large amounts of government debt, thus
crowding out credit to the rest of the economy;
*  discouraged savings in domestic currency, reinforcing the incentives to save in real
assets, thus keeping the formal financial system very small. Consequently, bank
deposits are still well below 20% of GDP;
*  jeopardized borrowers' ability to meet debt repayment obligations and their financial
health as a result of the wide swings in inflation which first drove real interest rates
sharply negative during 1995 and early 1996 and then sharply positive since mid-
1996;
*  constrained growth, development and deepening of the new equities and corporate
debt markets.
Important problems remain in the critically important banking system, despite
massive past restructuring and an aggressive reform program. Several large domestic
banks, despite seemingly satisfactory balance sheets and income statements (temporarily



12
enhanced by large profits on investment in government securities), are showing troubling
signs of underlying deterioration that could lead within a year or two to serious financial
problems. Non-performing loans are ominously increasing (PEED recovery rates are
indicative of similar collection problems on other parts of loan portfolios) due to
inefficient appraisal and collection practices, weaknesses in the legal and credit
disciplinary environment, and the impact of high real interest rates. Profitable business
and attractive customers are being lost to more efficient banks (which is healthy for the
system but can hurt big banks' profitability) and it will be increasingly difficult for them
to support existing deposits levels with sufficient sound lending business when highly
profitable government securities investment opportunities diminish. High administrative
costs and loss-making branches as well as inadequate competition in many market areas
impose high intermediation costs on real sector borrowers.
Bank privatization initiatives for several banks, motivated by a critical need to
improve governance, have, to date, achieved unsatisfactory results. Moreover, there are
associated costly delays in initiating badly needed internal bank restructuring,
management strengthening, computerization, cost reduction, and strengthened
competitiveness.
Other banking issues include (i) inadequate new bank and NBFI licensing
policies/practices and resulting concern that some recently licensed banks and many
NBFIs do not have adequate capital and size to maintain soundness if there are large
decreases in government debt interest rates; (ii) inadequate exit policies (which have
resulted in continued operation of insolvent commercial and rural banks) will in turn,
lead to more costly solutions and erode public confidence in the banking system; (iii)
bank compliance violations that remain unaddressed because penalties for noncompliance
and their imposition are inadequate; (iv) financial statements that do not give adequate
advance warning signals because some loan provisioning requirements on nonperforming
loans are still too lax; (v) an unequal playing field between some finance companies
which are largely in the same lending and deposit business as banks but are subject to
laxer regulations which could change rapid growth of unsound NBFIs which collect retail
deposits; and (vi) an urgent need for very high quality bank restructuring/advice to enable
quick implementation of the best available approach to resolving very serious existing
siuations in several small banks; e.g. while the COOP Bank situation needs to be
decisively resolved quickly, the mission views a proposal to merge COOP Bank or most
of its structure into ADB as highly unwise as it would cause significant harm to ADB.
Formal mainstream financial sector outreach to large sectors of the Ghanaian
economy and populace is disappointing and leads to low savings mobilization, inadequate
funding for important economic activity, and for new and small enterprises, the middle
class rural populace and the poor. Among issues in this arena are: (i) inadequate
integration of the rural and national financial sectors leading, inter alia, to problems in
financing sharp seasonal credit peak requirements and ineffectual collaboration between
rural and large commercial banks to finance medium size projects; (ii) situations that
catalyzed recent actions by several banks to eliminate rural branches, reduce agricultural



13
lending, and/or substantially increase minimum deposit requirements; (iii) inadequate
supervisory and technical support associated with weak rural financial institutions; and
(iv) limited use of checks which imposes transactions costs, inconvenience and delay, a
need to maintain large cash balances uninvested, and larger bank refusal to cash rural
bank checks, often even for the soundest banks.
The mission proposed that IDA send a mission to Ghana within the next several
months to do an in-depth assessment of these and associated issues, their underlying
causes, and, to some extent, their costs. Such an assessment would provide a foundation
for (i) understanding vulnerability to risk and costs of suboptimal policies, practices and
situations, (ii) identifying needs for reform, (iii) providing advice with respect to future
financial sector policy and strategy, and (iv) extending support to build on the substantial
progress already made in financial sector and banking system strengthening.
It was also proposed that a mission planning document would be sent in advance
of such a mission for the Government's review and to actively seek Ghanaian counterpart
participation in the mission financial sector work.
Accra, Ghana
February 6, 1998



Appendix 2
GOVERNMENT OF GHANA
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE AND EXPORT
DEVELOPMENT (PEED) PROJECT
(IDA CR 2502 - GH)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(ICR)
Prepared Jointly by:
Export Finance Office (EFO)
Bank of Glhana, Accra.
&
Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
Ministry of Finance, Accra
September, 1998



GOVERNMENT OF GHANA
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT
(PEED) PROJECT IDA CREDIT 2502 - GH
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
INTRODUCTION
A major portion of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) on the PEED
Project was presented by the Government of Ghana at the Country Portfolio Performance
Review (CPPR) meeting (Akuse V) of April 1998, as one of the case studies providing
lessons in project design and implementation experience. The ICR also takes into account
issues and outcomes of the Februarv 1996 Mid-term review; mission visits by IDA staff
and interviews with stakeholders especially the exporters, financiers and entrepreneur.
The ICR captures the implementation experience of the IDA-financed US$41
million PEED project which was negotiated in April 1993, signed in July and became
effective in December 1993 with disbursement commencing in March 1994 - almost a
year after the negotiations. This delay was mainly due to the transitional problems arising
from the reintroduction of parliamentary democracy and constitutional governance. The
project was, however, closed on 3 1t March 1998 as originally scheduled.
PROJECT DESIGN
In line with the commitment of Government of Ghana (GOG) to the concept of
"ownership" and "development effectiveness" of projects, an innovative local
counterpart group dominated by the private sector was set up to work with the IDA
mission during the project preparation. This unique local counterpart group participated in
the structuring of the PEED project to meet its required objectives by assisting in the
identification of tr.e needs of the private sector especially the exporters and the
entrepreneur who were the ultimate beneficiaries of the project. In spite of this laudable
participatory and collaborative approach, a number of components considered critical by
GOG and the Private Sector in enhancing the successful implementation of the project,
such as a post-shipment insurance facility, were not included in the project.
The requirements and components of the PEED project were also synchronised
with those of the USAID-supported Trade and Investment Project (TIP) which was in a
more advanced stage of preparation. This was to avoid duplication of the efforts and
encourage donor collaboration in enhancing complementarily of projects in the same
sector. However, the implementation of the two projects did not occur in tandem as
envisaged. The TIP was fully disbursed whereas funds under the PEED had to be
cancelled.
PROJECT COMPONENTS AND MANAGEMENT
The Export Financ-, Office (EFO) at Bank of Ghana and the Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) at the Ministry of Finance (MOF) implemented the PEED Project. EFO had
responsibility for the US$34 million Export Refinance Facility, the Export Credit
Guarantee Scheme and the technical assistance components involving (a) the International
Payments Settlement System (SWIFT) (b) Credit Reference Agency (CRA) (c) Forward
Foreign Exchange Market Development (d) Export Guidebook preparation and (e)



Training for Exporters and Bankers. EFO and the Information Services Department (ISD)
jointly managed a latter addition, the International Promotion component of
US$500,000.00.
The PIU was responsible for three technical assistance components namely the Long Term
Debt Market Development, (LTD) the Commercial Insurance Market Development,
(CIM) and the Corporate Enterprises Restructuring (CER) of the Potentially Viable
Enterprises (PVE's) in the custody of the Non Performing Assets Recovering Trust
(NPART). PIU had the additional responsibility for ensuring the implementation of policy
issues and convenants embodied in both the Letter of Strategic Development Policy
(LSDP) and the Development Credit Agreement (DCA).
The managers of EFO, PIU and ISD had proven track record in project management and
in dealing with the World Bank. They demonstrated a deep commitment to the
implementation of the PEED and performed creditably despite the numerous problems and
constraints experienced in the implementation of the project.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND PROBLEMS
PIU in conjunction with the Ghana Stock Exchange fuilly implemented the Long-
Term Debt Market Consultancy assignment. The study phase of both the CER and the
CIM Consultancy assignments were completed. However, implementation problems were
encountered in the case of the CIM and CER.
The provision of the Business Assistance Fund (BAF) by GOG provided a more
credible commitment to the plight of the PVE's which had previously undergone two
previous studies funded by IDA and other earlier studies commissioned by GOG. Thus
the IDA supported pilot CER programmed with a study phase was less attractive to the
PVE's which were craving for real support. Consequently, some of the more eligible
PVE's opted for BAF facility and graduated from NPART.
An appreciable time was saved when the study phase of the CIM was undertaken
by the same consultants working on the Diagnostic Study of the Insurance Industry within
the framework of the FINSAP. A Working Committee comprising of the key players
within the insurance and export industries and chaired by the Commissioner for National
Insurance Commission (NIC) reviewed the study and produced a Programme
Implementation Plan (PIP) which was endorsed by IDA. Implementation delays were
experienced on account of lack of suitable office accommodation and equipment for NIC.
The response to adverts for procurement of consultants made in local papers and the West
African magazine was poor. IDA advised a repeat advert which was carried in the
"Economist" among others.
Convenants and Policy Measures
The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within the World Bank Desk of the
Ministry of Finance successfully co-ordinated and collaborated with the GIPC, DIC, SEC,
FINSAP, Bank of Ghana and Association of Ghana Industry/PEF among others in
ensuring the implementation of the various policy measures contained in the Letter of
Strategic Development Policy (LSDP) and in meeting the requirements of the
2



development credit agreement as detailed in the attached Policy matrix labelled as Annex
I.
Export Refinance Scheme
i.    PFI Participation
The main problem encountered was insufficient Participating Financial Institutions
(PFIs) interest in sponsoring applications for PEED funding. Of the 14 banks which
signed the Participation Agreement only 8 actually participated in the Project; of the 8, 6
participated actively. The SAR made the following projection for the commitment of
funds.
By Mid    By Mid       By Mid      By Mid
1994      1995         1996        1997
Level of Commitment 10%       40%          75%         100%
The level of commitment at the close of the Project was about 52.6%, which varied
significantly from the projected target of 100%. The variance can be attributed to one or
more of the following factors:
a.   the Project was originally expected to become effective by July 30,
1993 but this did not happen until December 21, 1993. The IDA's
projections should have been revised accordingly, but they were
not;
b.   the signals from the PFIs, NTEs and other key players on which the
IDA projections were based proved misleading. For example, the
projections did not envisage the effects of restructuring the state
banks on the Project; and the term Export Refinance Scheme turned
out to be a misnomer;
c.    PFIs claimed to have enough resources of their own to finance
exports without resource to PEED Project funds;
d.   some PFIs claimed that the design of the Project which require them
to bear the credit risk was a deterrent in view of the risky nature of
non-traditional exports;
e.   the uneasy relationship between bankers and NTEs; this was due to
the fact that most NTEs did not have a good track record with the
PFIs to merit assistance, this situation was being gradually
addressed by the various courses organised under the project for
bankers and NTE's.
f.   IDA consistently ignored the basis for a speedy disbursement of the
facility; i.e. satisfying the urgent need for term financing for
producting non-traditional commodities for export.
3



ii.   Pricing of Loans
One of the reasons which made PEED unattractive to some PFIs was the pricing of
the facility.
Cedi-Denominated Loans
Originally, IDA priced cedi-denominated loans at the average 180-day commercial
bank deposit rate. The banks added their margin to this figure before on lending to
their customers, thus rendering PEED cedi denominated funds uncompetitive.
This was because for short-term credits; the banks mobilised their funds through
current account deposits. Accordingly, lending at any rate above their cost of
funds made economic sense to the banks. EFO suggested to the Task Management
that the weight average cost of funds to the banks would yield a more realistic
answer. The IDA turned down this suggestion and later IDA decided to abolish
cedi -denominated loans.
Dollar-Denominated Loans
The IDA either deliberately or mistakenly took the Refinance Scheme, which was
for short term finance, for term lending and priced the PEED funds at the
Prevailing LIBOR + a margin of 2.625%. Following representations from EFO,
the margin was reduced to 2.375%. and finally to 1.375%. The only reason IDA
advanced for the margin was that they wanted to conform to the practices of IFC.
Even the reduced margin of 1.375% still made PEED funds uncompetitive because
some PFIs could source foreign funds at much cheaper rates.
iii.   Financing of Approved sub-Projects
The Project authorised EFO to finance sub-projects approved within its free-limits
from the EFO Special Account before seeking IDA authorisation. This was a
commendable improvement on the SME Project.
From August 1996, EFO was inundated with applications from PFIs; this was the
direct result of representations made to the banks by the then Governor. The
volume was such that the approved sub-projects could no longer be financed from
the EFO  Special Account.  As a solutions, BOG suggested to the Task
Management and the Africa Disbursement Division, that for loans above the EFO
free limit EFO be permitted to submit a withdrawal application with the loan
application so that if, and when, IDA approved and authorised withdrawal from the
Credit Account, funds would be made available for the sub-project. IDA declined
this suggestion. In order not to compromise the credibility of the project, BOG
informed IDA it would finance approved sub-projects from the PEED Guarantee
Fund until there were adequate funds in the EFO Special Account. At the close of
the Project, most of this funding had been recovered from the Special Account
leaving a balance of $1,132,812.78. When this was brought to the notice of the
4



Africa Disbursement Division, they asked BOG to "prefinance" the amount and
claim disbursement.
We think that since all the sub-projects involved IDA's authorisation, IDA should
have taken appropriate action before closure. For example, IDA withheld $1.4
million from our last 3 replenishment applications on grounds of "recovery of
Special Account". This amount could have been used to balance the books.
Export Credit Guarantee Scheme
The usefulness of this scheme was severely handicapped by the preshipment
coverage it offered. The PFIs argued that most of the risk involved in non-
traditional exports lay offshore. It is understandable that for a new Project like
PEED, it was dangerous to offer post shipment coverage limited its attractiveness
to the PFIs and rendered the whole Project less attractive. The first $4million
repaid from Refinance loans was to be paid into the Guarantee Fund to honour
claims. These resources remained idled until the mid-term review.
Technical Assistaiice
The implementation of this component progressed satisfactorily except for 3 minor
hiccups.
i.    Export Guidebook
Originally EFO's suggestion that this be prepared by Ghanaians was
accepted by IDA. Later, IDA argued that since the expertise might not be
available in Ghana, local consultants may bid but only in collaboration with
expatriate consultants. This revision delayed the preparation of the Export
Guidebook for at least 2 years. Finally, IDA and BOG agreed that
Ghanaian consultant be engaged to edit the draft and make it usable in
Ghana. In the event, the Ghanaians re-wrote the text in consultation with
GEPC producing a much better book.
ii.    Credit Reference Agency (CRA)
The implementation of the Second Phase of the CRA study was delayed by
several months when the PEED Task Management was changed. The new
management revised the TOR already agreed with BOG, and in response to
which the consultants had submitted their technical and financial proposals
in February 1997. As a result of IDA as intervention, the new proposals
were sent in May 1997.
iii.   Forward Foreign Exchitnge Market
The consultants revised their draft report as directed IDA and this was sent
to IDA for review early in November 1997. IDA's reaction was only
conveyed to EFO during the Mission, which began on January 26 1998.
5



Meanwhile, BOG had set up a committee to advise on the implementation
of the consultant's recommendations.
TERM FINANCING
IDA consistently shied away from introducing term financing into the PEED
Project.  The Project assumed that there were adequate non-traditional
commodities for export. Because of our weak production base, Ghana argued for
the introduction of term financing into PEED during the negotiations in April
1993. In response to this argument, IDA agreed that after $4million worth of
reflow had been credited to the PEED Guarantee Fund, EFO could use the
additional reflows to finance term loans. In the issues paper for the mid-term,
BOG revisited the introduction of term financing into PEED. IDA would only
agree that 50% of reflows be used for term financing. Finally, during a Mission in
May 1997, IDA agreed to introduce term financing into PEED. After MOF had
signalled its acceptance on September 17 1997, IDA sent a fax on November 19,
1997 reneging on the agreement. They cited the performance of the Export
Refinance scheme land the macro-economic situation as reasons for their decision.
This was inspite of the fact that IDA's mission of May 1997 had concluded that,
"There is a sizeable need (approximately $78 million) for medium-term
resources as indicated by several PFI's primarily because of the realities
currently faced by the financial sector. There is a shortage of medium-
term funds available to private enterprises .........
In this regard, we refer to the SME Project, which was a term facility to illustrate
the need for term financing for the NTE sector. Recovery rates recorded by the
SME Project, were discouraging. When the Project ended in June 1997, the rate
was 50% although by January 1998, this had increased to 60%. Of the 121 sub-
projects financed under the SME Project, 7 were in the NTE sector. Out of the 7, 3
have fully repaid their loans, 3 are currently paying and 1 has wilfully defaulted.
this would seem to confirm our view that term lending for exports is not as risky
as term lending for other areas. Secondly, the macro economic situation at the
time IDA reneged on the agreement with MOF was much better than when they
agreed to the introduction on their financing.
OTHER CONCERNS
Loan Recovery
The PFIs experienced difficulties in recovering some of the loans on a timely
basis. There are mainly reasons for this. These include the poor timing and
delivery of financial services and credit to exporters resulting in utilisation of
funds for other purposes other than pre-export finance, inability of exporter to meet
stipulated export order. Poor credit management i.e. appraisal, supervision and
recovery was a common occurrence. On the part of the NTEs, though knowledge
in product sourcing and selling, they lacked the sophisticated in dealing with bank
requirements. Processing of applications through the banks took so long that in
several instances, L/Cs had expired before applications were submitted to EFO,
because the Refinance Schemes was a trade finance facility, PFIs tended to release
6



all the approved funds to customers without supervision and in some cased this
resulted in misapplication of funds.
Performance of IDA Task Management
The Task Management tended to ignore signed agreements. For example, in the
fax of November 19, 1997, IDA made various recommendations for restructuring
the Project. When there recommendations had not been accepted by BOG, and the
Project Agreement duly amended, the Task Management started implementing
them; according to the Task management, that was how IDA operated.
Traditionally, any Mission prepared and discussed their draft aide memoir at a
wrap up meeting during which the "next steps" were agreed. This procedure was
varied without notice. For the May 1997 Mission, the draft aide memoir was sent
to us form Washington in July 1997. The draft aide memoir for the January 1998
Mission was not discussed at a general wrap up meeting, but sought to create
erroneous impression that the way forward had been agreed with EFO. Perhaps a
more appropriate caption would have been "Mission's decisions" rather than
"Agreed Next Steps".
Extension of Credit Closing Date
The Project documents provided for a closing date of March 31, 1998, but this was
based on the assumption that project effectiveness would be achieved by July
1993. However, the Project became effective on December 21 1993.
For the Project to run its full five-year term, the closing date ought to have been
adjusted accordingly. IDA departed from its practice of extending the validity of
lines of credit which disburse slowly. ISAC and the SME Projects were each
extended when there were uncommitted funds at the end of the initial closing dates
of these projects. In the case of the PEED Project IDA argued that there was no
indication that the extension would be beneficial. In this connection, we compare
the figures for end 1996, 1997 close Project and reflows re-lent after close of
Project.
TABLE 1
APPLICATION   AMOUNT      AMOUNT
PERIOD        RECEIVED   APPROVED $  DISBURSED
(NOS)      MILLION      US$M
End 1996              64         11.00        8.1
End 1997              87         17.3         14.3
March31, 1998         90         17.9         14.6
April-August 1998     55          2.6          2.6
From the above table it is abundantly clear that there was no justification for
closing the Project on March 31, 1998 since within a period of only five
months 55 applications had been processed and $2.6 million disbursed; an
empirical evidence of the need for the funds.
7



IMPACT ASSESSMENT
Notwithstanding the implementation problems cited above the Project can be said
to have achieved its main objective, which was, to expand non-traditional exports. Table
2 below gives evidence of the achievement of the objective.
TABLE 2
1991   1992   1993      1994    1995    1996    1997
Total                         1098   1105   1208       1227    1431    1571    1517
Non-Traditional Exports $m    62.5   68.4   71.7      119.3   159.7  276.2   329.1
NTEs as % of Total Exports     5.6   6.1    5.9         9.7    11.2   17.6  21.7
No. of Exporters              2822   3188    1980     2529      2802    3339   3278
No. of Products               155    164    185        177       216    231   270
The value of NTEs increased significantly during the Project period from US$119.3 in
1994 US$329.1 m in 1997. Similarly, the number of products and exporters also showed
up surges. Whereas the number of exporters rose from 2529 in 1994 to 3278 in 1997, the
number of products shot up from 177 to 270 over the same period.
The contribution of the Project to the increase in the value of non-traditional exports is
evidenced by the value of export revenues of the beneficiaries under the Project as
provided by PFIs. (Table 3)
TABLE 3
EXPORT REVENUES    EXPORT REVEUES
PFI              BEFORE PEED           AFTER PEED
FACILITY             FACILITY
$(MILLION)           $(MILLION)
Prudential Bank                  1.1                  2.2
Ghana Commercial Bank           1.7                   5.6
National Investment Bank        0.82                  5.2
Merchant Bank                   17.6                 17.4
Some of the beneficiaries interviewed also attest to the fact that the PEED  facility
contributed to the increase in their production and export levels. It is therefore evident
that the availability of the PEED facility has achieved results far beyond expectation.
The recovery of funds lent under the Project, which showed unsatisfactory results before
the close of the Project, has improved significantly. Two major PFIs NIB and GCB,
which performed poorly, have made considerable progress. The comparable recovery
rates of the PFIs are as shown in table 4 below:
8



TABLE 4
RECOVERY   RECOVERY    RECOVERY   RECOVERY
PFI            ASAT         ASAT          ASAT         ASAT
30/9/97      31/1/9       17/3/98      31/8/98
AGRICULT'URAL DEV.
BANK                    36.1%        91.7%        91.7%         100%
GHANA COMM. BANK        51.9%        41.7%        69.3%         76%
MERCHANT BANK           23.8%        5.0%         76.4%         91%
NATIONAL
INVESTMENT BANK          9.0%        10.0%         10.3%        77%
PRUDENTIAL BANK         27.2%        74.2%        90.7%         89%
STANCHART               100.0%      100.0%         100%         100%
CAL MERCHANT BANK       100.0%       64.7%        64.7%         100%
Hence, with time it is expected that full recovery is attainable.
Training for Bankers and Exporters
In all about 200 exporters and over 90 bankers benefited from the specialised training
schemes. Judging from the number of participants, course evaluation reports and follow-
up interviews the training programmes could be described as an enormous success. The
participants expressed satisfaction with the presentations and programme content, which
they found very educative and relevant to their various areas of operations. In the case of
participant's from rural banks that admitted that their operations did not extend to foreign
trade, they intend to introduce it in their training seminars in future.
International Payment Settlement System
Twelve local banks have been hooked to the SWIFT system. This has had tremendous
impact on their operations in various ways. These include enhanced security and speed of
payment. The banks also use it to transmit high valued instruments among each other
instead of the cheque-clearing system. This had greatly reduced the risks associated with
the payment system.
Staff of the various user banks also benefited from the training leading to improve skills
and knowledge with the result that there is greater efficiency in handling of the SWIFT
system.
General Observation
It is important that IDA as a lender should give serious consideration to the views of the
borrower both at the design and implementation phases of Projects and be flexible in
resolving implementation problems for the mutual benefit of the lender and the borrower.
SEPTEMBER 25, 1998.
9



Appendix 3
The World Bank                              Resident Mission in Ghana    Telephone: (233-21) 229681
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  69 Eighth Avenue Extension   Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION       Northridge Residential Area   Facsimile: (233-21) 227887
P.O. Box M27                                                      Telex: 2207
Accra, Ghana
October 28, 1998
Mr. M. A. Quist-Therson
Director, World Bank Desk
Ministry of Finance
Accra
Dear Mr. Quist-Therson:
Re: Ghana - Private Enterprise and Export Development Project (Cr. 2502)
With reference to your letters of September 28 and 30, 1998, this is to confirm that we
have received the Government's contribution to the Implementation Completion Report. As
indicated in IDA's letter of August 4, 1998, the main text will be included unedited as
Appendix 2. However, I would like for the record to respond to some comments in the
Government's report. We also intend to include this response as an annex in the ICR.
Under the sections "Performance of IDA Task Management" and "General
Observations", the Government's report suggested that IDA "tended to ignore signed
agreements", imposed its decisions on the Bank of Ghana, and remained inflexible in
considering the Govermment's views. We assume the Government was largely referring to (i)
IDA's recommendations that: (a) poorly performing banks not be allowed to continue
participating in the Project; and (b) the free limit for sub-project approvals be eliminated; and
(ii) IDA's reversal of an earlier decision to restructure the Project to include a medium-term
credit facility.
You will recall that when the recommendations were made to BOG (late in 1997),
arrears ranged from about 23-40% of amounts due from about 65% of the borrowers who
should have been servicing their loans. Mindful of the need to ensure the Project did not
contribute to the further erosion of participating banks' resources, IDA felt it unwise to
continue to commit funds while the matter of poor loan repayments remained unresolved and
overall achievement of Project objectives remained uncertain. After we had made our views
known to you, we debated these issues on several occasions. However, their resolution was
overtaken by decisions reached by BOG, the Government, and IDA (in March 1998) to close
the Project as originally scheduled.
On the matter of IDA imposing its decisions without prior consultation with BOG
following the January 1998 mission, the Government's report did not accurately reflect the
fact that the mission and I met with both the Ministry of Finance and BOG in wrap-up
sessions prior to the mission's departure from Accra. We did not agree on next steps then as
both the MOF and BOG requested additional time to review and discuss the mission's
findings and recommendations. Final agreements on the mission's "Suggested Next Steps"
were reached at a March 1998 meeting I had with the MOF and BOG and formalized in my
letter to the Government of March 20, 1998. This is not to suggest that Government and IDA
Headquarters: Washington D.C.



Mr. M.A. Quist-Therson              -2-                        Oct. 28, 1998
agreed fully with each other, but by the end of those meetings you had accepted the reasons
why IDA did not feel able to consider any extension to the credit.
We would also like to complement the Government's report on the Credit Reference
Agency component. Following the completion of a feasibility study by the consultants and
findings that establishing a CRA was a viable proposition, a decision was made to have these
same consultants continue with Phase 2 of the work, i.e., preparing the business plan,
soliciting investors, etc. The study also sparked interest in possibly incorporating credit
reference and credit rating functions under one establishment. Prior to changes in task
management, BOG, IDA, IFC, experts in the field, and the consultants were in the midst of
discussing this possibility. After prolonged discussions, decisions were made to revert to the
original plan of a credit reference agency only because having both functions under one
organization would put potential investors in a conflict of interest position. Adjustments to
the TOR were necessary to incorporate these decisions. In addition, IDA's comments to the
consultant's financial and technical proposal were required mainly to ensure the consultants:
(i) closed gaps on available information that could prevent accurate assessment of the demand
for a CRA (for example, the disclosure of information laws); and (ii) did not conduct a survey
of international standards and benchmarks as the technical partner was expected to have this
information.
Finally, I would note that it was unfortunate that IDA and the Government did not
find the occasion to discuss this ICR more fully together, and come to joint understandings
about the lessons from this operation. However, it is never too late for us to learn lessons
from these experiences, so we look forward to an appropriate occasion to review this
operation more fully.
Let me conclude by thanking you for the serious and conscientious job you made of
carrying out the Government's analysis of this operation, which provides us with serious
cause for reflection on how we can do much better in future operations to assist the
development of the Ghanaian private sector.
Yours sincerely,
(Signed)
Peter Harrold
Country Director for Ghana



Private Enterprises and Export Development Project                              Appendix 4
(Cr. 2502-GH)                                            Page 1 of 5
Exporters Assisted Under the Project
I  ;    kn          '     fo     .        Uonp'.--  '......... n"0. '     Prduct   i        Regi.on-      tUS-
gricultural          B-28      Cashew & Spices Ltd          Cashew                 Greater. Accra     178,659
evelopment Bank    B-29       Commodimex Ltd                Cotton Seeds          Greater. Accra      107,195
B-13     Keb Farms Limited             Foodstuffs            Greater. Accra      15,000
B-22     Sabary Enterprise Ltd         Coffee                Greater. Accra     200,000
B-52     Sabary Enterprises            Coffee                Greater. Accra     161,140
Subtotal                                                                                 661,994
Continental            B-11     Juaben Oil Mills              Palm Kernell          Ashanti              5,500
cceptances Ltd.      B-41     Juabeng Oil Mills             Palm Kernel Expellers Ashanti              50,000
B-1      Juabeng Oil Mills Ltd        Palm Kenell Cake       Ashanti             36,000
B-2      Merki Woodworks Ltd          Wood Products          Greater. Accra      50,000
Subtotal                                                                                 141,500
Ghana                  B-10     Asel Adc Ventures             Teak Lumber           Greater. Accra      17,863
Commercial Bank        B-32     Atakora Brothers              Voacanga Seeds        Greater. Accra      17,650
B-40     Bedora Enterprise             Scrap Metals          Greater. Accra      43,000
B-5      Broadlands Enterprise Ltd.    Scraps                Greater. Accra      25,000
B-20     Broadlands Enterprise Ltd     Scrap Metals          Greater. Accra      25,000
B-17     Colour Chart Ltd              Garments/Gts. Card    Greater. Accra     100,000
B-46     Colour Chart Ltd              Greetings Cards       Greater. Accra     100,000
A-i      Combined Farmers Limited    Pineapples              Greater. Accra     125,000
B-21     Combined Farmers Ltd          Pineapples            Greater. Accra     125,000
B-26     Doswak Enterprise            Voacanga Seeds         Greater. Accra     126,000
B-57     Doswak Enterprise Ltd                               Greater. Accra      45,100
B-25     Elmako Enterprise Ltd        Vegetables             Greater. Accra      15,625
A-19     Farmers Services Co.Ltd       Sheanuts              Upper West         500,000
A-11     Farmers Services Ltd          Sheanuts              Upper West         500,000
A-9      Johnson Farms Complex         Sheanuts              Northern           416,541
A-20     Johnson Farms Complex Ltd   Sheanuts                Northern           566,541
B-3      Johnson Farms Complex Ltd   Sheanuts                Northern           100,000
B-4      Johnson Farms Complex Ltd   Sheanuts                Northern            50,000
B-19     Johnson Farms Complex Ltd   Sheanuts                Northern           150,000
B-37     Marcus Hughes Supplies        Wildlife              Gt. Accra            7,000
B-16     Oda Sawmills Company Ltd    Boules                  Eastern            200,000
B-45     Oda Sawmills Ltd              Boules                Eastern            157,500
B-51     Oda Veneer & Plywood          Plywood               Eastern            200,000
A-5      Yadco Enterprise Ltd          Coffee                Greater. Accra     300,000
A-14     Yadco Enterprise Ltd          Coffee                Greater. Accra     300,000
A-16     Yadco Enterprises             Coffee                Greater. Accra     450,000
Subtotal                                                                               4,662,820
Merchant Bank          A-10     Astek Fruit Processing Ltd    Fruit Juice           Greater. Accra     300,000
B-33     Cream Timber Moulding        Timber Mouldings       Western            100,000
B-44     Fabi Timbers                  Lumber                Ashanti            150,000
A-13     Maxwell Owusu Timbers         Lumber                Ashanti            400,000
B-34     Rad Forest Products           Lumber                Western            100,000
B-35     Ras Wood Products             Lumber                Ashanti            150,000
A-12     Saoud Timber                  Timber                Ashanti            500,000
B-36     Specialised Timber Ltd       Timber                 Ashanti            200,000
B-43     Standard Wood Products       Lumber                 Western             50,000
B-31     Western Hardwood              Lumber                Western            100,000
Subtotal                                                                               2,050,000



Private Enterprises and Export Development Project                              Appendix 4
(Cr. 2502-GH)                                            Page 2 of 5
Exporters Assisted Under the Project
|ainal              B-23     African Wisdom Gh Ltd         Foodstuffs            Greater. Accra       50,000
Ivstment Bank       A-3       Aluminium Enterprise Ltd.    Aluminium Sows,        Greater. Accra     381,818
B-55     Betty "O" Limited            Foodstuffs             Greater. Accra      30,000
B-12     Concordia Ventures           Seafoods               Greater. Accra      60,000
A-8      Eastern Alloys               Aluminium Products   Greater. Accra       300,000
A-4      Equinox Tradehouse            Coffee                Greater. Accra     500,000
A-2      Equinox Tradehouse Ent. Ltd  Coffee Berries         Greater. Accra     500,000
B-7      Gelina Tropical Products.Ltd   Coffee Berries       Greater. Accra     178,629
A-6      Gelina Tropical Products Ltd   Coffee               Greater. Accra     500,000
A-18     Ghana Manganese Co Ltd        Manganese             Western            600,000
B-9      Golden Atlantic Seafoods Ltd   Seafoods             Greater. Accra      17,863
B-42     Miranda Enterprise           Foodstuffs             Greater. Accra      15,000
B-14     Paddican Limited              Coffee                Greater. Accra     200,000
A-17     Samartex Timber & Plywood   Lumber                  Western           1,379,310
A-7      Transport & Commodity Gen   Cassava Chips           Greater. Accra     267,295
B-24     Transport & Commodity Ltd   Cassava Chips           Greater. Accra     100,000
B-27     Vidacom Ltd                  Foodstuffs             Greater. Accra      50,000
Subtotal                                                                                5,129,915
Prudential Bank Ltd. B-38       A. A. Dimbala Farms Ltd       Sheanuts              Greater. Accra     100,000
B-39     Cann & Kaa Ltd               Foodstuffs             Greater. Accra      50,000
B-50     Fio Enterprises              Foodstuffs             Greater. Accra      50,000
B-54     Nabe Wood Processing         Timber                 Western            100,000
B-53     Naktan Ltd                   Papaya                 Greater. Accra     120,000
B-47     Paragon Fisheries            Marine Products        Greater. Accra     150,000
B-56     Tfa Enterprise                Salt                  Greater. Accra      50,000
B-49     Yahwe Salom Farms Ltd         Cashew                Ashanti            100,000
Cayuga Tradin G & Farms Ent. Papaya                 Greater Accra       50,000
B-64     Fellilud Farms Limited       Pineapple              Greater. Accra      20,000
B-62     Fio Enterprises              Foodstuffs             Greater. Accra     100,000
B-61     Mashaco Ltd                  Pineapple              Greater. Accra      50,000
Naktan Ltd                   Papaya                 Greater. Accra     200,000
B-60     Seafare Limited               Seafoods              Greater. Accra      30,000
B-57     Telecity Co. Limited          Salt & Coffee         Greater. Accra      50,000
Subtotal                                                                                1,220,000
Standard               B-48     Food Distributors Int.        Foodstuffs            Greater. Accra     200,000
Chartered Bank         B-59     Kokobin Farms Company         Pineapple             Greater. Accra      40,000
B-30     Magdanielli Designs           Garments              Greater. Accra      60,000
A-21     Magdanielli Designs Ltd       Garments              Greater Accra      237,053
Subtotal                                                                                 537,063
Trust Bank             B-8      Dwumfuoh Mensah & Compan Foodstuffs                 Greater. Accra      30,000
B-6      Marimpex Limited              Coffee                Greater. Accra      20,000
B-15     Marimpex Limited              Coffee                Greater. Accra       7,000
Subtotal                                                                                   57,000
TOTAL                                                                                        14,460,282



Private Enterprises and Export Development Project                                                           Appendix 4
(Cr. 2502-GH)                                                                          Page 3 of 6
Credit Standing Of Exporters Assisted Under The Project
(as of May 1998)
D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Amoustns  h~(SS                                             
I   An~eui~t  Amount  Current I    OLEM        ktrnrdf Doubt                               %1        Sau
Bank         :::                                       j D:sburset      Outstanding (<t1 Da             D0i  )   (<    Da I    I (          .   >D         _ .:.      i: ::          :
Agricultural     B-28      Cashew & Spices Ltd.                 178,659                                                                                                  Fully Paid
Development    B-29        Commodimex Ltd.                      107,195                                                                                                  Fully Paid
Bank             B-13      Keb Farms Limited                     15,000                                                                                                  Fully Paid
B-22     Sabary Enterprise Ltd.                200,000                                                                                                 Fully Paid
B-52     Sabary Enterprises                    161,140       161,140     161,140                                                              100
Subtotal                                                661,994       161,140                                                                           24
Continental      B-ll      Juabeng Oil Mills                      5,500                                                                                                  Fully Paid
Acceptances      B-41      Juabeng Oil Mills                     50,000        50,000       50,000                                                              100
Ltd.             B-1       Juabeng Oil Mills Ltd.                36,000                                                                                                  Fully Paid
B-2      Merki Woodworks Ltd.                   50,000                                                                                                  Fully Paid
Subtotal            __141,500                                          50,000                                                                           35
Ghana            B-10      Asel Adc Ventures                     17,863                                                                                                  Ful y Paid
Commercial       B-32      Atakora Brothers                      17,650                                                                                                  Fully Paid
Bank             B-40      Bedora Enterprise                     43,000        43,000       43,000                                                              100
B-S       Broadlands Enterprise Ltd.            25,000                                                                                                  Fully Paid
B-20      Broadlands Enterprise Ltd.            25,000                                                                                                  Fully Paid
B-46      Colour Chart Ltd.                    100,000       100,000                                                             100,000       100
A-1       Combined FarmersLimited              125,000                                                                                                  Fully Paid
B-26     Doswak Enterprise                     126,000        80,900                                                80,900                     64
B-57     Doswak Enterprise Ltd.                 45,100        45,100                                                                                    Not Yet Due
B-25     Elmako Enterprise Ltd.                 15,625        15,205                                                15,205                     97
A-19      Farmers Services Co.Ltd.             500,000                                                                                                  Fully Paid
A-11      Farmers Services Ltd.                500,000                                                                                                  Fully Paid
A-9       Johnson Farms Complex                416,541                                                                                                  Fully Paid
A-20      Johnson Farms Complex Ltd.           566,541       466,541                                                                                    Not Yet Due
B-3      Johnson Farms Complex Ltd.            100,000                                                                                                  Fully Paid
B-4      Johnson Farms Complex Ltd.             50,000                                                                                                  Fully Paid
B-19     Johnson Farms Complex Ltd.            150,000                                                                                                  Fully Paid
B-37      Marcus Hughes Supplies                 7,000         7,000                                    7,000                                  100      Sub-Std
B-16      Oda Sawmills Company Ltd.            200,000                                                                                                  Fully Paid
B-45      Oda Sawmills Ltd.                    157,500                                                                                                  Fully Paid
B-51      Oda Veneer & Plywood                 200,000        87,852      87,852                                                               44       Current
A-5       Yadco Enterprise Ltd.                300,000                                                                                                  Fully Paid
A-14      Yadco Enterprise Ltd.                300,000       300,000                                                                                    Not Yet Due
A-16      Yadco Enterprises                    450,000       450,000                    ..                                                              Not Yet Due
Subtotal                        _                     4,437,820      1,595,598                                                                           9 
Merchant         A-10      Astek Fruit Processing Ltd.          300,000                                                                                                  Fully Paid
Bank             B-33      Cream Timber Moulding                100,000        36,101                                                 36,101                     36
B-44      Fabi Timbers                         150,000                                                                                                  Fully Paid
A-13      Maxwell Owusu Timbers                400,000        16,560                                   16,560                                   4       Sub-Std
B-34     Rad Forest Products                   100,000                                                                                                  Fully Paid
B-35      Ras Wood Products                    150,000                                                                                                  Fully Paid
A-12      Saoud Timber                         500,000                                                                                                  Fully Paid
B-36     Specialised Timber Ltd.               200,000                                                                                                  Fully Paid
B-43     Standard Wood Products                 50,000        37,132                                   37,132                                  74
B-31     Western Hardwood                      100,000_      100,000                                               100,000                     100      Doubtful
Subtotal                                              2,050,000       189,793                                    X                                       9



Private Enterprises and Export Development Project                                                           Appendix 4
(Cr. 2502-GH)                                                                          Page 4 of G
Credit Standing Of Exporters Assisted Under The Project
(as of May 1998)
National         B-23      African Wisdom Gh Ltd.                50,000        40,000                                                40,000                     80
Investment       A-3       Aluminium Enterprise Ltd..           381,818                                                                                                  Fully Paid
Bank             B-55      Betty "O" Limited                     30,000        30,000                                                                                    Not Yet Due
B- 12    Concordia Ventures                     60,000        50,000                                                              50,000       83      Loss
A-8       Eastern Alloys                       300,000       300,000                  300,000                                                 100
A-4       Equinox Tradehouse                   500,000                                                                                                 Fully Paid
A-2       Equinox Tradehouse Ent. Ltd.         500,000                                                                                                  Fully Paid
B-7      Gelina Tropical Products.Ltd.         178,629                                                                                                 Fully Paid
A-6       Gelina Tropical Products Ltd.        500,000       500,000                                                             500,000      100
A-18      Ghana Manganese Co Ltd.              600,000       250,759                                                                                    Not Yet Due
B-9       Golden Atlantic Seafoods Ltd.         17,863                                                                                                 Fully Paid
B-42      Miranda Enterprise                    15,000        15,000                                   15,000                                  100
B-14      Paddican Limited                     200,000                                                                                                  Fully Paid
A-17      Samartex Timber & Plywood          1,379,310     1,285,861                                                                                    Not Yet Due
A-7       Transport & Commodity Gen            267,295       164,766                                                             164,766       62
B-24     Transport & Commodity Ltd.            100,000       100,000                                                             100,000      100
Subtotal                                              5,079,915     2,736,386                                                           .   .           23
Prudential       B-38      A. A. Dimaa Farms Ltd                100,000                                                                                                  Fully Paid
Bank             B-39      Cann & Kaa Ltd.                       50,000                                                                                                  Fully Paid
Ltd.             B-50      Fio Enterprises                       50,000                                                                                                  Fully Paid
B-54      Nabe Wood Processing                 100,000        83,309                                  83,309                                   83
B-53      Naktan Ltd.                          120,000                                                                                                 Fully Paid
B-47     Paragon Fisheries                     150,000                                                                                                 Fully Paid
B-56     Tfa Enterprise                         50,000        50,000                                                                                   Not Yet Due
B-49     Yahwe Salom Farms Ltd.                100,000                                                                                                 Fully Paid
Cayuga Tradin G & Farms Ent.          50,000        50,000                                                                                   Not Yet Duie
B-64     Fellilud Farms Limited                 20,000        20,000                                                                                   Not Yet Due
B-62     Fio Enterprises                       100,000       100,000                                                                                   Not Yet Due
B-61     Mashaco Ltd.                           50,000        50,000                                                                                   Not Yet Due
Naktan Ltd.                          200,000                                                                                                 Not Yet Due
B-60      Seafare Limited                       30,000        30,000                                                                                   Not Yet Due
B-57     Telecity Coe Limited                   50,000        50,000      50,000                                                              100
Subtotal                                              1,220,000       433,309                                      .                                    11
Standard         B-48      Food Distributors Int.               200,000                                                                                                  Fully Paid
Chartered        B-59      Kokobin Farms Company                 40,000        40,000                                                                                    Not Yet Due
Bank             B-30      Magdaneli Designs                     60,000                                                                                                  Fully Paid
A-21     Magdanieli Designs Ltd.               237,053       237,053                                                                                   Not Yet Due
Subtotal                                                537,053       277,053      .
Trust Bank       B-8       Dwumfuoh Mensah & Company             30,000                                                                                                  Fully Paid
B-6      Mariinpex Limited                      20,000                                                                                                 Fully Paid
B-15     Marimpex Limited                        7,000                                                                                                Fl tlly Paid
Subtotal                                                 57,000  __                                            .
TOTAL                                                        14,185,282     5,443,279      391,992      300,000        159,001       272,206      914,766       15



Private Enterprises and Export Development Project                              Appendix 4
(Cr. 2502-GH)                                                Page 5 of 5
Guarantees Approved By EFO
~~~~~~~~~~ -                                                                   tf  ,   ....    , I    ".......      n4#-L       
Owany::                          Neat             org  :cover,Md 
Agricultural       Sabary Enterprises                      200,000        150,000   75       No
Development        Soloadams Company Ltd.                   20,000         13,000   65       No
ank               Keb Farms Ltd.                           18,800         14,100   75      No
Glikwood Gh Ltd.                         10,000         7,500   75       No
John Lawrence Farms                      88,600        57,590   65       No
Vitanous Farms Ltd.                       6,700          4,333   65       No
Furm SadolEngterpis                     151,515       113,636   75       No
Subtotal                                364,100       261,523
Barclays           Furmado Ghana Ltd.                       250,000       162,500   65      Yes   Guarantee expired
ank  (GH) Ltd.   A. A. Dambala Farms                         24,242        18,181   75      Yes   Not eligible
Mathew Nkansar  T/A Bride Tidings        48,484        36,364   75        No
A. A. Dambala Farms                      51,515         38,636   75       No
Furmado Enterprise                      151,515       113,636   75       No
Subtotal                                525,756       369,317l
Ghana              Yadco Enterprises                        450,000       292,522   65       No
Conmnercial        Oda Sawmills Limited                     157,500       118,125   75       No
rank              Colour Chart Limited                    100,000        65,005   65        No
Combined Farmers Ltd.                   341,454       125,000   37       Nol
Johnson Farms Complex Limited            50,000        32,500   65       No
Doswak Ltd.                             126,000        81,900   65       No
Elmako EntP                              15,625        10,157   65       No
Atakora Brothers                         17,650         11,473   65       No
Yadxo Enterprise Ltd.                   300,000       225,000   75        No
Oda Veneer & Plywood                    200,000       130,010   65       No
Subtotal                              1,758,229     1,091,691
Merchant           Astek Fruit Processing                   300,000       195,014   65       No               e
Bank (GH)          Cream  Timber Mouldings                  100,000        75,000   75       No              e
itd.              Western Hardwood                         100,000        75,000   75       No   N
Ras Wood Products                       150,000       112,500   75       No
Standard WoodTProcessing                 50,000        37,500   75       No
Maxwell Owusu Timbers                   400,000       300,000   75       No
Fabi Timbers                            150,000       112,500   75       No
Subtotal                              1,250,000       907,514
PNational          Equinox Tradehouse Ltd.                  500,000       325,000   65       Yes   Guarantee expired
Investment         Concordia Ventures                        60,000        45,000   75       Yes   Guarantee expired
Bank              Transport & Commodity Gen Ltd.           267,295       200,471   75       Nol
Paddican Ltd.                           200,000        80,000   40       Yes   Not eligiblel
Vidacom Ltd.                             50,000        37,500   75        No
Samartex Timber & Plywood               500,000       500,000   50       Nol
Ghaadadaagan Dese Co Ltd.               500,000       500,000   50       No
Gelina Tropical Products Ltd.           500,000       375,000   75       No
Subtotal                              2,577,295      2,062,971
Prudential         Yahwe Salom Farms Ltd.                   100,000        19,000   75       No
Bank               Fio Enterprises                           20,000        37,500   75       No
Subtotal                                150,000       112,500
Standard           Magdanielli Designs                       60,000        45,000   75       No
Chartered Bank   Food Distributors International            200,000       150,000   75       No
[             ~~~~~Subtotal                            260,000       195,000
|Trust Bank        Dwumfuoh Mensah                           30,000        19,500   65       No
|             ~~~~Marimpex Enterprise                   20,000        13,000   65       No
Subtotal                                 50,000        32,500l
TOTAL                                             6,935,380     5,033,017



IBRD 247
3-                         2-                           'o                                                      -2-
BURKINA FASO                                        K,I
1    * }mir    _m io                    GHANA
N/pd"  A: 'PRIVATE ENTERPRISE AND EXPORT
tdv7    OHon<EAST i: S 0Xa ybDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
\ \ ~UPPER -  4 Wm      
{   \  \    WEST                9t                  urt:   
PRIMARY ROADS
Y.I. \                         J O   : /<  gNa i.  '>>       t                     SECONDARY ROADS
RAILWAYS
>    C,bR-Soboba  i )    REGION HEADQUARTERS
RTHIR   NATIONAL CAPITAL
REGION BOUNDARIES
.b      I        -    \\ 2 > i 5INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
_~~~~~~~~9.                               Y   '1. t   NX5  
COTE                                      
D'IVOIRE       }                                                          k-g                         }
C.,bi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
/   - {   / BRONG AHkMO  1993
/>- 2* ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 ( o                                                          K4       a S:O -leEtS
j  =Ts SLJNAN9I      
J KLJ#SIL 0 ! .UNA                                                                                                    TOGO
EBioN-ij                n                           % TERN             o   f     ..       .
AZo  \   /I      Nt 0    _ ,nyinom                F  vl L *'VOLTA 
:~~~~~ kkb
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hC I(993



