Page  1
June 14, 1996
The Governor
Bank of Ghana
P. O. Box 2674
Accra, Ghana
Dear Sir:
Re:  Ghana - Private Enterprise and Export Development Project (Cr. 2502-GH)
             Amendment to Project Agreement
     We are pleased to inform you that subsequent to the mid-term
implementation review conducted by the Bank of Ghana, the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Planning, other implementing agencies, and IDA for
the above-mentioned Project, the Association has agreed to the recom-
mendations provided in the joint GOG/IDA Aide Memoire dated February 16,
1996 to amend the Project Agreement to improve project implementation.
This Agreement will therefore be amended as follows:
Schedule 2, Section C:
(a)  Number the existing paragraph as paragraph 1
(b)  Insert paragraph 2 as follows:
2.   "In addition to the criteria set in paragraph (1) above except
paragraph (a) (iii) (C), a bank that has operated in Ghana less than
12 months shall be eligible to participate in the Project up to a limit
set at 25% of its capital and reserves during its first full year of
operation.  Thereafter, its continued eligibility will be subject to the
conditions described in paragraph (1) above."
Schedule 4, paragraph 4
(a)  Modify paragraph (a) (ii) to read as follows: "BOG shall provide not
less than $4,000,000 equivalent through the prompt deposit of a per-
centage of the repayments of the principal of PFI Subsidiary Loans. This
percentage will be determined and reviewed annually by BOG and IDA."
(b)  Modify paragraph (h) to read as follows: "if no claim is made under
the guarantee, BOG shall directly refund 25% of the guarantee fee each
to both the PFI and the investment enterprise;
     If you agree with the proposed amendments, please sign your
confirmation on the attached copy of this letter and return it to us. The
amendment will become effective on the date of your signature.
                             Sincerely,
                        Charles P. Humphreys
                           Acting Director
                   West Central Africa Department
Confirmed by the Bank of Ghana:
By:    Governor
Date:  July 5, 1996
Page  2
