Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15435-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
MAY 31, 1996
Sector Leadership Group
Mexico Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =   Mexican New Peso (N$)
US$I              =   N$7.50
US$133,333.33     =   N$1 million
(January 1996)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System



MEXICO
WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ABBREVIATIONS
ASDSO              Association of Dam Safety Officials
BCHYDRO            British Columbia Hydro International Limited
BTEX               Benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, xylene
CCA                Mexican Center for Atmospheric Sciences (Centro de Ciencias de la Atm6sfera)
CFE                Federal Power Commaission (Comisi6n Federal de Electricidad)
CLICOM             Climate Computing Data Management Program of World Meteorological Organization
CNA                National Water Commission (Comisi6n Nacional del Agua)
COE                United States Army Corps of Engineers
CT                 Technical Consuhancy (Consultivo Tecnico)
DBMS               Data Base Management System
DCP                Data Collection Platform
EC                 Environment Canada
EPA                United States Environmental Protection Agency
ESP                Extended Streamflow Prediction
FAO                Food and Agriculture Organization. United Nations Agency
GAS                Groundwater Group (Gerencia de Aguas Subterraneas)
GASIR              Surface Water and River Engineering Group (Gerencia de Aguas Superficiales e Ingenieria de Rios)
GF                 Financing Group (Gerencia de Financiamiento)
GIS                Geographic Information System
GOM                Government of Mexico
GOES               Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite
GPS                Geographical Positioning System
GSCA               Water Quality and Sanitation Group (Gerencia de Saneamiento y Calidad del Agua)
GSMN               National Meteorological Service (Gerencia del Servicio Nacional de Meteorologia)
IBRD               International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                International Competitive Bidding
ICOLD              International Commission on Large Dams
IDSP               Irrigation and Drainage Sector Project
11                 Mexican Engineering Institute (Instituto de Ingenieria)
IMTA               Mexican Water Technology Institute (Instituto Mexicano de Tecnologia del Agua)
INEGI              National Institute for Geographic and Informatic Statistics (Intituto Nacional de Estadistica Geografia E Infom-tAica)
INM                National Meteorological Institute, Spain (Instituto Nacional de Meteorologia, Espatta)
LAN                National Water Law (Ley de Aguas Nacionales)
MET                British Meteorological Office
NAFIN              National Finance Institution, SNC (Nacional Financiera, Sociedad Nacional de Credito)
NCB                National Competitive Bidding
NDSP               National Darn Safety Program
NP                 New Pesos
NOAA/NWS           United States National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration/National Weather Service
NWSRFS             National Weather Service River Forecast System
OFMIN              On-Farm and Minor Irrigation Networks Improvement Project
OIE                French International Water Office (Office Internationale de l'Eau)
PMS                Project Management System
QC/QA              Quality Control/Quality Assurance
REPDA              National Public Water Rights Registry (Registro Publico de Derechos de Agua)
SECODAM            Ministry of the Comptroller and Administrative Development (Secretaria de Contraloria y Desarrollo Administrativo)
SHCP               Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (Secretaria de Hacienda y Cr6dito Publico)
SHEF               Standard Hydrological Exchange Format
SIGA               Water Geographic Information System (Sistema Geografico de tnformaci6n del Agua)
SGA                Administration General Subdirectorate (Subdirecci6n General de Administraci6n)
SGAA               Water Administration General Subdirectorate (Subdirecci6n General de Administraci6n del Agua)
SGP                Planning General Subdirectorate (Subdirecci6n General de Programaci6n)
SGT                Technical General Subdirectorate (Subdirecci6n General Tecnica)
SEMARNAP           Ministry of the Environment, Natural Resources and Fisheries (Secretaria de Medio Ambiente, Recursos Naturales y Pesca)
SOE                Staternent of Expenses
SOP                Standard Operating Procedure
SWSSS              Second Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Project
TOR                Terms of Reference
UNDP               United Nations Development Program
USBR               United States Bureau of Reclamation
USGS               United States Geological Survey
WMO                World Meteorological Organization, United Nations Agency
WRMP               Water Resources Management Project






MEXICO
WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..............................................i
1. PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND ..............................................1 I
A. Introduction .....................................................1
B. Legal Framework .....................................................2
C. Institutional Setting .....................................................2
D. Challenges for Water Resources Management in Mexico ...............................................4
E. Bank Involvement and Lessons Learned ....................................................                       11
F. Water Resources Management World Bank Policy Paper, 1993 ................................... 13
2. THE  PROJECT ...............................................                                                       14
A. Origin ....................................................                                                     14
B. Project Objectives and Design Concepts ....................................................                     14
C. Summary Description ....................................................                                        16
D. Rationale for Bank Involvement ....................................................                             17
E. Program  Objective Categories ....................................................                              18
F. Project Description (Detailed Project Features) ....................................................             18
3. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ..............................................                                         26
A. Costs ....................................................                                                      26
B. Financing ....................................................                                                  26
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS 28
A. Project Organization and Management ....................................................                        28
B. Procurement ....................................................                                                28
C. Disbursements ....................................................                                              31
D. Accounts and Audits ....................................................                                        32
E. Monitoring of Project Implementation and Bank Supervision ...................................... 32
5. PROJECT ANALYSIS ..............................................                                                    34
A. Project Benefits ....................................................                                           34
B. Environmental Effects ....................................................                                      36
C. Project Sustainability ....................................................                                     37
D. Poverty Alleviation ....................................................                                        37
E. Gender Impact ....................................................                                              38
F. Participation Aspects ....................................................                                      38
G. Project Risks ....................................................                                              38
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .............................. 39
This report Is based on the findings of a Bank appraisa mission which visited Mexico In February 1996. The mission and prior
preparation missions were comprlsed of the following members: Douglas Olson (Mission Leader); Jose Simas, Ventura
Bengoechea. Teresa Roncal (LASLG); Mateen Thobani (LATEA); Dieter Kramer, Jose Arimates, Francisco Vlllalpando (World
Meteorological Organizatdon); David Smith (British MET OMice); Manuel Bautista (Spanish Meteorological Institute); Jorge
Rlnc6n, Stefano Burchl, Wulf lKohn (FAO); Curtis Barrett, Frederick Weldon, Jordon Matejceck (US National Weather
Service); Richard Holtway (US Geological Survey); and Ronald Cummins, Nguyen Q. Trac, Edwin Ongley, Wiliam Moler
(Consultants). Cari DahLman, Theodore Nkodo, and Carmen Hamann ar, respectively, Acting Mexico Department Director,
Sector Leader and Lead Operations Specialist for the operation.



- ii -
Page
TABLES IN THE MAIN TEXT
Table 1: Project Related Budget Requirements ....................................................................... 27
Table 2:  Procurement Arrangements ...................................................................................... 29
Table 3: Limits on Types of Procurement and Prior Review Thresholds ................................. 31
ANNEXES
Annex A:    Legal and Regulatory Framework and Institutional Aspects
A-I   Organizational Structure
A-2   Regional Structure
Annex B:    Institutional Development, Technological Support and Training
Annex C:    Water Quantity and Quality Monitoring Improvements and Assessments
C-1  Implementat-on Plan for the Meteorological Monitoring Network
Subcomponent
C-2  Implementation Plan for the Hydrometric, Climatological, Sediment and
Reservoir Levels Monitoring Network Subcomponent
C-3  Implementation Plan for the Groundwater Monitoring Improvements
and Assessments Subcomponent
C4    Implementation Plan for the Water Quality Monitoring and Laboratory
Subcomponent
Annex D:    Reservoir Operation, Dam Safety and Aquifer Management Improvements
D-1  Implementation Plan for the Reservoir Operation Improvement
Subcomponent
D-2  Implementation Plan for Improvements in Dam Safety Subcomponent
D-3  Implementation Plan for the Aquifer Management Improvement
Subcomponent
Annex E:    Water Rights Administration
E-1  Implementation Plan for the Water Rights Administration Component
Annex F:    Water Resources Planning and Information Systems
F-I  Implementation Plan for the Water Resources Planning and Information
Systems Component
Annex G:    Economic Aspects, Project Benefits and Environmental Assessment
G-1   Projects Involving the Provision of Meteorological/Hydrological Service and
Information - Reported Measures of Economic Feasibility



Annex H:    Project Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation
H-1   The Relationship of General Objectives and Secondary Objectives with
Project Components and Subcomponents
H-2   Proposed Solution/Mitigation of Existing Problems and Needs via the
Project Components and Actions
H-3   Subset of Indicators Related to Project Objectives
H-4   Subset of Overall Indicators
Annex I:    Cost Estimate Tables
I-I   Components Project Cost Summary
I-2   Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
1-3   Project Components by Year -- Base Costs
1-4   Project Components by Year -- Totals Including Contingencies
1-5   Project Components by Year -- Investment/Recurrent Costs
1-6   Expenditure Accounts by Years -- Base Costs
1-7   Expenditure Accounts by Years -- Totals Including Contingencies
1-8   Expenditure Accounts by Financiers
I-9   Components by Financiers
1-10  Disbursement Accounts by Financiers
I-11  Local/Foreign/Taxes by Financiers
1-12   Procurement Arrangements
1-13  Allocation of Loan Proceeds
1-14  Disbursements by Semesters
Annex J:    List of Documents in the Project File






MEXICO
WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFIN).
Guarantor:               United Mexican States.
Implementing Agency:    National Water Commission (Cornision Nacional del Agua -
CNA).
Beneficiary:              Not applicable.
Poverty:                  Not applicable.
Loan Amount:              US$186.5 million.
Terms:                   Repayment over 15 years, including three years grace, at the
Bank's standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar
single currency loans.
Commitment Fee:           0.75% on undistributed loan balances, beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver.
On-lending Terms:        Not applicable.
Financing Plan:           See para. 3.3.
Net Present Value:        Risk assessment methodology, see Annex G.
Project ID Number:       PA7713.
Map:                     Map NO. IBRD 27903: Mexican Hydrographic Regions.






MEXICO
WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
1.   PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. INTRODUCTION
1.1   Most of Mexico is either arid or semiarid and because of this, socioeconomic
growth and the well-being of its people have been closely tied to water resources
availability and development. Mexico's history of water resources management and
development dates from long before the Spanish conquest. Because of its recent rapid
population and economic growth and because of increasing difficulties in developing new
water resources, Mexico faces major critical challenges in water resources management
now and in the future.
1.2   As a part of its ongoing ambitious economic modernization program, the
Government of Mexico (GOM) is confronted with problems arising from growing water
scarcity and the more general need to conserve and protect the nation's natural and
environmental resources. The National Congress approved a new National Water Law
(Ley de Aguas Nacionales, LAN) in December 1992 and its regulations in January 1994.
The LAN sets out broad based mandates for the development and implementation of plans
and policies related to water resources management. The responsibility for responding to
these mandates was assigned to Mexico's National Water Commission (Comisi6n
Nacional del Agua, CNA).
1.3   CNA (the national water authority) is a relatively young institution created in
1989. It inherited a water system and institutional mechanisms that were in desperate
need of modernization. The water infrastructure was in poor repair. Individuals served by
the water systems had lost confidence in "top-down" centralized government policies
emanating from Mexico City. During its short tenure, CNA has made remarkable strides
in ameliorating many of these basic problems. Through its promotion of the creation of
Water User Organizations, CNA has decentralized operation and maintenance activities in
irrigation districts. At the local and regional levels, it has successfully joined stakeholders
(state and local governments, water users and other interested parties) in programs
designed to: (a) improve water resources planning and management; (b) modernize water
infrastructure; (c) improve and make more responsive operation and maintenance
activities; and (d) reduce technical and financial dependence on central authorities.
1.4   Notwithstanding these successes, CNA faces formidable challenges if it is to
effectively respond to the mandates of the LAN. CNA's established expertise in the
construction and operation of water storage and distribution facilities is not well suited for
meeting the challenges of water resources planning and management. CNA has a
relatively small group of highly qualified professionals with experience and training related
to water resources planning and management which needs to be built upon, expanded and
enhanced in order to meet the challenges of the LAN. CNA lacks the equipment and



2                 MEXICO - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report
technologies for contemporary monitoring programs requisite to activities such as the
rational control of water quantity and quality, comprehensive regional water resources
planning, improved reservoir operation and aquifer management, and dam safety.
B. LEGAL FRAMEWORK
1.5   Article 27 of the Mexican Constitution (adopted in 1917) recognizes the Nation as
the owner of all water within the territory and authorizes the government to administer
these resources and to grant "concessions" for water use. The LAN and its regulations
have established a legal and regulatory framework to tackle the management of scarce
water resources. The stated objective of the law is "to regulate the extraction, use,
distribution and control of the nation's waters as well as preserve their quantity and quality
in order to achieve sustainable integral development". Implementation of the LAN and its
relevant regulatory matters is a main CNA task. Refer to Annex A for more details.
1.6   The LAN recognizes the importance of water resources management and
authorizes CNA to carry out this function with the objective of achieving sustainable
development and use of water resources. Water management is to be carried out with the
participation of water users to the maximum extent possible. The LAN specifically
authorizes the establishment of river basin councils (Consejos de Cuenca) that would be
responsible for coordinating activities and reaching consensus between CNA; other
federal, state and municipal agencies; and water user representatives on matters related to
water management in the river basins.
1.7   When determined to be necessary by CNA, the LAN provides for the
establishment by decree of special administrative and reserve zones in areas where
problems of overuse, water quality or the environment necessitate this action. Zones can
also be established during drought conditions or during other emergency situations. In
these zones, water use can be restricted or curtailed completely as determined to be
technically necessary to preserve the environment and the water resources.
C. INSTITUTIONAL SETTING
1.8   Mexican water resources policy as presented in the National Water Plan 1995-
2000 (Programa Nacional Hidraulico 1995 - 2000) is oriented toward ensuring the
availability of water to satisfy the needs of the population and promote the development of
economic activities in a manner that is environmentally compatible and sustainable in each
region of the country. In accordance with this policy, avenues must be found for
sustainable development which requires establishing control and conditionalities on water
usage such that economic development is compatible with environmental protection. The
importance that the GOM bestows on the environment and on sustainable use of water
resources is manifest in the decision to relocate CNA from the old Agriculture and Water
Resources Ministry to the newly created Environment, Natural Resources and Fisheries
Ministry, (Secretaria de Medio Ambiente, Recursos Naturales y Pesca - SEMARNAP).
This change has strengthened the authority that CNA has in the administration and



MEXICO - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report         3
management of water resources, because it is no longer located within a Ministry
responsible for one sector (agriculture). In accordance with the National Water Plan
1995-2000 and the LAN, CNA has set a new agenda to modernize and decentralize the
management of the nation's water resources considering all uses and the preservation of
the environment. The Water Resources Management Project (WRMP) is the instrument
that the GOM has designed to carry out this new agenda. Refer to Annex A for more
details.
1.9   CNA was created in 1989 to unite all aspects of water management. CNA has a
central office located in Mexico City and 6 regional offices, as follows: Northwest, in
Ciudad Obreg6n, Sonora; North, in Torre6n, Coahuila; Northeast, in San Luis Potosi, San
Luis Potosi; Southeast, in Merida, Yucatan; Lerma-Balsas, in Queretaro, Queretaro; and
Valley of Mexico, in Ciudad de M6xico, Distrito Federal. In addition, CNA has state
offices located in each of the 31 state capitals. CNA has functioned in a centralized way,
but has recently adopted and is currently implementing a policy whereby: (a) the Central
Office functions will include oversight of water management activities and establishment
of overall policy, criteria and uniform guidelines and procedures; and (b) the Regional
Offices will have principle responsibility for water management, including: (i) the
development of hydrographic regional plans; (ii) the promotion and strengthening of basin
councils; (iii) the coordination of water resources planning and management activities both
by public and private sector participants; (iv) water quantity and quality monitoring
activities; (v) reservoir operation; (vi) the registry of water users into the National Public
Water Rights Register; and (vii) dam safety.
1.10  At each level (central, regional and state) CNA has a similar organizational
structure. There are three subdirectorates within CNA which would have direct
responsibilities for the implementation of the Project. They are: (a) the Technical
Subdirectorate (Subdirecci6n General Tecnica, SGT), responsible for aspects related to
meteorology, surface water, groundwater, water quality and dam safety; (b) the Planning
Subdirectorate (Subdirecci6n General de Programaci6n, SGP), responsible for water
resources planning and river basin councils; and (c) the Water Administration
Subdirectorate (Subdirecci6n General de Administraci6n del Agua, SGAA), responsible
for water rights administration. Because these three departments encompass
responsibilities for all aspects of water resources management and their being located
within one institution with clearly defined legal responsibilities, CNA's organizational
structure is very well suited to planning, coordinating and implementing a comprehensive
integrated water resource management program.
1.11  Presently the CNA Regional Office boundaries are along State lines. As stated in
the National Water Plan 1995-2000, GOM has recently decided to reorganize CNA's
regional dependencies into 13 regional offices with their boundaries being located along
river basin boundaries. This reorganization will significantly facilitate the regional offices'
abilities to carry out their water management responsibilities, because river basins will be
located totally within the geographical limits of the Regional Offices.



4                 MEXCO - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report
1.12 In accordance with the LAN, CNA is the national water authority with complete
responsibility for water rights administration, the management of the nations water
resources and dam safety. Other public and private entities, including the Federal
Electricity Commission (Comisi6n Federal de Electricidad - CFE), that operate reservoirs
must do so with CNA authorization and oversight. CFE operates 64 dams with
hydroelectric plants. The Director General of CNA presides over a Technical Committee
for the Operation of Hydraulic Works. In addition to CNA authorities and technical
personnel, a CFE representative participates on the committee. The committee makes
overall decisions relative to the operation of the nation's reservoirs including
considerations related to floods, droughts, multiple uses (irrigation, municipal and
industrial, hydropower, navigation, recreation, etc.) and environmental protection.
1.13 The Mexican Institute for Water Technology (Instituto Mexicano de Tecnologia
del Agua - IMTA) is responsible for water related research, technology evaluation and
transfer, and for training. It coordinates work being done at universities, research centers
and other institutions in Mexico and internationally, and has cooperative relationships with
various water related entities throughout the world. LMTA's participation in the training
subcomponent as well as in other aspects of the project will be important to its success.
D. CHALLENGES FOR WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT IN MEXICO
1.14  Mexico has a mean annual rainfall of 780 mm, about 27% of which becomes runoff
of about 410 billion m3 per year. Renewable groundwater is estimated at 63 billion m3 per
year, 48 billion from natural recharge and another 15 billion from deep percolation
associated with irrigation projects. Additionally, there are an estimated 110 billion m3 of
non-renewable groundwater that could be available for one-time use. Climatic regions
vary greatly from tropical rainforests with over 3000 mm of annual rainfall in the south to
arid deserts with less than 100 mm in the north. Runoff variation is even more extreme,
from over 2 million rn3 per square kilometer per year in the wettest areas to essentially
zero in the driest.
1.15  In the dryer parts of the country, precipitation and runoff are highly erratic with
large variations from year to year and extreme seasonal differences. In these areas, rainfall
occurs during a 2- to 4-month period and is related to thunderstorm and hurricane
activities which can be very intense and cause flash flooding. Runoff is directly associated
with the precipitation and most streams and even rivers dry up during periods of no
rainfall.
1.16 Mexico is a country of approximately two million square kilometers with about 90
million inhabitants as of the end of 1995. This compares to a population of about 25
million in 1950, an increase of 3.6 times in 45 years. Population growth has occurred in
every part of the country, but has been greatest in the northwest, northeast and central
regions, precisely the areas with the most severe water scarcity problems. During this
same period, the economy as measured by gross domestic product has increased from
about US$40 billion to about US$330 billion (in constant 1994 dollars) or an eightfold
increase. Both population and the economy (notwithstanding the severe economic



MENiCO - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report 5
dislocation of 1995) are projected to continue to grow at annual rates of 1.5% and 3.C%/o,
respectively.
1.17  The location of population and economic activity is inversely related to the
availability of water. Less than a third of total runoff occurs within the 75% of the
territory where most of the country's largest cities, industrial facilities and irrigated land
are located. Consequently, surface runoff and groundwater are increasingly insufficient to
support the high growth rates and economic activity, resulting in disputes over surface
water usage and the overpumping of aquifers; additionally, water pollution has reduced
the potential beneficial use of certain rivers and water bodies. Conflicts among competing
and intersectoral users have heightened important political and social side effects.
Paradoxically, the abundance of water in some areas also presents severe problems of land
drainage and flooding.
1.18  The GOM has concluded that a major effort should be made to improve water
management, conservation and intersectoral allocation of water resources. The latter will
rely principally on the establishment of a system of tradable water rights (water markets).
The historical increases in population and economic output have resulted in increasing
demand on the nation's natural resources, which in the case of water has reached the limit
of its availability in many regions of the country. Continued growth will depend on
making water available to those sectors that require it in sufficient quantity and adequate
quality. Constructing new reservoirs is costly and often environmentally questionable.
Other alternatives for increasing water supply such as transbasin diversions and
desalinization in most cases would be prohibitively expensive. Improved water
management, conservation and the establishment of a system of tradable water rights
(water markets), if well planned and administered, can make significant amounts of
adequate quality water available when and where it is needed without major new
construction.
1.19  Population growth and urbanization have increased the demand for water.
Conflicts have arisen between urban and rural users, between neighboring cities, and, most
frequently, between neighboring states and regions. Increasing gaps between those who
have access to water services and those who do not; overpumping and contamination of
aquifers; overdiversion and deterioration of water quality in rivers and lakes; severe
natural occurrences of flooding and droughts; downgrading of water services due to poor
maintenance and weak technical and administrative support; and water wastage or
inefficient water use practices are among the pressing problems facing water management
in Mexico. The situation can only become more difficult as population and economic
growth continue in the future. The GOM urgently needs to address these problems in a
comprehensive, and well planned and executed water resources management program
which is the purpose of the WRMP.
1.20  Surface Water. Water has played a crucial role in Mexico's national and regional
development. For over 60 years, the expanding use of surface water for irrigation,
municipal and industrial purposes has been based on the development of hydraulic
infrastructure. In the future, the construction of dams and other hydraulic infrastructure



6                 MEXICO - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report
will be increasingly difficult, because most of the obvious economically justifiable water
resources developments have been completed. Environmental concerns and land use and
resettlement issues have also reduced the likelihood of new major developments.
Nevertheless, underutilization and economic inefficiencies in the use of existing facilities
provides far-reaching opportunities for water conservation and equitable reallocation
through a comprehensive water management program.
1.21  Hydrology. The country's hydrometric network requires major upgrading, both in
quantity and technology. Surface water management should be based on good
hydrological assessments and comprehensive technically supported regional water
resources planning studies, which in turn require sufficient accurate data. The
determination of potential impacts on third parties is required for the adequate
administration of water rights and water right transfers. This requires adequate accurate
data and good river basin hydrological modeling. Hydrological information for reservoir
inflows and outflows and data to improve reservoir management during floods, droughts
and normal conditions are needed.
1.22  Groundwater. Two million hectares of irrigated agriculture, 55 million city
dwellers and more than half of the industrial production in the country are dependent on
groundwater for their water needs. In most cases alternative sources of water are either
not available or too costly.
1.23  Overexploitation (withdrawal in excess of recharge) of groundwater resources is a
major problem in the arid and semi-arid regions of Mexico where the majority of the
people and industrial production are located, and where irrigation is a major consumer of
water. This leads to increased pumping costs, to abandonment or reconstruction of wells
as water table levels go down, and to degradation of groundwater quality. Because
overexploitation is inherently a non-sustainable condition and because important regions
of the country are dependent upon groundwater resources for their water supply, well
planned and strong management actions are necessary to avoid economic and social
disruption.
1.24  CNA has identified and characterized 459 aquifers and performed hydrogeological
assessments on many of them. They have determined that 80 of these aquifers are
presently overexploited, some having critical problems. Improved groundwater
monitoring, aquifer modeling and evaluation are urgently needed to better identify
problems and plan cost effective solutions. Major efforts will be required to evaluate
aquifers, and develop and implement programs for aquifer stabilization. This requires
adequate accurate data and good aquifer modeling.
1.25  Meteorology. Because of its geographic location, Mexico is subject to a variety
of meteorological phenomena including thunderstorms, and tropical and subtropical
hurricanes which occasion intense rainfall resulting in often severe flooding. These
occurrences can cause major economic social and environmental damage and loss of life,
and therefore require state-of-the-art meteorological and hydrological forecasting services,
excellent coordinated flood warning systems and considerable floodplain planning of both



MEXICO - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report         7
structural and non-structural management measures. In much of the country, these intense
rainfall events are the main source of water to fill the storage reservoirs and good water
management requires balancing the often conflicting objectives of capturing and storing as
much water as possible for future release during dry periods while maintaining a certain
storage capacity empty in order to provide for flood protection.
1.26  Droughts. Mexico is also subject to the phenomena of droughts, particularly in
the northern part of the country. Droughts may last from 1 to 4 years and during these
periods rainfall and runoff may be reduced by as much as 40%. Because in many areas,
water utilization nearly equals and even exceeds availability during normal years, droughts
require major managed reductions in use and good contingency planning.
1.27 Although some drought contingency planning and management is done in Mexico,
it is mostly localized and directed towards dealing with emergencies while they occur.
What is needed is the definition of criteria and procedures, the development of detailed
drought contingency plans, and the adoption of institutional and coordination mechanisms
for implementing the plans prior to, during and after droughts.
1.28  Water Quality. As surface and groundwater exploitation has increased through
the years, there has been an accompanying degradation in water quality. This occurs with
all consumptive uses of water and is the consequence of the sequence of diversion, use
and return flow, the later invariably having a poorer quality than the former. Untreated
return flows from industries, municipalities and irrigation are often highly contaminating.
In the case of groundwater, there is also the problem of salt water intrusion from saline
water bodies or saline aquifers. Water quality deterioration has been especially
pronounced in Central and Northcentral regions of the country and major management
actions are required in order to achieve sustainable continued development.
1.29  In recent years, CNA has been attempting to address the water quality problem.
The process of classifying water bodies, inventorying point discharges, issuing discharge
requirements and inspections of compliance with discharge requirements is a huge
undertaking which will take many years. Considerable capacity building and numerous
water quality assessments will be necessary. CNA has identified 20 critical basins where
they are presently directing their efforts.
1.30 To support the CNA!s necessary role, water quality laboratories will have to be
upgraded, equipped and certified at the central and regional levels of CNA in order to
perform a large number of analyses. The water quality monitoring network and water
quality information system will need to be upgraded.
1.31  Dam Safety. Mexico has over 4000 dams (more than 3 meters high and/or with
storage capacity greater than .5 million cubic meters). Of these, 640 can be classified as
"Large Dams" (more than 15 meters high) in accordance with the International
Commission on Large Dams (ICOLD). Many of these dams have population centers
downstream as well as valuable property. Additionally, many of the dams were built
several decades ago using design and construction standards that would be considered



8                 MEXICO - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report
inadequate today. In many cases lack of adequate maintenance has created potentially
unsafe conditions.
1.32  CNA has recently initiated a dam safety program to address these issues which
needs to be strengthened. The current program which is in its initial phase includes:
(a) completion of a National Register of Dams; (b) inspection and hazard classification of all
dams included in the National Register; and (c) establishing and consolidating institutional
mechanisms and technical procedures for an ongoing safety of dams program. In a
separate program CNA will carry out necessary repairs as soon as practicable after their need is
detected. Part of this program could be financed by the Bank under a separate future loan.
1.33 Water Rights Administration. The establishment of the National Public Water
Rights Register (Registro Publico de Derechos de Agua - REPDA) and the development
and implementation of institutionaUadministrative mechanisms and procedures for granting
water right concessions, approving transfers, authorizing discharges, charging and
collecting fees, and establishing and administering special reserve zones are prerequisites
to a rational, efficient and equitable reallocation of water between various users and uses
which can partially be accomplished through a well established and administered system of
tradable water rights. The mechanisms and procedures need to be straightforward,
equitable, rapid and not costly.
1.34  CNA is presently in the process of identifying users, assisting them in becoming
registered water users or dischargers, and providing the necessary administrative and
technical support to the water fee charge/collection process. This is a massive
undertaking. As of the end of March 1996, about 43,400 water users have initiated the
registration process and about 37,600 have been formally registered. The total number of
users to be registered is not known, but is estimated to be on the order of 300,000. This
estimate considers irrigation units and modules each as single users, when in fact they can
have a number of individual irrigators within their areas.
1.35  The charging and collecting of fees is of major importance for water management
in Mexico for three main reasons: (a) when effectively set, applied and administered they
can provide major incentives for conservation and economically efficient use of water, and
for reducing contamination; (b) they can provide effective inducements for the beneficial
use of water and for trading water rights to higher value users; and (c) even though there
is no direct relation between fee collection and financing of water management activities,
they could provide the possibility in the future of directly financing water management
activities depending on the policy of GOM. Additionally, if fee collections could be
applied to addressing water management needs directly in the regions (basins, aquifers)
where they are collected, this could increase the willingness to pay of the water users,
because they would be able to directly observe the benefits in their areas and could benefit
directly from the improved management.
1.36 Although the government has made good progress in identifying and registering
current water users and discharges since the 1992 publication of the LAN and its 1994
regulations, there are still many issues related to the administration of water rights that



MEXICO - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report         9
need to be tackled to ensure that the water market achieves its desired objectives. Some
of these include facilitating the registration of existing water users, implementing a
modified fee schedule for extracting and discharging water, training CNA staff so that
they can better protect against aquifer depletion and possible negative third-party effects,
and volumetric pricing.
1.37  Water Resources Planning. All of the activities discussed in paragraphs 1.20
through 1.36 above need to be carried out within the framework of a comprehensive
planning process that integrates the various actions into a coordinated whole. The GOM
developed National Water Plans in 1975, 1981 and 1994. The National Water Plan 1995-
2000 (a recently updated version of the 1994 Plan) provides a good understanding of
water availability in different regions of the country and of the historical, present and
projected future demands for water. The Plan identifies water as a strategic national
resource that needs to be managed and preserved in support of growing and changing
needs, and lays out strategies and lines of action for meeting the future water demands of
the country. The Plan emphasizes: (a) improving the operation, maintenance and use of
existing monitoring networks and hydraulic infrastructure; (b) transferring irrigation
districts to water users; (c) promoting the participation of water users and other interested
parties in water planning and management issues; (d) promoting the participation of the
private sector; (e) increasing and improving municipal and domestic water supplies;
(f) reducing contamination of surface and groundwater bodies; (g) developing and
implementing programs for aquifer stabilization; (h) promoting the establishment and
strengthening of river basin councils; (i) decentralizing water planning and management
activities; and () providing training to individuals and strengthening to institutions
involved in water management. In 1995 the GOM presented a National Development Plan
1995-2000 for which the National Water Plan is a support document. The National Water
Plan will play a key role in the success of the National Development Plan particularly in
the development of 100 urban centers.
1.38  The LAN identifies the river basin as the appropriate unit for water resources
planning and management. At the river basin level, comprehensive plans need to be
developed in the context of a broad strategy which considers the responsibilities and
activities of all participants in water use and management, while fully taking into account
the ecosystems and socioeconomnic structures that exist in the river basin. The planning
process should deal with cross-sectoral issues with the goal of ensuring the sustainability
of the water environment for multiple uses as an integral part of the country's economic
development process.
1.39 River Basin Councils. The river basin councils, provided for in the LAN, have a
key role to play in river basin planning and management. They will provide a forum for:
(a) identifying and evaluating problems and needs; (b) developing consensus between the
various government entities, water users and other interested parties; (c) recommending
actions; (d) obtaining comrmitments to carry out the actions; and (e) following up to
ensure continued commitment and compliance with agreed upon initiatives. The river
basin councils have the overall responsibility of making the planning process dynamic,



10                MEXICO - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report
participatory and result oriented, rather than a sterile paper exercise, as is often the case
when undertaken by centralized government institutions.
1.40 There is presently one functioning river basin council: Lerma-Chapala which has
been operational since 1993. In addition, there are two river basin councils that have
recently been formed but have yet to show significant advances in water resources
planning and management: (a) Rio Bravo; and (b) Valley of Mexico. During the next
few years ten additional river basin councils will be organized. All of these councils will
need major support to ensure they achieve their objectives.
1.41  The GOM and CNA have developed a long-term vision (probably at least a 10-to-
20-year time-frame) for water management in Mexico whereby the river basin councils
would provide the nucleus for regional organizations that would assume operational and
financial responsibilities for water resources management within the hydrographic regions.
They would become technically, administratively, financially and operationally
independent. CNA would revert to being the national water authority, including water
rights administration and ensuring that water management is carried out in accordance
with the law and regulations.
1.42  Special Administrative and Reserve Zones. One of the goals of the planning
process, as provided for in the LAN, will be the identification and classification of special
administrative and reserve zones, and the development of contingency plans for them.
The zones may be established in areas where surface water, groundwater or both are
overexploited, or where water quality or environmental problems are severe. These zones
will be critically important in achieving the sustainable development goals of the GOM.
Each zone will have special individual aspects which will require specific actions, but
should be established within an overall policy framework. Criteria, mechanisms and
enforcement procedures for the zones will need to be designed and implemented and
should be equitable, efficient and cost effective.
1.43  Capacity Building. Water resources management activities need to be improved
and intensified at the central and regional levels. Both levels will require considerable
capacity building and restructuring in order for them to be able to assume their myriad
water resources management responsibilities in an integrated, efficient and competent
manner.
1.44  The capacity building will be geared towards meeting the needs of the different
levels. The Central office needs to direct its capacity building towards the development of
policy, guidelines and manuals and towards coordination of water management activities
at the national level. Regional office capacity building should be geared towards regional
planning and management, participatory initiatives, coordination of regional entities and
water users, consensus building, developing institutional mechanisms for implementing and
maintaining the REPDA, reservoir operation, flood warning, dam safety, and data
collection and processing.



MEXICO - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report 11
E. BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED
1.45  Past Bank Involvement. The Bank has extensive experience in financing water
projects in Mexico for over 25 years. The water-resources-management-type project is
somewhat new in the Bank and similar projects just began in Asia during the past three
years. In fact, the Mexican Water Resources Management Project would the first to
address all significant aspects of water resources management on a nationwide multi-
sectoral basis. Project preparation is ongoing on a similar project for Morocco and Brazil.
Lessons applicable to the proposed project can be drawn from related Bank financed
water projects in general and from the irrigation and water supply and sanitation projects
in Mexico in particular.
1.46 In 1972 the Bank entered into a tripartite agreement with UNDP and GOM to
prepare the 1975 National Water Plan. The resultant Plan provided a basis for water
development and management during the ensuing years and has proved to be extremely
valuable in outlining the general direction for these activities. Although the plan was
integral and considered most aspects, it emphasized water development and the
construction of infrastructure. The major portion of the hydraulic infrastructure and
irrigation projects built since 1975 were discussed in the Plan.
1.47  The proposed project, without any duplication of actions, would be a sequence and
follow-up of actions initiated in 1991 with Bank support to CNA through three main on-
going operations, the Irrigation and Drainage Sector Project, Loan 3419-ME (IDSP)
(1991), the On-Farm and Minor Irrigation Networks Improvement Project, Loan 3704-
ME (OFMIN) (1994) and Second Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Project, Loan
3751-ME (SWSSS) (1994). The focus ofthe first two projects, geographically located in
the Irrigation Districts, is: limited public role, decentralization, efficient budget allocation,
shared private investment and economically efficient use of water resources. The third
project is directed toward supporting the decentralization and self-sustainability of local
water and sanitation utilities (Organismos Operativos). The new proposed project would
complement the previous ones, including applying the provisions of the LAN and its
regulations under a broader watershed and intersectoral scope to improve integrated,
economically efficient and environmentally sustainable water use through better
management.
1.48  Irrigation and Drainage Projects in Mexico. During the past 25 years, Mexico
has received 20 Bank loans for the irrigation and drainage subsector, amounting to about
US$1.4 billion. These projects, excluding the IDSP, contributed to the creation of about
500,000 ha of irrigated land and to rehabilitation of an additional 900,000 ha in northern
Mexico. Relevant lessons learned from the last five operations, including preparation of
the on-going IDSP and OFNIN have been reflected in recommendations and incorporated
in the design of this project. Decentralization and privatization of the operation and
maintenance functions in the irrigation sector have been very positive and must be
encouraged in other areas of water resources use and-management.



12                MEXICO - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report
1.49 The IDSP project results so far have been rated "satisfactory." The key project
implementing indicators related to policy like the transfer of irrigation districts to water
user organizations and operation and maintenance self-sufficiency are ahead of schedule.
The major current problems are related to a lack of Government counterpart funds.
1.50 Water Supply and Sanitation Projects in Mexico. Bank involvement in the
water supply and sanitation sector started in 1973 with the approval of the first water
supply loan. To date, six loans totaling about US$675 million have been made. The first
loan was to build bulk water supply facilities for Mexico City. The next three loans were
to finance physical improvements in various medium-sized cities. The fifth loan, aimed at
supporting water and sanitation facilities and productive opportunities for women, never
became effective and was canceled. The sixth loan is the on-going SWSSS. The first four
projects achieved their physical targets but, the institutional and financial objectives were
not attained. However, under the ongoing sector loan, better progress has been made in
attaining those objectives. The project aimed correctly at formulating and implementing
policies of decentralization that are now in effect. It reduced Government participation in
the financing of the sector. For the first time, beneficiaries are participating to a partial
degree in the design and decision mechanisms for the formulation of subprojects.
Financial self-sufficiency is being more closely achieved by increasing the amount of
collection and the cost effectiveness of actions.
1.51  Water Resources Operations in Asia. Four similar water projects in Asia
provide good preparation experience for the proposed project. They are: (a) National
Hydrology Project in India (SAR, July 14, 1995); (b) the Irrigation and Water Resources
Management Project in Indonesia (currently in the initial stages of implementation); (c)
National drainage Program in Pakistan; and (d) two Dam Safety Projects, one in Indonesia
and the other in India (both currently in implementation).
1.52 Lessons Learned. Summary of Recommendations. The main lessons learned
from other Bank financed projects are: (a) CNA staff participation should be ensured
from the early stages of project preparation, through appraisal and into implementation;
(b) implementation schedules should be realistic and achievable; (c) improvements to field
monitoring networks should include establishing and implementing adequate operation and
maintenance procedures; (d) relevant manuals and guidelines should be developed in the
early stages of project implementation; and (e) budget allocation for project related
activities should be closely monitored.
1.53  Other recommendations applicable to the proposed project based on lessons
learned reflect the need for: (a) capacity building in water management at the central and
regional levels; (b) training staff at all levels in modem water management methods and
technologies; (c) ensuring coordination and integration of the various parts of the project
into an integrated comprehensive whole through river basin planning and management and
regional office/river basin council participation in project implementation; (d) ensuring
substantial stakeholder participation through improved communications; (e) decentralizing
water management activities; (f) improving field monitoring technologies and the
operation and maintenance of monitoring networks; (g) improving attention to safety and



MEXICO - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report         13
maintenance of existing dams; and (h) developing conditions for real-time management of
water resources.
F. WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT WORLD BANK POLICY PAPER, 1993
1.54 Mexico's national water policy and water management objectives are in close
accord with Bank policy as enunciated in the Water Resources Management: A World
Bank Policy Paper, Washington DC, September 1993. The Policy Paper and the Mexican
water resources management program (as reflected in the National Water Plan 1995-
2000) and in the LAN recognize that water is an economic good and therefore should be
managed in an efficient manner. In order to do this, governments should develop and
implement comprehensive policy frameworks including institutional reforms leading to
sustainable water resources development and management. The framework and reforms
should be directed towards: (a) harnessing the efficiency of market forces;
(b) strengthening the capacity of governments to carry out their essential roles;
(c) decentralizing water management activities; and (d) promoting stakeholder
participation. Water resources planning and management should be carried out
considering the interrelationships between water, land and human resources with the
objective of enhancing economic growth and development in an environmentally
sustainable manner.
1.55  The Policy Paper and the Mexican water resources management program identify
the river basin as the appropriate unit for water resources planning and management. At
the river basin level, comprehensive plans should be developed in the context of a broad
strategy which considers the responsibilities and activities of all participants in water use
and management, while fully taking into account the ecosystems and socioeconomic
structures that exist in the river basin. The planning process should deal with cross-
sectoral issues with the goal of ensuring the sustainabiity of the water environment for
multiple uses as an integral part of the country's economic development process.
1.56 The Policy Paper and the Mexican water resources management program
emphasize the need for reliable data, in many cases real-time, for good water resources
management. Necessary steps in defining adequate information systems should include:
identifying users of data, defining information needs, selecting appropriate data collection
technologies, and establishing national data banks.
1.57  The need for institution and human resources capacity building are identified in the
Policy Paper and in the Mexican water resources management program as important
elements in an overall water resources management strategy. Also, insuring adequate
financing is essential to developing, implementing and sustaining a water resources
management program.



14                MEXICO - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report
2.   THE PROJECT
A. ORIGIN
2.1   The project evolved out of a long-term strategy of lending to the Mexican water
sector as discussed in paras. 1.46 through 1.50. The project was conceived in order to
assist the GOM in meeting the objectives of the LAN and its regulations. An initial
identification mission went to Mexico in September, 1994 when the overall project
objectives, components and preparation report requirements were defined. Because of the
change of administration and the financial/economic crisis that began in December, 1994,
project preparation was curtailed until July, 1995 when another identification mission was
carried out. Between then and the appraisal mission in February, 1996, preparation
activities were continuous and intense.
2.2   To support project preparation, the government of Japan approved a Policy and
Human Resources Development (PHRD) Fund in the amount of 72 million yen
(US$680,000). This grant has been used to finance various project preparation activities
including technical consultants and study tours which have helped to focus on the
definition of numerous technical aspects of project preparation.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN CONCEPTS
2.3   The WRMP objectives are directly in line with the National Water Plan 1995-2000
and are within the legal framework provided by the LAN. The general objectives are to:
(a) promote conditions for environmentally sustainable, economically efficient and
equitably allocated use of water resources in Mexico; (b) support the integrated
comprehensive management of water resources; and (c) increase the benefits and reduce
the risk related to existing hydraulic infrastructure.
2.4   Secondary project objectives are to: (a) support groundwater conservation by
reducing overexploitation and contamination; (b) promote the restoration of surface water
quality; (c) improve meteorological services for improved water management and for the
society and economy as a whole; (d) reduce flood damages downstream of reservoirs; (e)
improve dam safety; (f) improve allocation of water as an economic good; (g) promote
decentralization of water resources management through the establishment and
strengthening of river basin councils; (h) improve water resources planning through the
development of the hydrographic region plans with river basin council participation; and
(i) improve water rights administration through registry of water rights users and
improved fee collection.
2.5   The proposed project buttresses GOM water sector policies by supporting the
establishment of streamlined and efficient water rights administration in accordance with
the LAN, and thus creating the main tools and conditions for an operational tradable water
rights system (water markets). These are required to: (a) facilitate the reallocation of
water to more economically efficient uses in a voluntary manner; (b) facilitate the transfer



MENICO - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report         15
of O&M to water users and encourage private investment; and (c) ensure equitable
compensation for water right transactions through market mechanisms.
2.6   The thrust of the project objectives involves the Bank's assistance in the process of
formulating basin water plans, the development of decentralized and market-based policies
designed to provide incentives for the conservation and efficient use of water resources,
and assisting CNA in the adoption of appropriate technologies, the monitoring of water
quantity and quality, reservoir operation and aquifer management, and dam safety
programs. (See Annex H, Tables H-I and H-2 for correlations between project objectives
and components and subcomponents.)
2.7   Historically water planning and management has been highly centralized in Mexico.
With the gradual establishment of River Basin Councils and the corresponding
decentralization of water resources planning and management, the role of CNA will
undergo considerable change. At the central level, CNA will coordinate the development
of water policy and strategy in the context of government objectives in the areas of
economic development, social well being, environmental protection, public health, rural
and urban planning, decentralization and international treaty obligations. At the regional
levels, CNA will support the River Basin Councils by providing them with technical
support in the areas of water resources monitoring, planning, assessments and
management. Regionally, CNA will also function as the Water Authority, registering
water rights and transfers, and monitoring compliance with the LAN. The project would
support major decentralization activities within CNA whereby the regional offices will
undergo significant change to assume the principle role of water resources planning and
management, all within the context of the river basin. These offices will be responsible for
regional water resources planning and management, for promoting the establishment of
river basin councils, for coordinating activities within the hydrographic regions basins of
the various stakeholders and for water rights administration. The implementation of the
project components and subcomponents will be within the framework of the river basin
planning and management activities and will complement and enhance those efforts. The
regional offices will play a key role in defining the actions to be taken within their area of
influence. Thirteen regional project implementation plans will be prepared to detail
implementation activities in each of the thirteen new regional offices that are in the process
of being organized.
2.8   Regional offices will also be strengthened in their roles of providing the direct
contact with water users for water rights administration, data collection and processing,
data bank maintenance, operation and maintenance of data collection networks, and
operation and maintenance of hydraulic infrastructure.
2.9   In order to adequately implement the project, CNA will require an estimated 543
new professionals to be recruited from the outside to enable the different project areas to
implement the project. An additional approximate 79 permanent professionals, 235
temporary professionals (for 2 years to assist in the one-time program for the registration
of water rights) and 102 technicians would be brought into the project related units from
other parts of CNA. The total 724 (543 + 79 + 102) that would be brought into the



16                MEXICO - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report
project related units on a permanent basis would be offset by an equal number of present
employees which would leave during the 6-year period, mostly by attrition.
2.10  Project Design. The project is designed to assist the GOM improve its water
resources policies and management capabilities to: (a) provide the key public goods
function necessary for the sustainable use and improved intersectoral allocation of the
water resources; and (b) aid water users in general through an improved policy
environment. The project would not include direct investment activities such as:
(a) construction of hydraulic infrastructure; (b) implementation of water quality
improvement plans; (c) implementation of groundwater stabilization plans;
(d) implementation of regional water resources plans; and (e) remedial action on existing
dams with safety problems. To maximize the effectiveness of the project, follow-on
projects in these areas will be needed. Technical assistance and consultant support
activities have been included in the project to support preparation activities for follow-on
projects.
2.11  The project would be implemented such that the various components and
subcomponents are necessary parts of an integrated whole. This would be achieved by
establishing three full-time professional staff positions in CNA's General Subdirectorate
for Planning (Subdirecci6n General de Programaci6n - SGP) which would be responsible
for coordinating and focusing activities throughout CNA, with other government entities
and private stakeholders (see para. 6.1 (a)). The SGP would ensure that the pace and
focus of implementation will serve the project objectives.
C. SUMMARY DESCRIPTION
2.12 Institutional Development, Technological Support and Training. Goods,
services, training, and consultants to support water resources related activities of:
(a) decentralization of water management; (b) adoption of new technologies; and
(c) training of CNA technical personnel.
2.13  Water Quantity and Quality Monitoring Improvement and Assessment.
Small works, goods, studies, engineering services, and consultants and technical assistance
to support the improvement of water monitoring and assessments in all aspects of the
hydrologic cycle, including meteorology, surface water, ground water and water quality.
Data collection networks would be upgraded and extended. Data processing, storage,
retrieval and dissemination would be upgraded. Methodologies and procedures for
evaluations and modeling would be improved.
2.14 Reservoir Operation, Dam Safety and Aquifer Management Improvement.
Goods, engineering services, studies and consultants to: (a) improve the operation of
reservoirs and other hydraulic infrastructure during normal, drought and flood conditions;
(b) improve the safety of existing dams; and (c) improve the management of aquifers both
in terms of quantity of exploitations and groundwater quality.



MEXICO - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report         17
2.15  Water Rights Administration. Goods, engineering services, studies and
consultants to support improvement in the administration of water rights for both
diversions and discharges. The improved water rights administration will facilitate the
establishment of dynamic tradable water right systems (water markets).
2.16 Water Resources Planning and River Basin Council Support. Goods,
engineering services, studies and consultants to support improvements in water resources
planning and management at the river basin and aquifer levels. River basin councils would
be established and strengthened to improve the participatory aspects of planning and
management. CNA wide telecommunications and computer networks/systems would be
installed to improve information technologies.
D. RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
2.17  The Bank's past involvement in the irrigation and water sector puts it in an unique
position to support strongly the on-going decentralization process in Mexico. The
proposed project is also an obvious extension of GOM/Bank work initiated in the
irrigation and water and sanitation subsectors and provides a basic institutional and
technical framework to improve and continue the reforms in the water sector.
2.18  The objectives of the WRMP are directly in-line vith the Bank's objectives for
supporting member government initiatives in water resources management. The Bank is
committed "...to focus its efforts on countries where significant problems exist or are
emerging involving water scarcity, service efficiency, water allocation, or environmental
damage" (Water Resources Management: A World Bank Policy Paper, Washington DC,
September 1993 atp. 21). Water scarcity conditions in Mexico effectively mirror those of
primary interest for the Bank's policies. In more operational terms, Bank policy makes
clear that "its economic sector work, lending, technical assistance, and participation in
international initiatives will aim to promote policy and regulatory reforms; institution
adaptation and capacity building; environmental protection and restoration..." (at p. 65).
Institutional capacity building and adaptation, and regulatory/procedural reform and
improvements related to water resources planning, management and use and
environmental protection form the core of the ends sought in the WRMP.
2.19  The proposed project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy for
Mexico presented to the Board on May 22, 1995 (Report No. 14518-ME). The strategy
aims at assisting Mexico to manage the ongoing economic/financial crisis while continuing
to support longer range programs that contribute to reductions in poverty, environmental
improvements and encouraging long term sustainable growth and development,
particularly through investments in human resources, infrastructure and natural resource
management. The strategy also aims to extend the reform process downward to regional
and state levels and support the further devolution of expenditures and responsibilities to
these decentralized levels. Working within this strategy, the proposed project is
specifically aimed at developing capacities to decentralize and improve water resources
management functions, address environmental and water management issues at the river
basin level, monitor and manage water quality and quantity, improve intersectoral



18                MEXICO - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report
allocation and protect the country's scarce water resources, all while economic growth
continues in a sustainable manner.
2.20  The project would support: (a) decentralization by aiding in the formation and
strengthening of river basin councils and in the regional planning and water management
activities of CNA; (b) economic growth by facilitating the reallocation of water to more
efficient uses through the establishment of water markets and thereby ensure water
availability in a scarce water environment; (c) environmentally sustainable use and
development by: (i) improving water resources planning and management at the regional
level in a participatory manner, (ii) improving water quality by better monitoring and
regulation of dischargers, and (iii) reduced aquifer overexploitation through improved
monitoring and regulation; (d) social well-being by: (i) improved reservoir operation
during floods and droughts, (ii) improved dam safety, and (iii) improved water availability;
and (e) poverty alleviation by empowering the poor through the legal registry of water
rights and improved water management.
2.21  The river basin councils will provide a forum for water users, other stakeholders,
state and local governments, federal entities in addition to CNA to express their opinion in
water resources planning and management activities in a dynamic iterative manner. Input
into decision making on policies, strategies, alternative actions, and investment and
management plans will be sought and stimulated through the river basin councils. This
process will facilitate the decentralization of decision making and water resources planning
and management activities.
E. PROGRAM OBJECTIVE CATEGORIES
2.22  As described above, the proposed project has been categorized as belonging to
Sustainable Economic Development Category. It is not expected to be included in the
Poverty Category: Program of Targeted Intervention. However, improved water
management and the provision of legal water rights to small farmers will significantly
improve the quality of life of a large number of poor individuals and families
F. PROJECT DESCRIPTION (DETAILED PROJECT FEATURES)
Institutional Development, Technological Support and Training
(US$37.6 million total cost)
2.23  The institutional development, technological support and training component will
support development of the institutional and organizational structure and the training of
human resources necessary to carry out and oversee the water resources management
functions during and after project implementation. This component would finance goods,
services, training and consultants to support water resources planning and management
activities at all levels of CNA and to improve the technological resources and professional
skills of the CNA staff. It would include: (a) strengthening appropriate existing programs
and structures; (b) support the decentralization of water resources management at the



MEXICO - Water Resources Management ProjectlStaff Appraisal Report        19
river basin level; (c) promote the establishment and strengthening of river basin councils in
the 13 hydrographic regions of the country; (d) improve the technological resources and
the professional skills of personnel in central and regional offices; (e) strengthen water
rights administration and the collection of water fees; (f) acquisition of training equipment
and materials for improvement of central and regional office training facilities,
(g) development of key intemational technological cooperation for water resources
management; (h) intensive training programs in water resource management issues; and
(i) communication programs to promote stakeholder participation, particularly in the river
basin councils. Refer to Annex B for details.
2.24 Technical Assistance (US$11.4 million). This subcomponent would include
technical assistance from international and national organizations and consultants. The
assistance would be provided on-the-job, with experts working directly with CNA
technical personnel in the development, introduction and implementation of technology in
the day-to-day programs of the various technical areas within CNA.
2.25  Training (US$16.9 million). The training subcomponent would consist of
courses, workshops, technical stays in international institutions, and masters and Ph.D.
programs. In most cases the training would consist of courses and programs that are
presently offered by the institutions, although there would be some customized training
provided. IMTA will be involved in various aspects of the training subcomponent and
other parts of the project as defined in an agreement with CNA.
2.26 Project Coordination (US$9.3 million). This subcomponent would include the
equipment, consulting services and travel expenses necessary for the coordination of the
Project at the central and regional levels.
Water Quantity and Quality Monitoring Improvement and Assessments
(US$150.0 million total cost)
2.27  This component would finance small works, goods, studies, engineering services
and consultants to update, improve and upgrade the hydrological and hydrogeological
water quality and quantity monitoring and related climatological/meteorological networks,
including telemetric networks to provide real-time information in order to improve the
quality of information for better and more efficient water resources management. It would
improve data collection, processing and dissemination among users. The component
would also provide assessments of surface and groundwater bodies and hydrological and
hydrogeological studies. Refer to Annex C for details.
2.28 Meteorological Services (US$41.2 million). The subcomponent would support
the National Meteorological Services Group (Gerencia del Servicio Meteorologico
Nacional - GS ) in the goals of improving the collection, analysis, and synthesis of data
related to atmospheric phenomenon to be able to provide meteorological and
climatological information and predictions to other parts of CNA, other agencies and to
the general public. The improvements in weather forecasting would benefit water
management and the Mexican society and economy as a whole.



20                MEXICO - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report
2.29 The subcomponent activities would include upgrading and improving the operation
of the: (a) upper air network; (b) radar network; (c) automatic data collection platform
monitoring network; (d) manual synoptic stations; (e) satellite ground station network;
(f) lightning detection network; and (g) instrumentation laboratory. Forecasting
techniques would be improved through the implementation of models and computerized
analytical procedures.
2.30 Hydrologic Assessment and Monitoring (US$38.8 million). The subcomponent
would support the Surface and River Engineering Group (Gerencia de Aguas Superficiales
and Ingenieria de Rios - GASIR) in the goals of: (a) developing and providing adequate
data (water level, discharge, rainfall, evaporation, sediment transport and reservoir
monitoring) at national, river basin and state levels, using appropriate technology
(distributed data base) within the context of a sustainable network; (b) providing near real-
time information from at least 50% of the monitoring network, in particular rainfall,
streamflow and reservoir data; (c) integrating the information collected into reports and
other appropriate instruments for water resources planning and to support decisions; and
(d) establishing a team of trained specialists covering all the technologies used in water
resources and related monitoring, such as forecasting techniques, hydrological models,
estimation of rainfall from satellites and radars, etc., as well as the supporting computer
technology.
2.31  The component would include the: (a) design and rehabilitation of the
climatological and hydrometric networks; (b) installation of new sediment laboratories;
(c) rehabilitation and modernization of existing telemetry networks; (d) improvement of
the radio communication network; (e) installation of new telemetry networks in priority
catchments; (f) acquisition of a fleet of vehicles for network inspection; (g) establishment
of a hydrometeorological data management system; and (h) operation and maintenance of
the networks, laboratories, vehicles and systems listed in this paragraph.
2.32 Groundwater Assessment and Monitoring (US$25.6 million). This
subcomponent would support the activities of the Groundwater Group (Gerencia de
Aguas subterrineas - GAS) and aims to assess quantitatively and qualitatively and to
monitor the 144 most important aquifers of Mexico. These include 70 overexploited
aquifers, 60 aquifers in fragile equilibrium of exploitation vs. resources, and 14 with high
potential for future resource development. All the groundwater management data and
information derived from the assessment studies to be carried out and the monitoring
system to be implemented by the project will be managed by the Groundwater Information
System which will be an integrated part of the subcomponent.
2.33  The quantitative and qualitative assessment of groundwater resources will
correspond to hydrogeological studies of the 144 aquifers to be subcontracted to
consulting engineers. Each study will include: the compilation, evaluation and synthesis of
all historical data; a water table field survey to update the aquifer piezometric map; aquifer
modeling and development of a proposal for the quantitative and qualitative monitoring
network to be implemented. For overexploited aquifers and those approaching the natural
recharge/extraction balance, i.e. a total number of 130 aquifers, there will be 790



MEXICO - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report        21
piezometers installed in order to modernize the monitoring network. Regionalized
variables modeling (Krieging techniques) would be applied to optimize aquifer monitoring
networks. The implementation and operation of the aquifer networks will be carried out
by subcontracts with consulting firms and drilling firms.
2.34  The implementation of the Groundwater Information System will include the
design of the groundwater data bank with georeferences and intercommunication links
with the CNA Water Geographic Information System (Sistema de Informaci6n Geografica
del Agua - SIGA), its implementation with the necessary hardware and software at the
central and regional offices of CNA, and the recuperation and processing of historical
data.
2.35 Water Quality Monitoring and Laboratories (US$44.4 million). This
subcomponent would support the activities of the Water Quality and Sanitation Group
(Gerencia de Saneamiento y Calidad de Agua - GSCA) and has the objective of
redesigning and implementing a water quality program that will provide only data that
meets specific management needs, are cost-effective, and represent the types of modern
environmental issues that now face Mexico (e.g. toxicity). The activities will be focused
on improvements to the: (a) national water quality monitoring network; (b) national
laboratory network; and (c) water quality information systems.
2.36  The water quality monitoring network will consist of a: (a) primary network that
will provide general nation-wide long-term information on water quality conditions and
trends; (b) a secondary network which will be flexible in time and space, and will be
developed to meet specific CNA needs and control programs; and (c) a tertiary network
for special water quality studies with specific monitoring stations in water bodies.
2.37  The laboratory network will include: (a) a National Reference Laboratory which
will be responsible for direction and control of all analytical services provided by or for
CNA, including quality control and quality assurance of CNA labs and of private labs that
provide services to CNA, and will be an integrated environmental chemistry and
toxicology laboratory, and will have advanced analytical capability; (b) fourteen regional
laboratories, six with intermediate analytical capability including common pesticides,
and eight labs with the capability of analyzing for basic parameters; (c) fourteen mobile
laboratory units, eight with basic analytical capability, and six emergency mobile
laboratories to handle emergency situations with a BTEX-equipped mobile facility,
including gas chromatography to handle emergencies such as spills.
2.38  The implementation of the Water Quality Information System will include the:
(a) integration of the three existing databases into a single database, accessed through
software provided by Environment Canada; and (b) integration of this system with SIGA
of CNA in its wide area network. Under WRMP, GSCA will be establishing a variety of
data products for public use, as well as data integration, visualization and prediction for
issues of concern to CNA management.



22                MEXICO - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report
Reservoir Operation, Dam Safety and Aquifer Management Improvement
(US$41.2 million total cost)
2.39  The component would finance goods, engineering services, studies and consultants
to improve reservoir operation functions during flood events; reservoir operation and
aquifer management functions during normal and drought conditions; and dam safety
related programs. The component objectives would also include improving flood
forecasting and warning systems, as well as planning for structural and non-structural
flood protection measures. Refer to Annex D for details.
2.40 Reservoir Operation (US$14.2 million). This subcomponent would support the
activities of GASIR and has the objective of improving reservoir operation to maximize
the benefits derived from the operation of existing hydraulic infrastructure by increasing
water availability, reducing the adverse consequences of floods and droughts, and improve
hydropower generation, while ensuring environmental protection and where possible
enhancement. The subcomponent activities would be supported through a technical
assistance program with NOAA/NWS and would include the development and
implementation of: (a) precipitation analysis programs; (b) hydrological forecast systems;
(c) extended streamflow prediction models; and (d) decision support models. It would
also include: (a) hydrological assessment of the major dams/storage reservoirs;
(b) updating/preparing inundation maps (using SIGA), river bed conditions and risk
analysis; (c) investigating and implementing measures for improving (optimizing
economically and environmentally) reservoir operation during normal, flood and drought
conditions; and (d) evaluating and improving estimates of reservoir sedimentation and
developing and implementing programs for monitoring and controlling sedimentation in
selected reservoirs.
2.41 National Dam Safety Program (US$18.6 million). This subcomponent would
support the activities of the Technical Consultancy (Consultivo Tecnico - CT) during the
first phase of the national dam safety program and will include: (a) decentralization of
dam safety responsibilities to regional offices; (b) registry of all dams in the country over 3
meters in height and/or with reservoir capacity in excess of .5 million cubic meters; (c)
development of guidelines, criteria and procedures for dam safety; (d) inspection of all
dams in the registry; (e) collection and analysis of instrumentation data, and installation of
new instruments at selected dams; (f) hydrological analysis (inflow design flood and flood
routing studies) for selected dams; (g) development of corrective action plans and designs
for selected dams; (h) elaboration of three general manuals for maintenance of different
types of dams with specific plans for maintenance of selected dams; (i) elaboration of a
general manual for protection of dams and specific protection plans for selected dams; ()
review design and construction of all new dam and dam rehabilitation projects;
(k) development of emergency action plans for high-risk dams; and (1) training of dam
safety personnel.
2.42  The project would not include investment costs for any remedial actions (which are
the responsibility of functional areas within CNA other than CT). However, in order for
the WRMP dam safety activities to have maximum effectiveness, preparation of a dam



MEXICO - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report        23
safety remedial actions project should be initiated as soon as possible after initiation of
WRMP implementation.
2.43 Aquifer Management Improvement (US$8.3 million). This subcomponent will
support the activities of GAS and will comprise prospective studies of groundwater
resources management, aquifer protection, and stabilization of overexploited aquifers, and
the implementation of groundwater resource optimization models.
2.44 Prospective studies, to be carried out by contracts with consulting firms, will cover
the following themes: the strategic role of groundwater resources in decentralization
policy, particularly in the program of 100 new urban centers defined by the National
Development Plan 1995-2000; applied methodology of evaluation of groundwater
extraction; non-point source contamination of aquifers; aquifer protection against point
source pollution; analysis of environmental costs of groundwater overexploitation;
demand management for stabilization of overexploited aquifers; and aquifer systems
concept for groundwater resources management in Mexico.
2.45  The groundwater resource optimization models will be applied to aquifers of the
priority water basins where water basin councils will be established with the project
support. The modeling exercise will use the results of simulation models and the results of
the prospective studies. The optimization models will provide the river basin councils
with the necessary information on socioeconomic and environmental costs and benefits of
alternative options of aquifer management in their basins.
2.46  The project would not include investment costs associated with the implementation
of any aquifer stabilization plans. However, in order for the WRMP groundwater
management activities to have maximum effectiveness, preparation of an aquifer
stabilization actions project should be initiated as soon as possible after initiation of
WRMP implementation.
Water Rights Administration (US$41.4 million total cost)
2.47  This component will finance engineering services, studies, consultants and goods in
the area of water rights administration, will support the activities of CNA's General
Subdirectorate for Water Administration (Subdirecci6n General de Administraci6n del
Agua - SGAA) in the establishment and maintenance of the REPDA and water user
assistance, and in water use and discharge fee collection and control. Refer to Annex E
for details.
2.48  National Public Water Rights Registry and Water User Support (US$11.2
million). The subcomponent will support the modernization of the REPDA with a series
of activities to be carried out by contracts with consulting firms. These activities include:
(a) the improvement of the registry operation, including software development for registry
data processing; (b) the development of procedures for the processing of all registry data
for overall checking of the national water rights; (c) the decentralization of the system at



24                MEXICO - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report
the river basin level; and (d) information diffusion and easy access to registry data by the
public.
2.49 Water user support service would be carried out through contracts with consulting
firms: (a) a study of the water users population, using available data and statistics from
various sources; (b) the revision and updating of the water users statistics by cross-
checking with the REPDA, the water fee registry, the water discharge registry; and (c) the
identification of all the water users, registered and non registered, including clandestine
ones. The subcomponent will also support the improvement of the water user service in
view to facilitating and accelerating their registration.
2.50  The implementation of the different information systems for the water user
registry, the REPDA, and the water and discharge fee registry will be carried out within
the global structure of an information system for water rights administration. This
subcomponent will provide for the development of data bases and applications necessary
for water rights administration.
2.51 Water Fee and Discharge Fee Collection and Control Service (US$30.2
million). The subcomponent of modernization of this service will include: (a) a study to
develop a global assessment of the population of users and polluters; (b) a study of
technology development for water withdrawal and pollution discharge measurement for
fee collection and control, followed by a pilot project; and (c) a water use and discharge
measurement inspection program.
Water Resources Planning and Information Systems (US$71.7 million total cost)
2.52 This component will support the activities of SGP and will finance engineering
services, studies, consultants and goods for the following: (a) establishment and
strengthening of river basin councils, based on the consensus of the councils members on
action programs for the improvement of the water resources management and the
environmental enhancement in their basin; (b) development of regional water resources
planning studies for the 13 hydrographic regions; (c) updating of the Regional Water Plans
and the National Water Plan; (d) prospective studies of integrated water resource
management; (e) development and implementation of a CNA wide telecommunications
and computer network and local networks at the central and regional offices; and
(f) development and implementation of geographic information system technology. Refer
to Annex F for details.
2.53 Water Resources Planning Studies and River Basin Council Support
(US$16.5 million). The subcomponent of regional and national planning will comprise in-
house study activities and studies to be carried out by subcontracts with consulting firms.
The planning process will include the following stages: (a) diagnostic of present situation;
(b) preparation of scenarios for the medium and long term; (c) formulation of objectives
and alternative strategies, evaluation and recommendations; and (d) preparation of the
Regional and National Water Plans with the participation of the river basin councils and
attention to environmental implications as they relate to water resources.



MEXICO - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report        25
2.54 The subcomponent of studies of integrated water resource management will
support the planning process by providing prospective analysis of the critical issues in
water resources management. This subcomponent will include studies on: participation of
the private sector in the water sector, the role of water in the agriculture and food sector,
strategy of salinity control in irrigated areas, watershed conservation, continuous
monitoring and evaluation of irrigation projects, innovation in irrigation, sanitation options
in rural areas.
2.55  The subcomponent will also include specific studies on aquifer management in the
13 hydrographic regions. This will concem essentially studies related to aquifer
stabilization plans as groundwater resources are heavily overexploited in these basins. The
analyses, using the results of optimization modeling implemented under the subcomponent
of aquifer management, will focus on the socioeconomic, financial and regulation aspect of
stabilization which could be adopted by the river basin councils.
2.56  The subcomponent will support the establishment and strengthening of river basin
councils including a series of activities to be implemented in four stages. The activities
and results will be presented to the councils for their opinions. The principal stages of
implementation of this subcomponent, in each hydrographic region, comprise:
(a) constitution of a technical group in charge of the implementation of the subcomponent
activities, and a coordination group in charge of the communication with and the
information of the water users and stakeholders; (b) diagnostic study of the present
socioeconomic and environmental situation of the hydrographic regions; setting the basis
for the implementation of an information and monitoring system; formulation of alternative
objectives of water resource improvement in quantity and quality; (c) development of
objectives; preparation of alternative action programs and priorities; (d) development of
the action program and preparation of the financing plan with application of the polluter-
payer principle; and (e) preparation of the hydrographic region master plan incorporating
when appropriate the opinions of the council; implementation of the financial and
environmental information system for progress monitoring and evaluation.
2.57  The project would not include investment costs associated with the implementation
of any hydrographic region master plans. However, in order for the WRMP regional
planning and river basin council support activities to have maximum effectiveness,
preparation of a project to implement initiatives defined in hydrographic region master
plans should be initiated after the completion of the plans.
2.58 Telecommunications and Computer Networks and Geographical Information
Systems (US$55.2 million). This subcomponent would support the development and
gradual implementation of a telecommunications system and computer network for CNA.
Each central office and regional office would have installed a number of personal
computers and work stations that would be connected to a local area network with UNIX
and DOS servers with adequate computer power for all water resources management
applications. The telecommunications network would provide rapid satellite
communications links between all CNA offices, which will permit the transfer of data,



26                MEXICO - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report
programs, files and electronic mail messages. The system will include INTERNET
intemational connections.
159 This subcomponent will strengthen and extend the existing CNA Water
Geographical Information System (SIGA) with the goal of responding to the increasing
requirements of various technical, regional and administrative sectors of CNA. The
subcomponent will include: (a) design update of SIGA, incorporating remote sensing
capability; (b) regional extension for decentralized processing and analysis of
georeferenced water resources infornation; and (c) the required computer equipment.
3. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING.
A. COSTS
3.1   Total project costs including contingencies and taxes are estimated at about
US$342 million equivalent, (see Annex I, Table 1.1).
3.2   Baseline costs are estimated at US$305.7 million and physical contingencies at
US$10.3 million or 3% of total baseline project costs. Price contingencies between
negotiations and project completion were estimated at US$25.9 million equivalent, or
about 9% of project baseline costs plus physical contingencies. Annual price increases
were applied to foreign costs in all categories in US dollar terms at a rate of 2.6%.
Annual price increases for local costs were calculated using rates estimated by LAMXC of
28.9% for 1996, 12.4% for 1997, 8.1% for 1998, 5.5% for 1999, 4.7% for 2000 and
4.7% for 2001. Foreign and local price contingencies were expressed in US dollar
equivalents, assuming purchasing power parity during the six-year disbursement period.
Physical and price contingencies were estimated at 12% of the baseline costs.
B. FINANCING
3.3   The proposed Bank loan of US$186.5 million would finance about 54.5% of total
costs including taxes and duties. The breakdown by category is 100% for foreign
expenditures for equipment and 87% for local expenditures for equipment; consultants
100%; training 100%; incremental operating costs for IMTA at a declining percentage of
85%, 60% and 25%; and 0% of civil works, vehicles and other incremental recurrent
costs, all net of taxes (Annex I, Table I.8). The loan will be made to Nacional Financiera,
S.N.C. (NAFIN), which will sign an agreement with the Government to permit the
transfer of the loan proceeds to the executing agency (CNA) as a condition of Loan
effectiveness. (See para. 6.2.) The balance of US$155.5 million (45.5 of costs not
covered by the Loan) will be financed by GOM through its annual budgetary process to
CNA.
3.4   Foreign exchange accounts for 31.5% of the costs of the project. The Bank will
cover an amount equivalent to the total amount of foreign exchange costs (US$107.7
million) plus US$78.8 million of the local costs (excluding taxes), bringing Bank
participation in aggregate up to 54.5% of total project costs.



MEXICO  - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report                                         27
3.5      The terms of the loan will be repayment over 15 years, including three years grace,
at the Bank's standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans.
3.6      The project will support major improvements in ongoing CNA  activities. Because
of this, the annual budgeted amounts will need to cover, for each of the technical areas,
costs of: (a) non-incremental WRMIP related activities; (b) GOM counterpart activities
(incremental recurrent activities, civil works, vehicles, taxes); and (c) Bank financed
WRMP activities. Table I presents estimates of total budget requirements for each year of
project implementation including retroactively financed activities in 1996.
Table 1. Project Related Budget Requirements
(USS'000)
1996                                  1997                                   1998                  l
NI  GOM   WB  TOTAL   NI   GOM    WE  TOTAL  NI   GOM    WB   TOTAL
SGT
GSMN    5,296    680        1,162    7,137    5,296    2,833       4,844    12,973   5,296    4,240        7,249    16,785
GASIR    2,846    1,493    1,421      5,759    2,846    4,424      4,200    11,470   2,846    5,431        5,207    13,483
GAS        503      806      654      1,964      503     2,798      2,023    5,324      503     3,644      3,259     7,406
GSCA      2,033     198      140      2,370    2,033    4,467       3,156    9,655    2,033    7,265       5,132    14,429
CT          0       535      542      1,077       0       1,792     1,817    3,609       0       1,826     1,851     3,677
SGAA          7,306    3,088    1,089    11,483    7,306    6,942      2,228    16,476   7,306    6,883        1,862    16,052
SGP           9,197    459       582     10,238    9,197      988      1,252    11,438   9,197    1,610       2,040    12,847
Telec.&         0       235     1,078     1,313       0      2,125     9,743    11,868       0      2,055     9,419    11,474
Com.
Inst. Dev.      0       168      901      1,069       0       862      4,635    5,497       0       1,010     5,435      6,445
Proj. Coord.    0       510      642      1,152       0       711       894      1,605      0        703       885       1,588
Tot          27,180   8,171    8,211    43,562   27,180  27,942   34,792   89,914  27,180   34,667   42,340   104,187
1999                                  2000                                   2001
NI  GOM   WE  TOTAL   NI   GOM    wE  TOTAL  NI   GOM    WE   TOTAL
SGT
GSMN    5,296   2,978    5,091    13,365    5,296    2,546         4,353    12,195   5,296    1,923        3,287    10,505
GASIR    2,846   6,345   6,079    15,269    2,846    5,512         5,265    13,623   2,846    3,938        3,692    10,475
GAS        503    4,705    3,450    8,659        503     4,662     3,741    8,906       503     2,686      1,554     4,743
GSCA      2,033   4,646    3,282    9,961    2,033    4,691         3,314    10,038   2,033    4,753       3,358    10,144
CT          0      2,242   2,273    4,515         0      1,854      1,880    3,734       0      1,006      1,020     2,026
SGAA          7,306   5,994    1,309    14,609   7,306    5,023        1,092    13,421   7,306    4,834       1,034    13,174
SGP           9,197    1,946   2,466    13,608    9,197    1,342       1,701    12,240   9,197       978      1,239    11,414
Telec. &        0      2,240   10,270   12,510        0      1,914     8,776    10,690      0       1,314     6,022     7,336
Com.
Inst. Dev.      0       988    5,316    6,305         0       880      4,736    5,616       0        525      2,826      3,351
Proj. Coord.    0       722      908      1,630       0       740       932      1,672      0        760       956       1,715
ToWt         27,180  32,806  40,445   100,431   27,180  29,165    35,789   92,135  27,180            22,715   24,987   74,882
NI - Non-incremental WRMP related costs (GOM)
GOM - Govemment of Mexico counterpart costs
WB - World Bank financed costs



28                MEXICO - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT,
AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Implementing Agencies
4.1   NAFIN will channel project funds from the Bank and governmnent sources. CNA
will be the implementing agency for the project as a whole (in cooperation with LMTA
with regard to training and studies).
4.2   Three staff positions will be established within CNA (in SGP) to coordinate
between the branches of CNA and other involved agencies, and to manage reporting,
annual budget plans, supervision of implementation activities, including all procurement of
goods and services, auditing, consultant contracting, and Bank-related monitoring and
reporting requirements. This staff will include a coordinator, two assistants and necessary
support staff (see para. 6.1(a)). Additionally, project coordination would be supported by
a consulting firm that would be responsible for monitoring, evaluation and project
reporting. As with other Bank financed CNA projects, project procurement would be
carried out through the SGA for official review and approval and through the Financing
Group (Gerencia de Financiamiento - GF) of SGP for processing with NAFIN.
Additionally, an official will be appointed in each regional office to coordinate project
activities within the region and with other parts of CNA. Each general subdirectorate
(SGP, SGT and SGAA) will have an individual designated to be responsible for
coordinating project activities. At negotiations, assurances were provided that the
Government agrees to maintain the coordination functions, structure and staff.
B. PROCUREMENT
4.3   The Bank will help finance contracts related to the implementation of the selected
subprojects provided that: adequate counterpart funds are allocated every year to the
project; and the procurement of goods is carried out in accordance with the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines (January, 1995). CNA would be responsible for all the
procurement of items to be financed by the Bank. Standard bidding documents issued by
the Bank will be used for ICB. Standard bidding documents agreed to by the Bank and the
GOM wil be used for the procurement of goods under NCB. Procurement plans for 1996
and 1997 have been prepared by CNA and were reviewed and approved by the Bank
during project appraisal.
4.4   Works. Civil works will include: (a) installation of hydrologic, meteorological
and groundwater monitoring stations and equipment; (b) construction/renovation of water



MEXICO - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report               29
quality laboratories; (c) minor protection works and instrumentation of selected dams; and
(d) field surveys and engineering services. The Bank would not finance any civil works.
Table 2. Procurement Arrangements
(US$'000)
Procurement Method
International  National
Competitive Competitive
Bidding    Bidding      Other     N.B.F. .c/    Total
A. Civil Works              -           -           -         26.1      26.1
B. Goods                   75.0        15.0       1.1 a/     3.3 d/     94.4
(63.7)     (12.8)      (0.9)                 (77.5)
C. Consultant Services                            100.1        -        100.1
(85.1)               (85.1)
D. Training                 -                    17.2 b/       -        17.2
(14.7)               (14.7)
E. Incremental Operating                          14.0 e/               14.0
Costs - IM'TA                                   (9.3)                 (9.3)
F. Recurrent Costs          -           -           -         90.1      90.1
75.0        15.0       132.4      119.5      342.0
__________ (63.7)  (12.8)  (109.9)   -       (186.5)
a/    Includes national and international shopping (with at least three price quotations).
b/    Includes instructors, materials, rent, travel and subsistence.
c/    Non-Bank financing.
J     Vehicles.
e/    Financed on a declining percentage basis. Items not subject to procurement or to
specific procurement procedures.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by World Bank.
4.5    Goods. The goods to be procured under the project are split into three major
subcategories: (a) monitoring equipment (hydrometric, meteorological, water quality,
groundwater, dams instrumentation, etc.); (b) water quality laboratory equipment; and
(c) telemetry, telecommunications equipment and computer hardware and software, which
would be procured under ICB procedures involving major packages of equipment valued
at not less than US$1.0 million equivalent per package to encourage competition.
Contracts for goods estimated to cost more than US$350,000 equivalent would be
procured through ICB procedures in accordance with Bank Guidelines. The procurement
of goods valued below US$350,000 would be through NCB procedures up to an
aggregate amount of US$15.0 million equivalent. Contracts valued below US$50,000,



30                MEXICO - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report
would be procured using local or intemational shopping, based on price quotations from
at least three bidders up to an aggregate amount of to US$1.1 million equivalent. Vehicles
will not be financed by the Bank.
4.6   In view of their specialized unique capabilities, technology transfer experience and
good results in previous and on-going similar activities worldwide, CNA plans to contract
directly (single source) with the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) and the
United States National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's National Weather
Service (NOAA/NWS) for an estimated amount of US$3 million in each case to provide
technical assistance in the areas of meteorology, hydrology, water quality and information
technology (see paras. 6.1(a) and 6.4(a)). WMO is the only multilateral institutional with
broad experience in providing technical assistance in procurement of goods and
implementation of technical programs in the areas of meteorology, hydrology, water
quality, telecommunications and computer networks. NOAA/NWS would provide
technical assistance in the installation and use of NOAA/NWS models for rainfall/runoff,
hydrological and rainfall forecasting and decision support systems. They would provide
the models free of charge. These models are the best available in the world to meet
CNA's particular needs. CNA has long relationships with both WMO and NOAA/NWS
and intends to continue these relationships through this technical assistance. Other
international institutions with which agreements could be reached and that could provide
technical assistance to CNA include UNDP, FAO, USGS, USBR, COE, EPA,
BCHYDRO, EC, MET, [NM, OEE, all of which have specialized capabilities in their areas
of responsibilities. Additionally, national institutions with which agreements could be
reached and that could provide technical assistance to CNA include II, CCA and CFE,
which have specialized capabilities in their areas of responsibilities. Bank financing of
these activities would be permitted if selection procedures are acceptable to the Bank.
Several World Bank member countries have expressed interest in supporting project
implementation including partial financing of activities. On a case by case basis, the Bank
will consider financing the GOM portion of these activities as defined in bi-lateral
agreements that would be reached, if selection procedures are acceptable to the Bank. For
these purposes an appropriate provision has been left in the unallocated category of the
loan.
4.7   The selection and appointment of consultants for training, studies, designs and
supervision of works will follow the August 1981 Bank Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants. Small contracts with consulting engineering firms for assignments of a simple
nature (e.g., supervision of works) below US$100,000 and for individual consultants
below US$50,000, would be exempted from Bank's prior review of selection procedures
and contract conditions, but would be subject to ex-post selective review during
supervisions. However, all terms of reference for consulting services would require prior
review by the Bank. Contracts for consultants are expected to aggregate to about
US$100.1 million. This includes engineering services in areas such as installation,
upgrading, and start-up operation and maintenance of monitoring networks which are
expected to aggregate to about US$45 million.



MEXICO - Water Resources Management ProjectlStaff Appraisal Report          3 1
4.8   Bank's prior review would apply to: (a) all contracts for goods awarded through
ICB; (b) the first two contracts each year for goods under NCB regardless of value; and
(c) all consultant contracts with firms above US$100,000 and all consultant contracts with
individuals above US$50,000. All other contracts would be subject to ex-post review by
the Bank during supervision on a selective basis. The proposed review arrangements are
expected to result in a prior review coverage level of about 70% of Bank-financed
contracts.
Table 3. Limits on Type of Procurement and Prior review Thresholds
(USS'000)
Description      Type of Procurement    Prior Review Limit      Contract Value
Civil Works         Not Bank financed          Not applicable           < 350
Goods              ICB                             All                  > 350
NCB                    1st 2 contracts each year  50 to 350
Price quotations from at      None                  < 50
least three local bidders
Consulting services by  Local and foreign          All                  > 100
firms               consulting firms           TOR only a'              < 100
Consulting services by  Local and foreign          All                  > 50
individuals        individual consultants      TOR only a/              < 50
a/    Exemption from prior review does not apply to consultants contracts below
thresholds in cases of single source selection, assignments of critical nature, and
amendments to contracts raising original contract value above thresholds.
C. DISBURSEMENTS
4.9   Bank financing (about 54.5% of the total project cost) will be for goods and
services. The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001, and the Loan
closing date is June 30, 2002. NAFIN will establish a Special Account in Banco de
Mexico, with an authorized allocation of US$10 million, equal to about four months'
estimated average disbursements, under established procedures between the Bank and the
Government of Mexico. The first advance to the special account would be limited,
however, to US$5 million to cover estimated expenditures in the first months of project
implementation. The full amount of the authorized allocation would be available once
total disbursements reach US$33 million. The special account would be replenished



32                MEXICO - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report
monthly in order to assure liquidity and a regular reporting on use of the funds.
Disbursements from the Loan account will be made on 100% for foreign expenditures for
goods; 87% for local expenditures for goods; 100% for consultants and training; and
incremental operating costs for IMTA at a declining percentage of 85%, 60% and 25%.
Disbursements against goods contracts below the prior review limits and consultant
services with firms below US$100,000 and with individuals below US$50,000 will be
made on the basis of SOEs, except for the first two contracts each year for goods under
NCB. SOEs may also be used for incremental operating costs and selected training
related expenditures. Disbursements against contracts for goods above the respective
prior review limits will be made against full documentation submitted to the Bank. In
view of the desirability of starting the project without delay, retroactive financing up to
US$18.6 million equivalent (10% of Loan funds) is proposed for expenditures incurred
after March 8, 1996. Retroactive financing will be used for preparation of studies,
training, engineering services, technical assistance and the purchase of some monitoring
and computer equipment.
D. AccouNTs AND AUDITS
4.10 CNA will maintain project accounts. All accounts will adequately reflect
expenditures made in respect of the project, in accordance with sound accounting
practices acceptable to the Bank. A certified copy of the project audit, covering CNA and
IMTA activities (including the participating Regional Offices) prepared by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank, and in accordance with the March 1982 Bank document
"Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World
Bank," will be submitted to the Bank not more than six months after the completion of
each fiscal year. The audit report will include a separate opinion by the auditor on
disbursements against certified statements of expenditure. Statements of expenditure and
other audit-related material will be made available to Bank supervision missions. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government will have the project accounts
audited using procedures acceptable to the Bank, in line with the Bank/Mexico Audit
Agreement of November, 1991 with SECODAM (see para. 6. 1(b)).
E. MONITORING OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND BANK SUPERVISION
4.11  CNA will prepare comprehensive project reports two times a year. These would
cover all aspects of physical and financial implementation and indicators related to project
objectives (Annex H, Table H-3). Additionally, Table H-4 in Annex H presents a summary
of the most important input, output, outcome and impact indicators. These principal
indicators were developed to monitor the projects overall progress in progressing through
a hierarchy of accomplishments, including the impacts related to the main objectives of the
project.
4.12 Monitoring of project implementation should be facilitated by the fact that the
CNA is well-established and has effective procedures for project implementation. During
the first year, supervision would focus on: progress of training programs; and adequacy of



MEXICO - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report         33
project coordination and the Project Management System (PMS) as described in Annex
H. CNA will produce the semiannual reports prepared by the coordination staff. There
will be at least two Bank supervision missions annually. Each supervision mission will
include field visits to regional offices, and visits to training sites, laboratories, survey areas,
etc. Data from the PMS on implementation will be the basis of supervision, reviewing the
progress in the semester by reviewing the tables presented in the quarterly reports,
complemented by other information as required. At negotiations assurances were
obtained that a midterm review will take place no later than May 31, 1999 (combined with
the Semi-Annual Mission), after the second year of project implementation (see para.
6. 1 (c)).
4.13 Because results from this type of project become available gradually during
implementation, it is not possible to supervise the project initially (during the first year)
with all the indicators required to measure impact. Supervision, therefore, concentrates
first on budgetary availability, and indicators that the project is being physically
implemented. Later, as data become available about project costs and returns, real
measures of the impact will be derived from work supported by the operation.
4.14 Indicators related to project objectives. At negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the Government agrees on a set of indicators related to project objectives
(see Annex H, Table H-3) and on a hierarchical tree of primary indicators (see Annex H,
Table H-4) to measure overall project progress in meeting project objectives (see para.
6. 1(d)).
4.15 Annual Cost Estimates, and Work and Procurement Plan. At negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the executing agency (CNA) will present to the Bank an
annual work and procurement plan including cost estimates no later than November 30 of
each year, describing the work to be done in the following project year. (See para. 6. 1(e).)
During project appraisal CNA provided an annual work and procurement plan describing
the work to be done during the remainder of 1996. During project appraisal, assurances
were obtained that the Government will submit to congress the required budget sufficient
to implement the project as presented in this SAR. Subsequent annual plans and cost
estimates and budgets will be reviewed by Bank missions.
4.16 Annual Budget and Planning Review. At negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the annual budget and planning review will take place no later than May 31
of each year (see para. 6.1 (f)). That review would analyze the legislatively-approved
budget and proposed legally-binding work and procurement plan for the upcoming year,
discuss those plans with respect to the project's implementation indicators, and agree on
necessary changes in implementation. The annual budget and planning review would
analyze the annual cost estimates and work and procurement plan and data from the PMS.
It would analyze the training component and activities with data provided by the
supervision. Semiannual reports covering project activities in all components (see para.
6. l(g)) will be presented each semester. The project coordination staff will manage
production of the reports in collaboration with the executing technical units. The annual
reviews will be based on the November 30 Report which would include the work and



34                MEXICO - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report
procurement plan for the upcoming year, including goals for implementation indicators
which ifjustified may include adjustments from previously planned goals for that year. If
acceptable to the Bank, the work and procurement plan and indicators would be approved
at the annual budget and planning review and become legally binding for the subsequent
year.
4.17  Project Midterm Review. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that the
Government would hold a midterm review no later than May 31, 1999 (see para. 6. 1(c)).
The midterm review will also constitute the annual budget and planning review for 1999.
The midterm review will examine progress with project implementation in all components,
based on the implementation and financial indicators, and will analyze economic results
and technical quality of improvements, and project progress in meeting overall objectives
(Annex H, Table H-3 and H-4). The review will examine the results of the training,
technological support and institutional development program; the strengthening of SGT,
SGP, SGAA, regional offices, the establishment and strengthening of river basin councils;
the communication program and technical assistance; and experience with project
institutional arrangements. The effectiveness of integrated water management initiatives
will be a major input for the midterm review. Technical and financial sustainability of
water management activities will be a major consideration during the midterm review.
Data will include all information about project costs and activities, observed or expected
benefits from those activities and financing. All data will be completed for the first
24 months of project implementation. Based on this analysis, the review would
recommend adjustments in project implementation and a schedule to implement these
adjustments.
4.18 Project Launch Seminar. A Project Launch Seminar would be held within three
months of Loan effectiveness to assist with technical, management and institutional
orientation. Particular emphasis would be given to: (a) initiating project operational,
supervision, coordination and management aspects; (b) reviewing and supervising ongoing
technical activities under retroactive financing; and (c) reviewing and approving terms of
reference for activities to be carried out during the first year of Project implementation.
5.   PROJECT ANALYSIS
A. PROJECT BENEFITS
5.1   The project is mainly related to the public goods aspect and is expected to cover
all the national territory through its five main components. It would benefit all Mexicans
through improved weather forecasts and water management because all are subject to
climatological effects and all are water users. To a larger extent it would benefit the 75%
of the Mexican population that resides in arid and semi-arid regions and approximately
750,000 irrigation farmers (through a register of relevant tradable water rights), and over



MEXICO - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report           35
500 urban areas and over 25,000 industries (through dependable water resources
allocation and improved water quality).
5.2   The project would generate significant benefits by improving water resources
management through improved data collection, processing and evaluations; improved
reservoir operation and dam safety; establishing institutional mechanisms and technical
procedures for water resources planning and management at the river basin level; and
improved water rights administration. The project will improve weather forecasting which
will not only benefit water management, but also Mexican society and economy as a
whole. The project can be expected to generate substantial benefits via the enhancement
of meteorological and hydrological information that is used for investment planning in the
water resources sector, and for the operation management and planning of both surface
and groundwater systems. Moreover, substantial benefits will derive from the
implementation of tradable water rights systems, a critical prerequisite for which is the
Project-supported completion of the REPDA. A strengthening of monitoring in the areas
of water pollution from municipal and industrial discharges, an important activity
contemplated in the Project, will contribute greatly to the GOM's efforts to improve water
quality in Mexico. The project will significantly contribute to improvements in the
environment and to poverty alleviation.
5.3   Projects like the WRMP do not generate benefits of the sort typically included in
cost-benefit analyses. It would produce information and technical capabilities, used in
decision-making processes. Such processes are in the area of the operation and
management of natural resources and environmental systems, and in the design and
implementation of public investment programs. This being the case, the economic
justification of the Project is explored using a method that draws on the "risk assessment"
approach (see Annex G). Thus, inferential responses are developed to the following two
related questions that are of obvious relevance for an assessment of the feasibility of the
Project: (a) what is the minimum value of benefits required for an acceptable ratio of
benefits to costs, and (b) are there compelling reasons for expecting that the Project would
yield benefits that are at least as great as these values.
5.4   Ex-post analyses of investment programs designed to improve the reliability of
hydrological and meteorological information and analysis in many countries throughout
the world suggest that programs like the WRMP yield benefits that greatly exceed costs.
Anecdotal evidence of the potential benefits of the project (see Annex G) which highlights
specific instances in which real-time access to more reliable information and evaluations
would have resulted in obvious benefits to Mexican society, strengthen the case for
viewing the Project as economically feasible. For both individual Project components and
the overall Project, using data that significantly understate the potential values relevant for
Mexico, it is clear that the Project's feasibility requires only the most modest expectations
for its success in affecting values of social significance in Mexico. Thus, annualized costs
for the overall project are 230 million NP (US$30. I million--using an exchange rate of 7.5
NP = US$1), and measurable values served by the Project (which substantially
underestimate the actual range of values served by the Project) total 129,047 million NP
(US$17.206 billion). Economic feasibility requires that the Project affect -- increase --



36                MEXICO - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report
values served by the Project by only two-tenths of one percent (0.2%); values served are
expected to increase many times that amount (see Annex G).
5.5   The project has been designed to minimize investment in new monitoring networks
and equipment and to maximize the utilization of existing facilities. Considerable
improvements in water resources planning and management will be achieved through
improvements in existing facilities and improved technical evaluations and modeling of
water systems. Expansion of networks and systems will be limited and gradual. This
approach will ensure a process whereby large benefits will be realized for relatively small
costs.
5.6   The project would improve the: (a) monitoring, evaluation and management of
144 aquifers; (b) monitoring, evaluation and management of water quality in 435 water
bodies; (c) hydrological forecasting and reservoir operation in 19 river basins; (d) 5,000
dam safety inspections; (e) weather forecasting in all parts of the country; (f) regional
water resources planning and management and the establishment and strengthening of 13
river basin councils; and (g) the registration of 300,000 water users in the REPDA. See
Annex H, Table H-3 for details.
5.7   The project would support the consolidation and enforcement of the LAN, to
strengthen the new federalism by securing water rights to all legal water users, to facilitate
transaction of water rights, and to improve water fees collection. Additionally, the project
would support providing a basis and a means for the allocation of water towards more
productive uses (i.e. improving the economic efficiency of water use) in a dynamic setting
where water demands are continually changing, while simultaneously protecting against
aquifer depletion, protecting the water rights of third parties, and reducing water
pollution. This is to be done by supporting the effective functioning of water markets that
are developing following the promulgation of the LAN.
B. ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS
5.8   The project would have a major positive effect on the environment. It would not
finance any new development nor any new hydraulic infrastructure facilities; there will not
be, therefore, any major adverse environmental impacts. The proposed project has been
rated "B" to ensure that sufficient environmental attention and expertise are brought to
bear in the river regional water resources planning and management aspects. The project
would offer strong environmental benefits and provide the GOM with tools to: (a) detect
water contamination and pollution, and establish and enforce discharge standards and
thereby significantly improve water quality; (b) identify and characterize areas of over
(unsustainable) use of surface and groundwater, and develop stabilization plans and
thereby conserve scarce water resources; (c) improve reservoir operation for the benefit of
aquatic and riparian ecosystems; (d) improve water resources planning at the river basin
level with the participation of environmental specialists and river basin councils to ensure
consideration of environmental aspects; and (e) improve allocation of scarce water
resources and water use efficiency. Each regional office of CNA will have an individual



MEXCO - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report          37
professional trained in environmental/natural resources sciences to oversee environmental
aspects in these areas (see Annex G).
C. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
5.9   The proposed project is expected to have a positive effect on water environment
related issues, sustainable intersectoral use of water in general, and in the consolidation of
functions in Mexico. Under the proposed project, the LAN and the new regulatory and
administrative reforms related to water use will create a set circumstances that will
facilitate efficient water use and allocation, and thus, sustainable development.
5.10  The institutional development, technological support and training component has
the purpose of supporting the development of the institutional and organizational structure
and the training of human resources necessary to carry out and oversee the water
resources management functions during and after project implementation. CNA is a
government entity with no legal or financial autonomy. CNA's financing depends directly
and only upon annual budget allocations authorized by the Congress and provided through
SHCP. Although CNA is administratively and technically responsible for water fee
collections, SHCP authorizes and collects the fees which are paid directly to the Federal
Treasury. Water fees collected as well as all other monies paid to the Federal Treasury
have no specific allocation and are not linked to finance activities related to the source.
Hence, the future costs of sustaining the program after project completion will depend
upon the budgetary allocation and not on the amount of water fee collection. Because
CNA is undergoing a transformation from an entity primarily responsible for construction
and operation of hydraulic works to an organization responsible for overseeing the
management of the nations water resources, CNA's primary responsibility in the future
will be water resources management. In the future, because of reduced construction and
operation and maintenance conmmitments, CNA's overall budget will probably decrease
significantly, however budget allocations for water resources management should always
be sufficient because of the priority of these activities. Although it is difficult to quantify
the expected increases in water fee collections, the increases are expected to be in excess
of the cost of the project and specifically in excess of the recurrent costs of project related
water resources management activities after the completion of the project.
D. POVERTY ALLEVIATION
5.11  The proposed project has no direct impact on poverty alleviation but its positive
effects on the environment and high public goods content in both the rural and urban
contexts will help alleviate poverty indirectly. Sustainable water development and
management in rural areas can partially provide the necessary conditions to support
populations in rural areas and thereby reduce migration pressures. Conversely,
unavailability of water or the deterioration of the quantity or quality of water resources
can severely impact public health and quality of life, and can be major factors towards
inducing migrations. Additionally, it has been shown in other parts of the world that
providing water rights to small irrigators, an aspect that the project will support, provides



38                MEXICO - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report
them with legal and economic security, and improves their economic efficiency and their
well being.
E. GENDER LMPACT
5.12 In Mexico, women are the primary family caretakers and users of domestic water.
For female headed households and many conjugal households, women are also responsible
for the management of water for farm use. In a 1992 study for the United Nations
Development Fund for Women it was observed that 30% of the farmsteads within
Mexican irrigation districts are operated by women. Although the project would have no
direct investment in irrigation or domestic water delivery or treatment systems, the overall
improvements in water management will indirectly benefit commnunities and families both
economically and socially (health). Because of their significant status as water users, it
would be beneficial for women to have a say in water management activities. The river
basin councils will have water user representation and the expected presence of some
women representatives would significantly enhance their effectiveness.
F. PARTICIPATION ASPECTS
5.13  One of the central goals of the WRMP would be to promote and foster the
participation of water users and other stakeholders in the various aspects of water
resources planning and management. This would be accomplished through the river basin
councils, as has been initiated positively in the existing Lerma-Chapala River Basin
Council.
G. PROJECT RISKS
5.14  The following four principal risks were identified for the project:
a) New CNA reforms, project management and coordination. CNA is
presently embarking on a series of reforms that will involve changes in
structure, priorities, policies and decentralization programs. Although the
WRMP is in direct accord with these changes, these reforns, which will take
place at the same time as project implementation, could impact the project. To
mitigate the effects of the reforms on project implementation, the project
would include supervision, coordination and monitoring by the various
technical units complemented through a project coordination staff in SGP.
b) Uncertainty regarding budgetary allocations. Project implementation
depends on adequate budget allocations. In Mexico budgetary allocations have
faced uncertainty because of economic and financial conditions. During
appraisal, CNA and SHCP provided assurances that the project was a GOM
priority and that considerable effort would be exerted in the future to ensure
that sufficient budgets would be available. In addition, this risk will be
addressed through monitoring and analyzing CNA annual budget reviews.



MEXICO - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report       39
c) Decentralization, technical skills and capacity building. Decentralization
implies that a substantial part of the WRMP will be implemented by the 13 new
regional offices as these acquire technical and operational capacity. This
process will require considerable support from CNA to the regional offices in
capacity building and training. To mitigate this risk the project includes a
major component, "Institutional Development, Technological Support and
Training", which would be implemented in the training portion with the
participation of IMTA.
5.15 Financial Benefits and Risks. The Borrower has selected LIBOR-based US
dollar single currency loan terms in order to improve its overall liability management and
reduce its risks. It considers US dollars to be an appropriate currency for its debt
management strategy, and prefers the standard country repayment terms for LIBOR-based
single currency loans compared with the shorter final maturity on fixed-rate single
currency loans. This loan constitutes about 12% of the US$1.5 billion loan envelope for
FY 1996 for Mexico.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1   Assurances provided by GOM at negotiations:
a) The Government agrees to: maintain the project coordination staff in SGP in
the regional offices and in each of the technical units with appropriate
functions. (See paras. 2.11 and 4.2.)
b) The Government will have the project accounts audited using procedures
acceptable to the Bank, in line with the Bank/Mexico Audit Agreement of
November, 1991 with SECODAM. (See para. 4.10.)
c) A midterm review will take place no later than May 31, 1999 (combined with
the Semi-Annual Mission), after the second year of project implementation.
(See paras. 4.12 and 4.17.)
d) The project will be monitored based on agreed indicators. (See para. 4.14.)
e) The implementing agency (CNA) will present to the Bank a cost estimate and
annual work and procurement plan no later than November 30 of each year,
describing the work to be done in the following project year. (See para. 4.15.)
f) The annual budget and planning review will take place no later than May 31 of
each year. (See para. 4.16.)
g) Semi-annual reports will be prepared and submitted to the Bank each
semester. (See para. 4.16 and Annex H.)



40                MEXICO - Water Resources Management Project/Staff Appraisal Report
6.2   Conditions of Loan Effectiveness: NAFIN will sign an agreement with the
Government for the transfer of the loan proceeds to the executing agency (CNA). (See
para. 3.3.)
6.3   Conditions of Disbursement: None
6.4   Recommendation: With these agreements and conditions, the project would be
eligible for a Bank loan of US$186.5 million with a term of 15 years, including a three-
year grace period.



ANNEXES






Page
Annex A:                 Legal and Regulatory Framework and Institutional Aspects ...........                                                  ............       1
A-I         Organizational Structure   ........................................................                                                      5
A-2         Regional Structure   ........................................................                                                            6






MEXICO
WATER RESOURCES AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX A: LEGAL AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK,
AND INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS
I. Legal and Regulatory Framework
1.    The Mexican Constitution initiated modem regulatory jurisdiction of water resources
in the country. Since its adoption in 1917, a series of laws and regulations have been
promulgated that have relation to water resources use and management in Mexico. The
following is a brief description of the various pertinent laws and regulations.
2.    Article 27 of the Constitution (adopted in 1917) recognizes the Nation as the owner of
all water within the territory and authorizes the government to administer these resources and
to grant "concessions" for water use.
3.    Article 115 of the Constitution (as modified in 1985) grants to the municipal
governments, with the assistance of the state governments as necessary, the responsibility for
municipal water delivery systems.
4.    The National Water Law (Ley de Aguas Nacionales - LAN) enacted in 1992 provides
the legal framework for water administration and for the granting of water right permits to
individuals or groups of individuals for periods up to 50 years through the administrative
authority of the National Water Commission (Comisi6n Nacional del Agua - CNA). Water
right permits are granted for both the use of water and for discharging water into rivers and
other water bodies. In the case of discharges, water right permits include water quality
parameter requirements. These water right permits are transferable and may be bought and
sold as long as it is determined that the transfer is technically feasible and will not adversely
impact uncompensated third parties. The LAN establishes a National Public Water Rights
Register to be maintained by CNA. All water right permits are to be recorded in the register,
as well as their extensions, modifications, suspensions, terminations and transfers. CNA has
the authority to fine water users for not having permits or for using or discharging water not
in accordance with their permits.
5.    The Regulations for the LAN (issued in 1994) provide the procedural and
administrative details for the implementation of the law. Specific time periods for
administrative actions, and arbitration procedures to resolve conflicts are presented in



2                     Annex A: Legal and Regulatory Framework, and Institutional Aspects
the Regulations. Because the Regulations were issued by means of a Presidential decree, they
can be more easily modified than the LAN, when required.
6.    The Federal Rights Law provide the legal framework and mechanisms for the Federal
Government to charge for the diversion and use of water, and for the discharge of water into
water bodies when the quality of the water discharged exceeds predefined parameters. The use
of water for agricultural production is exempted from these water charges. The Federal Tax
Law, the Law for Contribution for Improvements in Civil Works and the Federal Fiscal Code
complete the legal/fiscal framework for the regulation of water charges.
7.    The General Law for Ecological Balance and Environmental Protection establishes the
regulatory responsibilities of the Federal, State, and Municipal governments in the protection
of the environment and requires environmental assessments for actions that have
environmental impact.
8.    The International Boundary and Water Treaty between Mexico and the United States
of America defines the distribution and conservation of the water resources of the Colorado,
Rio Grande and Tijuana Rivers.
II. Institutional Aspects
Institutional Setting
9.    Mexican water resources policy is presented in the National Water Plan 1995-2000
(Programa Nacional Hidraulica 1995 - 2000 - PNH). PNH is oriented toward ensuring the
availability of water to satisfy the needs of the population and promote the development of
economic activities in a manner that is environmentally compatible and sustainable in each
region of the country. In accordance with this policy, avenues must be found for sustainable
development which requires establishing control and conditionalities on water usage such that
economic development is compatible with environmental protection. The importance that the
GOM bestows on the environment and on sustainable use of water resources is manifest in the
decision to relocate CNA from the old Agriculture and Water Resources Ministry to the newly
created environment ministry, SEMARNAP. This change has strengthened the authority and
responsibility that CNA has in the administration and management of water resources, because
it is no longer located within a Ministry responsible for one sector (agriculture) and therefore
permits an integrated management approach as established in the PNH and the LAN. CNA
has set a new agenda to modernize and decentralize the management of the nation's water
resources considering the needs of all uses in an environmentally sustainable manner. The
WRMP is the instrument that the GOM has designed to carry out this new agenda.
10.   CNA was created in 1989 to unite all aspects of water management. CNA has a
central office located in Mexico City and 6 regional offices, as follows: Northwest, in Ciudad
Obreg6n, Sonora; North, in Torre6n, Coahuila; Northeast, in San Luis Potosf, San Luis
Potosf; Southeast, in Merida, Yucatan; Lerma-Balsas, in Quer6taro, Quer6taro; and Valley of
Mexico, in Ciudad de Mexico, Distrito Federal. In addition, CNA has state offices located in



Annex A: Legal and Regulatory Framework, and Institutional Aspects                 3
each of the 31 state capitals and the Federal District. CNA has functioned in a centralized
way, but has recently adopted and is currently implementing a policy whereby: (a) the Central
Office functions will include oversight of water management activities and establishment of
overall policy, criteria and uniform guidelines and procedures; and (b) the Regional Offices
will have principle responsibility for water management, including: (i) the development of
river basin plans; (ii) the promotion and strengthening of basin councils; (iii) the coordination
of water resources planning and management activities both by public and private sector
participants; (iv) water quantity and quality monitoring activities; (v) reservoir operation;
(vi) the registry of water users into the National Public Water Rights Register; and (vii) dam
safety.
11.    At each level (central and regional) CNA has a similar organizational structure. The
Director General is responsible for managing the agency and reports directly to the Secretary
of SEMARNAP. There are six General Subdirectorates, five are technical and the sixth
(General Subdirectorate for Administration) handles administrative functions such as
personnel, equipment and supplies and contract administration. (See Chart A-1.) The 2 largest
technical General Subdirectorates are Construction and Operations, where presently the
majority of personnel and budget are allocated. The three General Subdirectorates in CNA that
would have direct responsibilities for the implementation of the Project are: (a) the Technical
General Subdirectorate (Subdirecci6n General T&enica, SGT), responsible for aspects related
to meteorology (GSMN), surface water (GASIR), groundwater (GAS), water quality (GSCA)
and dam safety (CT); (b) the Planning General Subdirectorate (Subdirecci6n General de
Programaci6n, SGP), responsible for water resources planning and river basin council
establishment and strengthening; and (c) the Water Administration General Subdirectorate
(Subdirecci6n General de Administraci6n del Agua, SGAA), responsible for water rights
administration. Because these three departments encompass responsibilities for all aspects of
water resources management and their being located within one institution with clearly defined
legal responsibilities, CNA's organizational structure is very well suited to planning,
coordinating and implementing a comprehensive integrated water resource management
program. At the regional level the 6 functional areas are maintained in the organizational
structure under the direction of a regional manager who depends directly to the Director
General. (See Chart A-2)
12.    Presently the CNA Regional Office boundaries are along State lines. As stated in the
PNH, GOM has recently decided to reorganize CNA's regional dependencies into 13 regional
offices with their boundaries being located along river basin boundaries. This reorganization
will significantly facilitate the regional offices' abilities to carry out their water management
responsibilities in an integrated way, because river basins will be located totally within the
geographical limits of the Regional Offices. The new regional offices are shown on the
backpiece cover map and are the following: (a) Baja California Peninsula; (b) Upper
Northwest; (c) Lower Northwest; (d) Central Pacific; (e) Southern Pacific; (f) Northern
Border; (g) Northern Central Basins; (h) Lerma-Santiago; (i) Northern Gulf; (j) Central Gulf;
(k) Southern Gulf; (1) Yucatan Peninsula; and (m) Valley of Mexico.



4                      Annex A: Legal and Regulatory Framework, and Institutional Aspects
13.   In accordance with the LAN, CNA is the national water authority with complete
responsibility for water rights administration, the management of the nations water resources and
dam safety. Other entities, including the Federal Electricity Commission (Comision Federal de
Electricidad - CFE), both public and private that operate reservoirs must do so under CNA
authorization and oversight. The Director General of CNA presides over a Technical Committee
for the Operation of Hydraulic Works. The committee makes overall decisions relative to the
operation of the nation's reservoirs (including the 64 hydropower dams operated by CFE) and
considerations related to floods, droughts, multiple uses (irrigation, municipal and industrial,
hydropower, navigation, recreation, etc.) and environmental protection. In addition to CNA
authorities and technical personnel, a CFE representative participates on the committee.
14.   The Mexican Institute for Water Technology (Instituto Mexicano de Tecnologia del Agua,
IMTA) is responsible for water related research, technology evaluation and transfer, and for
training. It coordinates work being done at universities, research centers and other institutions in
Mexico and internationally, and has cooperative relationships with various water related entities
throughout the world. IMTA's participation in the area of training subcomponent as well as in
other aspects of the project will be important to its success.



Chart A-1
NATIONAL WATER COMMISSION
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
ll   GEERALDIRECTORATE                                                                              ;
| Participation Unit     1                                                            |       Fiscal Review and
Settlement Unit                                   CD
|   Genoral ComptrollerZI                                                               |      Legal Affairs Unit
|Social Communicotion unit| 
I                                                  I                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
General Subdirectorate      General Subd||rectorae    General Subdire                           GenalGnera Subdictorate                 Goneral ubdirectorate
SWatervces Group          Design Group             UnItpneral                   Tchnical Consultancy        Studies for               Personnel Management         O
Services  toratp                                            clorat             Technicnr ated Waetr                                Group
Hydraulic nfrairrigteco. Districts GruarudatrGopDveomndru
__________________ Potable Water andcSurface WaterltancStd ie                                 MaeronaelMent Gru
a          U~Snitainsupr Group           river Ing.eGroupManagemen ofoup
W  Resources
j  Wet r Fee   l    q  ~~Hydraulic Infra-  l_  Tech. Districts Group       _GonwtrrupDvovlop ment Group                         _|Fnni  eore  
|WConterol Group           s |tructure ConsGroup  -| Potable Water and         _  Sundfaco   , Water and     Management of|Materialma  Sroupple                      0
PuliecWateriRightsoSanntationDesign                 peretion Cort   of             Water Qua Grity an        Water Reso
REgisutryiGroupnGrou                               Dams andmi Pumping Pl
_CDeveiontro t Group                               Potable Water aU_  NetiondMetaorolo-d_  Budgstiur  rtoun nd
Emergency Managemente Waer                        MaagJ
SCoraniation Soupport |roup1     ierE Group               W
to Municip_h  ant St Su   and Ptaneng Group
Operationg  orgafication   |   -  t  Quali audeliosp
Registry ~CotrcngGru Go  Gru                Dater and Pupnegy Plant         SaGrtoup     Gru
Gt roura                                                  Prrotection  and
|~~~~~~~              ~Ntoa Meteorolo-             Budgtin mentup
Coordination of Efficiat        Bai|niern  n
Wter Munipd Energ UStae        Gru
O peratng Orgarizadon   ge
llRegional Ofie



Chart A-2
NATIONAL WATER COMMISSION
REGIONAL STRUCTURE
REGIONAL MANAGER
Rural Programs and Social                                        .
Participation Unit                                                                                Regional
Comptroler
Social Communication Unit iLegal Affairs Unit
00
Department       ll|       Department       ll|       Department               |       Technical        llDepartment               ll|       Departmont             t
of Water Administration         ot Construction             of Operations                    Department iof Panning cof Adminstration
| Personnel Management
Water Fee                                                     ~~~~~~~Mateorology and                               -|GFoup               
Colletion Fand               structure  ru                                               ufc Group   Grup       _ntagratad Water 
Control Group                                    _[Organization Support    1                              l      Resources Planning
Gioup                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~Group             Fiaca  eources
_{ Groundwater Group  |                              |       Management Group    CD
Puli Wte RghsWatef Supply and            | 
_Registry t,roup           _Sanitation Group        I._ Operation and                     attinGop                      aorhc                    MtraiedSpls| 
Conservation Group               Water Quality and               .gpoMaeilndSpie
Sanitation Group                                                                 0-o  N  Mtta  ndSple
Information               Group                    F
_  Construction     |                                                               |   System                 II
Support Group                                                                       i   Group
2



Page
Annex B:       Institutional Development, Technological Support and Training .................1






MEXICO
WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX B: INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT, TECHNOLOGICAL
SUPPORT, AND TRAINING
L Introduction
1.    Technology applied to the water sector in Mexico represents a gap when
compared to that utilized in developed countries. This fact makes of paramount
importance the development and introduction of new alternative technologies to:
(a) increase information and understanding about the nations water resources; (b) to
improve the planning and management of water resources; and (c) to improve the
operation of existing hydraulic infrastructure. This will require a permanent program of
education and training, transfer of technology and development of human resources aimed
at improving the CNA's capacity for integrated water management and sustainable
development.
IL Institutional Development
2.    The strategy proposed for the project component on Institutional Development,
Technological Support and Training, includes the following goals:
a) Support the decentralization of water resources management at the river basin
level;
b) Promote the establishment and strengthening of river basin councils;
c) Improve the technological resources and the professional skills of personnel
in central and regional offices;
d) Strengthen water rights administration and the collection of water fees;
e) Acquisition of training equipment and materials for improvement of central and
regional office training facilities;
f) Development of key international technological cooperation for water
resources management;
g) Intensive training programs in water resource management issues; and
h) Communication programs in the river basin councils.
3.    The institutional development, technological support and training component has
the purpose of supporting the development of the institutional and organizational structure



2            Annex B: Institutional Development, Technological Support, and Training
and the training of human resources necessary to carry out and oversee the water
resources management functions during and after project implementation.
4.    This project component intends to cover the CNA water management activities at
all levels, and will provide support to the central Departments of Planning, Water
Administration and Technical, as well as to the Regional Offices and the River Basin
Councils.
m. Technological Support
5.    The Water Resources Management Project will not include investment in new
infrastructure, but will be an instrument to assist CNA in modernizing its water
management activities and the operation of existing infrastructure. This will require
reliable, timely and updated information which will be acquired through upgrading
monitoring networks, and improving analytical capabilities to assist in water management
decision making. National and international technical assistance programs will be required
to provide technology transfer to the various offices of CNA and to the river basin
councils.
6.    The areas identified in which technological support will be required through
national and international assistance include: (a) the development of improved weather
forecasting methods to meet the increasing demand for specific meteorological products
inside CNA and outside for the diverse user sectors; (b) the establishment of 24 telemetric
hydrological networks in river basins affected by severe hydrometeorological events such
as floods, tropical storms, hurricanes, etc.; (c) the development of hydrological forecasting
systems for the prevention of floods and dam safety management and operation in
emergency situations in the main Mexican river basins; (d) the establishment of the
telecommunications and computer networks in all offices of CNA; (e) the updating of
procedure manuals for the safety of major dams in Mexico; (f) studies on water quality
monitoring, classification of national water bodies and on environment impact;
(g) modernization of the groundwater monitoring networks, including specific studies in
144 over exploited aquifers; (h) the necessary studies for an effective planning and
development of the water resources in Mexico; (i) the studies for integrated river basin
master plans and management; (j) the review and adaptation of modem technologies to be
applied to the registry and inscription of water users; and (k) the development of
information systems (including GIS) for the transmission, exchange and manipulation of
data inside and outside CNA.
IV. Education and Training
7.    The objectives of the education and training program in the WRMP for CNA's
personnel include the formation of human resources qualified to fully understand the
problems of the water sector and aimed to offer feasible technical and socio-economic
solutions that enabling sustainable development of the water sector in Mexico.



Annex B: Institutional Development, Technological Support, and Training   3
8.   In defining the needs for education and training of personnel of CNA, several
modalities will be considered: (a) updating personnel on the application of new techniques
or methodologies for technical, administrative or legal areas of CNA, (b) short-term
courses on new technological development (computer software and hardware); (c) courses
of specialization in technical areas; (d) professional development, including postgraduates
courses (M. Sc. and Ph. D); and (e) exchange of specialists, through stays of international
experts in Mexico or having Mexican specialists trained in selected institutions in foreign
countries.
9.    Training is foreseen to be provided for CNA's staff at the central and regional
levels in the following areas:
A. Management, Information, Communication and Participation Techniques
- Problem analysis and decision making
- Productivity workshop, work quality and excellence
- Planning and production control techniques
- Teamwork and team building
- Commercialization
B. Surface Water
- Surface hydrology
- Channel hydraulics
- Water availability and water balances
- Simulation models for hydraulic systems operation
- Flood routing through reservoirs and in river channels
- River hydraulics and margin protection
- Streamflow gauging
- Sediment transport
- Surface water control mechanisms and structures
- Hydrological forecasting
- Estimating rainfall from satellite data
- Estimating rainfall from radar data
- Hydrological modeling
- Evaluation of environmental impacts from surface water contamination and overuse
- Operation and maintenance of hydrometric monitoring equipment
C. Meteorology and Climatology
- Meteorology Classes I, II, m and IV
- Operation and maintenance of radiosondes
- Numerical Forecasting Models
- Commercialization
- Meteorology of radars



4           Annex B: Institutional Development, Technological Support, and Training
- Hydrometeorology
- Climatology
- Evaluation of data from GOES 8 and GOES 9 satellites
- Operation and maintenance of meteorological monitoring equipment
D. Groundwater
- Evaluation and use of groundwater
- Operation and maintenance of groundwater monitoring equipment
- Well hydraulics and design
- Aquifer contamination
- Hydrogeology
- Geophysics
- Hydrogeochemistry
- Aquifer recuperation
- Evaluation of environmental impacts from aquifer contamination and overpumping
- Groundwater modeling (Modflow, etc.)
- Conjunctive groundwater/surface water modeling
E. Water Quality and Laboratories
- Analytical physiochemical methods
- Reference materials
- Management of various laboratory equipment
- Microbiology
- Toxicology
- Laboratory administration
- Systems of accreditation and certification of laboratories
- Technology of water quality monitoring
- Environmental consideration in water quality
- Biological monitoring techniques
- Environmental toxicology
F. Dam Safety
- Dam safety workshops
- Dam safety
- Inflow design flood studies
- Dam design
- Dam operation and maintenance
- Dam instrumentation



Annex B: Institutional Development, Technological Support, and Training     5
G. Water Resources Planning
- Water use and allocation models
- Conjunctive use groundwater/surface water models
- Hydro-socio-economic models
- Diagnostics
- River simulation models for quantity and quality
- River basin management financial sustainability
- River basin planning and management
- River basin council formation and strengthening
- Stakeholder participation in water resources planning and management
- Environmental aspects of river basin planning and management
- Water quality improvement planning
H. Information Systems
- Use and maintenance of commercial software
- Development of georeferenced data bases
- Geographic information systems
- Use of remote sensing in water resources management
- Use of and applications of global positioning system
- Hardware (computer and telecommunications equipment) operation and maintenance
- Analysis and design of information systems
I. Water Rights Administration
- Water law
- Water rights administration
- Water user support and registry assistance
- Water rights regulation and control
- Charging and collection of water fees
10.   In implementing the training program it is foreseen to make use of all existing
education facilities in Mexico, and it is also planned that CNA personnel will attend
foreign institutions to cover specific areas or topics of interest to CNA.






Page
Annex C:         Water Quantity and Quality Monitoring Improvements and Assessments ....                     1
C-i    Implementation Plan for the Meteorological Monitoring Network
Subcomponent .........................................................3
C-2    Implementation Plan for the Hydrometric, Climatological, Sediment and
Reservoir Levels Monitoring Network Subcomponent  ..............            .................. 8
C-3    Implementation Plan for the Groundwater Monitoring Improvements
and Assessments Subcomponent ......................................... ...............    12
C-4    Implementation Plan for the Water Quality Monitoring and Laboratory
Subcomponent  ........................................................                      15






MEXICO
WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX C: WATER QUANTITY AND QUALITY MONITORING
IMPROVEMENTS AND ASSESSMENTS
Introduction
I.    This annex discusses the WRMP activities related to improvements in the water quantity and
quality monitoring networks in Mexico. The annex is presented in a tabular format which provides
summary information on the activities of each of the subcomponents. For more detail the Project
Implementation Plan prepared by CNA should be referenced.
Table C-1: Meteorological Monitoring Network
Table C-2: Hydrometric, Climatological, Sediment and Reservoir Levels Monitoring Network
Table C-3: Groundwater Monitoring Network
Table C-4: Water Quality Monitoring Network and Laboratories
2.    In general terns, the monitoring systems presently in use present problems of (a) obsolete
equipment often in disrepair; (b) antiquated and inefficient procedures; (c) insufflicient personnel lacking
adequate training; (d) inadequate and underfunded operation and maintenance programs; (e)
insufficient and obsolete computer and telecommunications systems; and (f) diverse and inefficient data
validation, storage and retrieval programs.
3 .    The WRMP has the basic strategy of gradually moving towards the modernization of the
monitoring systems, learning from initial results and adjusting the programs along the way. Initial
activities and methodologies will be closely monitored and will be adapted and extended in
subsequent actions with as much flexibility as possible.
4.    The WRMP activities are designed to emphasize improving the use and operability of
existing data and networks prior to any network expansion. The project gives priority to the
following activities:
a) the design and installation (in a gradual manner) of computer and telecommunications
networks (hardware y software) at the state, regional and central levels of CNA to
permit: (i) the development and maintenance of interconnected data banks; (ii) the use
of modern computer programs for data manipulation and analysis; (iii) the easy
interchange of information, programs and files; and (iv) electronic communication
internal and external to CNA, including international
b) the rescue and digitalization of historic data and its introduction into well designed
interconnected data banks;



2          Annex C: Water Quantity and Quality Monitoring Improvements and Assessments
c) the design, upgrading and continuous maintenance of laboratories, monitoring
networks and information systems;
d) the establishment and implementation of procedures for the continuous maintenance
and updating of data banks; and
e) the training of personnel and institutional strengthening in modem methods of (i) data
collection, processing, storage and retrieval; (ii) analysis, modeling and forecasting;
and (iii) use of computer systems and tools such as GIS (see Annex F).
5.    These activities will bring large benefits for relatively low costs when compared to the
expansion of monitoring networks. As a second phase, the Project will include the design and
implementation of expanded monitoring networks based on the then improved knowledge of
problems and needs.



Table C-1
Implementation Plan for the Meteorological Monitoring Network Subcomponent
Background - Until the late 1 980s, the Mexican Meteorological Service was a classic service relying on analog instruments, manualy observed and with the data noted with pencil
and paper. Data was sent to Mexico City via voice telephone, high frequency radio or radio teletype.
In 1989, with the creation of the CNA and the inclusion of the GSMN into this organization, a major modernization effort was undertaken. This modernization effort was justified
under the LAN which mandated CNA to become a modern regulatory agency for the administration and control of water in a sustainable manner, to promote the participation of the
users, and to consolidate the necessary infrastructure for the study of climatologicaL hydrological and hydrometric phenomena, and the application of the knowledge obtained from
these studies
The modenization plan included the goals of having Mexico meet minimum data colection standards as recommended by the WMO in both surface and upper air observational station
densities, and almost complete Doppler radar coverage. The major thrusts of the modenization program were to convert to a fully automated and digitized data collection and
processing system, to increase the amount and quality of data collected, to have computers do the most processing possible and to increase both the quality and quantity of forecast
products utilizing a fuly modern digital communication system. This modernization program envisioned a major leap forward, bypassing a full technological generation. This change
in technology and way of performing the routine tasks in GSMN has put a strain on all resources, personnel, facilities and funding. For example, the requiremrent for field
meteorological observers and technicians was significantly reduced, while the requirement for highly trained and skiled computer engineers and meteorologists increased. The newv
technology also meant that any voice communication of data was far too slow. Automated observing systems with digital data transmission via satelite replaced many manual analog
systems throughout the country. In the Mexico City GSMN headquarters, computers were installed to receive and process this data. The existing 5 analog meteorological radars were
upgraded to digitized Doppler capable radars and another 7 new Doppler capable radars were installed. Eleven fully automated upper air sounding systems replaced some of the WWn 
era upper air systems, leaving 5 of the original 10 old systems as part of the network. Some 650 automated Data Collection Platforms (DCP)s were installed throughout the country.
Only some 150 stations were operational in December 1995.
During the initial efforts of the modernization program, great and positive strides were taken as the result of imaginative and dedicated leadership in GSMN and CNA The
requirement for field meteorological observers and technicians was significantly reduced, while the requirement for highly trained and skiDed computer engineers and programmers
was increasing. The new technology also meant that any voice communication of data was far too slow. During the last 5 years GSMN has instaDled many new types of equipment, not
just simply by replacing existing equipment, but by replacing old technologies with new ones.
During the first phase of this modernization prgram, the following eqtuipment was instaled: (a) seven new digitized Doppler Radars; (b) five analog radars updated to Doppler
digitized radars; (c) six hundred automatic climatological stations (DCPs); (d) sixty five automatic synoptic stations; (e) eleven automated radiosonde stations, (f) one ground receiver
station for the automated climatological and synoptic stations; and (g) one meteorological satellite ground receiving station (GOES) with dedicated digital satellite telecommunicatinas
satelite channel.
The 1995 faltering of the Mexican economy right at the peak of this first modernization program contributed to the inability of accomplish some of the godas and to sever equipment
outages for long periods of time due to lack of funds for maintenance. Although much progress has been made, the GSMN is still unable to meet the ful requirements of the users, and
further actions are required to complete the total objectives.
The foDlowing problems remnin (a) maintenance, calibration and logistical support problems seriously reduce the data availability, (b) the problems with historical data retrieval,
digitizing and processing and the resulting lack of historical statistical data seriously hamper climatology, (c) lack of human resources, both in number and of necessary skils limit the
progress of the mnodanization efforts, and (d) the absence of information handling tools and equipment to integrate and process the available data also limit the development of the
service and its products.
Overall Objective - TBe objectives ofthis b aompurert a to support GSMN at the centrl and regional levels im (a) mrnxoving the coDlection, analysis, and synthesis data related to
atmospheric ph _m;mem   and (b) producing and providing meteorological and climatological infomation and forecasts to other parts of CNA, other agencies and to the general public.



Table C-1
Implementation Plan for the Meteorological Monitoring Network Subcomponent
Activity                   Objective                   Present Status              1996/97 Actions             1998- 2001 Actions   Post WRMP
1. Upper Air Network       A fully automated network of  Eleven automated stations and  Replacement of 5 manual  FuUy operational   An additional 2
18 upper air systems. Each of  five manual stations.   radiosonde systems with     network of 16 stations.  automated stations.
these stations will have a                             automatic systems.
sateUite data transmission  Five stations without                                  Maintaining all
system and a hydrogen      Hydrogen generators         nstaRation of new hydrogen    hydrogen generators                         I
generator.                                             generators and heavy        fully operational.
AU hydrogen generators need   maintenance on existing
Conversion of all stations  maintenance. At least two are  generators.             Changeover of all
from the OMEGA location    out of service.                                         systems to the Global
system to the Global                                                               Positioning System
Positioning System (GPS).  Prior to 2000, the presently                            (GPS).
used OMEGA positioning
system is be shut down. All
stations must be converted
prior to the complete shut
down of the OMEGA System.
2. Rehabilitation and      All WMO synoptic stations   Many of these stations have    Rehabilitation of 79 Manual    Continued operation  Continued opemtion  /0
Continuing Maintenance   fully operational and      old, defective and broken   synoptic stations by replacing   and maintenance.  and maintenance. 
of the 79 Conventional   providing data at synoptic  equipment and are not      old, broken and defective
Synoptic Meteorological   times.                    providing all required data.    instruments.
Stalons                                                                                                                                                   0
Establish and maintain a
quality maintenance program..
3. Meteorological Radar    A total of 21 installed     A total of 12 radars are now  Develop calibration      Complete installation    Continue developing
Network                 meteorological radars       installed. AU have Doppler    procedures and calibrate all    of the 2 new radars.    new and more
positioned to provide national  capability.            radars to provide users with                      accurate radar
coverage for forecasting sever                         calibrated data.            Develop and provide    products.
weather wamings, rainfal   Five of these radars were                               radar products to
estimates and assist with early  updated for Doppler   Begin action on purchasing 2   users.             Assure maintenance.
flood warnings.            capability, the other 7 were  additional radars toward the
recently instaUed with full    final goal.             Implement the         Installation of the
Doppler capability.                                    maintenance           remaining 7 radars       6
Implementation of a        procedures.
This data is now only      maintenance and calibration                       Replacement of the
available at the GSMN.     system for all radars                             original S raias.



Table C-1
Implementation Plan for the Meteorological Monitoring Network Subcomponent
Activity                    Objective                   Present Sttus               1996/97 Actions             1998- 2001 Actions      Post WRIM
4. Satellite Ground Station   To have real time satellite  Only one geostationary   Begin actions to obtain one  Acquire and install 2  Development of
Network                  imagery available at regional   satellite may be received now   orbiting satellite receiving  additional TnROS  more satellite
center.                    at any one time.             ground station and one      systems at regional     imagery products.
geostationary satellite ground   centers as the centers
To have geostationary imagery  The present equiprnent cannot  receiving station for the  become operational.
available from both the     receive the new down link   national center.
eastern and western        formats.                                                Integration of satellite
geostationary satellites.                               Upgrade the present ground    imagery into overall
No proposed regional centers   station to receive the new  meteorological and
To upgrade present equipment  have any satellite receivers.    format.              hydrological foreasting.
to receive the new, higher
resolution data.            Limited photo interpretation    Begin training on photo  Continue trining on
capability now exists.      interpretations.            photo interpretation
Have personnel trained and
capable in stellite imagery
photo interpretation                                                                                                                0
5. Lightenlng Detctor      To have a lightening detection  No lighting detection systems   Write specifications for  Complete installation of   Evaluation of data  o
Network                  system that will:           are now part of the CNA     installation.               network.                and requirements 
for netwvrk
(a) Help make rainfall                                  Prepare and issue contract for   Begin integration of  expansion .
cstimates in areas that the                         installation.                lightening data into
radars cannot rselL                                                              forecast and radar                              o
Begin installation.         rainfall estimates etc.                         i
(b) Determine the value of
this type of device in both
metesorlogical and
hydrological forecasting in
Mexico.
6. Historical Data Bank    To create a Mexican national   Present system is limited and   Develop specifications for  Develop and implement   Continuation of
digitized climate data bank.    not suitable for the amount of   data bank.         quality control elements.   digitizing and
data that Mexico has to                                                         archiving until all
Digitiz all historical clirnate   archive.              Develop contract            Continue on with data   historical data has
data now on paper.                                      specifications.             entry and quality control.  been digitized and
quality checked.
Assure quality of archived                             Issue contract.
data
Begin digitizing and archiving



Table C-1
Implementation Plan for the Meteorological Monitoring Networc Subcomponent
Activity                    Objective                   Present Status              1996197 Actions             1998- 2001 Actions    Post WRMP
7. Installation of          Provide increased facilities  A small, ill-equipped room  Perform facilities work to  Complete facilities  Maintain labotey
nstrument Hon            for insrumentation repair and   now serves as an inadequate    prepare laboratory area.  work and install  and upgrade as
Laboratory               support with adequate and   area,                                                    laboratory equipment  necessary
correct calibration equipment                           Order laboratory maintenance
Calibration equipment not   and calibration equipment and
adequate or not present.    spares.
Provide Training for technical
personnel.
8. Augmentation of          To have adequate professional  Very lhmited staff for even the   Develop position descriptions   Continue to acqire    Continued
Professional and         and technical staff trained  present GSMN activities.    for the new personnel.      new professional staff  development of          .
Technical Staff          and capable of performing and                                                        while providing      professional staff as
managing the end results of                             Begin recruitment both from    training to existing  need is defined by
the modemization program.                               within and from without CNA   staff              program
of approximately 25                             requirements.
This is a critical element,                             professionals each year for 6
years
9. Rehabilitation and       To restore the existing     Fewer than 150 stations are  Write terms of reference and    Continuation of  Expansion of the
Maintenance of           network of 665 automatic    now reporting out of the     contracts to:               improving            automated suface         o
Automatic Ground         stations to operation.       original 665 stations installed                         maintenance and      netwvrk towards Kme
Stations Used for                                     duing the past three years.    (a) Correct design problems.   calibration to assure   2000 stations to meet
ColecHon of              To correct some original                                                             quality of data      the geneald WMO
Meteorological and       design deficiencies.                                     (b) Deternine which stations   received.        standards for area
Hydrologic Data                                                                       cannot be supporteL                          data collection.
To calibrate the systems to
assure accurate data.                                   (c) Restore operation of all                     Convert existing
possible stations.                            mamal synoptic
To provide contimning                                                                                    stations to   tic
maintenance on these stations                           (d) Calibrate station data.                      stations.
Perform a survey on station                             (e) Provide for continued
locations that cannot be                                   high quality maintenance
suppted                                                    to assure data is received
at GSMN.



Annex C: Water Quantity and Quality Monitoring Inprovements and Assessmeats 7
I,
_________   ___________ ai u!1  
huh                              a.tS 
06_          _  _   _   _  _   _   _    _   _  _   _   _   _  _   j
J_ _  _   _   _  _   _   _   1  i_                         _   _   _  _
!t.Ii~~~~~~~~~~~i   ill   ~~~~~~~~~~~~ge



Table C-2
Implementation Plan for the Hydrometric, Climatological, Sediment and Reseoir Leves Monitoring Network Subcomponent
Backgrund - Systematic hydlogical obsatins wr stared in Mexico in 1921, jointly wit rdated rainll climatological obsrans. Tnern*s, collectiy refto as                      o
hydroclimatological netwks, ae curretly undr CNA's GASIR (S*wcc Wates and Rive Engineing Group). GASIR has fou fimctcoal umits: Opeatal Hydrology, Hydrolgical
Analysis. Hydrorndry and Informatio Banks. Te Hydclimatological Service is decentralized through CNAs Regional and State Divisions; at each of'wich that are technical tnits. Besddes
GASR, sme sations we opnated by be Cmmion for Intfrnational Borders and Wates and the Fedeal Electicity Comamniion (CFE). he hydrocimatologicl netwuk is coadiated with
the newurk of CNA's National Wea  Serice (GSMN). A short number of real-time automated netwoks vue established begiming in 1985.
The climatological netwk peaked in 1989 with 3855 raingauges. Cmuntly that are 3281 raingauges, 88% of which depend on CNA, mowly (2926 stafions) though GASt At 90ffe oftbesc
stations thtre   also evaporation pans and only 7% (216) have ranfall recrders and 5% record relative humidity. Data from slightly ova 600 stations ae trnsmited daily. The hdrometric
(rivergauge) ndwkpeaked in 1980 with 1257 stations from where it declinedto 1055 stations curently. Ofthese, tawe ucmrendy 818 river gauges on natral watecom pa, ncticallyallR
of whichhave me than 1,000 kn2 of catdmh t area At 113 ofthese stations, suspended sediments we also observed, whilerecnds are kptfor 182 reseoirs. Ofthehydromtic (rimv
gauge) netwur, 222 transmit data daily through radio (100 units), telephone or fax GASIRs networks ae operated through 590 full-tn gauging technicians and 157 assistant gauging
tecniians, as vwll as 2,789 pait-me obseves who receive a snall indemnity for their war. According to WMO netwrk criteia (1994), the hydrmrtic nework is 57%/ deficint and 711
new stations would be needed to achieve ninimum  network density citeria. As for the clinatological (raingauge) netwod it is deficient by 41% and 2,000 new staions uld be needed to
achieve standard density.
to
The five telemetry netwrks that had bean established for reservoir management and flood waniing purposes have become dysfunctional because of cuts in the mntamenance budget Mainenae
was carried out under contract, and becase of lack of fuinds no maintenance contracts wer issued The impact of budget cuts on the conventional hydroclimatological netwk was less severe
because this network was maintained by individuals on the CNA payroll.
Hydroclimtological data are dispersed over one climatological and three hydrological data systems based on prnt and magnetic media Data adry is way behind schedule and thae is a nied to  I
establish sandards and secure convenient data access for users. Data need to be integratd with thoe collected by GSMN, with automated data netwks and with spatal data (radar, satdlite).  sO
Data quality control and feedback to field stations is insufficient A rating tank for current meters did exist but was closed in 1994. A new (circular) rating tank is currently under constructionL
GASIR staffnumbers nearly 100, of which45% are professional and technical, and 55% are general services staff. Inthe field, and thus not directly dependent of GASIR, that are 854 pronnelI
responsible for gauging stations as well as 1300 that work at the decentralized level (Regional and State).                                                                o
GASIRhas a portfolio of studies for various purposes with a large backlog Such studies concern subjects such as water balance and water availability for various purposes, flood contrl and
emergency management, and updating of infamation on river flow, sediment transport and reservoirs.
Lack of adequate hydrological infomiation is hampering water development in Mexico. Hydrological and climatological networks are way below acceptable standards and have deteriorated in dto
last ten years. The situation is particularly bad for the hydrmetdc netwod  (a) available technology is not being used; (b) real-time operations are severely constrained; and (c) thae is no
reasonably adequate flow of data for water pluming studies, for rver basin water balances and for water resource assesa ts. Consequnty use of technology for hydrological analysis is
severely constrained Dhe hydroclinatological netwok needs to be rehabilitated with new and proved technology, and than properly opatd and maintined New stations should be esablihshed
whae needed The radio cornmunications network at the basis of the system needs to be improved and stxugthened. Hstoric data need to be rescued, updated and stored in an adequate data
bank and the general backlog in processed data must be cleaned up. Real-time reservoir opeations and flood warning needs to be established in selected catchments. Some additional staffis
required and vast staff training needs must be tackled for the basic hydrological data sector in Mexico to reach a reasonable standard commiserate with existing ecanmic and demnogaphic
development
The dearth of adequate statistical and real-me data on water resources in Mexico, if allowed to continue, is bound to s4twrgle water planning and management within a context of inreasing 
water scarcit in the larer part of Mexico.                                                                                                                                CD
Overall Objective - Dr objectives of this subcoponent are to support GASIR at the central and regional levels in: (a) impving the collection, analysis, and synthesis of data (water level
discdarge, rainfall, evaporation, sediment transport and reservoir monitoring) using appropriate technology within the context of a sustainable network and (b) improving analyses and  a
assessments of surface water resources to support decision making of other parts of CNA, other agencies and the general public.                                            cn



Annex C: Water Quantity and Quality Monitoring inprovements and Asses_ments     9
i;                            f 1t             Tj 'iI'i{    1    
f, I0i 22
06~~~~~~~~~~~
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



Table C-2
Implementation Plan for the Hydrometbic, Climatological, Sediment and Reservoir Levels Monitoring Network Subcomponent
0
Activity                    Objective.                 Present Status.             1996-97 Actions            1998-2001 Actions         Post WRMP.
6. Installation of New      Expansion of telemetered   Present network system is not  Detemine priority of    Install telemetry networks   Install additional
Telemetric Networks In   networks into all important   inclusive and mnany      catchments.                in 15 catchments          telemetry networks
Priority Catchments.     catchment areas.           catchments need to be
instrnmented on a priority  Prepare bid for contractor to
basis.                      install 4 new networks.
7. Maintain Telemetry      To have a system of        Poorly maintained networks    Prepare and implement a   Continue on with          Improvement of
Networks.                maintenance in place to   for many reasons.            maintenance contract.      maintenance contract,     maintenance
assure reliable operation of                                                                                management
the networks.                                                                                               system.
8. Vehicle Procurement.    To provide operational     Few vehicles in condition to   Procure 26 Vehicles.     Procure 54 vehicles.      Procure new
personnel with reliable   make field trips.                                                                 vehicles as required
transportation for required
field trips.
9. Operation and           To assure that maintenance   No functional fleet       Develop and implement a     Provide management with    Efficient use and
Maintenance of Vehicle  and operational personnel    maintenance program.       fleet maintenance program  monthly reports on vehicle   maintenance of the    /p
Fleet.                   have continued reliable                                with adequate records and  usage, repairs, fuel      vehicle fleet            i
transportation for field trips.                       control.                    consumption, and trip     necessary to make
justifications.           field trips.
10. Establish              To have an historical      Does not now exist.         Establish criterion for this  Procure selected DBMS.  Maintain and
Hydrometeorological      Hydrometeorological data                               data base.                                           update DBMS as 
Data Base Management   base available to all users                                                         Install onto selected     required
System.                  on demand in an electronic                             Select commercial data base   hardware.
from that can be available                            system.
on the telecommunications                                                         Create
network at any time.
Develop operational
Train personnel on
operation of DBMS.
oI
re



Table C-2
Implementation Plan for the Hydrometric, Climatologial, Sediment and Reservoir Levels Monitoring Network Subcomponent
Activity                   Objective.                 Prewnt Status.             1996-97 Actions            1998-2001 Actions         Post wRMP.
11. Design                 This is to be based on the  Partially underwy but will    Netwark will be designed in   Continue to review network  Continue to review  o
Hydrodlmatologlcal      completion of the IMTA to   be substantially improved  phases to meet operational    designs               network designs
Network.                archive all historical data    during project         needs and primary netwrk
hydrological and          implementation             needs
climatological data to have
an histmrical
Hydrometecrological data
base available to all uers                                                                                                         I
on demand in an electronic
fiaom that can be available
on the tele    ctrons
network at any time and that
can be distrlated on CD-
ROM or other electronic
media.
12. Prntof I*oal and       To have sufficient number    There is a lack of necessary    Hire one network specialist    Hire four additional  Contine to
Technical Staff        of trined and skilled      skills and pmonnel to      and begin training.         network pecialists and   mainhtin the 
RecrultmaLt.           personnel to Manage and    complete the objectives of                             begin tainig. Trinu field   required number of
operate the netdws        this project                Recuit and train 11 1     tecnicians               profeaaia  and
thoughout the Country                                technicians from within CNA                          technician staff
13. TranIhg.               To have adequdely trained    Train 18 professionals on  Provide ongoing traing to    Provide ogoing trning to  Provide ongoig
perscand to operate the   network analysis and       professional and technician    professioala and technician   tang to
.   netwL                 sustning the netwu         staff.                      staff.                   jiofe anmd
Train field tecnicions                                                          technician  f.
H.
I



Table C-3
Implementation Plan for the Groundwater Monitoring Improvements and Assessments Subcomponent
Background - Water supply in Mexico depends heavily on groumdwater resource. About one third of tota water consumptio (agricultaurl, urban, domnestic, and induistrial) comes from current
groundwater withdrawals. Groumdwater dependence is much higher in the urban/domestic sectors, which obtains more than 700/o of their water requrements fromthis source. About 55 millinn
people hving in the largest urban centers, and virtualy the entire rural population, depend on groumdwater for their water supply. Groundwater is also the sole water sce for most industrial
development in northern and central Mexico.
Agricultural irrigation, although relying more on surface water, is the main groumdwater user. There are areas in the northern, northwestern and central regions where irgated agriculture
depends almost entirely on groundwater exploitationL About 80,000 weUs, mostly privately owned, are being used to irrigate around 2 miDion ha of land, i.e., one third of the total irrigated land
in the country (6 million ha).
The natioial groimdwater balance is positive overall as extraction is only 70% of natural recharge. However, this positive balance conceals critical situation of overexploitation and poUution of
aquifes in many areas of the central and northern regions of the country. The National Water Master Plan of 1975 already underlined the overexploitation of 32 aqmufers. In 1981, this nmmber
increased to 36 aquifers. It is estimated that 80 of Mexico's 258 aquifers, located mainly in the northwestern, northern and central regiLons and in 16 states, are cintly being ovedrawd . Since
1981 the estimated overdraft volumes have almost doubled The consequences of aquifer overexploitation are aleady visible: accelerated dawdovwn of static water levels by as nmuh as 1.2
meters per year, fann weUs opeating with dynamic levels of 70 to 130 meters or more, with the coresponcding increased energy costs, salt water encroachment and soil saliniaicm in coastal
areas, and land subsidence in urban areas, with the damage this entails.
A less visible problenm, bat perhaps ultimately a cause for greater environmental concem, is the poUution of aquifers which are the source of population water supplies, by urban and industrial
effluent damped directly on top of these groundwater reservoirs. There being no operationarl system to monitor this probleni, there are no substantive data on how serious it is.
The important role of groundwater resources in sustaining the socio-economic development of Mexico on the one hand, and on the other, deficiencies in their management are gersating serious
problems of resources deterioration in quantity as weU as quality. Deficiencies in groundwater resource management include: (a) an inadequate monitoring system for resources maagement 
quantity and quality, (b) quantitative studies supported by mathematical (computerized) models have not been carried out for numerous aquifers, (c) them is neither a grcmdwatcr data bank or
an information system to process groundwater related data to aid in assessments and modeling, and in decision maknrg; and (d) prospective approaches to grodwater resurces development and
protection me not supported by highly needed studies dealing with critical issues, such as: environmental costs of groundwater mirnig or overexploitatiLon, socoecomomic aspects of aquifer
stabilization programs, analysis of demand management for groundwater conservation, environmental impact of groundwater resource degradation by agricultural, indusrial and urban pollutants.
Geohydrological studies of the mnain aquifers of the country wer initiated in the 60s, with special emphasis on the arid and semi-eid areas of the northern and central regions whiere grundwatr
is the princpal water source. The majority of the sthdies used a regioala approach and preliminary quantitative assessment of resources. Ohers have the specific objective of analyzing
groundwater exploitationL Very few included mathematical modeling for aquifer management
There is an existing inventory of about 130,000 weUs with significant pumping capacity, 80,000 of wnich are for irrigation purpose and 15,000 for municipal and industrial supply. There are
many more wells that have not been inventoried. There is no systematic procedure for measurement of the actual well extractions. Groundwater withdrawal, mainly for irrigation which is the
major user sector, is estimated indirectly using data of energy consumption, and statistics of inigated area and crops.
There are piezometric data on about 210 aquifers. However the monitoring system only covers 144 aquifers, including: 70 overexploited aqtufers, 60 in fragile equilibrium and the remaining 14
which have important water resources stil underexploited. Monitoring operations have varied greatly, depending on budgetary resources. In 1990, 122 aquifers were monitored, bat in 1994, this
number had decreased to 68. Th groundwater qTality netwvrk, established in 1977, monitors only the quality of sources supplying a few important cities. Therefore it was not designed for, and
is not able to monitor groundwater quality degradation or aqtufer poUutian. During the last thirty years, a considerable amoimt of grmundwater data has been accumulated and preserved in various
formats which ae generaly not compatible for any processing or aquifer analysis.
Overall Objecdtve - The objective of the Grudwater Monitonng and Assessment sub-component of WRMP is to assess quantitatively and qualitatively and to monitor the 144 most important
aquifs of Mexico. The sb-component objective wilU be accomplished by cayin;g out the aquifer studies, the implementation of the monitoring network and the implementation of the
groundwater infoamation syst=m (SIAS).



Table C-3
Implementation Plan for the Groundwater Monitoring Improvements and Assessments Subcomponent
General Description of WRM   Activities -
Aquifer Studies                                                                                                                                                              0
The 144 aquifers to be studied include: (a) 70 ovaexploited aquifers (goup A). This grup coves the principal aquifes of the water basins of Lerma Chapala, Valle de Mexico and Bravo v=e 
water ban cmuils have been constituted; (b) 60 aquifers whie exploitations are in fragile nqiibdum with renewable   oes  (grwp BH  and (c) 14 aquifers with high pdcatial for fulte
resource developnent and still uldrxloted (group C).
The quatitative and qualitative assessncnt of groundwater rource will conrspcd to geohydrological studies of the aquifers to be subconracted to csilbting ignerem  Each sbudy will
include: (a) recovery, canpilation, evaluaticn and synthesis of all historical data; (b) reactivation of the monitoring netwok by a water table field srvey to update the aquifer piez.cdric Bing
(c) aquifer m ation by matinatbcal modling in steay or non-steady regime; and (d) proposal for the quantitative and qualitstive monitoing ndwxk to be implemnated
0.
Computer facilities (haud and softwvare) will be installed in 1996 and 1997 at the central and regional offices of CNA as well as at the water basin comoils office for in-house aquifer sinmlal  '
Simulation software will be updated pemanently in the following years.
Monitoring Network
The monitoing netwirk to be implnenterd will include the nethuk operation and modarnization-
a)  Opemtion. As aquifer studies will be concluded vith the corresponding proposal of well selection for aquifer monitoring, the proposed netvwk will be opaed by ooiticts with
consulting finns. The vwill be 2 water level meaureunsts per year and water quality analysis once a year cn the suem selected wells of the n e
b)  Modernizaion. In aquifers of goups A and B, to complaernt exsting wells wiuch could be used as monitormg wells, aboxt 790 suppleanatary pierozmeers will be reuirai To
optimize the number and localization of these picoxneters, mathrnatical models of regionalized vaiables (kniegng tedbique) will be camed ot 
The implerneitation and operation of the aquifer networks will be carried out by subcomtracts with consulting firms and drillng firms.
Groundwater Information System (SAS)                                                                                                                                         a
An infomation system, based on an UNIX and ORACLE envir onent with georeferaice for exchange with the CNA water GIS (SIGA), will be designed and installed, m a fist phase, at th  2
Grondwater cetal office of CNA, with the required equipment of hardware and software. Then, the syster will be gradually implemrented at the regial offices and the water basin cmls  X
offices. Al historical gronwater data wil be retrieved and integrated ito the system                                                                                         St
AU these tasks will be carried out by contacts with consulting firms.
The training effort in nodniation of gmdwater resomces assessment, monitring and management will aim to develop and xpand the professional skills and capacities of technical staff of
CNA central and regional offices and of water basin counils. The traiunig pogran in vanous technical and ranagerial aspects of environmental geohydology will comise: shakt courses
offered by national institutions, short courses, seninars, and study tours offered by institutions abroad, and national and intemational master programs



Table C-3
Implementation Plan for the Groundwater Monitoring Improvements and Assessments Subcomponent
Activity                   Objective                   Present Status              1996197 Actions             1998- 2001 Actions    Post WMPl
1. AquIfen Study           Comprehensive analyses of 144  Water balance of strategic  Study of the 11 most cntically  Complete the study and Continuous updating to
aquifers including: 70      aquifers only roughly estimated. overexploited aquifers in the   modeling of the  support aquifers
overexploited, 60 in fragile                            water basins of Lerma, Balsa,  remaining aquifers by   management and
equilibrium; and 14 with                                Valle de Mexico and Bravo    the end of 1999.   regulation for
important underexploited                                                                                groundwater resource
resourc es .                                                                                            conlservation.             f
Mathematical modeling to assess A few aquifers analyzed.  Modeling of the corresponding  Results to be used as   ContinueImpoving
quantitatively and qualitatively  Obsolete mathematical models.  aquifers          inputs to optimization   and updating models
the aquifers resources                                                             models for groundwater and modeling
resource management.
2. Monitoring Network      Aquifers monitoring to support  Erratic monitoring regime  Implementation of the   Extension of the     Monitoring system
sustainable use of groundwater  depending heavily on budgetary  momitorrng networks on the    momtonng networks to  ensured by the water
resources and their protection.  resources.             most critically overexploited   the other aquifers  basin councils which  I
aquifer.                   studied by WRMP.     will be responsible of
groundwater resource
management        
3. Groundwater Information Data Base, compatible with CNA About 30-year groundwater data, Design and implementation of  Completion of the  Exploitation of the
System                  Water GIS (SIGA), for aquifer  accumulated and preserved in   the groundwater information   system implementation  system mainly by
management and protection in   various formats, which could not system at the central office.    at the regional offices.  regional offices and
view of sustainable groundwater be processed and analyzed by    Recuperation of historical data  Full integration of  water basin councils
use.                        modern computer tools.      and gradual implementation at aquifer simulation data  for decentralized   l
the regional offices.      and monitoring data into aquifers management   o
the system. Complete  and groundwater
networking with SIGA. regulation and
cnservation.
4. Training in Aquifer    Provide CNA central and      Limited capacity in groundwater Training of central staff and    Training of remaining   Continued training of
Simulation, Groundwater regional staff as well as water   data analysis due to limited  some regional office staff  regional office staff and water basin councils
Monitoring and Data Base basin councils staff with training, personnel with adequate training (Lerma Balsa, Valle de Mexico, water basin councils   staff and update of
Establishment and Usage  equipment (hard & software) to  and to rather obsolete equipment. Bravo).          staff.               CNA klnowledge in
perform numerical modeling of                                                                           aquifer simulation
aquifers, to process and analyze                                                                        technique for
groundwater data for aquifers                                                                           monitoring and
monitoring.                                                                                             management                to
a



Table C-4
Implementation Plan for the Water Quality Monitoring and Laboratory Subcomponent
Background - Water quality monitoring activities have been carmed out in Mexico since 1974. The current network of 803 stations is an inherited netwrk of srface aid groundwater stations
which has grown thrugh more than 20 years without a systematic basis. Although data are adequate to characteize surface wates according to conventional physical/chanical cnteria, the
netwvrk does not provide the type of data required for curent water quality management purposes. In the area of water quality monitoring, regional saffEng levels are more or less adequae for
field programs, however headquarters is very understaffed for the level of responsibility.
The laboratory network has gown to its present condition of (a) one national laboratory which is largely a shell since all rmajor equipment was relocate to IMTA in 1992, (b) six regional
laboratories of variable capabilities, anid (c) twenty seven state laboratories which are mainly concerned with very basic types of analysis. Several are exceptions with higher level capability.
-t
In theory, the lab network should have high, meditin and low level capabilities, however capabilities tend to depend on available insltrumentation rather than any rational allocation of analytical
responsibilities. At this time, there is little systematic quality control over data; CNA has no capability for organic chemistry, thee is a chronic sige of trained personel at all levels; mamy
nodern pieces of apparatus ame unused because of ladc of parts or lack of training.
The water quality information system csias of &tee databases which are held separately. water quality, sewage treatment plants, rmunicipal and industrial effluents. The water quality
database is held in the RAISON platform which has adapted by IMTA for use by GSCA This platforn, developed by Envirment Canada, has given GSCA modem capabiLity for water data
management and assessment Maps however, are hed by region rate than by drainage basin The &tre databases do riot canunicate with oarb other. Cnpauter equipment is in very shrt
supply and non-existent for water quality ppos  in rmost of the regional and stte offices. Training by IMTA for regioal staff has not been matched by conpAter acqiwsition, therefore all data
assenment is done at headquate.
The present status of water quality monitoring in Mexico reflects chronic budget prmblans for the water quality program since the mid 1980s winr much of the budget was reallocated to  0
oter parts of Seactanat ofAgriaulte amd Wat Rcso s (ww defunct) in the expectation hat the water quality program would be transfered to andw departme  This loss was never
recovered when the water quality prgram was recnfimnie m CNA in 1990.                                                                                                   .
Overall Objective - The objectives of this sulbcnponent me to support GSCA at the central and regional levels in: (a) improving the collection, analysis, and synthesis of water quality
data that meet specific mangment needs, are cost-effective, and repraent the types of modern environmmtal isss that now face Mexico (e.g. toxicity), (b) developing and arniding of
national (effluent) nonrs so tat tbese represent modern analytical and toxicity-based standards; and (c) producing and providing water quality studies, water body classifications and
assessments to other parts of CNA, other agencies and to the general public.
In-House vs. Contracting Laboratory Analys                                                                                                                              CD
The current (prt-WRMP) analytical volme for CNA is sane 500,000 analyses annually. The majority are inexpensive basic analyss. Uinder the WRMP, and ineluding disge mmmilming
and analysis (not preseitly done), the analycl volunme will reman at swbat less han 500,000 analyse per year. The prinpl difference is ta there will be a major reduction m basic
analysis with a on     ate i   mase in high-level analysis (e.g. oganic cenpowids) which cost an rder of magi   r  thm basic analyses. 2lbe nimber of high-level analys will be
kept down throg exsive use of less expcensve toaicity asssents, which ae presently rot used.
A cost conparison was made betwn  the opion of coating out lboaoy analyse vs. doing &em  in-house. The conris  showed that even with a significant discamt (50%) on the
prsent going rate, the cost of cmtacing out vmuld sdll be about 4 times gmrater than  e cost of performing the analyses m CNA laboratories. Od  factors that mfluhrced the decision for in-
hwse analyses were: (a) limited eising capability in private labs, virtually nrexistent in much of the eountry, and (b) the time-limited nture of many of the analyses retict the ability to
perve and ship samples.
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



Table C-4
Implementation Plan for the Water Quality Monitoring and Laboratory Subcomponent
Activity                 Objective              Present Status           1996/97 Actions             1998-2001 Actions           Post WRMP
1. Redesign of the       Redesign of primary    Historical set of 800+   Redefine Primary network of   Implement all aspects of  Evaluate performance
National Network       network                stations of surface &   200 surface stations &: 100  primary network and re-    of primary network
ground water, sampled   groundwater stations.       evaluate annually.          relative to management
quarterly for                                                                   needs and adjust as
conventional physical,  Carry out a User analysis to                            required.
microbiological &       define parameter needs,     On basis of special studies
nutrient parameters. No    QC/QA needs, reporting    (below) evaluate need for
organic parameters now  needs, etc.                 changes in primary
reported.                                           monitoring program.S
Carry out studies to determine                                                     i
toxic parameters to be added                                                       t
to 50 key stations          _0
Establish secondary    Does not now exist.     Using information from other   Evaluate monitoring options,  Continue secondary
network.                                       CNA programs, develop a      including automated        network as required for    -.
flexible network for effluent    stations, collocation, etc.  CNA enforcement
monitoring & enforcement,                              needs.
etc.
Carry out special      Special studies are     Plan and execute special    Plan and execute special    Canny out specia
studies to augment data  infrequent and tend to  studies in support of CNA  studies in support of CNA  supplement infonnatic 
from primary network.   related only to        management priorities.      management priorities,     from  primary network
emergencies.                                                                                               i
2. Redesign of the       Establish National     Does not now exist       Commence operations of      Continued operations of     Reference Lab will
National LAborstory    Reference Laboratory                           Reference Lab, including     Reference Lab, including   operate as control
Network                                                                QA/QC programs for internal   QA/QC programs for       center for all CNA lab
& private labs, writing of  internal & private labs,   functions.
SOPs, and certification of  writing of SOPs, and
regional, state and private  certification of regional,
labs for CNA purposes;      state and private labs for
develop life-cycle          CNA purposes; develop life-
management plan. The        cycle management plan.
design, building and
equipment of the National
Reference Lab will be
financed through the SWSSS                                                        A
ProjOct                                                                          I
* The National Reference Lab is a complete integrated chemical and toxicology facility used in laboratory certification and complex analyses                 w



Table C4
Implementation Plan for the Water Quality Monitoring and Laboratory Subcomponent
Activity                   Objective               Present Status           1996/97 Actions               1998-2001 Actions           Post WRMP
2. Redesign of the         Establish first category    Exist in part, but only  Build and equip one first  Based on cost-benefit      Add analytical
National Laboratory     regional laboratories '    partly functional, lack  category regional lab.     analysis, build and equip up    functions in response to
Network (Continued)                             essential equipment and                                to five additional first     analytical needs of
training. Requires       Irnplernent QC/QA programs    category regional labs.     CNA and which can be
rationalization.         and carry out certification of                            canied out inside CNA       a
regional lab.                Implement QC/QA pmgrams   economically
and certify additional                                  e
regional labs.
Maintain data analysis
programs, applying rigorous
quality control to lab
operations.                 _
Establish and/or        Have low level to nil    Based on User requirements,    Upgrade facilities in up to 5    Review capability in
improve second         capability with few       plan for upgrade of up to 3   second category regional    existing second
category regional       exceptions               second category regional labs.  labs.                     category regional labs      O
laboratory *                                                                                               relative to CNA and
capabilities.                                                                                              state needs.                0
Provide 2 mobile labs for    Provide 6 additional mobile    Maintain fleet of 8 labs
Provide 6 mobile       No mobile capability      basic analysis to replace    labs.                        and implement
laboratories.                                   fixed-site Labs.               Maintin  eet of  mobile     replacement schedule
labs and develop life-cycle  as required.               0
management plan.
Provide 6 emergency    No emergency response     Purchase 6 mobile,            Maintain fleet of emnergency    Maintain and replace as
vehicles.              capability.               emergency response lab        response vehicles and       required.
vehicles, fully equipped for  develop life-cycle
basic + BTEX analysis. To    management plan.
be provided to six regional
offices.
Contract analysis.     All advanced organic      Contract for advanced organic   Contract for advanced     Improve Mexicanl
analysis is now          analysis pending completion   analysis not within         capability for advanced
contracted.              of Reference Lab.             capability of Reference lab.    analysis in conjunction
with Private sector.
* First category regional labs are full-service, intermediate level labs located in industrial areas with complex range of environmental and pubhc health analysis capabilities
Second category regional labs have basic physico-chemical and microbiological capabilities and basic pesticides



Table C-4
Implementation Plan for the Water Quality Monitoring and Laboratory Subcomponent
00
Activity                  Objective              Present Status          1996/97 Actions             1998-2001 Actions        Post WRMP
3. National Information    Have fuily functional  System operates with   Upgrade HQ facilities with  Implement, with          Horizon for information
System (Water          and usable water       Version 2.6 of RAISON    RAISON (version 3.0) and   training, the integrated  systems is too long for
Quality)               quality data base.     plus additional and     implement in up to six      information system in all  accurate analysis in field
different databases for  regional offices.          regional offices and labs.   of software applications.
water quality, municipal
treatment plants and    Design and implement an     Develop specialized
industial effluents.    integrated information system    applications for data
for all databases on RAISON    assessment, and
For Windows and test in HQ.   prediction.
Ensure that system integrates   Carry out cost-benefit                          (V
with CNA network.           analysis of potential cost
recovery by sale of
information products.                               l.
4. Capacity Building     To enhance capacity in   Training is now carTied  Carry out an assessment of  Continue to implement    By enhancing capacity of
CNA in fields of       out but needs major     capabilities of all CNA lab  all training programs.  CNA staff, reduce
environmental          increase to meet needs of   personnel in order to develop                    reliance on outside and
chemistry, toxicology,    WRMP.                a human resources plan.                              forign experts.
and information
systems and data                               Develop and implement a
analysis.                                      training plan, using mainly
Mexican expertise in all
fields of laboratoy
operations.                                                                      0
Develop and implement a
training plan for personnel in
data manganent and
assessmenti
Develop and implement a
training plan for all field
personnel involved in
sampling.
Identify key staff to receive
training for advanced degrees
in fields that are central to



MEXICO
WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX D: RESERVOIR OPERATION, DAM SAFETY, AND
AQUIFER MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENTS
Introduction
1.    This annex discusses the WRMP activities related to improvements in reservoir
operation, dam safety and aquifer management in Mexico. The annex is presented in Tabular
format which provides summary inforrnation on the activities of each of the subcomponents.
For more detail the Project Implementation Plan prepared by CNA should be referenced.
Table D-1: Reservoir Operation
Table D-2: Dam Safety
Table D-3: Aquifer Management
2.    In general terms, these activities presently have the following problems: (a) antiquated
and inefficient models and procedures; (b) insufficient personnel lacking adequate training; and
(c) insufficient and obsolete computer and telecommunications systems.
3.    The WRMP has the basic strategy of gradually moving towards improvements in
reservoir operation, dam safety and aquifer management, learning from initial results and
adjusting the programs along the way. Initial activities and methodologies will be closely
monitored and will be adapted and extended in subsequent actions with as much flexibility
as possible.
4.    The WRMP activities discussed in this annex are focused on improving criteria and
procedures in order to achieve: (a) efficient, modem and effective reservoir operation with
the objective of maximizing the benefits derived from the existing hydraulic infrastructure;
(b) safety of dams in order to assure their continued operation and to avoid damages and
catastrophes; and (c) the effective management of aquifers in order to ensure the
sustainability of their use.



Table D-1
Implementation Plan for the Reservoir Operation Improvement Subcomponent
Background - Dams for water storage were built in Mexico since the colonial times. The water storage sector started to develop strongly in 1926, when the National
Commission for Irrigation was created. Initially, the focus of reservoir development was on storage and some very large dams were constructed. With time, flood control
became more important in the context of a more comprehensive policy. The problem of floods and droughts has been addressed since 1972, with attention paid to normal
(medium and long range) operation of reservoirs and management of emergency situations. A large number of emergencies have been managed since then. The activity met
with many constraints, induding lack of timely and reliable information, lack of adequate data transmission and storage systems, as well as lack of hydrological forecasting
technology.
Two models, OPTIMA and HOWARD, are being used for medium and long range reservoir operation. Simpler methods, such as monthly forecasting equations and probability
curves for reservoir inflows, are also applied. There is a large need for calibration and validation of models and procedures. Development of such procedures meets the
constraints of lack of computer infrastructure, scant data and limited availability of qualified staff.
For flood forecasting, the GASIR rainfall-runoff model is used. Once the flood forecast is obtained, the flood is routed through the reservoir being studied and the downstream
channel. A reservoir operation plan is developed on the basis of the information computed in this way.
The current situation is thus characterized through inefficient antiquated technology, insufficient information to feed the models and an insufficient communication infrastructure  i
to monitor the events and to relay action requirements to the field sites.                                                                                 c;
Adequate reservoir operation and emergency management in Mexico, either in the case of floods or droughts, is hampered because of a dearth of hydrometric, climatological  c
and meteorological data, owing to the insufficient density and quality level of networks and their degradation since roughly 1985. During critical situations, there are not enough
rainfall data available and there are extremely few rainfall intensity reports. Most of the reservoir management information is obtained by voice radio, fax and telephone. The
radio communications network, which has proved particularly valuable in the past, is not only obsolete but increasingly beyond its expected useful life and has depended on
makeshift repairs. Field staff, while generally very willing to carry out its work, is almost totally without technical training to face emergency tasks.
Automatic telemetry systems, which were established in a few critical catchments, collapsed because of lack of maintenance owing to unavailability of funds for maintenance
contracts.
For long range forecasts and annual reservoir management, the existing OPTIMA model used since 1986 has been reasonably successful as far as the recommendations
issued were implemented. Historic information, both on the water supply and the water demand side, has been insufficient or not available in time, resufting in impaired  >
recommendations. Overall, the decision-making process is cast in empirical and subjective approaches. Information of economic aspects of water management is particularly  n
scant. The models used for management of emergency situations have evolved little in the last 20 years and there is a large need for updating to take advantage of new  Gh
technology in this field.
In accordance with the National Water Law, CNA is the national water authority with complete responsibility for water rights administration, the management of the  I
nations water resources and dam safety. Other entities (including CFE) both public and private that operate reservoirs must do so with CNA authorization and
oversight. CFE operates 64 dams with hydroelectric plants. The Director General of CNA presides over a Technical Committee for the Operation of Hydraulic
Works. In addition to CNA authorities and technical personnel, a CFE representative participates on the committee. The committee makes overall decisions relative  I
to the operation of the nation's reservoirs including considerations related to floods, droughts, multiple uses (irrigation, municipal and industrial, hydropower,
navigation, recreation, etc.) and environmental protection. During emergency situations the committee often acts directly in making decisions for reservoir
operations. As the meteorological, hydrological, water quality, groundwater, dam safety, water rights administration and water resources planning and management
services of CNA improve with the WRMP, the availability and reliability of information and the decision making of the committee will also improve, resulting in better
operation of CNA and CFE reservoirs as well as others. As a part of its decentralization actions, CNA is in the process of transferring some of its dams to state  i
governments and to CFE (in the case of CFE, those dams that have hydropower plants). However, CNA will always retain the authority to administer water rights,
manage water resources and for dam safety, and will continue to oversee improvements in reservoir operation through the committee.
Overall Objective - The objectives of this subcomponent are to support the activities of GASIR in improving reservoir operation to maximize the benefits derived from the
operation of existing hydraulic infrastructure by increasing water availability and reducing the adverse consequences of floods and droughts. See CHART D-1 for diagram of
forecasting system.



Table D-1
Implementation Plan for the Reservoir Operation Improvement Subcomponent
Activity                  Objective                 Present Status           1996/97 Actions              1998-2001 Actions       Post WRMP
1. Procure and Install    To have a modern system   Does not yet exist       Purchase 5 workstations.     Additional computer     Upgrade of
Workstations           of forecasting of water                                                         work stations.          equipment as
level and flows.                                   NOM to Install and calibrate                         required.
software in Silver Spring.
2. Maintain Work         Assure continued           Does not yet exist       Initial maintenance          Continued maintenance  Continue
Stations               operation.                                          agreement.                   of workstations.       Maintenance.
0
3. Initialize River       To have the forecast      Does not yet exist       Install NWSRFS on 5          Continue initializing   Install upgraded
Forecast System        system fully operational                           workstations.                systems until all river    Versions of
by the end of the project.                                                      basins in Mexico are    NWSRFS as
initialize NWSRFS on        operational.            released by
prototype river basins.                             NWS>
4. Calibrate GASIR        To make GASIR models    Does not yet exist         Train GASIR personnel on     Continue calibration of   Continue
Models                 compatible with forecast                           the NWS modes.               models.                 calibration of
system and to improve                                                                                   models as more
accuracy of models                                 Link GASIR models to data                            data is available.
base.
Continuous
Begin Calibration of GASIR &                        process.
NWS models.                                                                 >
S. Add GASIR Models    To broaden model             Does not yet exist       None.                        Add GASIR models as   Add new models
to NWSRFS              selection possibilities                                                          operations to forecast    as needed.
Component of
NWSRFS.
6. Compare Models.        To determine which        Does not yet exist       None.                        Conduct comparison of  Continue model
models work best under                                                          model performance       comparison.
which circumstances                                                             between GASIR &
NWSRFS.
7. Establish data base    To provide input          Does not yet exist       Convert GASIR CD-ROM         Continue ESP data       Continue updates
for Extended           information to ESP                                  data to ESP data base.       base development       of ESP data base.       I
Streamflow
Prediction (ESP)                                                           Process data.
models
Install ESP
Link ESP to data Base.
Begin testing ESP



Table D-1
Implementation Plan for the Reservoir Operation Improvement Subcomponent
Activity                Objective                Present Status           1996197 Actions            100-2001 Actions      Poet WRMP
B. Dat Pre-Processing   To improve precipitation    Does not yet exist    Develop software to encode    Develop software to  Continue
inputs to the NWSRFS                            incoming precipitation data to  retrieve QPF data from   enhancement of
SHEF format, using the     GSMN and transfer     processing
CLICOM or historical data  data into the NWSRFS   software code to
and stream gage data.     files.                 improve rainfall
estimation.
Develop software to encode    Develop satellite                          I
existing historical and real  precipitation estimation
time stream gage data to  routine to estimate
convert to SHEF format.   rainfall amounts based
on GOES 7 imagery.
Develop code for
transmission of SHEF       Apply orographic
encoded data to NWSRFS     models and test in
preprocessor files.        mountainous areas.
Install INFORMIX DBMS on    Develop code to create
work stations and transfer  gridded rainfall
precipitation data to      estimates based on                            0
INFORMIX format.           combination of all                            I
observable data to use
as input to NWSRFS
models.
Develop code to                              I
transmit product to
GSMN.
Add water quality and
groundwater data to
DBMS.
9. Integrate NWSRFS      To provide 'real time'   Does not yet exist      None..                     Link NWSRFS output   Continue to
with GIS              forecasts of flooding                                                        with GIS              implement GIS to       I
downstream of dams                                                          hardware/Software     river basins on a
configuration.        priority basis.
Develop flood area
maps for prototype                          I
river basins.
Demo for Tijuana Rver
system.



Table D-1
ImpemntatIon Plan for the Reservoir Operation Improvement Subcomponent
Activity               | Oboctive              |        PrzentStatus     199ITActionsS| 199-2001 Actions                   Post WRMP
10. Establish Decihion    To provide dedsion     Does not yet exist      Couple NWSRFS with          Select vendor and     Expand decision
Support Systwn       makers with automated                            decision support systems   issue contract        support
tools to help in decision                                                                         capabilities to all
making.                                         Include economic and        Develop data on       river basins on by
environmental factors.     reservoir and establish   priority.
rules and policies for
Consider all potential uses:    reservoir management.
irrigation, municipal,
industrial, hydropower, flood   Develop optimization
control, recreation, water  strategies for selected
quality improvement, fish and  river basins considering
wildlife, etc.             both economic and
environmental factors.
11. Integrate Decision    To provide automatic   Does not yet exist      Begin training on decision  Couple NWSRFS         Continue to
Support with         interconnections between                         support systems.           system with decision   upgrade and
NWSRFS               systems                                                                     support system.        modify decision        1!
support system
and NWSRFS
interface, as
necessary
12. Conduct Design      To provide necessary     Some studies exist but  Begin Design Hydrology      Continue with design  Continue with
Hydrology Studis    hydrological studies for    will need to be updated  studies.                studies                design studies
safety of dams program
and others                                                                                                                i
13. Conduct Studies on   To improve reservoir    Some studies exist but  Begin studies on reservoir  Continue with reservoir  Continue with
Reservoir            operation and benefits  will need to be updated  management policy          management studies    reservoir               I
Management Policy   derived therefrom                                 considering both economic                        management
and environmental factors.                       studies        X
14. Staff recruitment   To have a fully qualified    Shortage of properly  Hire a total of 45 engineers.    Continue with  Continue with
staff, but in number and    qualified staff, both in                        recruitment and       recruitment
qualifications to properly   number and qualifications  Begin technical training,  training
operate and manage the 
systems.
15. Training            To have adequate         No trained staff on the  Implement the training     Continue training on  Continue training
qualified staff to manage   new hardware and     program (see Annex F).     technology            on technology
new systems             software that will be                               advancement.          advancement.
installed as part of this  NWS training for selected
project..               individuals.
Visiting experts from abroad



Chart D-1
HYDROMETEOROLOGICAL FORECASTING SYSTEM
Operational            Operational         Radar             Satellite            Orographic
precipitation           streamflow          data               data                 model
data                    data                                 _
__                              /               /Climate                                   i
\        I             /                       statistics
Data bass   
management                                               /Rainfall data 
system                                                   to GSMN 
Quantitative
precipitation                                                                                           I
forecasts fromv - 
GSMN -             Data ingest, analysis and                      Ground            Water             t0
24,48,72 hrs          processing, precipitation   rwater                              qualit  
analysis                                _    J_P
Decision
Add                Hydromet forecast system,                    Extended       L     support 
GASIR           *      data processing and    _Streamflow                           hydrmoelsric
models                 hydrological models                       Prediction            moel
Probability              
/   ^/          _.                  models       | ~~~~~~~~Monday meeting,||
rCalibrate ne|      |   Historical   |               GIS |      |Flood  |reional basinces,
models and           precipitation,                data        inundation           river basin
IGASIR models      | streamflow, and              I      *      I  maps  |dfcouncils, civil
I  | reservoir data                                             defense    |  |



Table D-2
Implementation Plan for Improvements in Dam Safety Subcomponent
Background - It is estimated that there are over 4,000 dams in Mexico. Due to size, location, age, inadequate desigr, poor cosructim or lack of mainlara     a signific-nt propetikm
of thse dams may pose a risk to human life, propety, agnculture ard industry downsream
CNA and in pcula CT have considerable expence  in addressing dam safety pblmrns in individual dams of the varous types built in Mexco dunrig several decades ver,
curcntly thee is no omrpreh sive, systematic and effective national dam safely pimgr  in Mexico. Under WRMP the CNA plans to imlement the first phase of a suslainable
national dan safety prgrL  This progran, in conjunction with a second phase (not palt of WRMP) whudi will include rndial d   will result in lorg-term befits by saving lives,
proteing property and cops, and enhacing overall water managenent in the cowmtry.
Responsibility for dam safety in CNA lies with CT of the SGT.
A National Registty of [wms (Registry) was started m 1989 but is currently on hold due to lack of funding. The present Regishy includes 3,200 dams with storage capacity greater than
0.5 million m3; for rnio of thmT, information o their safety conditions is very limited Out of the dams registered, about 18%/ can be classified as large (>1 5m) and approxo,dely 200/o
are older than 30 yars Only about 15% of the registered dams have been inspected; deficiendies of various kinds and degrees 'Aer identified in about 50ffe of them. This high rate of  co
deficienies along with the number of large dams, their age and lack of inspections, are indicative of potentially high safety riskl
Although Owen is an ongoing program to inspect and correct deficiendes at the most critical dams, ther are not enough trained personnel within CNA to keep up with neoded
inspections. FurthemTore there are no standardized dam safety guidelines.
An apprecable number of dams constructed over the past 30 years have been instrumented, Howvever, many of these perfomnance monitoring instmnents have been damaged or
deshtoyed. At present remaining instuunents are only being read at a few dams and data collected from instrument readings is only sporadically analyzed. One important component of a
thorough dam safety prnpamn, is the systematic updating (every five years or so for large dams) of the hydrology of the catchment areas of the dams. The main purpose of this exercise is
to be able to route through the reseroir the updated madximu  estimated flood and verify the sufficiency of the spillway and oher outlet works to handle it, without the dam being
overtopped (which in an embankment dam might lead to breaching). Systematic updating of the probable rnwaimiun flood allows for (if necessary) making corrections to the dam and its
appurtenant structies, thus minimizing the subsequent risk of the dam being overtopped. Accordingly, systematic updating at suitable intervals of the hydrmlogy of selced dams is  in
included nthis isubcomponi
Operation and maintenance manuals do not exist for most dams, and maintenance of existing structures is a problem thxmglout the coumnry due to lack of finding  Likewise risk
ma_gent guidelines related to dams and energency action plans for high risk rsvirs are non exstent
Overall Objectlve - The objectives of this subconronent are to support CT in the imnplenmetation of the first phase of a national damn safety progam, preparation of amgency action j  I
plans and development of risk management guidelines. 



Table D-2
Implementation Plan for Improvements in Dam Safety Subcomponent
Activities            Objective                    Prent Status                1996/97 Actions             1998-2001 Actions           Post WRMP
1. Organizuton        Decentralize mponsibility    CT has been assigned        Delegate responsibility to  Gdual sUgheing of           Adjust staffing as
within CNA                  responsibility vethin CNA   CNA Regioala Offices and   reional goups to achieve      necsy to med needs
assign Zonal Engineers and a   sufficiercy.             of NDSP.
spev  in each ofthe
l   _  _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _    _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _   thirteen  regions.en_regions,
2. Natlonal Registry    Compile a listing of all dams    Already begum in 1995  Continue Registry.        Complete Registry            Maintain Registy
of Dams            higher than 3.Om and/or with    utilizing cumnt CNA staff at
volume greater thm 0.5      central, regional and state
millioni3                   offices.
3. Norms, Criterina   Prepare standadized          Manuals for Inspection,     Prepare guidelines for     Update guidelines as necessary   Update guidelines as
and Procedures     gLudelines in all areas related    Rehabilitation and Dam  administration of NDSP,                               necessary.                   0
to NDSP.                    Maintenance have been       Registry, Damn Inspections                                                           O
prepared and are mnder     and Risk Management.                                                                  0
review.                                                _
4. Technology         Keep abreast of state-of-the-art  Member of Association of  Acqtiire guidelines from other  Maintain library and  Maintain libray and
Transfer           in dam safety.               Dam Safety Officials        dam safety programs around    association memberships.   association
(ASDSO). Library with      the world,                                               memberships.
guidelines from several dam
safety organizations.      Glather information on useful                                                         "
new technologies
5 Inspectons          Carry out initial inspection of    15% of registered dams have    Complete initial nspection of  Complete initial inspection of    Carry out follow-up
evay dam in Registry, assign    been inspected          500% of registered dams.    100% of registered dams.     inspections of high
hazard classification and                               Cary out follow-up          Cy out follow-up inspections   hazard dams acwording
schedule subsequent                                    inspections of high hazard   of high hazard dams according   to esabLhed she.due
inspections,                                            dams according to established  to established schedule.  Perform special
schedule. Perform special  Perform special inspections  ispections following
inspections following      following earthquakes and    eatqua    and floods.
etquakes and floods.       floods.
6. Instrumentation     Reinitiate collection and   Data collection and analysis    Reinitiate collection and  Continue mnoitoring data.  Contiue monitoring
analysis of insinentation   discontinued.               analysis of data from existing   Install new isrmentation as    data and install new  I
data fiom existing dams.                                dams.                      indicated by inspections.     instruments as
install new instumentaion as                                                                                     required.
indicated by inspections.                                                                                                                    i
7. Hydrologic         Systematically update site   Hydrologic analysis exists of    Update analyses as required.   Update analyses as required.  Update analyses as
Analysis           specific hydrologic analyses of  some river basins. No flood                                                      requixedL
important dams              inundation maps.



Table D-2
Implementation Plan for Improvements In Dam Safety Subcomponent
Activitis                  Objective                   Preent Status               19X/97 ActIns              199-2001 AdIns            Pst WRMP
8 Studies for Corectve    Stxdy and remend             12 dams curently seheduled   Morutor repair activits  Monitor repar activities   Monitor repa activites          x
Actim                   repairs and/or modifications    for repairsh/odifications.  and add to list as    and add to list as         and add to list as
based on inspections.                                    assy.                      cesy.                    nessay.
9. Maintenance and         Adequate maintenance of     Poor maintenance on most    Prepare Master Operation    Prepare designs for      Monitor routine                 a
Protection              danms and protection of     dams and no operation and   and Maintenance manual    protective measures for    maintenance activities.
apptenant featus fimn       maintenance manuals.        and individual instructions   seleded dams.
vandalissL                  Frequent vandalisun of      for selected dast. Prepare 
insftunents and othe        general manual for design                                                           C
facilities.                 of protection of dams and
apputtenant facilities.                                                            c
10. Design and             Review and approve          Responsibility sprd over    Review as required        Review as required.       Review as required. 
Construction Review    dawpgs and specifications    several govemrnment entities.
for all new dams and major
dam repairs/modifications.
Monitor construction.
11. EmergencyAction       Interface with National Civil   No risk managment        Prpqare emergency action    Prepare emegency acton    Prepare e tagaLy action
Plans                  Protection System to develop   guidelines or emergency  plans for selected high   plans for a total of 12 high   plans as required
emergncy action plans for  action plans exist          hazard dams,              hazard dams.
high risk reservoirs.       _
12. Comnunncation and    Input all NDSP information    Several non standardized    Set up data bases for     Feed data bases with all   Maintain data bases and
Dats Bae               into data bases integrated  data bases with smie        Registty, dawings,        NDSP data; integrate into   local camtunuication
Management             into CNA netwnr.            information on about 75% of   specifications, inspection    CNA netvtwei         systM
known dams maintained by    reports, instrumentation
sevwal organizations.       data etc.
13. Tr.mnt                 Upgrade knowledge of CNA    Four years of regional      Initatc regional wnrksiops   Continue rgional        Continue mgiali
staff with regard to damn    wiksops. Participation in   and national semnars     wrkshops and national      vwkshopa, smina  an
safty at the national,      ASDSO. Past seminars by    inrportig new NDSP         seminas. Send select       specialty acurses.
regional, state and zmnal   USBR represntatives.        guidelines. Send select   paomel to specialty
levels                                                  pesonnel to specialty     caurse and vk study
cLes aid work study                                                         l oluns.



Table D-3
Implementation Plan for the Aquifer Management Improvement Subcomponent
Background - Background information on Mexico's overexploitod aquifers problems is summarized in Annex C, Table C-3.
In many instances, in the past 20 to 30 years, the overexploitation or mining of aquifers has made possible the continuing development of agriculture, urban growth, and the expansion of industry.
However, aquifer depletion has produced serious environment degradation problems and severely limited prospects for continued growtLh The general impact has been the increasing pumping
depths and energy costs, saline intrusion in coastal aquifers, land salinization, and severe groundwater pollution by urban and industrial effluents.
The time has come to design a consistent and coherent strategy for optinal use of groundwater resources that addresses among other issues the urgent need for stabilization, restoration and
conservation of aquifers as weU as environment protection.                                                                                                              I
Most initiatives to date to remedy the critical problem of overpumped aquifers - no matter how solid their technical grounding or legal backing - have met with limited success or have failed  e
outright hi a recent shift in approach, CNA has organized an intensive campaign to consult and negotiate with groundwater users. They are being invited to become actively involved in aquifer
management and in monitoring compliance with regulations that are being worked out directly with users.                                                                  f
Such arrangements with users would appear to be the most pronusing approach, from a socioeconomic standpoint in efforts to stabilize and restore overpumped aquifers. Because irrigation
accounts for 70%/o to 80% of the total demand for groundwater, efforts to curtail overpumping should be concentrated in irrigation areas. It would be unrealistic to expect farmers to accept a lower
standard of living or drastically raise yields to compensate for pumping restrictions. Regulations should be phased in, and should include economic inducements to grow high-yield aops that
consume less water and encourage the use of more modem irrigation techniques that save water and cut down on pumping costs.                                             C
0.
Overall Objective -   The objective of the Aquifer Management Improvement subcoinponent is to acquire a prospective vision on citical issues of aquifers management and groundwater  p
protection, and to develop management tools in view to supporting the decision making process.
I
4
I
I,
I



Table D-3
Implementation Plan for the Aquifer Management Improvement Subcomponent
General Description of WRMP Activities - The managemrent issues, related to technucal as well as socioeconomuc aspects, are especially related to overexploited aquifers and those
undlergouig various degrees of degradation by point-source or non-point-source pollution. Optimrization models need to be developed as management tools in decision making with explhcit
consideration of respective costs and benefits of alternative action progrms. They models would serve as the basis of discussion and consensus building in the firmework ofdecentralized water  X
resources management by the nver basin councils, with fill participation of water users and other stakeholders.
Prospeetive Aquifer Management Studies
a)  Study of the Strategic Role of Groundwater. A spatial analysis of potential supply and demnand of groundwater in the framework ofthe land use orientation defined by the
National Development Plan 1995-2000J ill be carnied out The study will especially take into account, as potential important urban water demand, the programn of 100 Cities  _.
deternined by the Plan                                                                                                                                           O
b)  Study of groundwater withdrawaL In absence of direct measurement, the study will carry out an evaluation of groundwater extraction by different indirect methods which will  r
be cross-checked. These will include the pumping energy consumption, data from the water user registry, satellite imagery for irrigated area evaluation and other statistics data.  0
c)  Study of non point source pollution of groundwater. While there are 2 million hectares of land irrigated by groundwater, there is practically no substantial information and data
on groundwater pollution related to agricultural activities, especially in relation to nitrate concentration. As the same source of groundwater constitutes the principal water supply
source of numerouis muniticipalities and of almost all the ural population, there is an urgent need to assess the agricultural pollution level of aquifers, at the national and regional
scale. Based on its findings, tie study will propose concrete measures to protect and restore the groundwater quality.                                           C
d)  Study of point source pollution control. The analysis will consist of eight case studies in selected areas where point source pollution has been detected. Based on its findings,
the study will propose prevention measures for similar sitmations. 
e) Environmental costs of groundwater overexploitatomn. The analysis will concern ten cases of overexploitation, using the Marginal Oppotunity Costs (MOC) approachL The
econometric model of environmental accounting developed by INEGI will be used for aggregation at the national level.
f)  Water demand management for aquifer stabilization and restorationL Six cases will be selected for analysis and proposal for actions. The proposed actions would analyze all
aspects related to water demand management: technical, socioeconomic, financial, water ight transfer, intra and intersectoral reallocation.
g)  Synthesis of geohydrological units. Groundwater resources management in Mexico is still curTently based on the geohydrological concept of aquifer, the number of which is
estimated at 459. In the framework of a comprehensive approach of vater resources management that recognizes the interactions among various elements of the river basin's
ecosystem, it is necessary to synthesize the geohydrological units into more manageable aquifer systems (according to the systenmc appmach).
0
Aquifer Management Modeling - During the second phase of the project (I 998-2001), and according to the river basin councils request, optimization models of aquifer management vwll be
camed out The models objective would be to provide councils members the technical, socioeconomic, financial and envirornental implications of altemative action progams concernirng aquifer  3
management and especially aquifer stabilizaton and restoration. Inputs for optimization models will be provided by the geohydrological simulation models (see Aquifer assessment sub-
component in Annex C) and the results of the prospective studies.
Training - The training effort in aquifer management will aim to develop and expand the professional skills and capacities of technical staffofCNA central and regional offices and of water
basin councils. The training program in various technical and managenal aspects ofgroundwater resources conservation and pollution control will comprise: seminars, wrkshops, study tours
oflred by tisttutions abroad, and intentional master programs.



Table D-3
lmplementntlon Plan for the Aquifer Management knprovent Subcownponent
Activity                     Objective                     Present Status                1996197 Actions             1998- 2001 Actions      Post WRMP
1. Prospective Studies of    To acquire a long-term view on  Traditional water resource  Studies and aquifers' strategic  Studies of point-source and Application of
Aquifer Management        critical issues of aquifer    development and use approaches, role in urban decentralization,  non-point-source  management options
management and groundwater   taking insufficient account of    environmental costs of   groundwater pollution.    for stabilization of
resource protection.         water demand management and  groundwater overexploitation                          overexploited
environmental concerns.      and management options for   Studies of alternative  aquifers and
aquifer stabilization.      options of socio-economic  groundwater            x
measures, financial     protection.
incentives and regulations.
. Groundwater Optimization To acquire management tools for Few instances of comprehensive Structuring of optimization  Modeling of strategic  Updating of models      CD
Models                    sustainable groundwater use    system analysis for groundwater models with inputs derived  aquifers in priority river   and extension of
taking into account all socio-    resource optimization.   from aquifer simulations and   basins.               modeling to other         _.
economic, financial and                                    prospective studies, and                             aquifers.                 O
environmental issues.                                      modeling of a few selected
. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  aquifers.                                        e.
. Training                  Provide CNA central and       Very limited capacity in system   Training of central staff.  Training of regional office Continued training  0
regional staff as well as water   analysis and optimization                             staff and water basin   of water basin
basin councils staff with training techniques.                                          councils staff.         councils staff and
and technology transfer in                                                                                      update of CNA
optimization modeling                                                                                           knowledge.
techniques.
,0
I
i



Page
Annex E:          Water Rights Administration  ...................1.................................                    I
E- 1   Implementation Plan for the Water Rights Administration Component.                                      6






MCO
WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX E: WATER RIGHTS ADMINISTRATION
L Background
I.    Past and current issues in Mexico's water resources management associated with water
policies can be assessed within a concept of efficiency that includes the effectiveness of the legal and
institutional framework, particularly that of water rights administration. See Annex A for a
discussion of the legal and regulatory framework related to water use and development in Mexico.
2.    The National Water Commission (CNA), created in 1989, is the sole federal authority
empowered to manage the national waters. Since 1995, CNA has been relocated from the Ministry
of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources to the new Ministry of Environment, Natural Resources
and Fisheries. This relocation recognizes water as a basic resource for all economic sectors.
Formerly, it was difficult to separate CNA's role as Authority from its role as promoter of irrigation
development. The confusion caused by the fact of being "judge and party" created some
distortions.
]L Present Situation
3.    In relation to water rights administration, CNA's immediate objective is to regulate water
use and discharge in order to preserve the resource's quantity and quality for a sustainable use and
development. The water use concession and discharge permit with payment of the corresponding
fees is administrated by the Water Administration General Subdirectorate (SGAA) within CNA.
SGAA has the following administrative units:
4.    Services to Users. This unit operates in all states and is in charge of evaluating the
applications, issuing the corresponding concessions and permits, and promoting legal registration of
water rights.
5.    The National Public Water Rights Register is responsible of registering water right titles and
their modification, including all transactions of water rights, as well as certfying water rights and
safeguarding all registered titles and their supporting documents.
6.    The Collection and Control Service is in charge of registering users fiscal statements and the
corresponding payment of fees. It must also provide the necessary information to the Fiscal Affairs
Unit to determine and communicate fiscal charges to users who do not pay. If the omission of
payment persists, the case is turned to the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit to proceed
accordingly. This service must also ensure that the users comply with the conditions and datelines
established in their concessions or permits. Inspection and control visits are carried out to verify the
veracity of water abstraction volumes as well as volumes and quality of wastewater reported by
users.



2                                                  Annex E: Water Rigbts  I inis-Iatica
7.    The Evaluation and Development Unit has the responsibility of supporting the devdpnent
of information systems required for the numerous and complex tasks of the other thee wvics. It
must also integrate, update and distribute formats and procedures, and coordinate training
programs.
A. Registration of Concessions and Permits
8.    When the National Water Law (LAN) was promulgated in December 1992, there wee
three types of water users:
a) regular users, who used national water and its associated land resources and dicged
wastewater within the terms of concessions and permits or of some other typs of
authorization issued by appropriate authorities according to the previous legisation;
b) irregular users, who had some ldnd of authorization but did not comply with all its terms
such as the granted volume of abstrction; and
c) clandestine users, who had no authorization at all.
9.    The Regulations for the LAN, issued in January 1994, have given water users, and
iischargers certain incentives to register their water rights in accordance with the new LAN.
During that year the Comnission gave priority to the registration of large volume users and
polluters. About 80%Yo of the volume of water used is now under legal registration, although only
37,600 users, out of an estimated universe of 300,000, have been regularized. About 5,000
wastewater discharges have also been regularized.
10.   The registration process presently has the following difflicuies:
a) the procedures to entitle new users and to regulaize the others are complex and slow in
processing;
b) irregular users are not willing to regularize their situation due to the fines to be paid;
c) users often do not have some of the documents required by law,
d) in most cases, users apply for larger volumes of water than CNA is willing to grant;
e) low income users, mostly from the irrigation sector, express that they can neithe pay
the fines nor even the charges of issuing the title and permit; and
f) users registered uuilaterally by the Conunission do not pick up thir fitles becase they
are not willing to pay the fines and registration fees.



Annex E: Water Rights Administration                                                3
11.   In September 1995 three presidential decrees were issued to help alleviate some of these
problems. Under these decrees, one-year amnesty periods have been granted during which water
users and dischargers can register without having to pay fines, and in the case of agricultural users,
without have to pay registration fees.
B. Legal Certainty of Water Rights: the Public Water Rights Register
12.   The LAN establishes that the titles, as well as their modifications and transactions, must be
listed in the National Public Water Rights Register (REPDA). The objective is to ensure legal
certainty of water rights and facilitate their modification and transfer, thus fostering the existence of
a market of water rights.
13.   At present, out of the 43,700 regularized users, 37,600 are registered in the official books.
Some users are not willing to register their titles due to the cost of the process and perhaps they are
not aware of the fundamental advantage of being registered in REPDA (only the rights inscribed in
REPDA can be sold or transferred). Some users have expressed their disagreement with the data
that must be registered.
14.   These problems, as well as those concerning the users' regularization process, have inhibited
the expansion of the water rights market, although widespread trading of water rights has already
taken place in and zones.
C. Fees Collection
15.   Important results have been achieved regarding the collection of water use fees, though
several problems prevail. Collections have increased from less than 200 million nuevos pesos in
1989 to almost 1,500 million nuevos pesos in 1994 (wastewater discharge fees amounted to only 50
million nuevos pesos the same year). Potential fee collection would be much higher than what is
actually collected as CNA relies on the users' will to regularize their legal status with the
corresponding fee payment. This strategy requires extensive field inspection and control and
subsequent law enforcement procedure. Other problems making fee collection more difficult
include:
a) most users do not have any measurement device for both abstraction and discharge;
b) municipal water utilities and various major users, such as sugar mills, have not paid their
abstraction and discharge fees arguing their economic difficulties; and
c) the population of potential contributors is not clearly identified.
ILL WRMP
16.   The objectives of the Water Rights Administration component are to consolidate the
enforcement of the LAN, to strengthen the new federalism by securing water rights to all legal



4                                                    Annex E: Water Rights Administraion
water users, to facilitate transaction of water rights, and to improve water fees collection.
Additionally, this component has the objective of providing a basis and a means for the allocation of
water towards more productive uses (i.e. improving the economic efficiency of water use) in a
dynamic setting where water demands are continually changing, while simultaneously protecting
against aquifer depletion, protecting the water rights of third parties, and reducing water pollution.
This is to be done by supporting the effective functioning of water markets that have developed
following the promulgation of the LAN.
17.   Although the government has made good progress in identifying and registering of current
water users and discharges since the 1992 publication of the LAN and its 1994 regulations, there
are still many issues related to the administration of water rights that need to be tackled to ensure
that the water market achieves its desired objectives. Some of these include facilitating the
registration of existing water users, implementing a modified fee schedule for extracting and
discharging water, training CNA staff so that so that they can better protect against aquifer
depletion and possible negative third-party effects, and volumetric pricing.
18. These objectives will be accomplished by carrying out the following sub-components.
A. Services to Users
19.   This sub-component will include the tasks of identifying the population of users and of
improving the service to users for the title registration.
20.   Users identification. This task will be carried out in three stages:
a) general characterization of the user population: using available statistics from various
sources, this activity will aim at identifying the principal categories of users according to
the volumes abstracted and the discharges, their location in relation to municipalities,
states and water basins;
b) cross-checking of the previous information with users listed in REPDA and in the data
base of Fee Collection Service; and
c) users identification with specific targeting (areas of water scarcity, potential payers of
water use and discharge fees, areas with water quality degradation, small users with
water rights to be protected).
21.   Improvement of Services to Users by:
a) the implementation of single counter service;
b) the implementation of computer systems to speed up the administrative procedures of
title registration,
c) the realization of field visits to regularize clandestine users.



Annex E: Water Rights Administration                                              5
22.   All these tasks will be carried out by contracts with consulting firms.
B. REPDA
23.   This sub-component will include the modernization of the operating system of REPDA,
updating the computer system and digitizing of documents, and the data processing capacity for
public communication and publication. These tasks will be carried out by contracts with consulting
firms.
C. Fee Collection and Control
24.   This sub-component will include:
a) The technology development for measurement of water use and wastewater discharge
including: a survey for identification of large users and polluters, a study of norms,
standards and regulations for fair determination of water use fees and discharge fees,
and a pilot scheme for experimentation of new measurement equipment;
b) An accelerated program of inspection and control visits. This program will carry out a
total of 60,800 visits over 6 years.
D. Computing Resources Development
25.   Computer resources to be developed for support of the three previous sub-components will
include:
a) the design and implementation of an integrated information system for all areas of water
rights administration and the networking with other services of CNA; and
b) complete renovation of the obsolete existing computer equipment (20 XT-PCs, 77 AT-
PCs and 14 386-PCs) as well as its expansion.
E. Training
26.   The training effort in water rights administration will aim to develop and expand the
professional skills and capacities of technical staff of CNA central and regional offices and of water
basin councils mainly in two areas:
a) data bases exploitation; and
b) measurement and control of water abstraction and wastewater discharge.



Table E-1
Implementation Plan for the Water Rights Administration Component
oa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
Activity                     Objective                    Present Status             1996I97 Actions              1998- 2001 Actions        Post WRMEP
1. Water User Registration   Enforcement of National Water  Only about 43,700 watcr    Identification of the water users  Cumulative registration of  Decentralized and
Service                   Law. Register all water users.   users have been registered   population .           300,000 water users.      self-sustained service
Improve the registration process out of a estimated population                                                 in the framework of
and the service to users.    of 300,000.               Cumulative registration of                              the water basin
175,000 users.                                         councils
modernization
Improvement of the user service
2. National Public Water     Facilitate water rights      Only about 37,600 water    hnprovement of computerized   Cumulative 280,000 water  Development of water
Rights Registry           transaction. Improve         rights legally registered.    registry operations.      rights registered.        market and better
perfonnance of water right                                                                                     allocation of water
registration system                                    Cumulative 150,000 water rights                         resources.
registered.
Water Fee and Discharge  Improve water fee and especially Collection of discharge fee  Technology development for use  Water rights fee and  Financially self-
Fee Collection            discharge fee collection.    unsatisfactory due to     and discharge measurement     discharge fee collection  sustained water
inadequate measurement                                 covering 100% of water    sector, based on the
criteria and the subsequent  Massive campaign of inspection  management expenses.  polluter-payer
litigation from polluters.    and control measurements                           principle, contributing
substantially to the
overall environment
protection and
enhancement.
4. Information System for    Provide integrated computer  Obsolete computer facility   System design and installation of System expansion to all    Integration of the
Water Rights              facilities to all areas of water    unable to process the  2 servers and 20 terminals.  regional offices.      system into the
Administration            rights administration and     enormous mass of water use,                                                      financial-
networking with other CNA    water right, water fee and   System Test at central office and System fully operational by  environmental
areas.                       discharge fee data.        some regional offices.       the end of 1999.          monitoring system for
water resources
management of the
water basin councils.
5. Training                  Provide CNA personnel with the Insufficient capacity of  Provide training to existing  Provide continuing training  Provide continuing
necessary training in water  personnel                  central office and regional staff,  to existing central office and training programs
resources planning, river basin                         and to additional staff as   regional staff, and to
council fonnation and                                  incorporated                  additional staff as
information technology                                                               incorporated



Page
Annex F:          Water Resources Planning and Information Systems ...................             .................... I
F-I      Implementation Plan for the Water Resources Planning and Information
Systems Component ..........................................................   13






MEXICO
WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX F: WATER RESOURCES PLANNING AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS
I. Water Resources Planning and River Basin Councils
A. Background
1.    By the early seventies, the Ministry of Water Resources of Mexico had accumulated a great
deal of information and experience in developing the country's water resources. Additionally,
professional groups and institutions related to water planning and management shared the vision of
a integrated national water policy which would support economic growth and social development
while seeking solutions to the increasing problems of water scarcity, depletion of water sources and
water pollution.
2.    In 1975, the first National Water Plan was completed, providing a framework to improve
water resources management consistent with national and regional objectives. In 1976, the National
Water Plan Commission was created to implement the 1975 Plan and update it on a systematic
basis. Also in 1976, the Ministries of Water Resources and Agriculture were transformed into the
Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources. This change caused some disruption in the water
planning and management efforts. In response to growing institutional problems and to the need of
reinforcing water policies and strategies directed to developing and operating hydraulic
infsucture and improving water use efficiency and pollution controL the National Water
Commission (CNA) was created in 1989 as the sole federal authority dealing with water resources
management.
3.    In 1990, the necessary studies were undertaken to design a new legal instrument. The
resulting National Water Law (Ley de Aguas Nacionales - LAN), enacted in December of 1992,
provides a modem legal framework for water resources management.
4.    An overall assessment of the 1975 National Water Plan was made by the World Bank,
stating: "...comparisons with similar efforts in other countries show that the 1975 National Water
Plan is at least as good, but probably better than what was achieved elsewhere. The only major
effort of this type to date was carried out in 1968-73 in the United States, culmiating in a report
entitled Water Policies for the Future...". The National Water Plan was updated in 1981 and 1994.
During this time the emphasis has shifted from water resources development to conservation and
sustainable use.
B. Present Situation
5.    By the end of the last decade, many water problems had worsened. Scarcity situation were
present in almost two thirds of the territory with the consequent increase in the overexploitation of



2                              Annex F: Water Resources Planning and Information Systems
aquifers; water use efficiency had dropped and water quality had deteriorated. In response to this
situation, and at the beginning of the present decade, new water policies were defined and oriented
in three main directions: development of the infrastructure needed to eliminate existing gaps and
meet increasing demands; achieving greater water use efficiency; and water pollution abatement and
control.
6.    Since 1995, under the new Administration, CNA has been relocated within the new
Ministry of the Environment, Natural Resources and Fisheries both to reinforce the notion of water
as a natural resource to be managed in a sustainable way and to reinforce the country's decision to
abate and control water pollution. The new water policy stresses:
a) integrated water plarning and management both in quantity and quality;
b) decentralization and greater participation of users and society as a whole;
c) introduction of market mechanisms, pricing and other economic incentives to induce
efficient use of water.
7.    The LAN provides a modem legal framework for water resources management. It states
explicitly that sustainable development is its primary objective. Furthermore, the Law is consistent
with CNA's embryonic efforts related to decentralization, water users participation, efficient use of
water, economic instruments and the role of the private sector.
8.    The organized participation of water users and stakeholders is foreseen by the Law as a
mandatory prerequisite for water planning, as well as the formulation of specific management rules
to regulate water use in the framework of the water management unit which is the river basin. The
river basin councils will be the forum where Federal, State and Municipal govemments, the water
users and stakeholders can share the responsibility of planning and managing the basin's water
resources.
9.    The establishment of the Lerma-Chapala River Basin Council has been exemplar in building
consensus for the management of common water resources. Through the Council, water allocation
policies were negotiated in 1992 between the five State Govemments involved with the specific
objective of maintaining adequate water levels and improving the water quality in Lake Chapala, the
countrys largest water body. An investment program was also launched to clean the Lerma River
waters through the construction of 48 treatment plants. As a result the pollutant charge into Lake
Chapala has been reduced by 65%. Participation in the Council's activities has been outstanding.
Water users (irrigation, municipal, industrial, recreation), state governments, federal entities in
addition to CNA-
10.   Drawing from this experience, the Rio Bravo River Basin Council was established in 1994
and has proceeded to implement water allocation policies as well as wastewater treatment programs
to clean the river waters in compliance with Mexico-USA agreements. The establishment of the
Valle de Mexico River Basin Council, in August 1995, has been another important step forward in



Annex F: Water Resources Planning and Information Systems                        3
the decentralization policy as the basin contains the greatest metropolitan area in the world with its
enormous problem of water supply, sanitation and drainage.
C. WRMP
Objectives
11.   The central objective of the subcomponent of Water Resources Planning and River Basin
Council Support is to strengthen and decentralization of water resources management and planning
at the hydrographic region level with the participation of water users and other stakeholders.
12.   The planning task will consist of preparing water resources management strategy which is a
set of medium and long-term action programs to accomplish the country's development objectives
and to implement its water policies. Critical issues in water policies formulation in relation to long-
term development objectives that water resources management strategy must address include:
a) restoration and protection of surface and groundwater quality, over exploited aquifers,
surface water bodies and aquatic and riparian ecosystems to promote the health of all
citizens including the poor, supported by the strategic decentralization of water
resources management with participation of water users and other stakeholders in
decision making;
b) reliance on the private sector, water user associations, water users and other
stakeholders;
c) rural infrastructure development mainly in the water supply and sanitation sector to
reduce urban migration which would require technological innovation to develop
affordable systems in small settlements;
d) increase financial resources with the participation of the private sector in water supply
and sanitation systems;
e) transferring of responsibilities for the operation and maintenance of irrigation systems to
water user associations;
f) improving water use efficiencies in irrigation delivery systems, on-farm and in water
supply systems;
g) improving the allocation of water between sectors; and
h) support for the govenment program (National Development Plan) to develop 100
urban centers to take pressure off the Mexico City Megalopolis.
13 Strategy formulation will incorporate the elements of comprehensive water resources
planning and management, including: (a) institutional and human resources; (b) development of



4                               Annex F: Water Resources Planning and Information Systems
adequate information systems; (c) participation of water users and other stakeholders;
(d) optimization of economic, social and environmental values; and (e) public health considerations.
14.   Strategy formulation by nature will be a dynamnic iterative process. From the foundation of
development objectives and water policies, key issues as those above mentioned will be assessed
and analyzed. The following steps will consist of evaluating options and presenting choices to
policymakers. The final choice of the options by policymakers will become the adopted strategy.
However, options evaluation for strategy formulation may reflect back on development objectives
and water policies which would have to be readjusted.
15.   The River Basin Councils synthesize two fundamental concepts of Mexico's
decentralization water policy:
a) the principal of physical integrity reflected by the basin as a water resources
planning/management unit is explicitly recognized; and
b) the principal of solidarity becomes a reality when users within a basin become aware of
their interrelation with other users and how their actions affect others or conversely how
they are affected by others' actions.
16.   With the gradual establishment of River Basin Councils and the corresponding
decentralization of water resources planning and management, the role of CNA will undergo
considerable change. At the central level CNA will coordinate the development of water policy and
strategy in the context of govemment objectives in the areas of economic development, social well
being, environmental protection, public health, rural and urban planning, decentralization and
intemational treaty obligations. At the regional levels, CNA will support the River Basin Councils
by providing them with technical support in the areas of water resources monitoring, planning,
assessments and management. Regionally, CNA will also function as the Water Authority,
registering water rights and transfers, and monitoring compliance with the LAN.
(a) Regional and National Planning
17.   The formulation of water resources management strategy at the regional and national level
will cover the following main tasks: Diagnostic, Scenarios, Strategy and Plan.
a) Diagnostic: Resources Assessment and Main Issues.
i. Review of socio-economic development objectives and key water related
policies.
ii. Assessment of water resources development and use, including an evaluation of
existing infrastructure. Evaluation of surface and groundwater quality including
an assessment of the point- and non-point-source of pollution, and the nature of
any trends over time.



Annex F: Water Resources Planning and Information Systems                          5
iii. Evaluation of the main issues faced in the water sector, including issues related
to policy, institutional organization, technology, human resources, economic
and financial aspects, planning and the environment.
b) Medium and Long-Term Scenarios
i. Projections of future water demands and supply and presentation of alternative
scenarios for the future water balances based on different assumptions
concerning: population projections and per capita consumption of water,
industrial development, municipal demands, irrigation development and
irrigation efficiency, demand management including overexploited aquifers
stabilization, pricing and marketing issues.
ii. Assessment of altemative future trends with regard to water quality and the
potential mitigating effects of investment in treatment, and regulatory and
incentive measures on aquifer stabilization and restoration.
c) Strategies Formulation
i. Developing options that address the key issues.
ii. Water supply options: development of new sources; reuse; rehabilitation and
modernization of existing infrastructure.
iii. Demand management options: technical measures and economic incentives in
the irrigation sector; water conservation in the urban sector; pricing and
financial penalties; public education and awareness programs.
iv. Water quality options: establishing, monitoring and enforcement of standards;
major areas requiring immediate attention, particularly in relation to
groundwater degradation.
v. Institutional options: harmonizing and making consistent and coherent
regulations; structure and management of water supply and sanitation and
irrigation and drainage organizations; cost recovery and financial autonomy.
vi. Human resources: short and long term training requirements; employment
practices and career structures; expertise and cross-disciplinary skills
development.
vii. Economic options: economic efficiency in water allocation and reallocation.
viii. Environment and public health: protection and reclamation of natural
ecosystems; concept of aquifer reserve as national heritage to be restored and
protected; improving water quality standards; public education.



6                               Annex F: Water Resources Planning and Information Systems
d) Options Evaluation
i. Definition of evaluation criteria.
ii. Evaluation of altemative combinations of options (strategies) to achieve
regional and national objectives, taking into account the following aspects: cost
recovery and water pricing; services decentralization; private sector and
community involvement; risks associated.
e) Regional Plans and National Plan: Orientation Schemes for Water Resources
Management
i. The orientation schemes will synthesize the principal findings of previous
analyses and the set of recommended options, best suited to achieve
development objectives and support key water policies. Presentation of options
in simple language understandable to specialists as well as non-specialists and all
stakeholders.
(b) Establishment of River Basin Councils
18.   The National Water Law, Chapter IV, articles 3 and 13, define river basins as the water
resources management units and the river basin councils as the forum for reaching consensus and
coordination where Federal, State and Municipal governments, the water users and other
stakeholders can participate in the planning and managing of water resources.
19.   CNA is reorganizing its regional offices and has identified 13 hydrographic regions that
cover the entire territory of the country. These regions are presented on the backpiece map and are
denominated as follows:
- Baja California Peninsula
- Upper Northwest
- Lower Northwest
- Central Pacific
- Southern Pacific
- Northern Border
- Northern Central Basins
- Lerma-Santiago
- Northern Gulf
- Central Gulf
- Southern Gulf
- Yucatan Peninsula
- Valley of Mexico



Annex F: Water Resources Planning and Information Systems                        7
20.   As already mentioned, the Councils of the river basins of Lerma-Chapala, Rio Bravo and
Valle de Mexico have been established and will be strengthened. The establishment and
strengthening of the 13 river basin councils will be achieved by the implementation of a series of
activities in each basin. The activities will be divided into four phases, each one with its specific
scope and goal. Each phase will be also be a stage for consensus building prior to the
implementation of the subsequent phase.
a) Phase 0. Constitution of a Technical Group and a Coordination Group in charge
respectively of the technical and institutional aspects of the council establishment. The
Coordination Group will create awareness among water users and stakeholders facing
critical water problems and issues in the basin for their gathering into a solidarity
structure and toward the council establishment. A general communicationrmformation
dissemination program will be initiated to increase public awareness in the basin of
water resources related matters. The Coordination Group will be supported with
technical and socio-economic information, and adequate communication material
prepared by the Technical Group.
b) Phase 1. Diagnostic of the present situation and implementation of an information
system for monitoring. The diagnostic and the information system will cover the
following aspects: assessment of water resources development and use, including an
evaluation of existing infrastructure in the basin; evaluation of surface and groundwater
quality including an assessment of the point- and non-point-sources of pollution, and the
nature of any trends over time; evaluation of the main issues faced in the water sector in
the basin, including issues related to policy, institutional organization, technology,
human resources, economic and financial aspects, planning and the environment.
c) Formulation of Objectives of water quality and water resources allocation.
Dissemination of information on issues and objectives among water users and
stakeholders. Discussion, negotiation, striving for consensus on Objectives.
d) Phase 2. Altemative action plans to achieve the objectives. This phase will correspond
to the preparation of a water resources management strategy of the basin with long-
term planning, fornulation of action programs with their investment costs and recurrent
costs, the implementation agenda, and definition of priorities. Dissemination of
infomiation on the alternative action plans among water users and stakeholders.
Discussion, negotiation, striving for consensus on action plan.
e) Phase 3. Definition of the financing system of the action plan. Formulation of various
alternative options including water fees, tariffs, loans and other financial instruments.
The implementation of a computerized financial information system will permit the
simulation of various hypotheses and determine their viability and sustainability.
Discussion by the river basin council of the financial option.
f) Phase 4. Implementation of a monitoring system of Finance/Environment Performance.
This information system will integrate all the components of the previous systems on



8                              Annex F: Water Resources Planning and Information Systems
water resources, use, planning, action plans and finance into a comprehensive
management system for continuous monitoring of the achievement in environmental
enhancement and the state of finance of the council.
(c) Prospective Studies of Integrated Water Resources Management
21.   The objective of these studies is to analyze the critical issues of sustainable water use and to
provide the necessary information to the regional and national plans. The studies to be carried out
will include:
a) Alternative technology of water supply and sanitation for rural settlements;
b) The role of the private sector in hydraulic infrastructure;
c) The role of water in the agriculture and food sector;
d) Strategy of salinization control in irrigated areas;
e) Watershed management;
f) Optimization model for integrated river basin management;
g) Monitoring and evaluation of on-going irrigation projects;
h) Socio-economic, financial, and regulatory aspects of aquifers stabilization in the 13
hydrographic regions.
IL Telecommunication and Computer Systems and Water
Geographic Information System (SIGA)
A. Background
22.   In 1994 CNA released an "Institutional Program for the Development of Informatics-
Programa Institucional de Desarrollo Informatico" for the period 1995-2000. The Program
provides detailed information concerning the telecommunication, computer resources and
application software currently in use by the management units of CNA The Program proposed the
institutionalization of a committee to coordinate-ordinate the infornatic activities of CNA The
Program also addressed the necessity of training staff and of keeping the skilled telecommunication
and computer professionals at CNA units. The Program recommends more homogeneous
approach for the development of systems and acquisition of hardware and software.
B. Present Situation
23.   In general, the various CNA offices have obsolete and insufficient telecommunications and
computer systems, and inadequate information technology staff. Constant insfitutional changes and



Annex F: Water Resources Planning and Infonnation Systaes                        9
the difficulties to hire and train information technology specialists has lead CNA to deploy
independent information systems at different sub-management units and with different degrees of
successes.
24.   With limited exceptions, data and computer programs are transmitted through the mail, via
FAX or voice telephone communications. Computer storage and processing capacity are woefully
deficient.
25.   Modem Infonmation Technology resources are indispensable for CNA to adequately fulfill
its water resources management obligations. Practical and rapid solutions are required and can only
be achieved with systematic and massive use of telecommunications, computer resources and skilled
staff.
C. WRMP
26.   The objective of the telecommunications and computing resources modemization plan is to
facilitate all CNA technical and administrative offices with basic components to provide an efficient
flow of information between all offices. The objectives include the instalUation of LANs, WANs,
workstations, PC's, and essential software that are adequate and unifomn and provide the basic
elements for common functions such as electronic mail, data base entry and retrieval, analysis of
data, and reports.
27.   Each staff person involved with computing resources (data base input, computation,
analysis, reports, electronic mail, geographic infonnation, simulation modeling, management of
data, projects, and staff; etc.) will have a desktop display adequate to meet their processing
requirements.
28.   The telecommunications and computer resources activities under the WRMP take into
consideration many of the points addressed by the Programia Institucional de Desarrollo Infornmtico
(1995-2000) and provides general design guidance for the implementation of a basic
telecommunication and computer structure for CNA in the period from 1996 to 2001.
(a) Telecommunications
29.   In order to provide an efficient means of information flow from the state offices to the
regional offices and central offices, a telecommunications infrastructure will be designed and
installed. Each state, regional, and central office will have the basics of a local area network. Each
local area network will include wiring from the office's central telecommunications area to each
work site using a technology common throughout CNA. Each office's telecommunications area will
contain local area network hubs and a connection to the CNA's wide area network which will also
be implemented as a part of the WRMP.
30.   The central offices will be inter-connected through the El optical fiber network. CNA will
connect all state, regional, and central offices with an internal wide area network. Each connection
will be a minimum of 64 kilobits per second (kbps), also known as EO, in the first phase, with



10                              Annex F: Water Resources Planning and bnfonmation Sysums
provisions for expansion to 128 kbps when and where required. Two-way satellite-based system
(VSAT) will be used. Each regional office will have a remote telecommunication server and
modems to concentrate data from the stations.
31.   An Internet connection will be established through the Mexican Autonomous University,
which is a main Internet provider in Mexico. A CNA network security policy will be established
from the beginning of the project.
(b) Computing Resourmes
32.   In offices where sub-management disciplines such as SIGA, SMN, GASIR, GAS, GSCA,
etc. are co-located, the computing resources will be shared by the entire office.
33.   Each state, regional, and central office will have two server-class processors, one NT
Wmdows and one Unix, on the local area networkl The NT Wmdows server will facilitate present
and future MS-Wmdows based software tools. Similarly, the Unix server will facilitate present and
future Unix-based software tools such as Oracle and ARC/Info.
34.   The capacity of these servers (number and speed of the CPU's, size of mnemory, disk
capacity, etc.) must meet all minimal software requirements and will be larger in some offices
proportional to the size of the office's needs. Also, the capacity of these servers must be able to
grow over time to meet expanding needs.
35.   Each staff person involved with data base processing analyses, exchange of information,
etc. will have a desktop display adequate to meet their processing requirements. For uniformitty of
access to computing resources within and without each office, each desktop display unit uill have
the ability to display both X-Windows (Unix) and MS-Wmdows.
36.   Except for specialized equipment required to meet pardcular needs, the core computing
resources components will be relatively uniform throughout all the offices. This unifority will
allow procurement to be made in an organized method with great potental for cost savings with
quantity purchases. Because this modernization plan extends over six years, contracts for purchase
and maintenance will be wnitten with the minimum requirement immediately with options to procure
additional resources in the latter years using the same contract.
(c) Data Bases
37.   Because of the unique data base requirements by each disciplie, merging of all CNA data
into a single data base will be difficult, costly and likely impossible. Therefore, each sub-
management discipline will design and deploy a data base management systemn that meets their
specific needs for data storage, computation, retrieval, analysis, and reports. Requiements from
other sub-management disciplines will be requested and met whenever possible, however, the
efficient data base utilization within a discipline will out-weigh extemal demands. A vital element of
each data base design is the ability to import and export data in standard fonnats.



Annex F: Water Resources Planning and Information Systems                        11
38.   To facilitate the transfer of infornation between data bases of differing designs, a data
exchange software tool will be developed. This tool will have the capability of re-formatting data
between standard data base formats.
(d) Water Geographical Information System/SIGA
39.   In this area, the WRMP will support the strengthening and extension of the existing CNA
Water Geographical Information System (SIGA) in view to responding to the rapidly increasing
requirements of various technicaL regional and administrative sectors of CNA. To achieve this
objective, the following tasks will be carried out:
a) Extension of the data base structure for future integration of the information subsystems
to be implemented by WRMP (Groundwater, Water Rights Registry, etc.). This implies
a system redesign;
b) System expansion for remote sensing image processing;
c) General system expansion in georeferenced data processing and system networking; and
d) System implementation in the regional and river basin councils offices.
(e) Staffing Support
40.   Because of its recognized capabilities in the area, a group will be established within GSMN
responsible for the designs, procurement, developments, deployments, maintenance, and
progressive recommendations for core telecommunications and computing resources for all of
CNAN
41.   Each office (state, regional, and central) will have a staff person (or persons proportional to
the size of the office) devoted to general telecommunications and computing resources support.
This person's primary responsibility will be ensuring that all telecommunication and computing
resource components are operational at their site. When failures occur, this person would be
responsible for obtaining repairs, restoring lost or damaged files, etc.
Im Training, Information and Communication
42.   The training effort in integrated water resources planning and management, and information
technology will aim to develop and expand the professional skills and capacities of technical staff of
CNA central and regional offices and of river basin councils. The training program in various
technical, socio-economic, financial and environmental aspects of water resources management and
infonnation technology will comprise: (a) short courses offered by national institutions; (b) short
courses, seminars, and study tours offered by institutions abroad; and (c) national and international
master programs.



12                              Annex F: Water Resources Planning and Information Systems
43.   The communication effort will aim to develop awareness from water users, municipal and
state authorities and other stakeholders about the water issues in their hydrographical basins and the
necessary shared common effort and solidarity to achieve the common objective sustainable water
resources development. In addition to the information meetings, seminars and workshops which
will be organized at each stage of the river basin council establishment, study tours will be organized
for the representatives of councils members for experience exchange with river basin councils
abroad.



Table F-i
Implementation Plan for the Water Resources Flanning and Information Systems Component
Activity                     Objective                     Present Status             1996/97 Actions                   1998- 2001 Actions    Post WRMP
1. Establishment and        Decentralization of water     Highly centralized decision   Constitution of basin working groups Signing of relevant  Consolidation of
Strengthening of River    resources management with full making in water resources   (13)                            agreements (8)        council structure
Basin Councils            participation of stakeholders in  management.                                                                    with adaptation to
the 13 hydrographic regions.                            Signing of relevant agreements (4)    Signiing of Act of  evolving
constitution (8)      socioeconomic             *
Signing of Act of Constitution (4)                      conditions of the
Approval of internal    basin                   CD
l  Approval of internal regulation (4)   regulation (8)                           0
Development of river basin water State water plans with  Diagnostic of present socioeconomic  Updating of strategies   Water basin plans
resources strategy in the 13  administrative boundaries    and environmental situation (13)  and agreement on    updated by councils
hydrographic regions.                                                                      objectives/plans (I 3)   staff with resources
Preliminary strategies and agreement                    provided by watcr
on objectives/plans (4)           Agreement on financing users and other         ic
programs ( 13)        stakeholders. Basins
vater sector self-
Action plans (13)     sustainable.
0
Envirounmental                                  S
monitoring system 
implemented ( 13)                               0
2. Regional Planning         Development of regional water  None.                     Diagnostic of present situation   Development of        Institution of a
resources strategy for the 13                                                              Regional master plans*  dynamic regional
hydrographic regions including                          Developmnent of scenarios*                               planning process,
discussions of plans and                                                                                         including
strategies with water users and                         Development of Base Plans                                discussions with
stakeholders.                                                                                                    water users and
stakeholders
3. National Water Plan       Development of national water  National water planning   Support the fornulation of Regional  Diagnostic of present   National water
resources strategy, focusing on   process instituted since 1975 Plans keeping in mnind their eventual  situation  planning integrating
the participation of water users  by a UNDP/World Bank  integration in to the National Water                     water basin
and stakeholders in all planning  project.               Plan                              Development scenarios* strategies and
stages. Preparation of the                                                                                       regional water
National Water Plan for the year National Water Plan 1995-                                 Strategy formulation*   resources strategies,
2000.                         2000 at strategic level.                                                           with stakeholders
Alternative action    participation.
programs*
National water plan



Table F-I
Implementation Plan for the Water Resources Planning and Information Systems Component
Activity                   Objective                    Present Status            1996/97 Actions                  1998- 2001 Actions    Post WRM[P
4. Prospective Studies of  Prospective analysis of critical   Current studies do not focus  Studies of water economic value, soil Studies of various  Permanent CNA
Integrated Water        issues in water resources    on critical environmental    salinization in irrigated areas,  specific cases of aquifer think tank
Resources Management   management to support the     issues.                   watershed management, agricultural  stabilization and  responsible of long-
planning process.                                     new frontier, modernization of   groundwater          term analysis of
irrigation systems, and         conservation on requests socioeconomic and
multiobjective project ranking  by water basin councils. environmental issues
Focus on socioeconomic, of sustainable water
financial and        resources
envirorunental issues.  development
5. Telecommunications and   To facilitate studies and   Antiquated, obsolete and    Design and install the backbone  Expand             Expand and upgrade
Computer Systems and    analyses, and the interchange of inadequate equipment and   telecommunications system for all of teleconumunications and telecommunications
SIGA                     information                 software                  CNA.                             computer systems as    and computer
required.            systems as required.
Begin gradual design and installation
of computer systems.            Maintain systems      Maintain systems
Complete implementation of SIGA
6. Training                Provide CNA and water        Insufficient capacity of  Provide training to existing central   Provide continuing  Provide continuing
resources basin council personnel personnel           office, regional staff and river basin  training to existing  training programs
with the necessary training in                        council staff, and to additional staff as central office, regional
water resources planning, river                       incorporated                     staff and river basin
basin council formation and                                                            council staff, and to
information technology                                                                 additional staff as
.__________________________________________________  ._____________________ _____________________________ incorporated poratedo__
fI
I
I



Page
Annex G:      Economic Aspects, Project Benefits and Environmental Assessment ......................I
G-1   Projects Involving the Provision of Meteorological/Hydrological Service and
Information - Reported Measures of Economic Feasibility .12






MEXICO
WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX G: ECONOMIC ASPECTS, PROJECT BENEFITS,
AND ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT'
L Project Objectives and Strategy
A. Strategic Responses to Water Management Challenges
1.    In response to growing water scarcity and deteriorating water quality in Mexico, the CNA
has intensified its focus on three distinct, but interrelated, activities: planning; the establishment of
incentive-based institutions; and infrastructure reform. In terms of effective water resources
planning, the CNA recognizes the importance of water user and other stakeholder participation in
the preparation and implementation of any water plan. The CNA's focus is therefore on the
promotion of basin water plans, the preparation and implementation of which take place at the
local level through River Basin Councils that consist of representatives of water users and other
interested private and non-private organizations in the basin.
2.    While the creation of local, River Basin Councils can be viewed as an activity related to
the creation of incentive-based institutions, the CNA is in the process of creating a number of
other institutions of this character, provisions for which are an important part of recent federal
legislation. Examples are as follows.
a) The CNA is presently completing a program that transfers responsibilities for
the operation and maintenance of irrigation facilities to water user associations
in irrigation districts.
b) The CNA is in the process of completing a National Registry of water users
which establishespfngible usufructuary water rights that can be traded in water
markets.
c) The CNA has established a system of water prices, paid by municipal and
industrial water users, in an effort to provide incentives for water conservation.
d) As provided by the Federal Rights Law, the CNA is in the process of
completing a registry of industrial firms that discharge wastes into water bodies
(rivers, lakes, and ponds) and of establishing industry-specific quality standards
for discharged wastes. All unregistered dischargers are subject to a fine.
3.    Finally, looking to infrastructure reform as a key element of the CNA's strategic response
to the water/environmental challenges that it faces, the CNA proposes to expand, upgrade and
modernize the information-based infrastructure that supports the nation's water uses and water
I     This document presents a sununary of the analyses. A more detailed stand-alone document is in
the process of being prepared.



2                    Annex G: Economic Aspects, Project Benefits, and Environmental Assessment
quality and, through an intensive training program, to upgrade the human capital required for the
effective use of that infrastructure.
B. Information as the key to the CNA strategy: Objectives of the WRMP
4.    It is surely obvious that reliable data concerning water quantity and quality, "reliable" in
the sense of being comprehensive in term of content, time, and space, are fundamental requisites
for success in the implementation of the CNA's strategy described above. Basic to this strategy is
a process of decision-making and policy formulation regarding the operation and management of
water resources systems, the enforcement of water use and quality regulations, and investments;
the quality of such decisions, and the effectiveness of such policies, will depend critically on the
quality of the data and information that are available to the CNA's decision makers.
5.    The following examples may serve to further obviate the critical importance of reliable
information for these functions.
a) Hydrographic regional planning as contemplated by the CNA's strategy for
River Basin councils will necessarily involve trade-offs and sacrifices if water
uses are to be brought into congruence with existing water supplies and
substantive improvements in water quality are to be realized. The substance of
considerations by stakeholders of plans that entail the sharing of sacrifices is
directly related to stakeholders' confidence in the reliability of data used to
compare alternative plans.
b) Improved efficiency in the management and operation of surface water
supplies, as well as operationally efficient and effective responses to flood and
drought conditions, requires reliable and timely hydrometric and
meteorological data. The provision of these data require access to modern,
state of the art, meteorological technologies and facilities, as well as modem
telemetric and radio communications systems.
c) If the CNA, in conjunction with the River Basin Councils, is to effectively
promulgate policies to reduce groundwater overdrafts it must have detailed
data and assessments that characterize affected aquifers. Such data and
assessments derive only from modern, comprehensive monitoring and
information systems and modem computerized modeling techniques.
d) The promulgation and enforcement of water quality standards is simply
unworkable without reliable water quality data. The availability of such data
requires the existence of state of the art water quality laboratories, the
establishment of national water quality monitoring and information systems,
and water quality assessments.
e) The CNA's strategy involving reliance on some forms of water markets is predicated
on, first, reliable information concerning water availability, and second, on the
existence of well-defined water rights. The establishment of such rights is dependent



Annex G: Economic Aspects, Project Benefits and Enviromnental Assessment           3
on the completion of the National Water Rights Registry.
f) Dam safety is an important and integral part of the CNA's plans to improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of water resources management at reservoir
facilities. Standards for dam safety, required investment programs for
upgrading and/or redesigning reservoir configurations, and effective emergency
preparedness programs require information and data that derive from:
extensive dam inspection; hydrological evaluation of dams; design studies for
corrective actions; instrumentation and data analyses; and real-time monitoring
systems.
6.    The overall objective of the WRMP is therefore seen as that of providing the facilities,
equipment and training required to generate the fundamental information needs of the CNA's
strategy for responding to water quality and quantity management challenges in the contemporary
Mexican environment.
II. Benefits Associated With The WRMP: Approach
7.    The standard approach to assessing the feasibility of a proposed project is referred to as
cost-benefit analysis. Cost-benefit analysis typically involves comparisons of the net value of a
project-related increase in the production of goods and services with the project's cost. The
nature of the WRMP does not lend itself well to this standard approach. The objective of the
WRMP is neither a direct increase in the production of goods and services nor a direct increase in
social welfare however measured. Its objective is to "produce" data and information.
Information clearly has value. As noted by Mosley, "Information may be said to be the 'antidote'
to uncertainty, or the 'raw material from which decisions are made." Thus, it is the use of the
WRMIP's data and information -- the use of this "raw material" -- that can be expected to directly
impact social welfare through a combination of such things as increasing agricultural production
(via increased efficiency of water use), expanding opportunities for industrial growth (via, as one
example, reallocating water for municipal and industrial uses), ameliorating or eliminating the
mining of exhaustible natural resources thereby promoting sustainable growth, reducing risks and
costs associated with dam safety, floods, and drought, improving environmental quality, and more
generally, improving decision-making processes.
8.    Benefits or values associated with the WRMP are therefore seen as deriving from
enhancements in the way that information is organized in the sense of data collection and data use
in decision making processes. The value of information can be very difficult to measure. It is
then typically the case that benefits for projects like the WRMP must be estimated by means that
rely upon measures that are inferential, anecdotal, and indirect in nature. The approach to be used
here for an assessment of the potential feasibility of the WRMP makes use of all three of these
measures.
mII. Precedents For Feasible WRMP-like Projects
9.    Table G-1 provides examples of results from studies in a large number of countries that
attempt to estimate benefit-cost measures for the relevant country's expenditures on new,
upgraded technologies that have been put in place for improving the quality of hydrologic and



4                   Annex G: Econornic Aspects, Project Benefits, and Environmental Assessment
meteorological data. These results provide overwhelming evidence of the benefits that accrue to
society from investments that have the effect of enhancing the quality of meteorological and
hydrological data.
10.   The source of benefits measured in the bulk of the studies cited in Table G-1 derive from
such things as benefits (to agriculture, public health and safety, transportation, industrial and
public sectors) from improved weather forecasts, reservoir management, and water resources
planning. There are still other studies that provide compelling indicators of the feasibility of
investment project that enhance the quality of hydrological data for other dimensions of end-uses
that are akin to those relevant for the WRMP. As but a few examples, benefit-cost ratios for
projects that upgrade facilities for collecting and disseminating streamfiow data are shown to
range from 2.8:1 to as high as 21.2:1. Benefit-cost measures for collecting and archiving data
used for the design, sizing, and management of water impoundment facilities have been reported
to range from 1.7:1 to 2:1.
11.   A sub-component of the WRMIP's meteorological component has as its purpose the
commercialization of hydrological and meteorological information. A number of countries have
realized remarkable success in forming public-private partnerships along the lines contemplated by
the WRMP. As but one example, a collaborative program between the Japanese Meteorological
Agency and 20 private meteorological companies serves an estimated market for weather
information that amounts to around US $200 million/year.
IV. Anecdotal Indications Of the WRMP's Feasibility
12.  In this section attention is turned to a brief examination of two sets of selected experiences
in Mexico that relate to the quantity and quality of hydrological and meteorological data. One set
concerns the magnitude of damages born by the Mexican population arising from
hydrometeorological phenomena, damages some part of which would surely be affected by the
WRMP. The second set concerns Mexico's experiences with what might be regarded as a pilot
project for the formation of River Basin Councils as a central part of basin water planning. The
purpose of these examinations is to provide a basis, however limited and perhaps speculative, for
drawing inferences as to values which might reasonably be expected to accrue to Mexican society
from the WRMNP.
A. The Potential Value of Enhanced Meteorological and Hydrological
Data From Reduced Flood and Drought Damages
13.   Mexico's geography and topography, with its extended coastlines and concentrations of
people and economic activity in relatively close proximity to the Atlantic and Pacific coasts, make
it extremely vulnerable to effects of hurricanes and northward moving cold fronts. Annual
damages from all hydrometeorological phenomena (rain storms, floods, droughts, freezes, hail and
wind storms) in Mexico during the period 1987-1994 were: a partial or total loss of production
from some 1.4 million hectares; a loss of some 38,000 head of livestock; and costs associated with
human suffering resulting from the destruction of more than 27,000 homes, more than 133,000
required to evacuate their homes, a loss of life for 181 people, and serious injuries suffered by
more than 100 people.



Annex G: Economic Aspects, Project Benefits and Environmental Assessment           5
14.   The largest part of these damages from hydrometeorological phenomena arise from floods
and droughts. In terms of monetary losses, primarily in the agricultural and forestry sectors, the
greatest losses are caused by drought which average some 1 billion NP (1996 pesos) per year.
Average annual monetary losses from floods are some 302 million NP. Among knowledgeable
CNA professionals there is little question that the magnitude of these losses would be substantially
reduced with more reliable hydrometeorological forecasts, and more reliable and more timely data
concerning streamflow.
15.   Among other things, these examples make clear the urgent need for the acceleration of
efforts to modernize Mexico's hydrometeorological forecasting capabilities.
B. Basin Planning With Community Involvement:
The Lerma-Chapala Experience
16.   As was mentioned above in Section 1.B, an important element in the CNA's strategy for
improving water management in Mexico is the creation of River Basin Councils made up of
representatives of stakeholders in the basin that will play a major role in the preparation and
implementation of basin-wide water management plans. WRMP's financial resources would be
allocated to these and related planning and management activities which involve the collection,
use and analysis of hydrometeorological data and information. One can then reasonably inquire:
on what basis might one expect that such an expenditure is feasible in a benefit-cost sense?
17.   Such a basis is provided by Mexico's experience with what might be regarded as a pilot
project for the creation of River Basin Councils: the existing Lerma-Chapala River Basin Council.
Major water resources-related concerns in this Basin have been: unsustainable withdrawals
(mining) of water from the Basin's groundwater resources; over use of surface water resources;
and dramatic declines in water quality in Lake Chapala -- a unique environmental and recreational
asset to the region and to Mexico. The decline in Lake Chapala's water quality was attributable to
a combination of two sets of conditions that had evolved over previous decades: a decline in
freshwater infusions, particularly from the Lerma River, as a result of continuously increasing
upstream diversions of water for irrigation; and the contamination of river waters from
unregulated and untreated waste discharges by municipalities and industries.
18.   It is instructive to review a few of the major accomplishments -- successes -- and major
failures of this pilot project. The following are the major accomplishments of the Council over
the relatively brief period 1991-1994. In terms of major accomplishments: 48 new treatment
plants, treating more than 1.5 billion m3 of waste water per year, have been constructed in the
Basin with more than 30% of the costs being paid by private or semi-private concessions; an
agreement was established among stakeholders to reduce surface water diversions in the Basin
and to make a specific allocation of water to Lake Chapala.
19.   These are remarkable accomplishments by any standards, and more so (given Mexico's
past experiences) given the fact that the bulk of these actions were initiated and implemented
under the auspices of a private-government partnership: the River Basin Council. A primary
lesson learned from this experience is the potential effectiveness of basin water plans when local
groups, including Governors of affected States, are directly involved in the planning and
implementation process.



6                    Annex G: Economic Aspects, Project Benefits, and Environmental Assessment
20.   Lessons learned from the River Basin Council's failures are equally instructive for the
purposes of the assessment of the WRMP. The following are a few examples of such failures and
lessons. First, the CNA's Regional Office in the Basin has been notably unsuccessful in enforcing
water quality regulations, a lack of success is attributed to one major cause: the lack of reliable
data. Second, it is generally recognized that substantial increases in the availability of water could
result from still greater increases in the efficiency of water use in the irrigation sector. Existing
inefficiencies in that sector derive, in large part, from the antiquated infrastructure which is used
to distribute water for irrigation use. Thus, the rehabilitation and modernization of the Basin's
irrigation infrastructure could accomplish a great deal in terms of making additional water
supplies available for high valued uses. Finally, effects of floods which are recurrent events in the
Basin could be substantially reduced by expanding the number of streamflow measurement
stations in the Basin (there are now only 27), and by improving the quality of facilities and
equipment used for the provision of hydrological and meteorological data and for modeling and
analyses of the data.
V. An Indirect/implied Indicator of WRMP's Feasibility
21.   An indirect indicator of the WRMP's feasibility can be developed in the following manner.
There are many activities and events in Mexican society that will be affected by the project.
Unfortunately, only a small part of these are amenable to measurement in terms of monetary
values that are associated with them. The activities and events for which monetary values can be
estinated are the following. Values given below are average annual values measured in millions
of 1996 NP.
Agricultural damages from floods:                          302
Agricultural damages from drought:                        1,020
Social costs of lives lost in floods:                     1,080
Hydroelectric power production:                           6,800
Social costs of degraded water quality:                  13,611
Potential marketing of water rights; user
payments for water use and discharge:                   12,796
Costs of groundwater mining:                              2,725
Value of irrigated agricultural production:              _,
129,047
22.   These activities, annual values for which total 129,047 million NP, will be affected by the
project. However, it is not known nor can it be known the magnitude by which these values will
be affected. Annualized project costs are 230 million NP. It can then be asked: by what amount
would the values given above need to be affected for the project to be feasible (i.e., have a ratio
of benefits to costs that equals or exceeds unity)?
23.   The measure relevant for responding to this question is determined by dividing 230 million
NP by 129,047 million NP, which yields .00 18. This means that if the project were to affect the
values given above by only about two-tenths of one percent, the project would indeed be
economically feasible. The question then becomes: is it reasonable to expect such effects?



Annex G: Economic Aspects, Project Benefits and Environmental Assessment            7
24.   A 0. 18% effect on virtually all of the values given above is surely more than plausible. For
example, in terms of flood damages only, such an effect from improved meteorological forecasts
would derive from a reduction in the annual loss of life from 181 to 150 -- a saving of 31 lives
which is valued at 230 million NP. Would it be "reasonable" to expect effects of this kind? For
perspective regarding this question, consider the following. In the Netherlands the estimated
number of lives saved each year from reduced traffic accidents only, a reduction that is
attributable to improved meteorological information, is estimated to be between 25 and 63
lives/year; a comparable estimate of some 200 lives saved per year is reported for the United
Kingdom.
25.   As another example, referring only to potential payments of user fees for water use and
water discharge, the importance of these payments derives from, among other things, the
incentives that would be placed on polluting entities to rationalize the management of discharges
of residual waters into the nation's streams via optimal investments in pollution-abatement
technologies -- an optimization process for which a basic prerequisite is reliable information. In
this regard, the requirement, as a condition for a feasible project, that these payments be affected
by less than two-tenths of one percent is virtually trivialized by the CNA's demonstrated success
with a pilot project wherein the ratio of collections to expenditures was on the order of 12:1 --
i.e., a demonstrated "benefit-cost" ratio of 1 181 :1.
26.   Referring finally to a "required" (for project feasibility) two-tenths of one percent
reduction in the social costs associated with groundwater mining, on its face it is surely reasonable
to accept such a modest measure of success for the WRMiP: it would require reductions in
groundwater mining in an amount equal only to the amount of water required to irrigate some 6
to 7 hectares. The gross underestimate of values that are potentially affected by the project,
resulting from both omitted values and understated values described above, and the small -- two-
tenths of one percent -- impact on such values required for project feasibility should suffice to
persuade even the most skeptical as to the project's feasibility.
VI. The Economic Feasibility of the WRMP: Conclusions
27.   In this Annex, it has been shown that expost analyses of investment programs designed to
improve the reliability of hydrological and meteorological information in many counties
throughout the world suggest that such programs, like the WRMP, yield benefits that greatly
exceed costs. Anecdotal evidence has been provided of the potential benefits of the WRMP by
examining specific instances in which more timely access to more reliable hydrological and
meteorological information would have resulted in obvious benefits to Mexican society. And it
has been demonstrated, using data that significantly understate potential values relevant for
Mexico, that one's conclusion that the WRMP is indeed feasible requires only the most modest
expectations for its success in affecting values of social significance in Mexico.
28.   Of course, the reader will draw his or her own conclusions as to the plausibility of
expecting the WRMP to have the "modest" impacts on relevant social values estimated in this
section. This discussions of WRMP's feasibility closes with the following observations which
might be of interest to the reader in this regard. Referring to the "expectation" of a project's
impacts on social values -- 0. 18% in the case of WRMP, i.e., a "required" rate of return of 0.18%
-- one might well inquire: what have been such expectations for a required rate of return in other



8                   Annex G: Economic Aspects, Project Benefits, and Environmental Assessment
countries? Two examples are offered. Referring to criteria for hydrological and meteorological
programs in the U.K., the common goal of such programs is to achieve a minimum threshold rate
of return of 6%. Finally, Indian engineers reportedly looked to a 10% savings in overdesign costs
as justifying a WRMP-like project.
VLL Environmental Assessment of the WRMP - Frame of Reference
29.   As is the case with "traditional" cost-benefit analysis, discussed above, the WRMP does
not lend itself well to the "traditional" environmental impact statement. The primary purposes of
the WRMP do not directly affect processes that produce goods and services, that directly employ
human resources, that make use of natural and environmental resources, or that directly affect air
and or water quality. Moreover, in the case of the WRMP there is little in the way of any one-to-
one relationship between the several project components and any particular set of environmental
and social effects. In any substantive terms, such components share a common and inextricably
related goal: improving the quantity, quality, and timeliness of hydrological and meteorological
information available in Mexico, and enhance the quality of water resources planning in the
country.
30.   Given these unique characteristics of the WRMP vis a vis conventional water reclamation
projects, the approach to assessing social and environmental aspects of the project must be
correspondingly unique. A qualitative description of many of these social and environmental
aspects has been given above, and little can be gained by repeating them here. The dramatic
changes in the CNA's approach to basin wide planning, via reliance on river basin councils which
is a critical activity supported by the WRMIP, has been described, as have been the activities
contemplated by the WRMP that relate to dam safety programs and the management of reservoir
systems.
31.   Social and environmental aspects of the WRMFP that were not fully explored above
concern water quality in Mexico, and the potential effects on this important Mexican resource that
may derive from the WRMP. The intended contribution of this section is therefore to explore
these aspects.
A. Social and Environmental Objectives of the Project
32.   Chapter XIV of the Federal Rights Law contains two provisions that are of critical
importance for the CNA's mandates for improving water quality: the CNA is given a mandate to
develop water quality standards (Official Mexican Guidelines and Specific Discharge Provisions)
which must be met by entities that discharge waste waters in the public domain; and municipal and
industrial entities that discharge waste waters in the public domain ("water bodies," surface
waters, surface impoundments, and groundwater) are required to obtain permits (to be registered,
or "administratively controlled") for such discharges and to pay a fine when chargers fail to obtain
proper authorization and/or that fail to comply with water quality standards.
33.   For the CNA to effectively respond to the mandates of current environmental legislation,
given that it is effectively starting at ground zero, it faces enormous challenges in terms of the
generation of data requisite for the promulgation of water quality standards, which by law must be
industry specific, and for the myriad activities required for the enforcement of such standards:



Annex G: Economic Aspects, Project Benefits and Environmental Assessment         9
identifying dischargers and associated characteristics of discharged waters; monitoring ground and
surface water quality; and enforcement/inspection procedures.
34.   The objectives of the CNA, and with the WRMP's support of the CNA substantial
objectives of the WRMP, are to meet these challenges. The CNA has recently completed a partial
inventory of water use and waste discharges that provides a point of departure for efforts required
to respond to its mandates. To date, the CNA's attention has focused on but four measures of
water quality: biological oxygen demand (BOD), chemical oxygen demand (COD), total
suspended solids (TSS), and grease and oils (GyO); thus, the CNA has yet to consider measures
and standards for metals and other toxic contaminants.
B. The Present State of Water Quality in Mexico.
35.   A large part of Mexico's population lives in communities whose wastewater is not treated
before being discharged into rivers and streams. Even in large urban areas with populations in
excess of 80,000 only about one-fourth of the population's wastewater is treated.
36.   More specifically in 1994 an estimated 174 m3/s of wastewater were collected through
municipal sewage systems (4,945 metric tons of BOD/day), and the main industries generated
about 65 m3/s of wastewater (4,380 metric tons of BOD/day). An estimated 17 m3/s (410 metric
tons of BOD/day) of municipal wastewaters are treated adequately of a total of 43 m3/s of
existing capacity, and 5.3 m3/s (329 metric tons of BOD/day) of industrial wastewaters are
treated. The metropolitan area of Mexico City alone discharges an estimated 42 m3/s wastewater,
only 17% of which is treated.
37.   Relatively little appears to be known about water contamination from agricultural
activities in Mexico.
C. CNA Plans for Improving Water Quality
38.   According to the National water Plan 1995-2000, by the year 2000 there will be a 13.5%
increase in the number of people (an increase of about 10 million people) served by a water supply
system, and a 23% increase in the number of people connected to wastewater systems. Some 82
m3/s of municipal wastewaters are expected to receive treatment by the year 2000.
39.   By Mexican law businesses/industries that discharge waste waters into streams are
required to register such discharge with the CNA. Registered firms then pay a fee for discharges
based on volume discharged, and must pay fines if the quality of their discharges exceed standards
established by the CNA. The CNA has encountered a number of problems in the effective
enforcement of these laws, however. This lack of success derives from firms' challenges to CNA-
imposed sanctions in the courts and the CNA's lack of access to data required to prove up its
claims -- it has great difficulty in proving that contamination in any one stretch of the river is
caused by a particular industry's waste discharges. In these regards, it is simply the case that the
CNA has too few monitor facilities in the nation's rivers and streams. Moreover, the CNA has
the legal power to conduct on-site tests of a company's discharges, but is required to give the
company a 24 hour notice; not surprisingly, on the day of the CNA's visit to a company, it is not



10                    Annex G: Economic Aspects, Project Benefits, and Environmental Assessment
rare to find the company operating at less than normal capacity and/or not running particular
processes.
40.   A major component of the WRMP is the assistance of the CNA's efforts to complete and
make operational the National Registry of Water Discharges and to expand the development of
industry-specific water quality standards for waste discharge. Included in this program is an
intensive program of inspection and measurement visits of 3,300 industrial firms over the period
1996-2000 for the purpose of "administratively controlling" industrial discharges of residual
waters. This program expands a pilot project wherein 99 industrial firns were intensively audited
by the CNA in terms of the quantity and quality of their discharges of waste waters into public
water bodies. At a cost of 1.6 million NP, the project resulted in the collection of 18.9 million
NP in unpaid (over some 4-+ years) discharge fees (an amount that would have been greater had
the CNA had access to the kinds of data that would have allowed their successful response to
industry challenges of their findings). The implicit benefit/retum-to-cost ratio suggested by
results from this pilot project -- 11.8-to-I -- has obvious implications for environmental returns
associated with this data acquisition component of the WRMP.
D. Concluding Remarks
41.   The potential contributions to Mexico's efforts to improve water quality is perhaps
obvious from the discussions of the magnitude of water pollution in the nation given above.
Investment planning for water treatment facilities clearly benefits from the quality and timeliness
of data concerning surface and groundwater quantity and quality, the enhancement of such data
systems and improved modeling and assessments is an important part of the WRMP. Annual
social costs associated with water contamination are estimated to amount to some 5,725 million
1996 NP, a level of costs which must surely be at the lower bound of "real" costs when one
considers that this estimate excludes morbidity and mortality costs associated with contaminated
waters in Mexico.
42.   From the above discussions, it is clear that of primary importance for considerations
related to the improvement of water quality in Mexico are direct discharges of waste waters into
the public domain by industries -- discharges only 7% of which are treated. Full compliance by
industries with Mexico's current laws would result in annual payments of fees and fines on the
order of 13 billion NP -- a level of payment that is not forthcoming at the present time. The
importance of such collections derives from the incentives that would be placed on polluting
entities to rationalze the management of discharges of residual waters into the nation's streams
via optimal investments in pollution-abatement technologies. If the CNA is to make substantive
progress in bringing about industry compliance with water quality standards it must have the data
and information required to, first, establish such standards, and second, to enforce them. The
WRMP provides the support required by the CNA to initiate programs requisite for such
progress.
43.   Perhaps conspicuous by its absence from discussions given above is a dimension of
Mexico's environmental quality that is of particular importance for considerations related to
sustainable growth and development: the quality of the nation's stock of groundwater. The
nation's groundwater stocks are being depleted from enormous annual overdrafts, with an
estimated annual cost of more than 2 billion NP, raising serious sustainability questions, and are



Annex G: Economic Aspects, Project Benefits and Environental Assessment 11
being contaminated by unregulated discharge of waste waters. The problem, however, is that
little is known in terms of aquifer characteristics that are central to any effort to ameliorate and/or
eliminate overdrafts and contamination. An important component of the WRMP is designed to
support Mexico's efforts to develop the hydrogeological monitoring systems and modeling and
assessments required to provide the information relevant for the management of this important
natural and environmental resource.
44.   In closing, mention was made above of a critically important element in the CNA's
strategy for improving water management in Mexico: the WRMP-supported creation of River
Basin Councils, made up of representatives of stakeholders in the basin, that will play a major role
in the preparation and implementation of basin-wide water management plans which, in turn, will
be the primary vehicle by which environmental quality is affected in Mexico's water basins. If
basin planning is to be effective in promoting environmental/water quality, it will be particularly
important for the CNA to assure that the Councils have available to them individuals with the
expertise requisite for the design and implementation of environmental plans. Technical analysis
support to the Councils will be provided by the CNA regional offices. These offices have
developed regional Project Implementation Plans for the WRMP which include taking into
account environmental factors in all aspects of river basin planning and management. Each
regional office will designate or hire as well as train an environmental specialist who will be
specifically responsible for ensuring environmental adequacy in all aspects of water resources
management.



TABLE G-1
PROJECTS INVOLVING THE PROVISION OF METEOROLOGICAL/HYDROLOGICAL SERVICE AND INFORMATION
REPORTED MEASURES OF ECONOMIC FEASIBILITY
Author                      Country              Services Provided by Project                    Feasibility
London Economics                 India                   Provides hydrological data for water   "...theoretical benefits of more reliable
quality and quantity; establishes     and spatially intensive data far outweigh
computer systems for electronic data  the costs ....1
bases.
Teske & Robinson                  U.K.                   Meteorological Services provided to:                                                I
IWMO2, pp. 21-24]                                          Defense industry                     LI 20 million/year.
General public                       L150-540 million/year.                       .
Gas/electric industries              L33-66 million/year.
Agriculture/fisheries                L140 million/year.                           o
Manufacturing/construction           LI 10 million/year.
Transportation                       L246 million/year.
Mason, B.J.3                     U.K.                    Meteorological services to the private  BC 21:1
sector. 
Henian                           China                   Meteorological Services and            B/C 39:1                                     s
[WMO, p.38]                                              Information.                                                _                        -
Ngo Van Khoa                     Vietnam                 Hydrometeorological services, timely   B/C 10:1
[WMO, p.461                                              warning/forecasting of floods to                                                     i
agricultural sector.
Sharov & Popova                  Bulgaria                Introduction of new computer           42% increase in services.                    g
[WMO, p. 48]                                             technology for meteorological
services.
New telecommunications                 118% increase in services.
technology. 
I London Economics, Op. Cit., 1994, at p. iii.
2 World Meteorological Organization, Op. Cit., 1994.                                                                                         I
3 -Me Role of Meteorology in the National Economy," Weather, 21, 382-393, 1966.



TABLE G-1 (Continued)
PROJECTS INVOLVING THE PROVISION OF METEOROLOGICAL(HYDROLOGICAL SERVICE AND INFORMATION
REPORTED MEASURES OF ECONOMIC FEASIBILITY
0
Author                       Country                Services Provided by Project                  Feasibility 
Maunder, WJ.                       New Zealand              National meteorological service.        B/C 17:1
Batjargal                          Mongolia                 Hydrometeorological services.           Reduced livestock loss of 100,000
[WMO, p.721                                                1% increase in forecast accuracy.       head.
New, accurate, efficient weather forecasts.  120-160,000 head reduced loss of
livestock. Overall B/C 3:1.              X
Adams                              U.S.                     Meteorological services, long range     Annual value to agriculture S145
[WMO, p. 114]                                               weather forecasts (an increase in accuracy  million (2-3% of farmgate val.)       w
from .6 to.8).                          __
Lomas & Gat                        Israel                   Meteorological services, predictions of  B/C 46:1 to 57:1
[WMO, p. 1 18]                    .                         frost to avocado industry.
Green & Herschy                    U.K.                     Streamflow gauging systems.             B/C 2.2:1                                 m
IWMO, p. 143] .15.
Cordery & Cloke                    Australia                Streamflow data collection.             B/C 1.7:.1
[WMO, p. 1471                     l                       l                                        l                                1       1_
w
(A






Page
Annex H:             Project Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation  ..................................1............ 
H-1   The Relationship of General Objectives and Secondary Objectives with
Project Components and Subcomponents  ........................................................                       5
H-2   Proposed Solution/Mitigation of Existing Problems and Needs via the
Project Components and Actions  ...............................                      .........................       6
H-3       Subset of Indicators Related to Project Objectives  .................    .........................                    7
H4        Subset of Overall Indicators  ..................                      ......................................        12






MEXICO
WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX H: PROJECT SUPERVISION, MONITORING, AND EVALUATION
I. Organization
1.    Overall project supervision, monitoring and evaluation will be carried out by SGP
assisted by project coordination staff. Additionally, one technical person will be located in
each of the regional offices and in the various technical units (i.e. SGT, GASIR, GSMN, GAS,
GSCA, CT, SGAA and SGP). The technical unit and the regional office coordination staff will
be responsible for monitoring and evaluating the implementation of the portion of the project
under their responsibility. The coordination staff located in SGP will be responsible for overall
project coordination and supervision.
2.    An Executive Committee made up of the CNA Subdirector Generals of SGP, SGT,
SGAA and SGA. The former will act as President of the Committee. The project Coordinator
in SGP will act as Technical Secretary to the Executive Committee. The Executive Committee
will be responsible for: (a) directing the implementation of the WRMP in accordance with the
directives of the Director General of CNA; (b) reviewing and approving the annual budget and
work and procurement plans (Planes Operativos Anuales - POAs) for the national and regional
levels of CNA; (c) reviewing and approving changes in the POAs recommended by the
different technical area offices the regional offices and/or the SGP coordination staff; and
(d) reviewing the progress reports prepared by the project coordination staff and adopting or
recommending corrective actions as required.
3.    The overall project coordination staff will be under the direction of the Subdirector
General of SGP and will be responsible for coordinating all aspects of project implementation.
Specifically the coordination staff will: (a) facilitate and promote the institutional interaction
between the various technical and regional offices and entities outside CNA involved with the
project; (b) keep project evaluations and implementation schedules and programs updated,
recommending and making modifications as required; (c) support the programming, budgeting
and implementation aspects of the project, maintaining an integral/comprehensive view; and
(d) prepare the POAs coordinating the input from the various technical areas and from the
regional offices. Project coordination will be support by a consulting firmn that will carry out
detailed monitoring, evaluating and reporting in accordance with the PMS discussed below.
The SGP project coordination staff will have one coordinator, two assistants and necessary
support staff.
II. Indicators related to Project Objectives
4.    Table H-3 presents a listing of indicators directly related to project objectives. These
indicators are linked to specific objectives and project activities that are designed to resolve
specific deficiencies related to the objectives. See Tables H-1 and H-2. These indicators, their



2                                 Annex H: Project Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation
baseline values at specific stages of project implementation and their target values were agreed
upon during negotiations.
III. Hierarchical-Tree Indicators
5.    Table H-4 presents a summary of the most important input, output, outcome and
impact indicators. The nature of these indicators and their baseline values at specific stages of
project implementation and their target values were agreed upon during negotiations.
IV. Programming, Budgeting, Monitoring and Evaluation
System and Computerized Support System
6.    A programming, budgeting, monitoring and evaluation system supported by a
computerized operational system (Project Management system -PMS) would be developed and
initialized to support project supervision and evaluation prior to the initiation of the project. It
will be an information and operation system based on the development and use of a data base.
The PMS will contain and make available information that will permit the continuous
monitoring of each activity in each phase of project implementation. The information will be
included in the PMS in a manner that will facilitate the programming, budgeting, monitoring
and evaluation processes. The PMS will be designed in order to generate tables and reports
that can be used to evaluate the physical and financial implementation processes of the project.
7.    The PMS will be structured with five subsystems: Planning, Programming, Execution,
Monitoring and Evaluation.
8.    Planning . The planning phase includes the activities related to project preparation
where objectives, strategies, and general policies are developed, and the general project
physical and financial goals and targets are established. During the implementation phase the
planning process will include the periodic updating of these project baseline concepts.
9.    Programming. The programming phase is the development of POAs. In accordance
with available fiscal and World Bank loan funds, detailed annual plans are developed for
project implementation that include both physical and financial goals and targets. The POAs
will be developed detailing the activities, responsible parties, financial resources requirements
to be carried out in each project subcomponent. The POAs are reviewed by the Executive
Committee and by the World Bank.
10.   Execution. The execution phase includes the carrying out of all the activities defined
in the POAs. It includes: (a) development of terms of references, technical specifications and
bidding documents; (b) contract bidding, selection, administration and supervision processes;
(c) direct undertaking of activities to be carried out directly by CNA; and (d) execution of
training and technical assistance programs This phase also includes the flow of finarinia!
resources in order to execute the POA activities.



Annex: H: Project Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation                       3
11.   Monitoring. The monitoring phase includes a verification of the satisfactory
completion of the different activities, or the identification of problems and/or delays.
12.   Evaluation. The evaluation process will include a determination of why or why not
goals and targets are being reached, and identifying the reasons and suggesting actions to the
respective directors. The evaluations will be used as feedback for the planning and
programming processes. The evaluation process will also include recommendations for
changes to the current and subsequent POAs, as necessary.
13.   Design of System. The PMS will be designed to include: (a) the flows of information,
feedback and decision making, and the interrelationships between the distinctive functions,
technical areas, and regional offices; (b) the formats and procedures for capturing data; (c) the
requirements and procedures for report generation; and (d) the development of procedural
manuals for PMS operation.
V. Supervision and Monitoring Process
14.   Based on the information in the POAs about Physical and financial goals, targets and
schedules, the project coordination staff will monitor and coordinate the implementation of the
project. The different dependencies of CNA (central and regional) will prepare quarterly
reports that will be provided to the SGP coordination staff for this process. These reports will
contain all of the necessary physical, financial and administrative detail for the quarter under
consideration.
15.   The SGP project coordination staff will prepare semi-annual reports which will be
submitted to the World Bank within 60 days following the end of each semester. These
reports will contain the results of the monitoring and evaluation from the previous six-month
period and proposals for modifying the current planning and programming processes. The
May report will also contain the results from the previous year and the November report will
contain the proposed POA for the upcoming year. These reports will contain detailed
information on the progress in the implementation of the physical, financial and impact
indicators.
16.   The semi-annual reports should contain the following information:
A. General Status
1) Major recent developments
2) Adherence to and deviation from POA
3) Problems encountered and solutions adopted
4) Benefits realized to date



4                                Annex H: Project Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation
B. Project Administration
1) Fund flows and Government budgeting
2) Disbursements
3) Procurement
4) Financial reporting (accounts and audits)
C. Organization and Management
1) Project coordination and management (SGP coordination staff, Executive
Committee, Regional Offices, Technical Areas)
2) Monitoring and evaluation
Annex I - PMS generated summary reports
Annex 2 - Summary table and detailed tables of physical indicators
Annex 3 - Summary table and detailed tables of financial indicators
Annex 4 - Summary table and detailed tables of indicators related to project objectives
Annex 5 - Summary table of hierarchical-tree indicators



Table H-1
The Relationship of General Objectives and Secondary Objectives with Project Components and Subcomponents
Institutional
Development,  Water Quantity and Quality                  -
Technological Monitoring Improvement and
Support and         Assessments
Training                                anagemen
E                                  ~~      ~~~~~~~~0 r  
2                                 t5   2~~~~~~~~
Susta                       iae  S th - war
U       E    E      0      0     E
C                  (0   0
to                    CL-.s          CD        r-E0
and~~~~~~~~~~ Eqial  mrvewtrrgtramnsrto                                        _          _          _
General Objectives                 Secondary Objectives    g           _                    EE _                         E =  _ = 
Water R esources._                     _      _0
0   ~~~~~~~~~~~~- 0                         -0          CY0
IntegratedO an                                                                             = =       = 
.0   0 E  0   r-    0   0              E            CL
8   oE)         ' 0                    E j. 
_V                                           .  _                _
Increase~~~~~~~  the beet                             = -                     7O     _         _         _D      _ =   =2 o
A    r                              CD        E t  da   I* 
existing hydraulic   Improve dam safety                _                 _     _                     _    _ _E to_cm_
infr aI                     Cyu_r   0    kV   4              E____=



Table H-2
Proposed Solution/Mitigation of Existing Problems and Needs via the Project Components and Actions
Institutional                                                             _         1
Development    Water Quantity and Quality   Reservoir Operation, Dam Safety and Aquifer                             Water Resources
qTechnological o   Monatorng Improvement and           Management Improvement             Water Rights Administration    Planning and 
Support and               Assessments                                        lfiormation Systema
Inaeqat_oertin _ndmantnaceoflaortoie                 ___        _         _rainin~  _  _  _                r  _                   _  _-  _ __                                _           -  - _  _  _rii
a  C ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
Inaccessibilrly ~ ~  ~         ~        ~       ~       * ofhsoia at            _           er _                _    __.        
0  r                                           .
Deficient~~~                                                         ~~ coptrntvrs_                          _  _ _ _                                                   _ . .    S
E   a                                                                                                              eE
nefficient~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ use and aloato of wate reore                                                                                                             0|   
m                             C             0~~~~~~~~                
Red.                       _                 2        E .     |              .                                 00
(Quacintmoity andguaiety)___              =_==r                                                                                   ____     
Inacofdeiatgnopsrtion and  maintrc nfranctoion itobains anetwoifrs  =  _    _    _   _  _   *                                         U*|                                        i|1"1*- 
Lakeflscintaorecornomitinormaio                                  *                 _    _ _                                                _UUU|.                                     ..    
Lnadeckt openfrmation andu maitenance olaratordemns  _             E  *-r           n  _*_    EI|      |*| E|M   - 
lackofiilt g orfehtrencad data                                   *   *                  *                                                        I I *  I    I *0           
eLackioftdeqatelnkystriedmrfssoas  and tehncin                =  =                                                                                                                             u                       
Deacient computernceadtworst dwte usr                         * _                  _    _ _           _ r_                        _                                       |.|.||.E-
eLackientateicipmniation     newtwousrks                                 M      Ud ote0neetdpris __ _ = = ==_ = = C_ =                                                                             -
Ladk ufoeateoa and saneti unomatedodes   o~u~n danuas          _          _   _    *  *  *  *U               
Inaeffiiete userto and alcosration of watr mrsource_s                  *             _  _r  _j  =    =                                                              * _       __jjj**| |         |"| *  --
|Lack of information on inundable -!eas doy nstream of dams _ _  *  *   _ * _ _  _ iMi;MM _ _    _     _                     E
Lack of socio-economic information              U~~~~~~~~C             IDU
Lackofinformationaboutwateruseanddemarids  U   U  -   -  i  iiii   -                                               *  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j   ~  jjjO.i.Oa .
LackofinformationontheuniverseofWaterusers  E  M       i                                            i      E         E         E        I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~ -  -  *  jE- r
Lack of confidence and trust of water users  U  5 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~10                           .0     V  .D       0                            3C 
Lack of participation of water users and other interested parties  U  U   U                                                  *o  E*    *    *             *   *.
LackofperatonaladsafetinforationndamsU                          U   U           -    -          u   u        ~ La       -  *  *0        * 0                       *     *IN
Lack of nformatinoninupalrbloaeas adowNsteamofdas                  E  r   -    -   -               --. E           E                    la*                      3      c



Table H-3
SUBSET OF INDICATORS RELATED TO PROJECT OBJECTIVES
CUMULATNVE YEAMr TARGET 
PROJECT SPECIFIC        INICATORS                UNIT                                         PHASE I                                                   PHASE 2
OUECTIVES   ___ _____I____                                                     17 .                . t                     "                 20t                2
_~~~~~ | F                 cT1 |   T-                   lwl                TWIW         |        wg        R        l_     |@|R_d|t
SUPPORT            InatllaUon end opaUon     of networks                     10                   40                  s0                  130                 130
ROUNOWATER       aNd mainebance of
BTON SY              nmontong In
network aNd Linpovemmnts
D LOITATlON  bI dab processing
WDCOllTAMINATlO10H
alienate.i mmlyseaof sroudae
atgc aqqjfer
-owr.2q,lMad                   I~~~~~62r                        46                   70                  70                  70
_______      y_____                         _                                 _       _      _                 _      n       _     _     n      _      _5
-in fagil equitnum                                                         16                  so                  SO                  sO
' de_eviofed                                                                                  a1                   13                  13
ANbsRaguhtatd In     SoCda-economtic                                      3                    6                   1 3    -1 3                -     -0
A dnc wNh LAN    analyuse an
RagiaoWn Procedue       I     w
0Q
-fnMv  k  for        Aqadfsulroup of                                                           2            -                         13     -      -
conswU On aqufers w         d                                                                                                   1
aNW aq Nfers etbuiado -  regulaifon -ln
p  of hiauated w atr
kssb manamt plans
0
Progress  te 8, AqulferslOroup of                                                                  3                    613
a p am nte1o of Vie     aupfers wlth 
raklM ant Pde  rguhdo       ladeMn
C .atrglcbile       1             2                   3          -                    -        7                   7
Sren_- *W otl           d I Jh   N
and     a~~~ern
_VWAghmoy  ntad a          W*nd  _
Stner  d m "      n_b_
OF  of managemnt
dm plans fo         _                                                                   -      6                  13
of 0 releavnt
"ROMOTE THE   -      plementtlon and        Nor               _          _   _          _ __S3_ ___00
ESTORATION OF    operadon and maIntenance
URFACE WATER      of dhe primary water quallty |
RIJALITY           rmonlWong network and
Improvemwnts In date                                                                                                              |



Table H-3
SUBSET OF INDICATORS RELATED TO PROJECT OBJECTIVES
CUMULATIVE YEAR'S TARGET
PROJECT SPECIFIC         INDICATORS               UNIT                                          PHASE I                                                   PHASE 2
OBJECTIVES                                                     1996             1997                  1 9S8                199S                2000                2001
T"*~ I At.W                A|.W TM                X..W   ,a   |t..*Ad i. ItON  tW -oA 2000  |         R.-d 2 01 |
Tgt   Tg.1(   Twg.t                 T-WTWT."                                                    Taa.
ROMOTE THE        Reference laboratory       of laboratories                  1                    1                    1                    1                   1
RESTORATION OF    operational, accredited and
SURFACE WATER      certified
QUALITY
Regional laboratories   # of laboratories                  6                    13                   13    -             13                  13
operational, accredited and
certified__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                  _ _ _
Water Bodies Classified and # of studies     20            80            -     166                  2C6                  346                 436
Water Quality Improvement
Plans Developed
ROMOTE             Progress on the          Implementation of    3            6                    9                                               -1 13        '13
ECENTRALIZATION  Implementation of 13 river  basin council
F WATER           basin councils           working groups
ESOURCES
NAGEMENT                                   _____________
HROUGH THE                                 Development,          3            4                    a8                   13                  13                  13
STABLISHMENT AND                           negotitions and
TRENGTHENINO OF                            signing of relevant
BASIN                                  agreements
UNCILS
Developmen           3            4                    8                   1-     -3 -1                              12
negotiations and
sgigof Act of                                                                                                                               U
Constitutkon
Development and      3            4   |                8                    13            -     13            -      13
approval of Internal
Regulation and
Poilcies
PROVE WATER        Progress on the          Dagnostic of                      13                   13                   13                   13     -1
SOURCES          development of River Basin  presnt sItuadon,
NINO THROUGH  planning                  Including socio-
THDEVELOPMENT                             e lconomice*nd    l      l      l      l       l    l       l        l     l    l       l      l     l       l     l      l      ld
RIVER BASIN                               environmental
3ANI                                    aspects                                                 4              -           -      -
Development of                                         413 11
aitarnative, SUrateIess
and plans and
agreement on
Objective&"Pans



Annex: H: Project Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation                             9
y U               I      I              I  I                     L   I
I              ______ T____ T_1_I _                I_T_I_
j _ _ 3______ ____ =___ F__                      _ _s      V               I
Iii$ l ] ! _,                   =  a_ ___ __
E~~1                  2 _      3                                3 3 _        -  
X      T    _ _                                          _ }= =-| _    8
111 ,           __  _L                    _                  __



Table H-3
SUBSET OF INDICATORS RELATED TO PROJECT OBJECTIVES
CUMULATIVE YEAR'S TARGET         ________________ 
PROJECT SPECIFIC          INDICATORS                UNIT                                           PHASE i                                                      PHASE 2
OUJECYIVES                                                       1996              1997                  1998                  1999                 2000                 2001
..    A*tud    00            A.id  N              A.t~   200           Aud 21   T            oh.d
TWgE         TXd T,9W.                      Ta T.99R*
NCREASE THE         Upgrade, operate and       of statlons        790           1841          -       2892                 3943          -                             046
ENEFITS FROM THE maintain the conventional
ERATION OF        cilmatological monitorIng
SERVOIRS AND    network and Improvements
DUCE              In data processing
STREAM
00O  DAMAOES
Upgrade, operate and     # of stations       6C3            1642                 2431                  3330                 4239                 60S9
maintain he conventional
hydrometric monitoring
network and Improvements
In data processing
improvements to existing   # of networks                     6                    6                     6                    6                    6 -
talemetered
hydromftrIcIciimatological
In data processing
networks and Improvamentsa
Installatlon of telemetered   0 f networks                   4                     9               _        3                 17                   19
hydromtrlcicilmatological
networks In priority basIns
and Improvements In data
processing
Develop hydrological     0 of river basins                   1                     4       _6                  -       -      12                   13
forecasting systems In                                                                                                                                                       ca
prlority river basins                              I
Improve basin modeling and   of river basins                                       4          4                               112                  13 
resrvoir operatng criteria
and procedures                                                              _                                               _
Devlop and implement    0 of dams                            2                     8                    12                   24                   26
Inundatlon man gent 2
plans dlwsream of mapor 
_              ~~~~    ~~damsII                                                                II                     III
FMPROVE DAM         Complet the Naidonal      Percent               20            70           -       90                                          7  
|sAFETY        ~~R gistiry OT Darns                                                                                       
Inspoctdems              0ofnspcdlons    |S600W|          | 1600 |       |     1 2500 3|                  8                 4500                 am_I
I.sunnOumdon of dams    0 of dams                                        |     |2   |           |     |4  |                                   
Update bIfl  design floods  ao dams            2          7  7                     1 | 4  |2  |                              __
_____ ____  _____a     __d_flood___rou_               __np



Annex: H: Project Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation                                 11
I 1                            I    T  
_             C~ ____t    a  ; 
I   -             __ __ 
*             __    ____ 
u i
;~ ~~ 3                            3 Ill .       I
-0
o                             30    3  3xi 
I-
ru      I 
I- 
o                              33



Table H4
SUBSET OF OVERALL INDICATORS
TYPE OF              BJOICATORS                              UNtT                                                                         CUMULATNVE YEARS TARGET
dDICATOt                                                                                  1in 17                                       166                     100                     2000                    2001
*      A~~~   NM~             AM       Im                                      MoveN  *  NM           AM 
-                                                                _~~~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~_ - _ -  -   |  A_   szAt  | , |  _ -  -  -Y     _  t gT_    -   -    Jan.    -  
Aquller Overaploltation Reduced I of aquIfs with at best 10% reduction In
dPACT                                      _sersokstio  or conrAbndion                                                        10                      36                      45                      70
Su&rt e   aler Quality hurod      f watf    r bode with at laot 10%
biprovmnt In walwr qualy                                                          10                      20                                             40
Demnege, Do ndlrtMes of        Reductlons In dwnsge (atillions of Us$
R.Ol.s Reduced                  pe-trl                                                      1                       S                       5                       11                     1S
*  mm Safety heprovd            N of dame with signIficantly IWopned
saftly                                                     2         _                                     12                      1        _              24
bprovd Allocatlon of Wel as   Annual volume of Matal rf err1n__ ed
anEcsnomAc Good                 (sdhlloneof ')                              1               2                       3                       5 0
. River Bairt Concite Havtng       f dc,ouncils                                                                                             I _                                             3
Assumed Decision Making
Responsiblities for Waler
Aanagmant Activitle
4 AquHfr Regulated In Accordance dAqulternGroup of aquifers with                                                                            3                                               14
OUTCOMES with LAN Regulation Procedures   reuiletiO
Wetwr Bodies Classified nd Waldr  of water bodleI                          2               30                     1S0                     240                     220                     320
Quality kniprovernent Plane
Developed
.llydroblglel Forecasting  tmo  It of river beWns                                   -       1                       4                             1                 12                      14
Operational
Accurte 4 our Weathr            % of accurte forecasts                                     40      -o0                                      o                      7                       75 
Forcate for river basins
*Waler Ueer and Dlecharge Fee"   It of registered wter user aend           65      -       ye                      35                      30               -so 0
Collected                        dischargara that ehould pay Water feee
that ectuelty do pay
lb
River Basin Plne Adopted        0 od Pins_                                                                         4                       10                      13                      1s 1
Groundwater Monitoring            of networks                                              10                      40                      00                     130                     130
OUTPUTS  Networks Inateitd
Ragion.1 Lcbortorbs hintalled    tot laborators                                            6       -               11                      13                      13                      12 
FFydromsttric Network Operational 0 of networks                                            a                       14                                      - 1S    22      -4                                             (A 
Accurate 24-hour weather       i accurate forecasts                         5             00                                               6                       T 70                    70              _        
forecastsI                                                                                       I
De, Inspdcted                  Rot dm                                     s 00           15          0            250       0                  004500                                     5500     -       - 
Water Uaers Regisderd           0 ter rights regterd (thousands            so             150                     220_                    2S0              -       00                      300 -
Oischargmrnhspectsd             0 of discharger inspected (thousands)      5       -       10                      t_                      20                      25              _
Rlver Basin Counilt Establihd 0 do counelt estabished                                      4                       0     1                 13                      1                       13
Locd Are. Computer Networks   0 of networke Instaited                      -       -       4       -               14              - _                     -       10      -               10       =     -
. Aninuai budget (Non-lncrwytental US$                                     42.4           8004                     1036                     0.                     61.5                    74.4
INPUTS   WRMP Releled. plus GOM                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
Counlerparl, plus Bank Financedot
Recruitment co Professonals      of profeseionate recruited               161            u56       -              450              -      505    S-        -*n 52                                  _
Cornputerl Purchased            0 of compute-                                             200       -              50              -      1350     -              1350                    2100
Vehic.ie Purchaesd              0 of vhkibs                                21      -               -S 173                          -       132     -       -      1S5      =               1dt     -



Page
Annex  I:               Cost Estimate  Tables  .............................................................                                                  1
I-I         Components Project Cost Summary                              .............................................................             1
1-2        Expenditure  Accounts Project Cost Summary   ................................                                 ..................       2
I-3        Project Components by  Year -- Base Costs   . .....................................................                                     3
1-4        Project Components by  Year -- Totals Including  Contingencies  ..........                                            ..............   4
1-5        Project Components by  Year -- Investment/Recurrent Costs  ............                                            .................    5
1-6         Expenditure  Accounts by  Years -- Base Costs   ...................................                             ................      7
1-7        Expenditure  Accounts by  Years -- Totals Including  Contingencies   .........                                          ...........     8
I-8        Expenditure  Accounts by Financiers  .............................................................                                      9
1-9        Components by Financiers  .....................                                 ........................................              10
1-10       Disbursement Accounts by Financiers  ..............................................................                                   1 1
1-11       LocalForeign/Taxes by Financiers   .......................................................                                ......       12
I-12       Procurement Arrangements   ......................                                  .......................................             13
1-13        Allocation  of Loan  Proceeds   ......................                             .......................................    14
I- 14      Disbursements by  Semesters  ......................                                 .......................................    15






MEXICO
WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX I: COST ESTIMATE TABLES
Table 1.1: Components Project Cost Summary
(NPS 'e)                                                        (USS'NO)
%        % TOal                                                 %    % Ttal
Form         BRe                                                Foreign      Bar
LAoeI       Foreig         Total    EKidnge         Cosb        IAca         Foreign        Total     Exchange      Cosb
A. latdtomal Devdloposast, Techubolga Support
and Tnlug
1. Tedmical Aiautce                                                            28,357.0      51.562.3     79,919.3          65           3       3,780.9      6,875.0      10,655.9         65           3
2. Taninig                                                                     35,702.4      30,603.5    116,305.8          69           5       4,760.3      10,747.1     15,507.4         69           5
3. PecedCooedmatim                                                             57,305.9       5,990.4      63,296.3          9           3       7,640.8        798.7       8,439.5          9           3
Suotl  tIntIo.  Development, Tec.logkai
spprt and Tn lnb                                                              121,365.2    138,156.1     259,521.3         53          11      16,1S2.0      18,420.8      34,602.8        53           11
B. Wter Qant  Nd  Qulty Meultulg
I _provement Nd A
1. .HydolojLcAaainslsandHyc icNetwcek Injnwaia                                230,591.5      26,416.4    257,007.8          10          11      30,745.5      3,522.2      34,267.7         10          11
2. Gramdwa  Assessent and GCedwat  Mmioung
Netwack  noveanmb                                                          148,816.3      19,113.6    167,929.8          11           7      19,842.2      2,54.5       22,390.6         11           7
3. NabnalMeteoro ical Semice1m emeats                                       164,562.0     110,027.7    274,589.7          40          12      21,941.6      14,670.4     36,612.0         40          12
4. Wler Qulity Mmang Network ed Wa
QualityL abaVcay1mnposntas                                                 220,301.9      75,079.7    295,381.6          25          13      29,373.6      10,010.6      39,3S4.2        25           13
Subtal Wster Quantity and Qlty Meotoing
Ihrorvennt d A        e                                                      764,271.6    230,637.4    994,909.0           23         43      101,902.9     30,751.7    132,654.5          23          43
C- Rmn'odr Opraon, Dan Safet ad
Aquifer M      _uauovat I gprovenset
1. Rervoir Opmtkan Inrmmanm                                                    76,S5S.6      20,200.4     97,059.0          21           4      10,247.8      2,693.4      12,941.2         21           4
2. AqtiLfer Manaegant InEuvema                                                 40,410.5      16,866.5      57,347.0         29           3       5,397.4       2,248.9      7,646.3         29           3
3. Do  Safety Imgrovmcns                                                       98,083.6      27,943.0    126,026.6          22           5      13,077.8       3,725.7     16,803.5         22           5
Subtt  Raaeev  Operation, Dm Safety and
Aquifer Manaoomoatlpr -ta                                                    215,422.6      65,010.0    280,432.6          23          12      28,723.0      8,668.0      37,391.0         23          12
D. Water Rlghts Admisration
1. WateRigli1PuxblicRegity dWaterUa rSeSpot                                    69,275.7       6,660.1      75,935.7          9           3       9,236.8        888.0      10,124.8          9           3
2. 1mvoYuncnbaWMaaFeeCoLHeoins andControl                                     181,463.8      19,769.4    201,233.2          10           9      24,195.2       2,635.9     26,8311          10           9
Subtotal WaterRl ght Ad     lstrotlon                                        250,739.4      26,429.4    277,168.9          10          12      33,431.9      3,5239       36,955.8         10          12
I   Water R_ourem Plng and
Informon Syeun
I. Tdecrrnxm  cicen end Ccnpter Networcs ad
Geogwqbiclnfrmabii  Systan                                                 12S,4S28      240,054.1    368,537.0          65          16      17,131.0     32,007.2      49,138.3         65          16
2 Water Resorces Pling Sbtdiesand
Rverw Basin CSnci SWpprt                                                     87,2896      25,0884      112,378.0         22           5      11,63S6        3,3451       14,983.7        22            5
Subtotal Water Resources Planniag nd
Informdon Systm                                                              215,772.5     265,142 5    480,915.0          55          21      28,769.7     35,352.3      64,122.0         55          21
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                                                             1,567,571 4    725,375 4   2,292,946.8         32         100    209,009 5      96,716 7     305,726 2         32         100
Physical Contigcies                                                            56,7577       20,750.3      77,508.0         27           3       7,5677        2,7667       10,3344         27            3
Price Coningencies                                                            842,129.6    407,633 0   1,249,762.6          33          55      17,6476        8,250.1      25.8978         32            8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                                             2,466,458.7   1,153,758.7   3.620,217.4         32         158     234,2249      107,733 5    341.9584          32         112



Table 1.2: Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
t'J
(NP'S 000)                                                      (USS '000)
%         % Total                                               %         % Total
Foreign       Base                                              Foreign       Base
Local      Foreign       Total      Exchange       Costs        LocAl       Foreign       Total     Exchange       Costs
L Investment Coss
A. Civil Works                                       163,973.1           -    163,973.1            -            7     21,863.1            -     21,863 1           -            7
B. Equipment
Telecommunication equiprnent & Computer            49,986.7    283,258.1    333,244.9          85           15       6,664.9    37,767.8     44,432.7          85           15
Labequiprnent                                      11,682.4     51,325.1     63,007.5          81            3       1,557.7     6,843.4      8,401.0          81            3
Measwement equipment                              110,739.7     80,421.8    191,161.5          42            8      14,765.3    10,722.9     25,488.2          42            8
Radio commnmicationequipment                       15,300.0            -     15,300.0           -            1       2,040.0           -      2,040.0           -            1
Subtotal Equipment                                   187,708.8    415,005.1    602,713.9          69           26     25,027.8     55,334.0     80,361.9          69           26
C. Vehicles                                           22,350.0                  22,350.0           -            1      2,980.0            -      2,980.0           -            I
D. Consultants
Studies                                           166,529.8    111,019.9    277,549.7          40           12      22,204.0    14,802.6     37,006.6          40           12
Intematiznal technical assistance                   9,747.2     55,234.3     64,981.5          85            3       1,299.6     7,364.6      8,664.2          85            3
Nsationaltechnicalassistance                       38,695.5            -     38,695.5           -            2       5,159.4           -      5,159.4            -           2
Enrineenngservices                                246,400.9     61,600.2    308,001.1          20           13      32,853.4     8,213.4     41,066.8          20           13
Subtotal Consultants                                 461,373.4    227,854.4    689,227.7          33           30     61,516.5     30,380.6     91,897.0          33           30
E. Training
Localtr8ining                                      26,890.3     30,668.1     57,558.3          53            3       3,585.4     4,089.1      7,674.4          53            3
International training                              9,149.6     51,847.9     60,997.5          85            3       1,220.0     6,913.1      8,133.0          85            3
SubtotalTraining                                      36,039.9     82,516.0    118,555.8          70            5      4,805.3     11,002.1     15,807.4          70            5
TotalInsvestmsentCosts                                  871,445.1    725,375.4  1,596,820.6          45           70    116,192.7     96,716.7    212,909.4          45           70
IL Recurrent Cosb
A Incremental staff                                  298,575.0            -    298,575.0           -           13     39,810.0            -     39,810.0           -           13
B. OperabDgcosts/a                                   174,838.7            -    174,838.7           -            8     23,311.8            -     23,311.8            -           8
C. Operation and maintenance
Equiprnentandvehiclemaintenance/b                  42,855.0                  42,855.0           -            2       5,714.0           -      5,714.0            -           2
Contractedsavices                                  74,709.8            -     74,709.8            -           3       9,961.3           -      9,961.3            .           3
SubtotalOperation andmainten nce                     117,564.8           -    117,564.8            -            5      15,675.3           -     15,675.3           -            5
D. lnaemental opeating coats
for IMTA                                            105,147.8            -    105,147.8           -            5      14,019.7                 14,019.7            -           5
TotalRecurrentCosts                                     696,126.2           -    696,126.2            -           30     92,816.8            -     92,816.8           -           30                          .
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                                   1,567,571.4    725,375.4  2,292,946.8          32          100    209,009.5     96,716.7    305,726.2          32          100
Physical Contingencies                                56,757.7     20,750.3     77,508.0          27            3       7,567.7     2,766.7     10,334.4          27            3
Price Contngencies                                   842,129.6    407,633.0   1,249,762.6         33           55      17,647.6     8,250.1     25,897.8          32            8                         0
TOTALPROJECT COSTS                                     2,466,458.7  1,153,758.7  3,620,217.4          32         158    234,224.9    107,733.5    341,958.4           32          112
\a Gas, supplies, subsistence, and travel.
\b Includes repairs, computer and lab supplies, and vehicle supplies.
CD
H
(8
e0



Table 1.3: Project Components by Year - Base Costs
(USS '000)
1996            1997             1999          Iffl           26oo           2991          Total
A. 1flstttiona Dowhopmmt, Tocbaolsglm  Sappwc9fIl9                                                                              I9T
_d Tr.                                                                                                                                                                                                           -
1. TCdz&OASItuWc                                                                  510.6           2,539.2        2,829.2       2,366.6        1,615.3         745.0        10,655.9
2. TrnvW                                                                          541.7           2,687.5        3,199.5       3,436.4        3,444.4        2,197.9       15507.4                             O
3. ProDep Co& dilg Sp                                                            1,082.4          1,489.3        1,435.1        1,458.3        1,480.2       1,494.2        8,439.5
Suttl  I _ Itom  Dwvlgm oat, ToOalgial Support
aid Tra                                                                          2,134.7           6,766.0        7,463.8       7,261.4        6,539.9        4,437.1       34,602.8
B. Wae Q_t" _d Qfto M-lIt                                                                                                                                       4.47
1. H    gicA    naau dSHi*tun ricNNw ok1lwuvamun                                2,028.1          5,895.5        6,740.6        7,748.7        6,696.4        5,153.5      34,267.7                             1
2. QrdwtrAs              md  rzuweaamoici                                                                                                                                                                      C
Netwok       -                                                               1,019.3          3,498.2        3,983.7        5,667.5        4,982.2       3,239.6       22390.6                              H
3. NWaalM4Secoolcuicmlacelnpdwat                                                1,6626           7,065.8       10,169.7        7,119.7        6,046.6        4,547.5      36.612.0                              a
4. Wtur Qulity Mmui Ntuk ad Wata
cub atl   -Q     -yN                                                           300.0           6,934.3       11,018.9       7,091.0        7,041.7        6,99.2        39,334.2                            ce
_Subo Wet QuaaIy and Qufly Monrn
Impwymant and                                                                    5,010.1         23,393.8       31,912.9       27,627.0       24,767.0       19,943.8     132,654.5
C, R    _nnof Opwrtla_, Dm  Saty and
Aqulfor  Mmgemst Inprwvmt
1.    rorOptin    ov-m                                                           730.3           2,050.2        2,865.9        3,2U4.3        2,695.8        1,3146       12,941.2
2 Aquifw M u lg nqaovata                                                          387.7            950.3        2,298.4        1,643.0        2,176.3         190.5        7,646.3
3. D   Sdaety lwoyvnmia                                                         1,026.2          3,359.7        3,338.4        4,064.2        3,313.6        1,701.5      16,803.5
SubtlS Rimrwob Opwa _n, Dm Surety and
Aquifw Mamagamat blngvwa                                                         2,144.1           6,360.3        8,502.8       8,991.5        8,185.7        3,206.6       37,391.0
D. Water Rigbt Adbala_tratlam
1. Wta- Ri    PubIc R Paud WawUa Suppmt                                         1,887.9          3,406.5        2,245.8        1,015.8         832.5          736.2       10,124.8
2. InnWanmta in Wae  Fee Collectiao      CoInroi                                2,074.5          4,964.6        5,592.7        5,438.5        4,496.1        4,264.8      26,831.1
Subtta  Watr Rigba Adalalntratlon                                                3,9625            8,371.1        7,838.4       6,454.3        5,328.5        5,001.0       36,955.8
IL Watr Rinunm P           _matag Nd
InfomS Syatem
1. Tdeomnmictimn ad Caiq4ter Netwub ad
cgqokbic i   tinflm  SY                                                       1,228.3         10,833.8       10,267.8       11,025.1       9,367.6        6,415.7       49,138.3
2 Wa Rmcsxura Plam     Stdies and
RiverBin CUAd! SUqsPwt                                                         990.2           2,069.3        3,328.7       4,000.2        2,692.7        1,902.7       14,9g3.7
Subtotal Wacr Ream  Pla_g ad
Infrmao  system                                                                   2,218.5         12,903.1       13,596.5       15,025.3      12,060.3        8,318.3       64,122.0
TOTAL BASKLINE COM                                                                  15,469.8         57,794.3       69,314.5      65,359.4       56,881.4       40,906.8      305,726.2
Pbyical Citingegciea                                                              624.2           Z280.6         2,555.4        1,909.9        1,721.0        1,243.3      10,334.4
Prie Co_atgendaa
Inflato
Local                                                                      1,758.1         12,171.1       20,208.8       22,764.3       24,838.8      22,220.8      103.962.0
Fcrew                                                                        37.6             851 8        1,699 4        2,171.9        2,065.5        1,423.8       8,250.1
Subtal Inflatlon                                                              1,795.8         13,023.0       21,908.2       24,936.2       26,904.3      23,644.6      112,212.2
Devaluhaton                                                                  -1,593 8        -10,735 8      -17,300.8      -18,918.9      -20,127.5      -17,637.6     -46,314.4
Subtotal Puioe cC ntmicis                                                         202.0           2,2872         4,6074         6,017.4        6,776.8       6,007.0       25,897.8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                                                 16,296.0         62,362.1       76,477.3       73,2867       65,379.2       48,157.1      341,958.4
Taxes                                                                            2,3627           9,066.1       11,106.8       10,496.8        9,3131         6,S40.2      49,185.7
Faein Exdange                                                                    2,932.6         22,506 1       27,307.5       25,256.4       18,922.3       10,808.6      107,733.5



Table 1.4: Project Components by Year -- Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1996          1997           1998           1999           2000          2001           Total
A. Institutional Development, Technological Support,
and Training
1. Technical Assistance                                                        516.5        2,679.4        2,995.4        2,559.0       1,782.5          839.1       11,371.9
2. Traming                                                                     548.8        2,793.2        3,411.8        3,759.7       3,866.5        2,531.4       16,911.4
3. Project Coordination                                                      1,139.1        1,588.1        1,569.0        1,630.2        1,691.0       1,745.0        9,362.4
Subtotal lastitutlonal Development, Technologkal Support
and TrnIng                                                                    2,204.4        7,060.6        7,976.2        7,948.9        7,340.0       5,115.5       37,645.7
B. Water Quantity and Quatt MonItoring
Improvement and Assessments
1. HydrologicAssesnentsfandHydrometricNetworichmprovements                   2,145.6        6,431.7        7,508.5        8,812.6       7,781.5        6,113.9       38,793.8
2. Groundwater Asessments and Groundwater Monitoring
Netwok Improvements                                                       1,040.5        3,790.8       4,409.4        6,400.2        6,016.1        3,987.2      25,644.2
3. NationalMetearologicalServicelmprovements                                 1,824.7        7,617.5       11,375.6        8,061.7       6,971.9        5,333.9       41,185.4
4. Water Quality Monitoring Network and Water
Quality Labatoy Imprvements                                                 334.3         7,579.8      12,312.5        7,932.4        8,054.9        8,186.9      44,400.9
Subtotal Water Quantiy and Quality Monitoring
Improvement and Asseasnents                                                   5,345.0      25,419.9       35,606.0       31,2070        28,824.5       23,621.9     150,024.3
C. Reservoir Operaton, Dam Safety, and
Aquifer Management Improvemnents
1. Resevoir Operation Improvements                                             757.4        2,161.0        3,088.9        3,614.3       3,042.1        1,547.3       14,211.0
2. Aquifr Management Improvements                                              418.2        1,001.0        2,454.5        1,799.1       2,426.1          240.3        8,339.1
3. Dam Safety Improvements                                                    1,069.9       3,589.3        3,652.4        4,527.2       3,772.1        2,026.7       18,637.7
Subtotal Reservoir Operation, Dam Safety and
Aquifer Management Improvements                                                2,245.5        6,751 3       9,195.8        9,940.6        9,240.3        3,814.3      41,187.8
D. Water Rights AdminIbttion
1. WaterRighsPubicRegistyandWaterUserSupport                                 2,039.9        3,790.8        2,522.9        1,107.4         925.1          833.4       11,219.5
2. ImprovementsinWaterFeeCollectionssandControl                              2,129.8        5,354.5        6,193.3        6,195.8       5,219.1        5,066.6       30,159.1
Subtotal Water Rights AdmInistraton                                            4,169.7       9,145.3        8,716.2        7,303.2        6,144.2       5,899.9       41,378.6
L Water Resources Planning and
Informtion Systems
1. Telecommunicatiors and Computer Networks and
Geographic Infomation Systems                                              1,302.0       11,T77.4       11,388.7       12,481.2      10,770.0        7,471.5       55,190.7
2. Water Resources Planning Studies and
River Basin Couricil Swport                                                1,029.4        2,207.5       3,594.5        4,405.8        3,060.2        2,233.9      16,531.4                              GO
Subtotal Water Resources Planning and
Infornation Systems                                                           2,331.4       13,984.9       14,983.1       16,887.0      13,830.2        9,705.5       71,722.1
TOTALPROJECTCOSTS                                                                16,296.0      62,362.1       76,477.3       73,286.7       65,379.2      48,157.1      341,958.4
CD
GO



Table 1.5: Project Components by Year -- Investment/Recurrent Costs
(USS '000)
Totals Including Contingencks
1996          1997           1991          1999           2000          2001           Total 
0
A. bstiudonal Deveopnent, Tehic l Support                                                                                                                                                                  O
nd Traing
1. TecbnIcal Assistance
Investnent Cos                                                             457.9        2,382.5       2,670.8        2,2371        1,531.8          7147        9,9948
Reaent Costs                                                                58.6         2969           324.6         321 9          250.7          1244         1,3771
Subtotal Tecnial Assistance                                                 516.5        2.6794        2,995.4        2,559.0        1,782.5         839.1       11,3719
2. TranIng 
Invesnt Cost                                                              548.8        2,793.2        3,411.8       3,759 7        3,866.5       2,531.4       16,9114                             Po
3. P-ject Cowdinntln                                                                                                                                                                                   cr
Invesenmt Cosb                                                             591.5         981 9          956.2         981 1         1,006.6       1,032.7       5,549 9                            C
Reoqmt Codta                                                               547.6         6062           612.8          6491          6845           712.3        3,8125
Subttotl Prject Coordination                                                 1,139.1        1,588 1       1,569.0        1,630 2       1,6910         1,745.0       9,3624
Subtotal Indltutonal Development, Tecbnoegical Support
and Trbaing                                                                   2,2044        7,060.6        7,976.2        7,948.9       7,3400         5,115 5      37,6457
E. Water Quantty and Quality MoSDtOrlII
lmprvem t and Asenments
1. Hydrologic Assessents and Hydrometrk Network Improvements
InventCcosts                                                              1,551.3       4,973.0        5,540.9       6,108.3        5,0138         3,948.2      27,1356
Recurent Cods                                                              594.2        1,458.7        1,967.6        2,7043        2,7677         2,165.7      11,658.2
Subtotal IydrologicAsmmenb and HydronetrccNetworklnmprvements                2,145 6        6,4317        7,508.5        8,8126        7,7815         6,113.9      38,793.8
2. Groundwatr Assessments and Groundwater Monitoring
Network Imprevenb
Invmeot Costs                                                              833.3        3,195 6       3,646.7        5,339 6       5.257 2        3,279 9       21,552 4
Rezrrent Coats                                                             207.2         595.2          762.7        1,060 6         758 9          707.3        4,091.8
Sbaetal Groundwater Asessments and Groundwter MonitorIng
Networ Imprvemnts                                                            1,040.5        3,790.8       4,409.4        6,4002        6,016 1        3,987.2      25,644.2
3. NtIoal Meteorolocal See Imprnvements
wnvstnt Costa                                                            1,359.2        6,511 5      10,062.7        6,0080        4,649.3        2,930.9       31,521.6
Reanenet Codts                                                             465.5        1,106.1        1,312 9       2,0538         2,3226        2,403.0        9,-638
Subtta  Natioal  Meteorlogckl Servlemp mprovement                          1,824.7        7,617 5      11,375.6        8,0617        6,971.9        5,333.9      41,1854
4. Water QOty MoItorng Network and Water
Qulty lAbratory Improve ts
Inveent Cods                                                                   -        6,2002        8,3802         3,9377         4,010.6       4,114.8       26,643.4
Rneast Costs                                                               3343         1,3796        3,9324         3,994.8        4,044.4       4,072.1       17,7575
Subttl Water Qualty Monoring Network and Water
Qulity lAbotory Improvem                                                       334.3        7,579 8      12,312.5        7,932.4        8,054.9       8,186.9       44,400.9
Sdtatal Water Quatty ad Qulit Monitoring
improvement and A smenamt                                                     5,345.0       25,419.9      35,606.0       31,207.0      28,824.5       23,621.9      150,024.3
C. Rseir Operaton, Dam Safety and
Aquifer Masagement lmprovenbts
1. Rsear Operation Impr nts
Invement Costs                                                             424.7         1,248.9       1.825.6        2,095.7       1,692.9         6690         7,956.2                           L
Rsreat Coals                                                               332.7          912.2        1,263.3        1,518.6       1,349.1         878.3        6,254.2



Table 1.5: Project Components by Year -- lnvestment/Recurrent Costs
(US$ '000)
IO
Totals Including Contingencies
1996          1997           1998           1999           2000          2001           Total
Subtotal Reservoir Operation improvements                                     757.4        2,161.0        3,088.9        3,614.3       3,042.1        1,547.3       14,211.0
2. Aquifer Management Improvements
Investrnent Costs                                                            120.5         722.8         1,993 1       1,375.7        1,887.3             -         6,099.4
Recurrent Costs                                                             297.7          278.2          461.4          423.4          538.7         240.3         2,239.7
Subtotal Aquifer Management Improvements                                      418.2        1,001.0        2,454.5        1,799.1       2,426.1         240.3         8,339.1
3. Dam Safety improvements
Investrnent Costs                                                           584.5         2,492.4        2,543.3       3,284.5        2,525.7         930.0        12,360.4
Recurrent Costs                                                             485.5         1,096.9        1,109.1        1,242.7       1,246.5        1,096.7        6,277.2
Subtotal am Safety Improvements                                             1,069.9        3,589.3        3,652.4       4,527.2        3,772.1        2,026.7       18,637.7
Subtotal Reservoir Operation, Dam Safety and
Aquifer Management Improvements                                                2,245.5        6,751 3        9,195.8        9,940.6       9,240.3        3,814.3       41,187.8
D. Water Rights Administration
1. Water Rights Public Registry and Water User Support
Investment Costs                                                            550.2          845.8          878.1         865 1          725.1          648 6        4,513.0
Recurrent Costs                                                            1,489.7       2,945.0        1,644.8         242.3          200.1          184.7        6,706.5
Subtotal water Rights Public Registry and Water User Support                  2,039.9        3,790.8        2,522.9        1,107.4         925.1          833.4       11,219.5
2. Improvements in Water Fee Collections and Control
Investment Costs                                                             219.8        1,218.5        1,464.6        1,753.5         703.8          524.4        5,884.6
Recurrent Costs                                                             1,910.1       4,136.0        4,728.7        4,442.3        4,515.3       4,542.2       24,274.5
Subtotal improvements in Water Fee Collections and Control                    2,129.8        5,354.5        6,193.3        6,195.8        5,219.1       5,066.6       30,159.1
Subtotal Water Rights Administration                                           4,169.7        9,145.3        8,716.2        7,303.2       6,1442         5,899.9       41,378.6
E. Water Reaources Planning and
InforTnaton Systems
1. Telecommunications and Computer Networks and
Geographic Infornsation Systems
investment Costs                                                           1,291.9       11,411.7       10,906.7       11,822.8       9,915.5        6,591.5       51,940.1
Recurrnt Costs                                                                10.1          365.6         482.0          658.4          854.5          880.0        3,250.6
Subtotal telecommunications and Computer Networks and
Geogr phic InrormstionSystems                                               1,302.0       11,77.4        11,388.7       12,481.2       10,770.0       7,471.5       55,190.7 
2. Water Resources Planning Studies and
River Basin Council Support                                                                                                                                                                              -
Investment Costs                                                             635.0        1,208.2        2,387.5        2,814.3       1,647.2        1,066.9        9,759.2
Recurrent Costs                                                              394.3          999.3        1,206.9        1,591.5       1,4131         1,167.0        6,772.2                            O
Subtotal water Resources Planning Studies and                                                                                                                                                             c
River Basin Council Support                                                   1,029.4        2,207.5        3,594.5       4,405.8        3,060.2        2,233.9       16,531.4
Subtotal Water Resources Planning and
Informnation Systems                                                           2,331.4       13,984.9       14,983.1      16,887.0       13,830.2        9,705.5       71,722.1
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                                               16,296.0       62,362.1      76,477.3       73,286.7       65,379.2       48,157.1     341,958.4                             5
Total Investment Costs                                                        9,168.6       46,186.2       56,668.2       52,383.1      44,433.2       28,983.2      237,822.5
Total Recurrent Costs                                                         7,127.4       16,1758        19,809.1      20,903.6       20,946.0       19,173.9      104,135.9                            CD
HA



Table 1.6: Expenditure Accounts by Years - Base Costs
(USS'000)
1996   '000)Base Cost                                         Foreign Exciange
1996        1997        1m99         1999         2000        2001         Total         %         Amount                                        -
L Investment Cosb
A. Crvil Works                                       1,2572      4,291.3      6,4454      2,8285       4,396.8      2,643.9    21,863 1           -            -
B. Equipment                                                                                                                                                                                        U)
Telecommurucationequipment&Computer               1.1426      11,240.0    14,6175      9,4260       5,400.4      2,606.2    44,432.7         85.0     37,7678
Lab ewpment                                            -      2,095.0      2,1390       1,389 0     1,389.0      1,389.0      8,4010         81.5      6,8434
Measurnemeteqwpment                                754.2      6,034.7      4,3401      6,319 4      5,325.1      2,714.7     25,488.2       42.1      10,7229
Racho  rmrnuriicatwonequipennt                     3900         378.0       6670         5850          20.0           -      2,040.0
Subtotal Equipment                                   2,286 8    19,747.7     21,7636     17,7194      12,134.5      6,709.9    80,3619         68.9     55,3340
C Vehicles                                            3150       1,025.0       5800         9100          75.0        75.0      2,9800            -            -
D. Conultants 
Studies                                           1,6195       5,933.1     8,6573      10,3174      7,143.2      3,336.1     37,006.6       40.0      14,8026
ln ationaltedchmcalasistance                       5080       2,1439       2,2915       1,8076       1,292.6      620.6       8,6642         85.0      7,3646
Nauonaltechucal assistarce                         4328         9980       1,0147       1,0387        873.6       801.6       5,159.4          -            -
Engneenrngsemnces                                 1,7842      6,0945       7,3788       8,557 1     9,124.1      8,1281     41,0668          20.0      8,2134
Subtotal Consutants                                  4,344.6    15,169 5     19,342 3    21,720 8     18,433.5     12,8864     91,8970         331      30,3806
E. Training
Local traing                                       281.7       1,6820      1,433 0      1,5079       1,510.9     1,258.9      7,6744         533       4,0891
International trining                              3100        1,0555      1,8165       1,978.5     1,983.5       989.0      8,1330         850        6,913 1
Subtotal Training                                     591.7      2,737 5      3,249 5     3,486 4      3,494.4      2,247 9     15,807 4       69 6      11,002 1
TotalInvestmentCosts                                    8,7953     42,9709      51,3808     46,6652      38,534.2     24,5631    212,9094         454      96,7167
IL Recurrent Costa
A Incemental staff                                   3,683.5     8,128.5      7,9370      6,9560       6,708.0      6,3970     39,8100
B Opearag costs/a                                     8127       2,3978       4,5427       5,6321      5,438.7      4,4878     23,3118            -            -
C. Operation and Maintenance
Eqwpmentandvehcle ainternance/b                     1050        7080       1,0200       1,3140       1,3320      1,235.0      5,7140
Contractosavices                                  1,529.7      1,670.7     2,0065       1,4908       1,584.8     1,6788       9,961 3
Subtotal Operation and MIntenance                    1,6347      2,378.7      3,0265      2,8048       2,9168       2,913.8     15,6753
D. Inaental opamng costs
for IMTA                                             543 7       1,918.3     2,4275      3,3014       3,2S3.7      2,545.1    14,019.7           -            -
Tota Recurent Cogt                                      6,6746     14,823.3     17,9337     18,6943      18,3472      16,343.7    92,8168 
Total BASEi'NE COSTS                                   15,469.8     57,794.3    69,314 5     65,359.4     56,881.4    40,906.8    305,726.2        31.6     96,7167
Pbysca1Cotingies                                      624.2      2,2806       2,5554       1,9099      1,721.0      1,243.3     10,334.4       26.8       2,766.7
Price Contingencies
Infbtion
Local                                          1,758.1     12,171 1    20,2088      22,764 3     24,838.8    22,220.8    103,9620
Foreign                                           376        851 8      1,6994       2,1719       2,065 5     1,423.8      8,2501        100.0      8,250.1
Subtotalnfation                                  1,795.8     13,0230     21,908.2     24,936.2    26,904.3     23,644.6    112,2122          7.4      8,250.1
Dcvalatimn                                       -1,593 8    -10,735 8    -17,300.8    -18.918.9    -20,127 5    -17,637.6    -86,314 4        -
Subtotal Price Conutgencies                           202.0      2,287.2      4,607.4     6,0174       6,776.8      6,007 0    25,897.8         319      8,250.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                                     16,296.0    62,3621      76,477.3    73,286.7     65.3792     48,157.1    341,958.4        31.5    107,733.5
Taxes                                                2,362.7     9,0661      11,106.8     10,496.8     9,313 1      6,8402     49,185.7           -            -
ForeignExchange                                      2,932.6     22,506.1    27,307.5     25,256.4    18,9223      10,8086    107,733.5
\a ga, supplies, subsistence and travel.
\b Inc repairs, comsputwr and lab supplies, amd vehicle wpplies



Table 1.7: Expenditure Accounts by Years -- Totals Including Contingencies
(USS '000)                                                                                                                           00
Totals Includint Contingencles
1996          1997           1998          1999           2000          2001          Total
L Investment Costs
A Civil Waors                                                1,400.9       4,906.1       7,560.4        3,404.1        5,429.1       3,349.6      26,050.2
B. Fquipment
Telecommunicationequipnient&Computer                      1,215.3      12,266.3       16,366.9      10,828.5        6,365.2       3,151.7      50,193.9
Lab equipment                                                  -        2,286.3        2,395.0       1,595.7        1,637.2       1,679.7       9,593.8
Measrement equipment                                       802.0        6,585.1       4,858.7        7,258.5        6,275.0       3,281.1      29,060.4
Radio comrnunration equipment                              414.8          412.5         746.8          672.0          23.6             -        2,269.8
Subtota Iquipment                                           2,432.2       21,550.2      24,367.4       20,354.7       14,300.9       8,112.5      91,117.9
C. Vehicles                                                   335.0        1,118.6         649.4        1,045.4          88.4          90.7        3,327.5
D. Consultants
Studies                                                   1,640.6       6,166.5       9,231.8       11,288.2        8,018.5       3,842.2      40,187.7
International technical assistance                         514.6        2,228.3        2,443.5       1,977.7        1,451.0        714.7        9,329.8
Nationaltechricalassistance                                438.4        1,037.2        1,082.1       1,136.5         980.6          923.2       5,598.0
Engineeringservices                                       1,807.4       6,334.2        7,868.4       9,362.2       10,242.1       9,361.3      44,975.7
Subtotal Consultants                                        4,401.1       15,766.2      20,625.8       23,764.5      20,692.2       14,841.5     100,091.2
t Training
Local training                                             285.4        1,748.1        1,528.1       1,649.8        1,696.1       1,449.9        8,357.4
Intemational training                                      314.0        1,097.0        1,937.0       2,164.6        2,226.5       1,139.0        8,878.3
Subtotal Training                                             599.4        2,845.2       3,465.2        3,814.5        3,922.6       2,588.9      17,235.7
TotalInvestmentCosts                                           9,168.6       46,186.2      56,668.2       52,383.1      44,433.2       28,983.2     237,822.5
IL Recurrent Costs
A Incremental staff                                         4,104.5        9,293.1       9,310.1        8,371.5        8,282.9       8,104.3      47,466.4
B. Operating costs /a                                         823.2        2,492.2       4,844.2        6,162.0       6,105.2        5,168.7      25,595.4
C. Operation and Maintenance
Equipmentandvehicle maintenance/b                          106.4          735.9        1,087.7       1,437.6        1,495.2       1,422.4        6,285.1
Contracted services                                       1,549.6       1,736.4        2,139.7       1,631.1        1,779.0       1,933.5       10,769.2
Subtotal Operation and Maintenance                          1,656.0        2,472.3       3,227.3        3,068.7       3,274.2        3,355.9      17,054.3                                             0
D. Incremental operatng costs
for lMTA                                                     543.7        1,918.3       2,427.5        3,301.4        3,283.7       2,545.1       14,019.7
Total Recurrent Costs                                          7,127.4       16,175.8      19,809.1       20,903.6      20,946.0       19,173.9     104,135.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                                            16,296.0      62,362.1       76,477.3       73,286.7      65,379.2      48,157.1      341,958.4                                            O
\a gas, supplies, subsistenoe and travel. 
02
\b:m reppe,siairs opterc and lb suppli  and vehicle supplies.
CD
HA



Table 1.8: Expenditure Accounts by Financiers
(USS '000)
GOM                       World Bank                      Total                                   Loul (Kid,      Duties &
Amount          %           Amount           Y            Amount          %           For. Etch.      Taxe%)         Taxes
L Investment Coats
A Civil Wacis                                          26,050.2         100 0             -              -       26,050.2           7.6             -       22,142 6        3,907 5
B. Equipmet 
Telconmmiticahon equipmment&ccnpute                  7,529.1          150        42,6648           85.0       50.1939           14.7       42,664.8          -00         7,5291                        r-
Lab equpmaent                                        1,439 1          15 0        8,154 8          85.0        9,593 8           2.8        7,812.8         342 0        1,4391
MeaaixemcatequiWpment                                4,3591           150        24,701.4          850        29,060.4           8.5       12,238.5       12,468.0       4,3539 9.
Radioonimicamionequipment                              3405           150         1,929.3          850         2,269.8           0.7              -        1,9293          3405
Sub(otalEqualpmnet                                     13,6677           150        77,450.2          85.0       91,117.9          26.6       62,716.0      14,7393        13,6625
C. Vehicles                                             3,327 5         100 0             -              -        3,327.5           1.0             -        2,828 4          4991                         -
D. Coiuinta                                                                                                                                                                                               CD
Studies                                              6,0282           15.0       34,159.6          85.0       40,187.7          11.8       16,075 1       18,084.5       6,0282
Intemation  tednical asanice                        1,399 5          15.0        7,930.3          85.0        9,329.8           2.7        7,930.3             -        1,399 5
Nascia techmical assitance                             839 7          15.0        4,758.3          85.0        5,598.0            1 6             -        4,758.3         839 7
Figneanirgsvices                                     6,7464           150        38,229.3          85.0       44,975.7          132         8,995.1       29,2342        6,7464
Subtotal Coaultanats                                   15,0137           150        85,077.6          85.0      100,091.2          29.3       33,0006       52,0770        15.0137
L Tralnia
Localrakw"B                                          1,253.6          150         7,103.8          85.0        8,357.4           2.4        4,4704         2,633.4       1,253.6
Intanu:rnalbaining                                   1,331.8          15.0        7,546.6          850         8,878.3           2.6        7,546.6             -        1,331.8
SubtalTrisnla                                           2,585.4          150        14,650.4          850        17,235.7           5.0       12,0170        2,633.4        2,585.4
Totallnvestabetcomb                                       60,6444           25.5      177,178.1          74.5      237,822.5          69.5      107,733 5      94,420.8       35,668.2
IL Recurrent Costs
A 1rental staff                                        47,4664          100.0             -              -       47,466.4          13.9              -      40,346.5        7,120.0
B. Opaiig cats/a                                       25.5954          100.0             -              -       25,595.4           7.5              -      21,7561         3,839.3
C. Opetleon ad Maln
Equipmetandvehicle mAuitam    /b                     6,285.1         1000               -             -        6,285.1           18               -        5,342.4         942S
Cmfractd saces                                      10,769.2         1000              -              .       10,769.2           3.1             .         9,153.8       1,615.4
S9t_oal Opaso a_ d Maintsaace                          17,054.3         100.0             *              *       17,054.3           5.0              -       14,496.2       2,558.2
D. Incras1sl operaig cos
for fTA                                                4,705.7          33.6        9,314.0          66.4       14,019.7           4.1             .        14,019.7             -
Tol RScurrutComb                                          94,821.S          91.1        9,314.0           8.9      104,135.9          30.5             .       90,618.4       13,517.4
Toal Db&urmt                                              155,466.3          45.5      186,492.1          54.5      341,958.4         100.0      107,733.5     185,039.2       49,185 7
\a gE, msiples,. miaitce and avel.
\b In. rpans, coaer and lab supplies, amd vehicle upplhes.



Table 1.9: Components by Financiers
(US$ '000)
GOM                      World Bank                     Total                                   Local (ExcL    Duties &
Amount          %           Amount           %          Amount           %         For. Rxch.      Taxes)        Taxes
A. Institutional Development, Technological Support
and Training
1. Technical Assistance                                             1,897.5         16.7        9,474.4          83.3      11,371.9           3.3       7,405.5       2,467.2       1,499.2
2. Trainng                                                          2,536.7          150       14,374.7          85.0       16,911.4          4.9       11,741.3       2,633.4       2,536.7
3. Project Coordination                                             4,145.4         44.3        5,217.0          55.7       9,362.4           2.7         859.1       7,210.6        1,292.7
Subtotal Insttutional Development, Technological Support
and Training                                                          8,579.6          22.8      29,066.0          77.2       37,645.7         11.0       20,005.8      12,311.2       5,328.7
B. Water Quantity and Quality Monitoring
Improvement and Assessments
l. HydrologicAssessmnentsandHydrometricNctworkLmprovements         20,423.2         52.6       18,370.6          47.4      38,793 8          11.3       4,022.9      28,988.5       5,782.4
2. Groundwater Assessments and Groundwater Monitoring
Network Inprovements                                            16,731.8          65 2        8,912.4         34.8       25,644.2          7.5        2,742.3      19,248.2       3,653.6
3. National Meteorological Service Improvements                    15,199.9          36.9      25,985.5          63.1      41,185.4          12.0       16,441.5      18,835.8       5,908.0
4. Water Quality Monitoring Network and Water
QualityLaboratorylImprovements                                  26,018.7          58.6       18,382.2         41.4       44,4009           13.0      11,284.0      26,692.3       6,424.7
Subtotal Water Quantity and Quality Monitoring
Improvement and Assesments                                           78,373.6          522       71,650.7          47.8      150,0243          43.9       34,490.7      93,7648       21,768.8
C. Reservour Operation, Dam Safety and
Aquifer Management Improvements
1. ReservoirOperation Lmprovements                                  6,718.8         47.3        7,492.2          52.7      14,211.0           4.2       2,926.3       9,314.7        1,970.0
2.AquiferManagmentLmprovements                                      2,569.4          308        5,769.7          69.2       8,339.1           2.4       2,439.8        4,774.9       1,124.5
3.DamSafetyLmprovements                                             9,255.8         49.7        9,381.9          50.3       18,6377           5.5       4,125.3       11,848.4       2,664.0
Subtotal Reseryour OperaUon, Dam Safety and
AqulferManagementImprovements                                        18,544.0          45.0      22,643.8          55.0       41,187.8          12.0       9,491.3      25,938.0       5,758.5
D. Water Rights AdminIstration
1. WaterRightsPublicRegistyyandWaterUserSupport                     6,949.5         61.9        4,270.0          38.1      11,219.5           3.3         958.8       8,672.3        1,588.5
2. Improvements inWaterFeCollectionsandControl                    25,813.6          85.6       4,345.5          14.4      30,159.1           8.8        2,965.6      22,721.8       4,471.7 
Subtotal WaterRightsAdmlnistradon                                     32,763.1          79.2        8,615.4         20.8       41,378.6          12,1       3,924.4      31,394.0       6,060.2                  x
F. Water Resources Planning and
Information Systems
1. Telecommunications and Coniputer Networks and
Geographic bIformation Systems                                    9,882.6          17.9      45,308.1          82.1      55,190.7          16.1      36,188.2       11,010.2       7,992.3                 0
2. Wat Resources Planing Studies and 
RiverBasinCouncil Support                                        7,323.4          44.3        9,208.0         55.7       16,531.4          4.8        3,633.1      10,621.0       2,277.3                  t
Subtota Water Resources Planning and
Information Systems                                                  17,206.0          24.0       54,516.1         76.0       71,722.1         21.0       39,821.3      21,631.2      10,269.6                   -
TOTAL DISBURSEMENT                                                    155,466.3          45.5     186,492.1          54.5      341,958.4        100.0      107,733.5     185,039.2      49,185.7                  Ps
CD
CD
Ps



Table I.10: Disbursement Accounts by Financiers
(USS '000)
GOM               World Bank             Total                        Local (Excl Duties &
Amount      %       Amount           %   Amount           %  For. Exch.   Taxes)    Taxes                               0
1. Civil Works           26,050.2     100.0         -         -   26,050.2       7.6          -   22,142.6   3,907.5
2. Equipment             13,667.7      15.0  77,450.2       85.0  91,117.9       26.6  62,716.0   14,739.3   13,662.5
3. Vehicles               3,327.5     100.0         -          -    3,327.5       1.0         -    2,828.4     499.1
4. Consultant            15,013.7      15.0  85,077.6       85.0  100,091.2      29.3   33,000.6   52,077.0   15,013.7                          to
5. Trining                2,585.4      15.0  14,650.4       85.0   17,235.7       5.0  12,017.0   2,633.4   2,585.4
6. Incremental operating c
for DMTA                 4,705.7      33.6   9,314.0       66.4   14,019.7       4.1         -   14,019.7         -
7. Recurrent Costs       90,116.2     100.0         -          -   90,116.2      26.4         -   76,598.7   13,517.4
TOTAL                      155,466.3      45.5  186,492.1     54.5  341,958.4     100.0  107,733.5  185,039.2  49,185.7



Table 1.11: Local/Foreign/Taxes by Financiers
(US$ '000)
GOM          World Bank         Total
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %
I. Foreign                        -      - 107,733.5  100.0 107,733.5  31.5
II. Local (Excl. Taxes)    106,280.6  57.4  78,758.6  42.6 185,039.2  54.1
III. Taxes                  49,185.7  100.0        -     -  49,185.7  14.4
Total Project              155,466.3  45.5 186,492.1  54.5 341,958.4  100.0
0
n
oD
H
0t



Table 1.12: Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million)
x
Procurement Method
International      LoAI 
Competitive   CompeUtive   International         Local         Direct        Consulting                                                                              0
Bidding        Bidding        Shopping       Shopping      Contracting      Services        N.B.F.          Total                                                   T
A. Civil Works                                     -              -               -              -              -               -           26.1           26.1
B. Equipment                                    75.0           15.0             0.7            0.4              -               -              -           91.1                                             CD
(63.7)         (12.8)          (06)            (03)                                                        (77.5)                                             CD
C. Vehicles                                        -              -               -                                             -            3.3            3.3
D. ConsultantServices                              -              -              -               -              -           100.1              -          100.1                                             CD
(85.1)                        (85.1)
E. Training/a                                      -              -               -              -              -            172               -           17.2
(14.7)                        (14.7)
F. Incremental operating costs
for MTA                                                   -              -                      -           14.0              -               -           14.0
(9 3)                                         (9.3)
G.RecurrentCosts                                   -              -               -              -              -               -           90.1           90.1
TOTAL                                           75.0            15.0            07              0.4           14.0          117.3           119.5          342.0
(63.7)         (128)           (0.6)           (03)           (93)          (997)               -         (186.5)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective arnounts financed by World Bank
\a Include instructors, matenals, rent, travel and subsistence
\b Incremental operating costs for studies to be carried out by IMTA.
-a



Table 1.13: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(USS '000)
Suggestd Allocation of
lan Proceed                                                                                      Lean Amounts
Dbburnent         Total Project Codt         Average Diabursemot %                       Unanoated                      Allocated
La Amount   %        Total       LAoca     Foreign    Total   Local   Foreign    Total    Total    Loel   Forign    Total    Locl   Forign
1. Civil Works                           -      -   26,050.2    26,050.2                            -        -                   -        -         -
2. Equipment                       61,960.2   85.0   91,117.9    28,401.9   62,716.0     85.0    51.9     100.0  77,450.2  15,490.0  2,946.8   12,543.2  61,960.2  11,787.4  50,172.8
3. Vehicies                              -      -    3,327.5      3,327.5                       -                       -        -        -
4. Cozmultant                      68,062.0   85.0  100,091 2    67,090.7   33,000.6     85.0    77.6     100.0  85,077.6  17,015.5  10,415.4   6,600.1  68,062.0  41,661.6  26,400.5
5. Triie                           11,720.3   85.0   17,235.7     5,218.8   12,017.0     85.0    50.5     100.0  14,650.4   2,930.1    526.7   2,403.4  11,720.3  2,106.7   9,613.6
6 Inaemental Opeting Costs
for IMTA                        7,451.2   66.4   14,019 7    14,019.7         -      66.4    66.4         -   9,314.0   1,862.8  1,862.8              7,451.2  7,451.2
7. Rectrcnt costs                        -       -   90,116.2    90,116.2              -            -         -         -         -        -         -         -        -         -
Unalocated                          37,298.4     -          -           -          -         -       -
TOTAL                              186,4921    54.5  341,958.4   234,224.9  107,733.5        -       -         - 186,492.1  37,298.4  15,751.7  21,546.7  149,193.7  63,006.9  86,186.8
Loan mmtaw  finunced by Wcoid Bank
a,
H
C,



Table 1.14: Disbursements by Semesters
x
(USS '000)-
0
Standard                                                         0
EDbburwement-
Disbursed During Semester Cumulati  Dbunemnent                        Proil bi
IBRD FIcal Year          Semester Ending               Amount         % of Tol           Amunt          % ofTtal    % of Total
1997                    Dec-96                         0        0%/                      0         0                 0
Jun-97                    3.389 9       2%                   2,152        1%                 3                                                             H
1998                    Dec-97                    3,389.9       2%                   6,780        4%                 6                                                              -
Jun-98                   17.883 9      10%/.                24,664        13%                14                                                            C
1999                   Dec-99                    17,883.9       1ON%               42,548        23%                22
Jun-00                   21,626 5      12%                  64,174       34%                 30
2000                    Dec-00                   21,626 5       12%                 85,801        46%                38
Jun-01                   21,3622       11%                 107,163       57%/                51
2001                    Dec-01                   21,3622        11%                128,525        69%                66
Jun-02                   17,491 5       9/                146,017       78%                 78
2002                    Dec-02                   17,491.5       9%                 163,508        88%/               91
Jun-03                   11,492.0       6%                 175,000       94%                 98
2003                    Dec-03                   11,492.0       6%                 186,492        100%               100
a/ The Loon assumed to become effecive  rng the fist quatr of 1996 Totals may not add due to rotmdu   Includes pnce and physical contingencies
b/ Stndard Disbubsement Profile for agiculture sector projects in Mexico (June 1994)
(It






Page
Annex J:              List of Documents in the Project File  .............................................................1






ANEXO J
MEXICO
WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX J: DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
1. Water Resources Management - A World Bank Policy Paper. 1993
2. A Guide to the Formulation of Water Resources Strategy. Edited by Guy Le Moigne, Ashok
Subramanian, Mai Xie and Sandra Giltner. World Bank Technical Paper Number 263. 1994
3. Ley de Aguas Nacionales y su Reglamento. Comisi6n Nacional del Agua. Junio de 1994
4. Informe 1989 - 1994. Comision Nacional del Agua, noviembre 1994
5. Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 1995 - 2000. Resumen. Estados Unidos Mexicanos - Poder
Ejecutivo Federal
6. Programa Hidraulico 1995 - 2000. Estados Unidos Mexicanos - Poder Ejecutivo Federal
7. Proyecto para la Modernizaci6n del Manejo del Agua (PROMMA). Misi6n de Consulta de
Apoyo al Establecimiento y Consolidaci6n de Consejos de Cuenca. Informe de Sintesis de las
Misiones de septiembre y noviembre de 1995 por Dominique Berthon. Estados Unidos de
Mexico. Comision Nacional del Agua, Subdirecci6n General de Programaci6n. Banco Mundial.
30 de noviembre de 1995.
8. Plan de Implementaci6n del Proyecto para la Modernizaci6n del Manejo del Agua, CNA. 8 de
marzo de 1996
Documento Principal
Anexo B - Marco Legal, Reglamento y Normativo en el Ambito del Agua
Anexo C - Marco Institucional, Funciones, Estructura y Organizaci6n del Sector
Anexo D - Fuentes de Financiamiento
Anexo F - Plan de Acci6n para el desarrollo Institucional, Apoyo Tecnol6gico y Entrenamiento
Anexo G - Plan de Acci6n para la Modernizaci6n de los sistemas de Obtenci6n, Procesamiento y
Archivo de Datos de Cantidad y Calidad del Agua y Estudios
Anexo H - Plan de Acci6n para la Modernizaci6n de la Operaci6n y seguridad de Presas y
Manejo de Acuiferos
Anexo I - Plan de Acci6n para la Administraci6n del Uso del Agua en Mexico
Anexo J - Plan de Acci6n para la Planeaci6n y sistemas de Informaci6n en el Ambito del Agua
Anexo K - Aspectos Econ6micos y Beneficios del Proyecto
Anexo L - Aspectos Ambientales y Sociales del Proyecto
Anexo M -Estimaci6n de Costos del Proyecto
Anexo N - Adquisiciones y Contrataciones
Anexo Q - Programa de Supervisi6n
Anexo S - Prograrnaci6n de Actividades Computarizada
Anexo T - Lista de Documentos Utilizados
Note: During Project Preparation Annexes A, E, 0, P, R were eliminated.






MAP SECTION






IBRD 279f3
Thet boundar,es, Colors,
Mex,colI                                                                                                                          o  ther inormadon snof
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA                                                         -piy>n -he dpo  ;f
The Wand Bank Group,
Cioy wdgieot on 'th. legal
or a-neonne of tU'h
'I \.\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~boundaries
Hermosilto- -
H  Chihuahua- -
0              v
-  ~~~~~--  ~ ~     ~     ~     ~       (~~~~A~onterrey
;  I                  ;      s      Vl_'\  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- - -.
PACIFIC  OCEAN  vLa Paz           \   Ii, Viit /Gulf of Mexico
PACIFIC  OCEAN                                                                        VIs1'!     S 
\ Lf-' Zacotecos
MEXICO                                        5/r.
WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                              A =                                                               rMendo
PROJECT                             (daIojo                                      -                                         XII
New  Hydrographic Regions                          t                               ',                     Gulf o Compeche           Ccmpeche
NEW HYDROGRAPHIC REGIONS                                                        0 )lc~Ia.''
I    BAJA CALIFORNIA PENINSULA       Vill   LERMA-SANTIAGO                T        b YIuteQVCO                   -                           -   CheftumaI?-.
If    UPPER NORTHWEST         f       X    NORTHERN GULF                       <) /                        X
111   LOWER NORTHWEST                 X     CENTRAL GULF                                          ..v!E L I Z E
IV    CENTRAL PACIFIC        n         l    SOUTHERN GUULF' Orrcacc                                                    .nz-. 
V     SOUTHERN PACIFIC       Xl l           YUCATAN PENINSULA                                             -.,.   -L
VI    NORTHERN BORDER                 Xil  VALLEY OF MEXICO                                                         Gulf of           G            LA
Vil   NORTHERN CENTRAL BASINS                                                                                     Tehufntepec (fOI GD
HYDROGRAPHIC REGIONS BOUNDARIES                         0      100     200     300                   /5ALVADOR
f3 STATE CAPITALS                                                     .LOMETERS                           '-
*    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                   NICARAGUA
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
JUNE 199o









IMAGING
Report No:      15435 ME
Type: SAR



