Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4050-ME
                            Guarantee Agreement
                    (Water Resources Management Project)
                                   between
                           UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                                AND DEVELOPMENT
                          Dated September 28, 1996
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4050-ME
                            GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 28, 1996, between UNITED MEXICAN STATES
(the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (the
Borrower), having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
     (B)  by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank
and the Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan
in the amount of one hundred eighty-six million five hundred thousand
Dollars ($186,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as
provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee
such obligations of the Borrower and to undertake such other obli-
gations as set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated
May 30, 1995 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to and
Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
                                ARTICLE II
                      Guarantee; Provision of Funds
     Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby
unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety
merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on the pre-
payment of the Loan, and the punctual performance of all the other
obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.02. The Guarantor shall provide, in a timely manner as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
                              ARTICLE III
                        Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate environmental,
financial, technical and administrative standards and practices,
as well as in accordance with its international treaty obligations
relating to water resources and the periodically adjustable imple-
mentation indicators set forth in the Implementation Letter:
     (a)  except as specified with respect to studies in paragraph (b)
of this Section, carry out Parts A.1, A.3, B, C, D and E of the
Project through CNA; and
     (b)  carry out Part A.2 of the Project (as well as studies in the
other Parts of the Project) through CNA and IMTA according to admini-
strative arrangements to be entered into between CNA and IMTA (which
arrangements shall be consistent with the terms of this Agreement).
     Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall enter into the contractual
arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement. Except
as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall not amend or fail
to enforce any provision of such contractual arrangements. The
Guarantor shall exercise its rights under such contractual arrangements
in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Guarantor and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
     Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods and consultant services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
     Section 3.04. (a) The Guarantor shall carry out the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the
General Conditions (relating respectively to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition) with regard to the Project.
     (b)  For purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions, and
without limitation thereto, the Guarantor shall:
          (i)  prepare or cause to be prepared, on the basis of
Page  3
               guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to
               the Bank not later than six months after the Closing
               Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
               purpose between the Guarantor and the Bank, a plan
               for the future operation of the Project; and
         (ii)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
               views with the Guarantor on said plan.
     Section 3.05. (a) The Guarantor shall, through CNA, maintain
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with
sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures
in connection with the execution of the Project.
     (b)  The Guarantor shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
               accordance with generally accepted auditing standards
               and procedures consistently applied, by independent
               and qualified auditors;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six months after the end of each
               such year, the report of such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts as well as the audit thereof
               as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Guarantor shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
               Section, records and accounts reflecting such expen-
               ditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or
               payment out of the Special Account was made, all
               records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
               and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
               upon to support the related withdrawals.
     (d)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were
made from the Special Account, the Guarantor shall provide to the
Borrower any information that may be required by the Borrower to
comply with the Borrower's obligations under Section 4.01 of the Loan
Agreement.
     Section 3.06. The Guarantor shall maintain the following staff
within CNA, throughout the course of Project implementation and for
purposes of Project coordination:
     (a)  at CNA central headquarters, a coordinator and two super-
visors, to be assisted by a consulting firm for purposes of Project
monitoring, reporting and evaluation;
Page  4
     (b)  in each of CNA's administrative regions throughout Mexico,
one coordinator acting on a full-time basis;
     (c)  within each of SGAA, SGT and SGP, one sub-coordinator acting
on a full-time basis; and
     (d)  a CNA environmental or natural resource sciences pro-
fessional, acting on a full-time basis in each of CNA's regional
administrative offices throughout Mexico (who may at the same time
occupy the coordinator position referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section), to oversee environmental aspects of CNA activities
and participate in carrying out Part E.1 of the Project.
     Section 3.07. (a) Throughout the course of Project implementa-
tion, and without limitation of the provisions of Section 9.07 of
the General Conditions, the Guarantor (through CNA) shall furnish to
the Bank, by no later than each May 31 and November 30 (starting no
later than November 30, 1996), a semestral progress report on
implementation of the Project, in form satisfactory to the Bank and
based on the implementation indicators set forth in the Implemen-
tation Letter.  As part of each November semestral report, the
Guarantor, through CNA, shall present to the Bank a proposed annual
action plan (including estimated costs) for Project implementation
during the immediately subsequent fiscal year.
     (b)    The Guarantor, through CNA and IMTA, shall hold reviews
of Project implementation with the Bank and the Borrower every month
of May during Project implementation, starting in May 1997.  Each
such review shall, based, inter alia, on the semestral reports
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section:
          (i)  examine the status of Project implementation;
         (ii)  result in the preparation by the Guarantor of an
               annual action plan for the Project, satisfactory to
               the Bank, to be carried out by the Guarantor through
               CNA and IMTA during the fiscal year in which the
               review is held, which plan may contain, inter alia,
               the periodic adjustment to the implementation schedule
               and targets referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agree-
               ment (as well as adjustments to the procurement plan
               referred to in Section I, Part D.1 of the Schedule to
               this Agreement); and
        (iii)  in the case of the annual review to be held in May
               1999 and in addition to the items referred to in
               subparagraphs (i) and (ii) of this paragraph, examine
               in particular detail the execution and impact of
               Parts A, B, D.2 and E.3 of the Project.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                Representatives of the Guarantor; Addresses
     Section 4.01. The Director General de Credito Publico of the
Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Guarantor:
          Secretara de Hacienda y Credito Publico
          Direccin General de Credito Publico
          Insurgentes Sur 826, piso 9
          Colonia del Valle
          03100 Mexico, D.F.
          Mexico
                                      Telex:
Page  5
                                      1777313-SHOCME
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:              Telex:
               INTBAFRAD              248423 (MCI)
               Washington, D.C.        64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               UNITED MEXICAN STATES
               By /s/ Guillermo Ortiz Martinez
                                               Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
               By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                 Regional Vice President
                                         Latin America and the Caribbean
                                  SCHEDULE
                  Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods
Part A:   General
     Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
this Part B:
     (a)  Notification and advertising
     The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to
cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance
with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8
of the Guidelines.
     (b)  Grouping of contracts
Page  6
     To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in
bid packages estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each.
     (c)  Preference for domestically manufactured goods
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   National Competitive Bidding
     Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract
or per bid package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $15,000,000
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines, using
standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   International and National Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract
or per bid package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,100,000
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
national or international shopping procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods
shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall
have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said
paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply with respect to:  (a) each contract procured
under Part B of this Section; and (b) the first two contracts or bid
packages for goods per calendar year procured under Part C.1 of this
Section.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank,
with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
less than $100,000 equivalent each and contracts for the employment of
Page  7
individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent
each.  However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to:
(a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source
selection of consulting firms or public-sector organizations that provide
technical assistance (such as, for example, NOAA/NWS with respect to
Parts A.1 and C.1 of the Project and WMO with respect to Part A.1 of the
Project); (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined
by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; and (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
