Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4050-ME
                             Loan Agreement
                  (Water Resources Management Project)
                                between
                 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                            AND DEVELOPMENT
                                  and
                       NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
                        Dated September 28, 1996
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 4050-ME
                             LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 28, 1996 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
(the Borrower).
     WHEREAS (A) the United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date here-
with between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan and
to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee
Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated
May 30, 1995 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part
Page  2
of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "CNA" means the Guarantor's Comisin Nacional del Agua
(National Water Commission);
     (b)  "Consejos" means Consejos de Cuenca (River Basin Councils)
governed by Article 13 of the Ley de Aguas Nacionales (National Water
Law), published in the Guarantor's Diario Oficial de la Federacin
(Official Gazette) on December 1, 1992;
     (c)  "GAS" means CNA's Gerencia de Aguas Subterr neas (Underground
Water Group);
     (d)  "GASIR" means CNA's Gerencia de Aguas Superficiales e
Ingeniera de Ros (Surface Water and River Engineering Group);
     (e)  "GSCA" means CNA's Gerencia de Saneamiento y Calidad del Agua
(Water Quality and Sanitation Group);
     (f)  "GSMN" means CNA's Gerencia del Servicio Meteorolgico Nacional
(Meteorological Service Group);
     (g)  "Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date here-
with, from the Guarantor to the Bank, with respect to the indicators
for the Project;
     (h)  "IMTA" means the Guarantor's Instituto Mexicano de Tecnologa
del Agua (Mexican Water Technology Institute);
     (i)  "NOAA/NWS" means the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration/National Weather Service of the United States of America;
     (j)  "REPDA" means the Registro Pblico de Derechos de Agua (Water
Rights Public Registry) governed by Articles 30-32 of the Ley de Aguas
Nacionales (National Water Law) cited in paragraph (b) of this Section;
     (k)  "SGAA" means CNA's Subdireccin General de Administracin del
Agua (Water Administration General Subdirectorate);
     (l)  "SGP" means CNA's Subdireccin General de Programacin
(Planning General Subdirectorate);
     (m)  "SGT" means CNA's Subdireccin General Tecnica (Technical
General Subdirectorate);
     (n)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (o)  "WMO" means the World Meteorological Organization, a
Specialized Agency within the meaning of Article 57 of the Charter of
the United Nations.
                               ARTICLE II
                                The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount
equal to one hundred eighty-six million five hundred thousand Dollars
($186,500,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Page  3
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in Banco de Mxico on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR
Total Spread.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
               including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding,
               the first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter,
               and after the initial period, each period from and
               including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding
               the next following Interest Payment Date.
         (ii)  "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
               Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
        (iii)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the
               London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits
               in Dollars for value the first day of such Interest
               Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period,
               for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or
               next preceding the first day of such Interest Period),
               as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as
               a percentage per annum.
         (iv)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:
               (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or
               plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest
               Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered
               rates, or other reference rates, for six-month
               deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding
               borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank
               to fund single currency loans or portions thereof
               made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably
               determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage
               per annum.
     (c)  The Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of
LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period,
promptly upon the determination thereof.
     (d)  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section
2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers
as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the
interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months'
notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor of the new basis.  The basis
shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the
Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable March
15 and September 15 in each year.
Page  4
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                Transfer of Loan Proceeds; Other Covenants
     Section 3.01. The Borrower shall enter into contractual arrange-
ments with the Guarantor, satisfactory to the Bank, providing, inter
alia, for: (a) the transfer to the Guarantor of the proceeds of the
Loan; and (b) the transfer by the Guarantor to the Borrower of such
funds as the Borrower shall be required to pay to the Bank on account
of principal, interest and other charges on the Loan.  Except as the
Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or fail to
enforce any provision of such contractual arrangements. The Borrower
shall exercise its rights under such contractual arrangements in such
a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
     Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating respectively to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition) shall be carried out, or caused to
be carried out, by the Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.04 (a) of the
Guarantee Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower shall participate in the annual
reviews referred to in Section 3.07 (b) of the Guarantee Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting practices, the resources and
expenditures in connection with the execution of the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section, and the records and accounts for
               the Special Account, for each fiscal year audited, in
               accordance with generally accepted auditing standards
               and procedures, consistently applied, by independent
               and qualified auditors;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six months after the end of each
               such year, the report of such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested;
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank each month certified statements
               of the Special Account; and
         (iv)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts as well as the audit thereof
               as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall provide to the Guarantor any information that may be
required by the Guarantor to comply with the Guarantor's obligations
under Section 3.05 (c) of the Guarantee Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE V
                            Remedies of the Bank
Page  5
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Condi-
tions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  The Ley de Aguas Nacionales (National Water Law; published
in the Guarantor's Diario Oficial de la Federacin on December 1, 1992)
shall have been, in whole or in part, amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank,
materially and adversely the carrying out of the Project.
     (b)  The National Water Law's regulations, published in the
Guarantor's Diario Oficial de la Federacin on January 12, 1994, shall
have been, in whole or in part, amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank,
materially and adversely the carrying out of the Project.
     (c)  Any annual Ley Federal de Derechos (Federal Rights Law) shall
have been, in whole or in part, amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived (or shall not have been replaced by a successor annual
Federal Rights Law) so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank,
materially and adversely the carrying out of the Project.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Condi-
tions, the following additional events are specified, namely, that any
event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that the con-
tractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement
have been entered into.
     Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to
be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank,
namely, that on behalf of each of the Borrower and the Guarantor, the
contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement
have been duly authorized or ratified, and executed and delivered, by
the Borrower and the Guarantor and are legally binding upon the
Borrower and the Guarantor in accordance with the terms of such con-
tractual arrangements.
     Section 6.03. The date December 27, 1996 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Director Internacional of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:              Telex:
               INTBAFRAD              248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.        64145 (MCI)
Page  6
     For the Borrower:
          Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
          Direccin Internacional
          Torre IV, piso 8
          Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971
          01020 Mexico, D.F.
          Mexico
          Cable address:             Telex:
               NAFIN                 NAFIME 383-1775765
               Mexico City           Mexico City
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
               By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                 Regional Vice President
                                         Latin America and the Caribbean
               NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
               By /s/ Carlos Mendoza
                                               Authorized Representative
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated           % of
                          (Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Goods (except materials  62,000,000     100% of foreign
     included in Categories                  expenditures and
     (3) or (4) below and                    87% of local
     vechicles)                              expenditures
(2)  Consultant services      68,100,000     100%
     (except as included in
     Category (4) below)
(3)  IMTA incremental          7,400,000     85% until withdrawals
     operating costs                         under this Category
                                             have reached an
                                             aggregate amount
                                             equivalent to
                                             $4,200,000; 60% until
                                             withdrawals under this
                                             Category have reached
                                             an aggregate amount
Page  7
                                             equivalent to
                                             $6,300,000; and 25%
                                             thereafter
(4)  Training:
     (a) provided by           1,900,000     100%
         consultants
     (b) provided by           2,800,000     100%
         IMTA
     (c) provided by           7,000,000     100%
         academic
         institutions
(5)  Unallocated              37,300,000
                              __________
          TOTAL              186,500,000
                             ===========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Guarantor;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor;
     (c)  the term "IMTA incremental operating costs" includes only
the reasonable costs incurred by IMTA for consumable materials,
transportation, space and equipment rentals, per diems and salaries,
all for purposes of carrying out the studies (under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank) referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of the
Guarantee Agreement and only to the extent such costs and studies are
identified in the administrative arrangements also referred to in said
Section 3.01 (b); and
     (d)  the term "training" includes only: (i) fees of consultants
employed as trainers; (ii) reasonable travel and per diem expenditures
incurred by trainees in connection with their training; (iii) course
fees charged by academic institutions; and (iv) reasonable costs
incurred by IMTA for consumable materials, transportation, space and
equipment rentals and per diems in connection with IMTA's execution
of Part A.2 of the Project.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $18,600,000, may be
made on account of payments made for expenditures incurred within
the twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement but after March
8, 1996.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under
contracts costing less than $350,000 equivalent (in the case of goods),
less than $100,000 equivalent (in the case of consulting firms) and
less than $50,000 equivalent (in the case of individual consultants),
as well as for expenditures for incremental operating costs, for IMTA
items referred to in paragraph 2 (d) (iv) of this Schedule and for
course fees charged by academic institutions, all under such terms
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
Page  8
     The objectives of the Project are to:  (a) promote conditions for
environmentally sustainable, economically efficient and equitably
allocated use of water resources in Mexico; (b) support the integrated
and comprehensive management of water resources in Mexico; and (c)
increase the benefits and reduce the risks related to existing
hydraulic infrastructure in Mexico.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Institutional Development, Technological Support and Training
1.   Provision of on-the-job technical assistance to CNA staff for
purposes of supporting the development, introduction and implementation
of meteorological and water resources management technology within CNA.
2.   Provision of training to CNA staff in areas such as management
techniques, surface water and groundwater hydrology, meteorology,
water quality control, water resources planning, water rights
administration, information systems and dam safety.
3.   Provision of technical assistance, as well as material and
logistical support, to the CNA staff referred to in Section 3.06 of
the Guarantee Agreement in order to facilitate coordination of the
Project.
Part B:     Water Quantity and Quality Monitoring Improvement and
            Assessments
1.   Strengthening of GSMN's atmospheric phenomena data collection,
analysis and synthesis facilities and procedures by upgrading,
operating and maintaining its upper air network, radar network,
automatic data collection platform monitoring network, manual synoptic
stations, satellite ground station network, lightning detection
network and instrumentation laboratory and improving its weather
forecasting techniques.
2.   Strengthening of GASIR's surface water hydrologic assessment and
monitoring capabilities by: (a) designing and rehabilitating its
climatological and hydrometric networks; (b) installing sediment
laboratories; (c) rehabilitating and modernizing its existing telemetry
networks; (d) upgrading its radio communications network; (e) installing
telemetry networks in priority catchments; (f) acquiring a fleet of
vehicles for purposes of network inspection; (g) establishing a
hydrometereological data management system; and (h) operating and
maintaining the networks, laboratories, vehicles and system listed in
this Part B.2 of the Project.
3.   Assessment by GAS of groundwater resources in Mexico, as part of
the establishment, operation and maintenance of an aquifer monitoring
network, by conducting hydrogeological studies of priority aquifers.
4.   Establishment, operation and maintenance of a groundwater infor-
mation system and the telecommunication links required for that system
to provide data to CNA.
5.   Strengthening of GSCA's water quality monitoring capabilities by
improving, operating and maintaining: (a) its national water quality
monitoring network; (b) its water quality laboratory network con-
sisting of a reference laboratory, regional-level laboratories and
mobile laboratory units; and (c) its water quality information systems.
Part C:     Reservoir Operation, Dam Safety and Aquifer Management
            Improvement
1.   Provision of technical assistance to CNA to maximize benefits
derived from the operation of existing hydraulic infrastructure,
while simultaneously ensuring or improving environmental protection
necessitated as a consequence of the operation of such infrastructure.
2.   Strengthening of CNA's capabilities to carry out its dam safety
Page  9
responsibilities by decentralizing such responsibilities to CNA
regional offices, establishing a registry of all dams in Mexico which
are over three meters in height or have a reservoir capacity in excess
of half a million cubic meters, carrying out periodic inspections of
such dams, developing guidelines and procedures for dam safety,
collecting and analyzing dam instrumentation data and installing new
dam instrumentation, conducting hydrological analyses for selected
dams, developing corrective action plans and designs for dams with
safety deficiencies, preparing maintenance and protection plans for
dams, conducting reviews of all new dam design, rehabilitation and
construction projects, development of emergency action plans for
high-risk dams and training of dam safety personnel.
3.   Strengthening of GAS' aquifer management capabilities by: (a)
conducting groundwater resources, protection and stabilization
studies; and (b) applying groundwater resource optimization models
to the aquifers located in basins for which Consejos exist or
are established pursuant to Part E.3 of the Project.
Part D:     Water Rights Administration
1.   Provision of technical assistance to CNA to improve operation of
REPDA, strengthen water user support services and implement infor-
mation systems for REPDA and for CNA's water user and water and
discharge fee registries.
2.   Strengthening of SGAA's capabilities to carry out its water and
discharge fee collection and control responsibilities by conducting:
(a) studies to ascertain the population of water users and polluters;
(b) studies on technology development for water withdrawal and
pollution discharge measurement, followed by implementation of a
pilot exercise to test such technology; and (c) a water use and
discharge measurement inspection program.
Part E:     Water Resources Planning and Information Systems
1.   Carrying out of water resources planning studies at the river
basin, regional and national levels, with participation of the
Consejos and attention to environmental implications as relate to
water, culminating in the issuance of hydrographic region and
national water plans.
2.   Supporting the planning process referred to in Part E.1 of the
Project by carrying out studies on the socio-economic, financial and
regulatory aspects of aquifer stabilization, private sector partici-
pation in hydraulic infrastructure, salinity control in irrigated
areas, watershed conservation, irrigation innovations and sanitation
options for small settlements.
3.   Establishment and strengthening of Consejos.
4.   Strengthening of CNA's telecommunications and computer networks
and geographical information systems by improving electronic data
links between CNA headquarters and regional offices, incorporating
remote sensing capability in the information systems and allowing
decentralized data access and processing.
                                * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
                              SCHEDULE 3
                         Amortization Schedule
                                    Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                   (expressed in Dollars)*
March 15, 2000                            5,500,000
September 15, 2000                        5,660,000
March 15, 2001                            5,820,000
September 15, 2001                        5,990,000
Page  10
March 15, 2002                            6,160,000
September 15, 2002                        6,340,000
March 15, 2003                            6,520,000
September 15, 2003                        6,710,000
March 15, 2004                            6,900,000
September 15, 2004                        7,100,000
March 15, 2005                            7,305,000
September 15, 2005                        7,515,000
March 15, 2006                            7,730,000
September 15, 2006                        7,955,000
March 15, 2007                            8,185,000
September 15, 2007                        8,420,000
March 15, 2008                            8,660,000
September 15, 2008                        8,910,000
March 15, 2009                            9,170,000
September 15, 2009                        9,430,000
March 15, 2010                            9,705,000
September 15, 2010                        9,985,000
March 15, 2011                           10,270,000
September 15, 2011                       10,560,000
___________________
*    The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be
     repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General
     Conditions.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                             Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3)
and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time
to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$5,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $33,000,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of
such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
Page  11
               the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
               specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
               each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equi-
valent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
Page  12
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstand-
ing amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Condi-
tions.
