            Document of
          The World Bank




                                      Report No: 34697

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
            (SCL-40500)

               ON A

        LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

 IN THE AMOUNT OF US$186.5 MILLION

    TO THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF

             MEXICO

              FOR A

WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT




          December 21, 2005

                                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective November 11, 2005)

                                      Currency Unit =
                                            Mex $1 = US$ 0.0937
                                             US$ 1 = Mex $10.676

                                            FISCAL YEAR
                                       January 1    December 31

                                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAA            Analytical and Advisory Activities
ASDSO          Association of Dam Safety Officials
BCHYDRO        British Columbia Hydro International Limited
BTEX           Benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, xylene
CCA            Mexican Center for Atmospheric Sciences (Centro de Ciencias de la Atmósfera)
CFE            Federal Power Commaission (Comisión Federal de Electricidad)
CLICOM         Climate Computing Data Management Program of World Meteorological Organization
CNA            National Water Commission (Comisión Nacional del Agua)
COE            United States Army Corps of Engineers
COTAS          Comités Técnicas de Aguas Subterráneas (Technical Aquifer Committee)
CT             Technical Consuhancy (Consultivo Tecnico)
DBMS           Data Base Management System
DCP            Data Collection Platform
EC             Environment Canada
EPA            United States Environmental Protection Agency
ESP            Extended Streamflow Prediction
FAO            Food and Agriculture Organization. United Nations Agency
GAS            Groundwater Group (Gerencia de Aguas Subterraneas)
GASIR Surface Water and River Engineering Group (Gerencia de Aguas Superficiales e Ingenieria de
Rios)
GF             Financing Group (Gerencia de Financiamiento)
GIS            Geographic Information System
GOM            Government of Mexico
GOES           Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite
GPS            Geographical Positioning System
GSCA           Water Quality and Sanitation Group (Gerencia de Saneamiento y Calidad del Agua)
GSMN           National Meteorological Service (Gerencia del Servicio Nacional de Meteorologia)
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
ICOLD          International Commission on Large Dams
IDSP           Irrigation and Drainage Sector Project
II             Mexican Engineering Institute (Instituto de Ingenieria)
IMTA           Mexican Water Technology Institute (Instituto Mexicano de Tecnologia del Agua)
INEGI          National Institute for Geographic and Informatic Statistics (Intituto Nacional de
Estadistica Geografia E         Informatica)
INM            National Meteorological Institute, Spain (Instituto Nacional de Meteorologia, Espatta)
LAN            National Water Law (Ley de Aguas Nacionales)

MET         British Meteorological Office
NAFIN       National Finance Institution, SNC (Nacional Financiera, Sociedad Nacional de Credito)
NCB         National Competitive Bidding
NDSP        National Darn Safety Program
NP          New Pesos
NOAA/NWS    United States National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration/National Weather
Service
NWSRFS      National Weather Service River Forecast System
OFMIN       On-Farm and Minor Irrigation Networks Improvement Project
OIE         French International Water Office (Office Internationale de l'Eau)
PMS         Project Management System
PROMMA      Programa para la Modernización del Manejo del Agua
QC/QA       Quality Control/Quality Assurance
REPDA       National Public Water Rights Registry (Registro Publico de Derechos de Agua)
SECODAM     Ministry of the Comptroller and Administrative Development (Secretaria de Contraloria y
Desarrollo          Administrativo)
SHCP        Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (Secretaria de Hacienda y Cródito Publico)
SHEF        Standard Hydrological Exchange Format
SIGA        Water Geographic Information System (Sistema Geografico de Información del Agua)
SGA         Administration General Subdirectorate (Subdirección General de Administración)
SGAA        Water Administration General Subdirectorate (Subdirección General de Administración
del Agua)
SGP         Planning General Subdirectorate (Subdirección General de Programación)
SGT         Technical General Subdirectorate (Subdirección General Tecnica)
SEMARNAP    Ministry of the Environment, Natural Resources and Fisheries (Secretaria de Medio
Ambiente,                   Recursos Naturales y Pesca)
SOE         Staternent of Expenses
SOP         Standard Operating Procedure
SWSSS       Second Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Project
TOR         Terms of Reference
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
USBR        United States Bureau of Reclamation
USGS        United States Geological Survey
WMO         World Meteorological Organization, United Nations Agency
WRMP        Water Resources Management Project

                                 Vice President:     Pamela Cox
                              Country Director       Isabel Guerrero
                                Sector Manager       Abel Mejia
             Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Douglas Olson

                                           MEXICO
                            Water Resources Management Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Annex 8. Project Accomplishments and Results

Project ID: P007713                                                  Project Name: Water Resources Management Project
Team Leader: Douglas C. Olson                                        TL Unit: LCSER
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 21, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Water Resources Management Project                       L/C/TF Number: SCL-40500
   Country/Department: MEXICO                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (88%); Water supply (12%)
                  Theme: Water resource management (P); Pollution management and
                            environmental health (S); Decentralization (S); Natural disaster
                            management (S); Environmental policies and institutions (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/08/1994                                     Effective: 03/27/1997                03/27/1997
     Appraisal: 04/01/1995                                         MTR: 04/30/1999                  02/19/1999
      Approval: 06/20/1996                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOM/CONAGUA
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Isabel M. Guerrero                             D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:                 Abel Mejia                                     Theodore F. Nkodo
Team Leader at ICR:             Douglas C. Olson                               Douglas C. Olson
ICR Primary Author:             Douglas C. Olson


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1 The Water Resources Management (PROMMA) project's general objectives are to: (a)
promote conditions for environmentally sustainable, economically efficient and equitably allocated
use of water resources in Mexico; (b) support the integrated comprehensive management of water
resources; and (c) increase the benefits and reduce the risk related to existing hydraulic
infrastructure.

Secondary project objectives are to: (a) support groundwater conservation; (b) promote the
restoration of surface water quality; (c) improve meteorological services for improved water
management and for the society and economy as a whole; (d) reduce flood damages downstream
of reservoirs; (e) improve dam safety; (f) improve allocation of water as an economic good; (g)
promote decentralization of water resources management through the establishment and
strengthening of river basin councils; (h) improve water resources planning through the
development of the hydrographic region plans with river basin council participation; and (i)
improve water rights administration through registry of water rights users and improved fee
collection.

The project's objectives were responsive to the Government's development priorities, highly
important from both a country and sector perspective, and consistent with the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) and global Water Sector Strategy. The project was designed to assist
Mexico to face major critical challenges in water resources management: (i) the location of
population and economic activity were inversely related to the availability of water; (ii) expanding
use of surface water resources was reaching its limit; and (iii) overexploitation of groundwater
resources was a major problem, with the level of overexploitation of 100 aquifers amounting to 6
billion m3/year. The project supported the Government of Mexico's water resources policy as
presented in the National Water Plan 1995- 2000 (Programa Nacional Hidraulico 1995 - 2000)
which aimed to ensure the availability of water to satisfy the needs of the population and promote
economic development in an environmentally sustainable manner. In addition, it supported the
implementation of the new legal framework and policies contained in the National Water Law
(Ley de Aguas Nacionales, LAN) approved by the Congress in December 1992 and in the law's
regulations promulgated in January 1994. The LAN was modified in 2004 in order to strengthen
decentralized and deconcentrated integrated water resources management (IWRM) at the river
basin and aquifer levels.

The project's objectives were consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy for Mexico
presented to the Board on May 22, 1995 (Report No. 14518-ME) as discussed more fully in
Section 3.5. Also, its objectives were in-line with the Bank's Water Sector Strategy and
commitment: "...to focus its efforts on countries where significant problems exist or are emerging
involving water scarcity, service efficiency, water allocation, or environmental damage" (Water
Resources Management: A World Bank Policy Paper, Washington DC, September 1993 at p. 21).
Water scarcity conditions in Mexico effectively mirrored those of primary interest for the Bank's
policies.

The formulation of the project's general objectives was very broad and ambitious, but clear. The



                                                - 2 -

specification of the secondary objectives was more concrete, and responded to the support
requested from the Bank to finance key activities under the main priorities outlined in the
1995-2000 National Water Plan. These activities had different levels of specificity and the fact
that some could be considered outputs while others related to impacts. An annex table in the
SAR presents clearly the relationship between the general and secondary objectives. The
project's objectives were extremely demanding, complex and risky implying: (i) a fundamental
change in "mindset" and CONAGUA's institutional culture regarding water resources in line with
the principles outlined in the LAN and complementary regulations, (ii) an institutional
transformation for CONAGUA away from its centralized and infrastructure focused approach to a
decentralized, integrated approach to water management which involved transfer of key functions
and responsibilities to water users in irrigation districts. To a large extent the complexity and risk
is inherent to the challenging approach of integrated water resources management, for which this
was the first project supported by the World Bank that included a wide gamut of aspects related
to IWRM. Taking this into account, the most obvious weakness was the expectation of
producing significant measurable impacts within the relatively short period of 6 years (e.g.,
reducing water contamination and reduction of overexploitation of groundwater) while the
fundamental processes of collecting basic information, consolidating new entities for water
management, and training were just beginning. Fortunately, as indicated below, this was
recognized during the mid-term review (MTR) and these impact indicators were eliminated and
more realistic ones were added.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives did not change. However, the indicators for measuring achievement of the
objectives and outputs were formally modified in January 2002 simultaneously with a two-year
extension of the loan's closing date and cancellation of US$40 million. These modifications took
into account the longer implementation period and reduced cost. They included: revision of
some of the numerical targets, greater precision in definition of some indicators, and addition of
new indicators in particular for the new component added in 1999. Impact indicators related to
reductions in overexploitation of groundwater, reductions in water contamination and reductions
in downstream damages from reservoirs were eliminated at the mid-term review (formalized in
2002 amendment), recognizing that because the project did not include investments necessary to
achieve these impacts, it would not directly be able to directly affect them.


3.3 Original Components:
The project's five components, described below, were designed as an integrated set of actions and
activities to support integrated water resources management (IWRM) and the achievement of the
project's development objectives.

Component 1: Institutional Development, Technological Support and Training (US$37.6
million, 11% of total cost). This component supports development of the institutional and
organizational structure and the training of human resources necessary to carry out and oversee
the water resources management functions during and after project implementation. This
component finances goods, services, training and consultants to support water resources planning
and management activities at all levels of CONAGUA and to improve the technological resources
and professional skills of CONAGUA staff.



                                                  - 3 -

·       Sub-component 1.1 Technical Assistance (US$11.4 million) includes technical assistance
from international and national organizations and consultants. The assistance is provided
on-the-job, with experts working directly with CONAGUA technical personnel in the
development, introduction and implementation of technology in the day-to-day programs of the
various technical areas within CONAGUA.
·       Sub-component 1.2 Training (US$16.9 million) consists of courses, workshops, technical
stays in international institutions, and masters and Ph.D. programs. In most cases, the training
consists of courses and programs that are offered by existing institutions, although some
customized training is provided. The Mexican Water Technology Institute (IMTA) is involved in
various aspects of the subcomponent and other parts of the project as defined in an agreement
with CONAGUA.
·       Sub-component 1.3 Project Coordination (US$9.3 million) includes the equipment,
consulting services and travel expenses necessary for the coordination of the Project at the central
and regional levels.

Component 2: Water Quantity and Quality Monitoring Improvement and Assessments
(US$150.0 million, 44% of total cost) supports the updating, improvement and upgrading of the
hydrological and hydrogeological water quality and quantity monitoring and related
climatological/meteorological networks, including telemetric networks to provide real-time
information in order to improve the quality of information for better and more efficient water
resources management. It improves data collection, processing and dissemination among users.
Assessments of surface and groundwater bodies and hydrological and hydrogeological studies will
also be prepared.
·       Sub-component 2.1 Meteorological Services (US$41.2 million) supports
the National Meteorological Services Management Unit (GSMN) in the goals of improving the
collection, analysis, and synthesis of data related to atmospheric phenomenon in order to provide
meteorological and climatological information and predictions to other parts of CONAGUA,
other agencies and to the general public. The improvements in weather forecasting will benefit
water management and the Mexican society and economy as a whole.
·       Sub-component 2.2 Hydrologic Assessment and Monitoring (US$38.8 million)
The subcomponent supports the Surface Water and River Engineering Management Unit
(GASIR)in the goals of: (a) developing and providing adequate data (water level, discharge,
rainfall, evaporation, sediment transport and reservoir monitoring) at national, river basin and
state levels, using appropriate technology (distributed data base) within the context of a
sustainable network; (b) providing near real-time information from at least 50% of the monitoring
network, in particular rainfall, stream-flow and reservoir data;(c) integrating the information
collected into reports and other appropriate instruments for water resources planning and to
support decisions; and(d) establishing a team of trained specialists covering all the technologies
used in water resources and related monitoring, such as forecasting techniques, hydrological
models, estimation of rainfall from satellites and radars, etc., as well as the supporting computer
technology.
·       Sub-component 2.3 Groundwater Assessment and Monitoring (US$25.6 million)
supports the activities of the Groundwater Management Unit (GAS) and aims to quantitatively
and qualitatively assess and monitor the 144 most important aquifers of Mexico. These include 70
overexploited aquifers, 60 aquifers in fragile equilibrium of exploitation vs. resources, and 14 with



                                                 - 4 -

high potential for future resource development. All the groundwater management data and
information derived from the assessment studies and the monitoring system to be implemented
under the project will be managed by the Groundwater Information System which will be an
integrated part of the sub-component.
·       Sub-component 2.4 Water Quality Monitoring and Laboratories (US$44.4 million)
supports the activities of the Water Quality and Sanitation Management Unit (GSCA) and has the
objective of redesigning and implementing a water quality program that will provide only data that
meet specific management needs, are cost-effective, and represent the types of modern
environmental issues that now face Mexico (e.g. toxicity). The sub-component supports the
establishment of monitoring networks, water quality laboratories including a National Reference
Laboratory, water quality assessments and a Water Quality Information System.

Component 3: Reservoir Operation, Dam Safety and Aquifer Management Improvement
(US$41.2 million, 12% of total cost) supports efforts to improve reservoir operation functions
during flood events; reservoir operation and aquifer management functions during normal and
drought conditions; and dam safety related programs. It also aims to improve flood forecasting
and warning systems, as well as planning for structural and non-structural flood protection
measures.
·       Sub-component 3.1 Reservoir Operation (US$14.2 million) supports the activities of the
Surface Water and River Engineering Management Unit (GASIR) and aims to improve reservoir
operation to maximize the benefits derived from the operation of existing hydraulic infrastructure
by increasing water availability, reducing the adverse consequences of floods and droughts, and
improving hydropower generation, while ensuring environmental protection and where possible
enhancement.
·       Sub-component 3.2 National Dam Safety Program (US$18.6 million) supports the
activities of the Technical Consultancy Management Unit during the first phase of the national
dam safety program.
·       Sub-component 3.3 Aquifer Management Improvement (US$8.3 million) supports the
activities of Groundwater Management Unit (GAS) and includes studies of groundwater
resources management, aquifer protection, and stabilization of overexploited aquifers, and the
implementation of groundwater resource optimization models.

Component 4: Water Rights Administration (US$41.4 million, 12% of total cost) will support
the activities of CONAGUA's General Subdirectorate for Water Administration (SGAA) in the
establishment and maintenance of the national water rights registry (REPDA) and water user
assistance, and in water use and discharge fee collection and control. The improved water rights
administration would facilitate the establishment of dynamic tradable water rights systems (water
markets).
·       Sub-component 4.1 National Public Water Rights Registry and Water User Support
(US$11.2 million) supports the modernization of the REPDA with a series of activities including:
(a) the improvement of the registry operation, including software development for registry data
processing; (b) the development of procedures for the processing of all registry data for overall
checking of the national water rights; (c) the decentralization of the system at the river basin level;
and (d) information diffusion and easy access to registry data by the public.
·       Sub-component 4.2 Water Fee and Discharge Fee Collection and Control Service



                                                 - 5 -

(US$30.2 million) supports modernization of this service to include: (a) a study to develop a
global assessment of the population of users and polluters; (b) a study of technology development
for water withdrawal and pollution discharge measurement for fee collection and control,
followed by a pilot project; and (c) a water use and discharge measurement inspection program.

Component 5: Water Resources Planning and Information Systems (US$71.7 million, 21%
of total cost) supports the activities of Planning General Subdirectorate (SGP) including: (a)
establishment and strengthening of river basin councils, based on the consensus of the councils
members on action programs for the improvement of the water resources management and the
environmental enhancement in their basin; (b) development of regional water resources planning
studies for the 13 hydrographic regions; (c) updating of the Regional Water Plans and the
National Water Plan; (d) prospective studies of integrated water resource management; (e)
development and implementation of a CONAGUA wide telecommunications and computer
network and local networks at the central and regional offices; and (f) development and
implementation of geographic information system technology.
·       Sub-component 5.1 Water Resources Planning Studies and River Basin Council Support
(US$16.5 million) supports regional and national planning which will include the following stages:
(a) diagnostic of present situation; (b) preparation of scenarios for the medium and long term; (c)
formulation of objectives and alternative strategies, evaluation and recommendations; and (d)
preparation of the Regional and National Water Plans with the participation of the river basin
councils and attention to environmental implications as they relate to water resources. It also
includes component activities (b) and (d) cited above.
·       Sub-component 5.2 Telecommunications and Computer Networks and Geographical
Information Systems (US$55.2 million) supports activities (e) and (f) cited above.

The project's components were reasonably related to achieving the project's objectives. They
directly supported various subdirectorates in CONAGUA (Planning, Water Rights, Technical) and
the coordination between the subdirectorates in carrying out IWRM. Recognizing the need for
new staff and additional funding to "modernize" CONAGUA, the project design included these
provisions which were fully discussed with the Mexican government during preparation and
negotiations. The project built on the lessons of the Bank's 25 year involvement in Mexico's
water sector (see section 3.5). However, this was a pioneering project--one of the first Bank
supported projects for IWRM--and, therefore, there was limited worldwide experience to draw
on.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project was restructured in 1999 after the mid-term review. The MTR brought a more
focused attention to a smaller set of very important technical issues such as aquifer
over-exploitation and to the introduction of newer approaches to measure evapotranspiration as
the best indicator to allocate water at the basin level. The original components were not revised,
but some refinements were made to the description of activities to be financed. In addition to
these refinements, a new component, Aquifers Conservation Pilot Project (MASAS) of US$0.5
million was added formally to the project via an amendment of the loan agreement in May 1999
The MASAS component aimed to support the initiation of water resources planning in critical
overexploited aquifer areas, in order to take advantage of improved institutional mechanisms,
information systems and technical capacities that PROMMA was supporting and to further



                                                  - 6 -

promote decentralized, participatory IWRM. The amended loan agreement indicated it would do
the following:

·       Sub-component 6.1 Raising of awareness among water users regarding sustainable
aquifer management in selected overexploited aquifers, as well as establishment and strengthening
of Groundwater Technical Committees (COTAs) and local CONAGUA staff, all by conducting
public information campaigns, carrying out training and capacity building initiatives for COTAs
and CONAGUA regarding aquifer management, setting up information dissemination systems and
supporting the creation of mechanisms for financial sustainability of the COTAs.
·       Sub-component 6.2 Setting up adequate monitoring and information systems in the
selected aquifers to create the conditions for their sustainable management by implementing
monitoring networks, developing and monitoring socio-economic, environmental and
hydrogeological indicators, conducting baseline studies and implementing a technical information
dissemination system.
·       Sub-component 6.3 Provision of support for the elaboration and implementation of
demand management options to promote more efficient water use and aquifer stabilization by
carrying out studies and promoting decision making among water users in areas such as water
savings programs, water tariffs, expansion of water markets and reallocation of water rights.
·       Sub-component 6.4 Provision of support for the elaboration and implementation of
investment plans by conducting studies, preparing designs and implementing structural options
(including civil works) for enhanced aquifer water management.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project's quality at entry is considered satisfactory. It was and remains consistent with
both the priorities of the GOM and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy, and incorporated
lessons from previous Bank involvement in the sector. The strategy aimed at assisting Mexico to
manage the ongoing economic/financial crisis while continuing to support longer range programs
that contribute to reductions in poverty, environmental improvements and long term sustainable
growth and development, particularly through investments in human resources, infrastructure and
natural resource management. The strategy also aimed to extend the reform process downward
to regional and state levels and support the further devolution of expenditures and responsibilities
to these decentralized levels. Working within this strategy, the proposed project was specifically
aimed at developing capacities to decentralize and improve water resources management
functions, address environmental and water management issues at the river basin level, monitor
and manage water quality and quantity. As indicated earlier, it directly supported the
implementation of the government's National Water Plan 1995-2000 and the water law. In April
2004, a modified LAN was promulgated which reinforced and deepened the legal and institutional
framework introduced in the 1992 law for deconcentrating and decentralizing integrated water
resources management at the river basin and aquifer levels. This is an indication of the continued
relevance and importance of the project to the Mexican government's water policies and
priorities.

The project design incorporated lessons learnt from previous Bank involvement. The Bank has
extensive experience in financing water projects in Mexico for over 25 years though the
water-resources-management-type project is somewhat still new in the Bank. In fact, as indicated



                                                 - 7 -

earlier, this project was the first to address a wide gamut of aspects of water resources
management on a nationwide, multi-sectoral basis. Relevant lessons learned from the last five
operations in the Mexican water sector, including preparation of the Irrigation and Drainage
Sector Project (Loan 3419-ME, 1991) and the On-Farm and Minor Irrigation Networks
Improvement Project (Loan 3704-ME, 1994), were incorporated in the design of this project.
Decentralization and privatization of the operation and maintenance functions in the irrigation
sector have been very positive and must be encouraged in other areas of water resources use
and-management. Other lessons learned and incorporated into project design included: (a)
ensuring CONAGUA ownership of all aspects of the project during preparation and through
implementation;(b) introduction of adequate technologies and operation and maintenance
procedures for field monitoring networks; (c) early development of relevant manuals and
guidelines; (d) capacity building in water management at the central and regional levels; (e)
training staff at all levels in modern water management methods and technologies; (f) ensuring
coordination and integration of the various parts of the project into an integrated comprehensive
whole through river basin planning and management and (g) ensuring substantial stakeholder
participation through improved communications.

The project also paid sufficient attention to and adequately addressed environmental and social
issues, and the Bank's safeguard policies. Because the project was not financing any new
infrastructure development or increased water extraction in any of the project areas, no major
environmental issues surfaced during project preparation. It was anticipated that the project
would enhance environmental quality through contributing to the alleviation of some of
over-exploitation and contamination of water resources in Mexico.

The overall project quality at entry is considered to be satisfactory because it followed the main
priorities outlined by the LAN and in the the 1995-2000 National Water Plan strategy in which
the Bank team help through the dialog carried out during the preparation of the project. It
included learning by doing approach since this was the first project to address IWRM in a country
with a rich experience in water management but still with many difficult challenges. . However, in
hindsight, there were some shortcomings and limitations in the project design. The project design
was overly optimistic and ambitious in its estimation of achievable outputs and outcomes. Since
the project supported improved capacities, knowledge and information systems, but did not
include many infrastructure investments, it was not realistic to expect that the project would
directly result in reductions of surface and groundwater overexploitation, and water quality
improvements. This was corrected during the MTR when it was agreed to remove these impact
indicators and add others more suitable for measuring the project's impact. In addition, project
implementation schedules should have been more realistic. The SAR highlighted three risks: (i)
reforms in CONAGUA were underway at the same time as project implementation; (ii)
uncertainty regarding budget allocations; and (iii) CONAGUA's 13 newly established (using river
basin criteria) regional offices would be responsible for implementing a substantial part of the
project, while they were in the process of acquiring technical and operational capacity. Each of
these risks materialized and the mitigation measures proved insufficient to avoid some negative
impacts on the project's implementation (see section 5.2).

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs



                                                  - 8 -

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project's outcome is considered satisfactory. Achieving sustainable water resources
management is a long-term goal which requires continuous effort beyond the lifetime of this
project. The most important contribution of the project was in establishing a sound foundation
and improving some of the basic conditions for sustainable water resources management in
Mexico.

Although many obstacles and difficulties were encountered during the implementation of the
project, it is clear that PROMMA supported major improvements that are essential building
blocks for IWRM. Annexes 1 and 8 (Annex 1 presents selected overall indicators related to
project achievements as revised in the Implementation Letter attached to the January 17, 2002
amendment letter to the Loan and Guarantee Agreements and Annex 8 presents a more qualitative
assessment of project achievements) include numerical and qualitative indicators related to
project outputs and outcomes. In general the project supported: (a) improvements in the
timeliness, accuracy and availability of meteorological, hydrological, hydrogeological information
related to both the quantity and quality of water; (b) improving the stakeholders' and water users'
knowledge related to water availability and use, and their access to information; (c) increasing
water user and other stakeholder participation in river basin and aquifer-level water resources
planning and management; (e) establishing participatory river basin and aquifer institutions; and (f)
establishing a complete national water rights system to provide legal certainty to water users. An
added important benefit is that the project supported the complete modernization of
CONAGUA's computer and telecommunications system.

The project objectives remain relevant in that they support the Government's current strategy
which includes continued implementation of the 2004 modified LAN and further promotion of
decentralization and integrated water resources management for economic and social growth.
The 2004 CAS identifies sustainable environmental and natural resources management as one of
the key areas for the Bank's continued support to Mexico. Water resources management is
considered the most pressing environmental problem and is therefore strongly emphasized in the
2004 CAS. An important follow on project to PROMMA called Integrated Management of
Basins and Aquifers (GICA) is under preparation and would be directed towards IWRM
improvements in critical basins and aquifers in the northern and central part. GICA would not be
possible without the water rights systems, monitoring networks, water quantity and quality
assessments, hydro-geologic models, River Basin Counsels Aquifer Committees and preliminary
aquifer management plans developed under PROMMA. The project was consistent with the 1995
CAS which emphasized the support of long range programs including environmental and natural
resources management with regional, state and municipal participation.

Specific project objectives:

Promote conditions for environmentally sustainable, economically efficient and equitably
allocated use of water resources in Mexico, and support of integrated comprehensive
management of water resources. Through the activities undertaken, some of the major benefits
derived include: (i) assistance in the decision-making process for the administration and
management of groundwater (political definitions, development of stabilization planning,



                                                - 9 -

conservation and sustainable exploitation, transparency in the availability of information on
aquifers, avoidance of unsustainable exploitation; (ii) improvements to legal certainty for users of
national water and inherent assets and transparency in the administration of water rights; (iii)
provision of support in decision-making for the assignment and planning of water resources
development and contamination control; and (v) consolidation of a water rights base for the
proper operation of markets and water banks. An incipient water market has been developed and
water transfers, which reached over 300 million m3/year in 2004. This would not have been
possible without the water rights administration system that was developed under the project.
Thirty one River Basin Councils were established and 16 of which are considered to have assumed
responsibility for water resources management decision making. Twenty five aquifer committees
of the 70 established are actively focusing on and dealing with critical water resources
management issues in their areas. Two hundred and two aquifers have had there water
availabilities published in the national register, which is a required first step to be able to legally
reduce water usage to sustainable levels. Forty three water bodies have been classified with plans
developed for water quality improvement. Five critically overexploited aquifers have preliminary
management plans prepared with the participation of water users CONAGUA and state
governments. Thirty seven river basin plans have been prepared with the participation of water
users and state governments. A National Water Plan 2001 - 2006 has been prepared. A complete
National Water Rights Registry has been implemented which covers an estimated 95% of all
water use in the country.

Increase the benefits and reduce the risk related to existing hydraulic infrastructure.
Benefits include assistance to CONAGUA regarding the decision-making processes for : a)
planning, design and operation of reservoirs and hydraulic projects, and of hydrologic forecasting
in priority watersheds (Bravo, Fuerte, Yaqui and Panuco rivers), b) investment optimization and
reduction of impacts due to damage from extreme events. Six modern hydrologic forecasting
systems are operational in 6 critical flood prone basins. Accurate 96-hour whether forecasts are
now available for critical basins. A National dam registry has been developed and over 2000 dam
safety inspections have been carried out.

More details on the activities undertaken, the outputs, results and benefits are presented in
Annexes 1 and 8.

Although PROMMA has contributed to major improvements in the various fundamental aspects
necessary to achieve IWRM and overexploitation and pollution have improved in some areas, it is
important to point out that the water resources problems in many areas have not been reversed
due mainly to continued population and economic growth. Achieving sustainable IWRM while
continuing to have adequate socioeconomic development is an arduous long-term goal that
requires major continued support from government and civil society. Examples of successful
IWRM are few and far between even in the developed world. To reach this goal in the coming
years, GOM will need to give high priority, dedicate major resources, and make major painful
adjustments in sectoral policies. With the 2004 modified LAN and the foundation provided
through PROMMA, Mexico is in a unique position in the developing world to really be able to do
it.

4.2 Outputs by components:



                                                   - 10 -

Component 1: Institutional Development, Technological Support and Training (US41.6
million, 110% of appraisal estimate)
Implementation of this component has been satisfactory. This component supported training and
capacity building and project management. A highlight of the project was the constant technical
assistance provided by the World Meteorological Organization that provided top-quality
specialists and experts both international and national in all aspects of the project. These experts
produced over 150 specific technical reports with practical recommendations on all aspects of the
project. These reports were widely disseminated within CONAGUA and also outside and provide
a wealth of knowledge that will be a significant benefit into the future In addition WMO carried
out annual evaluations of the project which were very detailed and offered numerous
recommendations for improvements of different aspects of project implementation. The Mexican
Water Technology Institute provided significant support to many different aspects of the project
and also produced numerous excellent reports and studies that are a continuing benefit.

River Basin Councils and Aquifer Committees were given training in different aspects of water
resources management and institution building. Eighty courses benefiting 1,125 persons were
provided for training these organizations. There were also numerous training events in other
aspects of water resources management provided to CONAGUA personnel. Eleven CONAGUA
engineers were provided one year of on-the-job training in France with French basin water
agencies.

Component 2: Water Quantity and Quality Monitoring Improvement and Assessments
(US80.7 million, 54% of appraisal estimate)
Implementation of this component has been satisfactory. The national hydro-climatologic network
was redesigned through a consultation process in 31 watersheds. The methodology and the reach
of the project was able to cover 70% of the national territory.

The rehabilitation, modernization and improved operation of 5532 climatologic stations, 2359
hydrometric stations was carried out. The radiosounding network was modernized. Seven
meteorological radars were rehabilitated and operated and maintained. Major increases in
dissemination of whether forecasts through the internet was accomplished. Seventy four
automatic hydromet stations were installed, operated and maintained in key river basins and 94
automatic hydroclimatological states were installed, operated and maintained throughout the
country. One national reference water quality laboratory and 10 regional water quality
laboratories were installed and accredited. Also, 128t groundwater monitoring networks were
activated. Sediment monitoring was improved through the establishment five pilot projects.

Information systems were created and strengthened as the SIH, the SIGMAS, the SNICA, the
SISP, and databases as the National Bank of Climatological Information (BANADACI), and
other systems of information as the SIGA, and of administration as the SIAA. The project also
supported the conception, design and implementation of the SIPAO hydraulic programming
package.

Component 3: Reservoir Operation, Dam Safety and Aquifer Management Improvement
(US$25.7 million, 62.5% of appraisal estimate)



                                                - 11 -

Implementation of this component has been satisfactory. In 2004, a principal target was to ensure
that the successful operation and the complete application of the Systems of Hydrologic
Forecasting of the CONAGUA (SPRCONAGUA) was established by the end of the project. This
largely involved the migration from the operating system UNIX to the LINUX systems for the
computers in four basins (Bravo, Yaqui, Fuerte and Pánuco rivers). The incorporation of the
information from the telemetric station to the hydrologic forecasting systems was also carried out.
The introduction of the SPRCONAGUA in the basins of the rivers Nazas, Aguanaval, Mayo and
Sonora was continued and the necessary activities for the application of the system in the basins
of the Sotola, Marina and San Fernando, Tamp has begun.

Regarding the organization of the National Program of Dam Safety (PNSP), the definition of
policies and programs has been supported with corresponding guidelines and procedures to
guarantee the decentralized functioning of the program. However, with the voluntary retirement
or changes to 70% of the PNSP staff during 2003, some valuable human resources were lost.

The National Registry of Dams (RNP) has been installed and extended as part of the Computer
System for Dam Safety (SISP). During 2004, 4,050 records of works and more than 13,500
digital files were checked and cleaned. 5 local databases were also recovered for review. Over
2200 dams were inspected and safety remediation needs identified.

The majority of the elements have been established to implement the PNSP and a calculation
program was distributed for "simplified hydrological analysis of dams with free discharge
spillways (Version 1.0)". The system of calculation for Hydrological Security for Dams for free
and controlled discharges (SHIP version 2.0) and the study " Practical guidelines to evaluate the
influence of the local conditions in the dynamic response of the area ", which focused on the
preliminary analysis of dams were completed.

Studies were performed for groundwater availability and use permitting the classification of 653
aquifer systems, prioritizing 144 out of the 258 that are most heavily exploited in Mexico. Jointly
with the advances of REPDA, the publication of water availability in 202 key aquifers was
accomplished starting from 2002, which is a key legal step to allow for the restriction of water
usage to sustainable levels. Detailed hydrogeological models were developed for 35 aquifers that
will greatly facilitate future aquifer stabilization plans and actions.

The application of remote sensing technologies to estimate evapotranspiration was initiated with
the purpose of trying and validating these technologies in addressing hydrogeological problems by
establishing what is the real evapotranspiración and the net groundwater extraction volumes. The
method is being applied, tested, calibrated and adapted, to estimate the components of
evaporation and evapotranspiration in the water balances of the Sonora and Yaqui river basins.
Appropriate training was also carried out for the application of the model.

Component 4: Water Rights Administration (US$18.1 million, 44% of appraisal estimate)
Implementation of this component has been satisfactory. Over 400,000 water uses were registered
and issued valid water rights through REPDA. REPDA is now the single official record for water
rights, offering certainty and legal basis with transparency and credibility linked with the national



                                                   - 12 -

waters and inherent public goods, including the dissemination of the simplified procedures and
products over the Internet. In October, 2004 ISO 9000 quality certification was achieved.

Sampling points and quality parameters were established for discharges in select locations. Over
24,000 inspections of discharges were carried out and sanctions were issued where discharges
exceeded parameters.

Component 5: Water Resources Planning Studies and River Basin Council Support (US$55
million, 77% of appraisal estimate)
Implementation of this component has been satisfactory. The three planning targets, established
originally for this project: (i) the development of 13 regional water plans and strategies; (ii) the
preparation of the National Hydraulic Program (PNH);and (iii) pilot analyses of the water
resources were all completed satisfactorily. In 2003, a special analysis was made to evaluate goals
and proposed targets, since this represented the completion of the mid-term of the National
Hydraulic Program 2001-2006, the development of which was supported by the project.

The national water geographic information systems, a massive geographically referenced data
management system was developed. This component also supported the complete modernization
of CONAGUA's computer and telecommunications systems. Prior to the project, computer
systems were primitive and not interconnected. All technical personnel are now connected to a
CONAGUA intranet and the internet. Much of the web page development for CONAGUA was
supported by the project.

25 River Basin Councils were established, with the supporting groups for monitoring evaluation,
other specialized working groups, as well as more than 70 COTAS and several other commissions
and basin committees.

Component 6. Aquifers Conservation Pilot Project. (US$0.5 million, added at mid-term
review)
Implementation of this component has been satisfactory. In support and as part of the integrated
aquifer management project (MASAS), five studies were developed in 2002, 2003 and 2004 for 5
critically overexploited aquifers (Aguascalientes, Coast of Hermosillo, Querétaro, el Bajio of
Guanajuato and San Luis Potosi) to explore diverse arrangements for the development, use, and
extraction of groundwater in order to reduce overexploitation. These studies were developed in a
participatory manner with CONAGUA and other federal agencies, water users organizations and
State entities closely involved. Critical water management issues were evaluated and plans for
reducing overexploitation were developed.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
During project preparation it was recognized that the nature of the PROMMA project did not
lend itself to a standard cost-benefit analysis or a comparison in net present values of
project-related increases in the production of goods and services. Annex G of the Staff Appraisal
Report did attempt to provide a sense of the fact that PROMMA-type projects result in
considerable benefits that although not directly measurable are nevertheless real. The benefits
derive from enhancements in the way information is organized and made available to decision
making processes. Based on studies and anecdotal evidence from different parts of the world, and


                                                 - 13 -

on the estimate of the economic values associated with different economic activities that can
benefit from improved information in Mexico, the SAR attempted to show that PROMMA-type
projects result in major benefits. However, attempts to estimate the economic benefits of
PROMMA during or after project implementation was not contemplated nor included as a project
activity.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
    Not applicable. As above.


4.5 Institutional development impact:
    The project's institutional development impact is considered to be substantial.

Mexico has a long and well established tradition in water resources which started in the 30s when
the country began investing heavily in water storage facilities and in groundwater development to
expand irrigation to about 6 million Has in 2000, and supply water to the rapidly expanding urban
population which grew from around 25 million in 1950 to about 100 million in 2000.

Mexico began to focus on water resources management in the early 70s. In 1972 the Government
of Mexico entered into a tripartite agreement with the World Bank and the United Nations
Development Program to prepare the 1975 National Water Plan. The resultant Plan provided a
basis for water development and management during the ensuing 25 years and has proved to have
been valuable in outlining the general direction for these activities. The National Water Plan was
farsighted and defined the needs for the construction of new infrastructure and for improvements
in water resources management. The National Water Plan identified the following needs in order
to improve water resources management: (a) the need to develop and enact a modified National
Water Law; (b) the need to establish a national water authority with responsibility for developing
and implementing water policy and regulations within a modified National Water Law; (c) the
need to carry out integrated water resources planning and management; (d) the need to increase
water use efficiency and to restore and improve water quality; (e) the need to improve
coordination between different public and private entities involved in water use and management;
(f) the need to decentralize responsibilities and promote water user participation in planning and
management; (g) the need to introduce pricing and other economic incentives to induce efficient
water use and pollution abatement; (h) the need to transfer operation and maintenance
responsibilities in irrigation areas to water users; and (i) the need to development research and
training programs to support institutional development and improved water resources
management. Based on this plan, The National Water Commission (Comision Nacional del Agua
­ CONAGUA) (the national water authority) and IMTA (Mexican Institute of Water
Technology) were established in 1988; the National Water Law (Ley Nacional de Agua ­ LAN)
was promulgated in 1992 and modified in 2004; irrigation and drainage systems were transferred
to water user associations and responsibilities related to municipal water systems were transferred
to municipalities in the 1990s.

The project (PROMMA) was designed to help address many of the initial issues including
improved institutional mechanisms for coordination between stakeholders, improved participatory
planning, improved information systems and knowledge related to water resources quantity and



                                                 - 14 -

quality for both surface and groundwater, and the establishment of a complete system of water
rights. PROMMA supported all of the necessary elements to provide a firm foundation and
platform for moving towards integrated water resources management (IWRM) in Mexico. This
project was the first in the Bank to address a complete set of activities related to IWRM. One
remarkable feature of the project is that it did not include infrastructure investment but was
exclusively designed to support improvements in water resources management. The project was
in line with the conclusions of the international water meeting in Dublin and of the Bank's Water
Resources Policy Paper. The Government of Mexico (GOM) requested the Bank's support on
the project in order to continue and deepen the reform began in the 1975 water plan and to be in
line with international best practices. The Bank was seen as a key partner because of the long
history of support beginning with the 1975 water plan and a series of sectoral projects supporting
irrigation and drainage, water supply and sanitation and watershed management. It was
particularly recognized by GOM and the Bank that in order to really be able to carry out IWRM it
was critical to improve monitoring and assessments of water resources in terms of both quantity
and quality, to have a solid water rights system, to carry out water resources planning at the river
basin level, and to establish participatory institutions to support water resources planning and
management.

During the period of creation and initial consolidation of CONAGUA, 1988-1992, it represented
an important experiment in consolidating most aspects of water resources management into one
institution, including: policy, water rights administration, planning, irrigation and drainage
development, and water supply and sanitation development. In other countries these activities are
divided between various institutions and it was believed that consolidating them within one
institution would greatly facilitate integration. PROMMA was designed to support various
departments in CONAGUA (Planning, Water Rights, Technical) and to support cooperation
between the departments in carrying out IWRM. From the beginning PROMMA also was
designed to support regionalization and decentralization of water resources management to the
river basin level. At the time PROMMA was initiated, CONAGUA was reorganized such that
regional offices were defined by hydrologic boundaries and not by administrative (state)
boundaries as had been the case in the past. These regional offices although they continue to have
weaknesses due to inadequate personnel and other resources, played an important role in project
implementation.

Since its inception CONAGUA has evolved into a remarkable institution with many
accomplishments and still important challenges that need urgent attention. It is an institution of
approximately 16,000 strong staff distributed in all the territory with 13 regional offices and 32
state offices, a budget of about US$1.3 Billion and has a well recognized capacity to respond to
natural disasters. Even within CONAGUA, the integration of activities to achieve IWRM is still
far from being a reality. CONAGUA faces major challenges: reducing over-exploitation of
aquifers, pollution and over-allocation of water rights, implementing effective decentralization,
improving efficiency of operations, improving policy analysis and formulation to influence
decision making particularly in sectoral policies (like the Tarifa 09 electricity tariff) that are often
at cross purposes to sustainable use of groundwater. GOM needs to focus more attention on the
political economy dimension. To a certain extent, CONAGUA followed the inertia of the past in
terms centralization, excessive dedication to infrastructure expansion, limited attention to O&M,



                                                  - 15 -

lack of coordination of sectoral views, and by tradition limited consideration to policy analysis
including economic, social and environment. PROMMA did not include a dimension for
high-level dialog to address these issues and was therefore unable to provide adequate support in
this policy arena.

Mexico has been undergoing a broad decentralization and democratization process, which in the
water sector is strongly reflected in the 2004 revision to the National Water Law. The revision to
the law had its underpinnings in the ongoing transformation and modernization of water resources
management in Mexico supported by the project. The River Basin Councils and particularly the
Aquifer Committees have broad water user and other local stakeholder participation and they
have been playing an increasingly important role in understanding and beginning to deal with the
serious local water resources management problems. The project has made important
contributions to this process through: (a) the establishment and strengthening of the River Basin
Councils and Aquifer Committees, (b) the establishment and dissemination of information and
information systems, (c) improved water rights administration, and (d) river basin and aquifer
participatory planning processes. The institutional impact is considered to be sustainable. A
change in thinking has begun towards valuing water as an economic, social and environmental
resource. The project has supported improvements in the capacities of local communities and the
integration of their water-related activities with regional and national water resources
management entities.

4.5.2 The project contributed significantly to the strengthening of CONAGUA's technical
capacity and improved coordination and regionalization of water resources management related
activities, and supported the strengthening of CONAGUA regional offices (within the constraint
of their limited personnel and budget) improving their ability to take on the responsibilities given
them under the 2004 National Water Law.



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Although there were not significant changes in CONAGUA personnel, the change in
administration in 2000 had a significant slow-down effect on the project particularly in regard to
the implementation of the new component ­ MASAS that was included after the mid-term review.
Because of this transition, MASAS did not actually begin implementation until 2002. Other
components also suffered a slow down while the new administration defined its priorities.
Historically CONAGUA has dedicated major effort on managing emergencies, particularly
relating to hurricanes and flooding, but also to droughts. When these emergencies occur, as
several did during project implementation, budgetary resources are reallocated to meet the
emergency requirements and ongoing activities, such as PROMMA suffer slow downs.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
During the execution of the project there were several obstacles which resulted in an extension of
the completion date and the cancellation of the resources that were to be used during the period



                                                     - 16 -

of 1996-2001. The principal problems were: 1) an initial shortage of qualified personnel and
insufficient hiring of qualified personnel during implementation, and 2) inadequate budget
allocations throughout project implementation that necessitated scaling back of project activities;
extension of the implementation period and cancellation of US$65.7 million of the loan.

During the preparation of this project, it was anticipated by CONAGUA that budget allocations
to the various management units would be significantly larger than prior to the project. However,
the Government had budgetary and policy constraints that did not allow it to follow through on
the commitments expressed at negotiations to increase CONAGUA's budget allocations
commensurate with the financing needs of the project. The Government's ICR report indicates
there was a vicious cycle because CONAGUA was not able to increase staffing with professionals
with skills that it lacked (the SAR estimated a total of 724 permanent staff which would be offset
by attrition), it fell behind in project implementation and did not fully execute its budget which led
to a reduction of the budget in the following year.

A related issue affecting World Bank projects in Mexico, is that the Bank loans bring little or no
additionality in terms of resources for the executing agencies like CONAGUA. CONAGUA and
the various management units within CONAGUA receive only their annual budget allocation and
do not directly receive the loan proceeds. The financial resources expended by the different
management units within CONAGUA a large portion of which are identified as project
expenditures are their budget allocations. The amount of budget allocated to each management
unit is determined through the normal annual budgeting process. Although it appears that the
amount of resources expended under the project are large, when compared to the needs of a
country the size of Mexico with its serious water resources management issues, the resources
available and expended are small. To put this into perspective, in the United States,
approximately US$15 Billion is expended annually at the federal and state levels on activities
similar to those in PROMMA. Mexico expends less than $US50 Million per year on these
activities.

At the time of the transition of administration in 2000 the Bank prepared a Water Policy Note and
held discussions with the new administration that included the suggestions for deepening reforms
and reinforcing the holistic structure of CONAGUA, arguing against the possibility of returning
irrigation infrastructure responsibilities to the Agriculture Secretary. These discussions initiated
an increase in high-level dialog between the Bank and GOM on water-related issues.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
CONAGUA experienced difficulties in following Bank procedures in procurement and financial
management within the timeframes dictated by their annual budgeting cycle. The budget cycle for
CONAGUA is such that resources for activities other than salaries and overhead are normally not
available until about March or April of each year. Management units are very busy and normally
do not begin to prepare terms of reference and specifications until they are sure that budget
resources are available. This creates a situation where expenditures for consultant services, goods
procurement and civil works are often made during the last few months of each year. During the
latter years of project implementation this problem was partially alleviated through multi-annual
contracts that need to be approved by SHCP on a case-by-case basis.



                                                    - 17 -

5.4 Costs and financing:
Total actual project costs were US$221.6 million, 65% of the total project cost estimated at
appraisal; of this amount, the Bank loan financed 55% of the cost as expected at appraisal. As
explained in section 5.2, the project's cost and scope were reduced due to limitations on
CONAGUA's hiring of personnel needed for project implementation and on its authorized
budget. Taking this into account, US$65.7 million of loan funds was cancelled: US$40.0 million
in May 2002, US$14 million in May 2003, and US$11.7 in February 2005. The Bank also agreed
to the Government's request for an additional 3 years to complete core project activities: (i) an
extension of 2 years was granted in January 2002, and (ii) an extension of 1 year was granted in
April 2003. Slow disbursements was a issue throughout the project's life, reaching a 42 months
lag compared to the original estimate. Disbursement lags are a common problem of
Bank-financed projects in Mexico. This is due to among other things, the absence of an incentive
mechanism for facilitating quick disbursement of international loans, which does not affect the
overall budget of the line ministry implementing a project (no additionality).


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The outcomes of the project are likely to be sustainable provided the Government and
CONAGUA remain committed to improving the management of the water resources sector.
Water is a national security issue in Mexico and a major policy and political issue. This by itself
provides for the rationale for sustaining gains achieved during the project. The activities and
perhaps more importantly the dialogue initiated under this project have been key to advancing
water resources development and use that is economically, socially and environmentally
sustainable in Mexico. The Bank engaged the client in a broader discussion on the strategy for
future water development with a view to having a more integrated approach which included
linking the institutional and organizational issues into the overall water resources management.

This operation however involved an important constraint. Water resources management needs to
be carried out at the local level in basins and aquifers. The project supported the formation of
river basin councils and aquifer committees that have made good progress in understanding water
issues and potential solutions. The 2004 modified LAN strongly supports decentralization of
water resources management to Basin Organizations that would be formed out of existing
CONAGUA regional offices. However, the regional offices have a limited number of personnel
with technical abilities in project-related areas and have inadequate budget. This restricted the
extent to which decentralized water resources management was carried out under the project and
will undoubtedly limit the ability to carry out the 2004 modified LAN reforms in the future. In
addition, CONAGUA historically has been a large, hierarchical, centralized institution and
changes to any institution such as this one are often difficult and require significant time to
accomplish.

The political commitment to transfer staff and budgetary resources to new river basin
organizations is the main issue that needs to be resolved in order to ensure availability of a critical
mass of professionals and budget that can support the development of the sector. This is another
factor that will contribute to the sustainability of the outcome. There are a bare minimum number



                                                  - 18 -

of technicians and other qualified personnel in CONAGUA and the other supporting agencies
needed to carry out project related activities. These persons will be instrumental in supporting
sustainable water resources management and scaling-up best practices. Government hiring
restrictions severely limit the ability of CONAGUA to replace departing personnel. This has
required that CONAGUA reassign and train existing personnel to support priority project-related
activities. Although less than ideal, this approach has proved adequate. In addition, with the
training that was conducted in this project, local communities are now more capable of managing
the resource.

It is important to note that in the current sectoral policy framework, the progress towards an
integrated approach to water resources management made under the project and supported by the
2004 modification to the LAN could prove to be insufficient. It has been clearly established that
the overexploitation of aquifers is fundamentally a result of the policies of water pricing and
subsidies that promote irrigated agricultural production, independently of what this costs society.
Agriculture consumes 70 to 80 % of the water in Mexico. The tariff 09 for the electricity and
other programs creates conditions ­ via subsidies - that encourage the overuse of water in
low-value activities which not only is very costly for the Mexican society but also wastes scarce
natural resources. The economic signals of these policies result in situations where farmers
continue to overexploit the water resources, including some aquifers that are crucial to the
socio-economic activities in several regions of the country, thereby compromising the future
economic and social development of these regions. The bank is presently carrying on a dialog with
Mexican government leaders and is preparing several AAA activities to support this dialog.
Particular emphasis is being placed on being well prepared to dialog with the transition team after
the July 2006 presidential elections and prior to their assuming office in December.

Good water resources management is dependent upon having a solid technical understanding and
knowledge base of water resources availability, quality and existing uses. A complete water rights
system is another essential building block. The project supported these aspects and in so doing,
provides strong momentum to advance the next steps towards sustainable integrated water
resources management.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
During preparation of the project several potential areas for follow-on operations were identified,
including: (a) construction of hydraulic infrastructure; (b) implementation of water quality
improvement plans; (c) implementation of groundwater stabilization plans; (d) implementation of
river basin plans; and (e) remedial action on existing dams with safety problems. The GICA
project presently under preparation would build on the foundation provided by PROMMA and
develop and implement specific IWRM plans in critical water scarce basins and aquifers in the
northern and central part of the country. As presently conceived GICA will support detailed
scenario planning in the Rio Bravo Basin and the development and implementation of IWRM
plans in 6 aquifer areas, 5 of which benefited from preliminary planning in the MASAS
component. It will be decentralized and deconcentrated integrated water resources management
and planning at the basin and aquifer level with the participation of local stakeholders, water
users, state and local governments and CONAGUA in accordance with the 2004 modified LAN.
The plans will define in detail the needs for infrastructure and management improvements and will


                                                  - 19 -

support investments to partially implement these plans. GICA will also support the development
of financing plans and mechanisms to channel existing programs and finances towards the
implementation of the IWRM plans. Although important, no follow-on actions are presently
planned for dam safety remedial actions. CONAGUA does have an ongoing program in this
regard, that is addressing these issues.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance preparing and obtaining approval of the project is considered moderately
satisfactory. The Bank team understood well the problems that exist in the Mexican water
resources sector. Hence, the Bank supported the design of a project that was planned to
demonstrate the importance and value of integrated water resources management in order to
reduce the water scarcity problems and to change some of the perceptions regarding the resource
and the sector. However, it is now clear that the project design was overly ambitious in
undertaking a national program of this nature and magnitude, and the Bank task team did not fully
understand the difficulties and challenge of the undertaking. In addition, the project did not
include a comprehensive policy component to support strategies and dialog with other sectors,
and with relevant government agencies. Nevertheless, it should be kept in mind that this was the
first complete IWRM project supported by the Bank, and the project's successful completion is
partially due to its well thought out and comprehensive design.



7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision of the project is considered satisfactory. The Bank team actively
provided technical and administrative support to the project. The technical contribution was
imperative to achieve the modernization of services and the measurement facilities for efficient
administration, planning, new technologies such as the determination of remote sensing based
evapotranspiration, and to develop the holistic approach for the MASAS. The Bank's supervision
missions were regular and identified critical problems early and cooperated with the project unit in
seeking solutions and improving implementation. The supervision team had a good measure of
continuity.

The mid-term review was carried out as scheduled in early 1999 and due to the delays already
incurred, the completion date was extended; the resources not expected to be used were
cancelled; and the project was restructured as explained in Section 3.4 with the introduction of
more realistic indicators. The project development objectives were unchanged since the activities
to be undertaken remained relevant to the objectives i.e. "improving and promoting conditions"
and ''supporting'' a platform for IWRM. Mutual agreement on the proposed changes was obtained
from CONAGUA, NAFIN, SHCP and the Bank.

It is important to point out that the project also had the excellent support of the World
Meteorological Organization (WMO) for the supervision missions and for evaluation, as well as
for the contracting of consultancies, execution of technical assistance and high level training. This
WMO assistance is a highlight of the project and brought much international expertise to help


                                                 - 20 -

Mexico to be a leader in the developing world in water resources management related activities.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is considered satisfactory.

Borrower you need to expand on these sections/very little is mentioned

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower's performance in project preparation is rated as satisfactory. The borrower
committed as many resources as was feasible to the preparation effort and was well organized. All
of the different CONAGUA management units involved in the project dedicated significant effort
to project preparation. In general, the Project Implementation Plan could be considered as a
5-year work plan for the different management units within the Planning, Technical and Water
Administration Subdirectorates of CONAGUA, and they considered it to be as such. CONAGUA
took advantage of the PHRD grant and the support provided by WMO and the Bank to develop
modernization plans for all of these management units utilizing high-caliber international
experience in the areas of meteorological services; surface water and groundwater quantity and
quality monitoring, assessment and management; river basin planning and management; dam
safety and water rights administration. Project preparation also provided an important
opportunity, which was taken advantage of by the borrower, to consider how to improve the
integration of the different activities being carried out by the different CONAGUA management
units at the central level. During project preparation, CONAGUA implemented a reorganization
of its regional offices along hydrologic rather than administrative boundaries, recognizing the
importance of carrying out water resources planning and management at the river basin level.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government's implementation performance is rated as moderately satisfactory for the reasons
set out in section 5.2. Within the constraints of limited budget and personnel, SHCP, NAFIN and
CONAGUA did an excellent job of implementing the project, diligently carrying out their
responsibilities as defined in the Project Implementation Plan. At the mid-term review these
GOM entities carefully reviewed project progress and agreed with the Bank to adjust project
components and indicators to make them more realistic.


7.6 Implementing Agency:
CONAGUA's implementation performance is rated as satisfactory. Within the constraints of
insufficient personnel and financial resources and preoccupation of government leaders to other
pressing problems and emergencies, the functionaries in CONAGUA and NAFIN working on the
project were very dedicated, hard working and diligent. Their strong efforts clearly resulted in the
project's successes and benefits. Prior to each supervision mission, excellent progress reports
were prepared. Annual evaluation reports prepared by WMO consultants were highly beneficial
in reviewing different project activities and making realistic recommendations for implementation
activities during the following year. CONAGUA and NAFIN diligently carried out procurement
and financial management fiduciary activities in accordance with Bank guidelines. A post-project
review of procurement found implementation to have been satisfactory. Annual audits were


                                                   - 21 -

carried out on time and did not identify serious financial management problems.

CONAGUA has major responsibilities to reform and adjust its operations in accordance with the
2004 modified LAN, which supports decentralization and deconcentration of water resources
management in order to carry out IWRM at the river basin and aquifer levels with the
participation of water users other stakeholders and the state and municipal governments, and to
develop and implement a water financing system. Some progress was made in this regard during
project implementation particularly in the development of regional water plans and in the MASAS
component introduced at the mid-term review. The regional offices took on additional
responsibilities and are presently being reorganized into River Basin Organizations in accordance
with the 2004 modified LAN. The new project under preparation (GICA) is designed to further
support this reform process.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is assessed as satisfactory. Notwithstanding the
significant limitations outlined above, the Borrower's execution of the project was adequate.
Representatives from SHCP, NAFIN and CONAGUA as well as other Mexican government
agencies gave dedicated attention to project implementation issues, participated in supervision
missions and paid strong attention to aide memoire recommendations.


8. Lessons Learned

Sustainable water resources management efforts cannot succeed without a holistic integrated
approach that deals with irrigation and drainage, water supply and sanitation, agricultural
productivity and the environment, and these need to be planned and managed at the basin or
aquifer level with the direct participation of water users and other stakeholders. Irrigation and
drainage and water supply and sanitation draw from water sources, consume water and return
water with reduced quality to water systems, as well as impact flow regimes and ecological
systems. The environment is a special "water using sector" and most environmental concerns are
typically the responsibility of environmental rather than water management agencies. But
environmental service activities are important to overall WRM, particularly in regard to the
provision of ecological flows.

Although IWRM projects are inherently complex, care should be taken to limit the scope to the
extent possible and to focus on the most important elements. The dam safety and some of the
meteorological services sub-components could perhaps have been handled better under separate
operations. The nationwide and centralized approach of the project reduced the ability to focus
on major problem areas, although this was partially ameliorated through the inclusion of MASAS
at the mid-term review.

Climatological and hydrological monitoring networks need to be well designed and have strong
operation and maintenance programs. The project benefited strongly from the support of the
WMO which greatly helped to ensure the quality of these aspects.

Implementing a nationwide water rights registration and administration program is a massive and



                                                - 22 -

complex undertaking. Because of the inability to measure the amount of water usage by each
water user, Mexico opted to assign water rights amounts based on declarations by the water users
when they registered. This resulted in overallocations, which are now having to be dealt with on
a case-by-case basis. The water rights administration system under the project is a tremendous
achievement, not duplicated anywhere in the developing world. It provides an essential platform
for IWRM. However, this overallocation aspect has complicated the effectiveness of the water
rights program. It remains to be seen whether the approach taken was the best, although many
officials insist that it was the only way possible to proceed.

Putting the appropriate technical information in the hands of the users greatly helped them to
accept that they have a role to play in managing the resources and to develop some ownership on
their part. There is a persistent mindset in Mexico and elsewhere that the government needs to
solve the problems mainly through investments. Although government-supported investments are
essential, water users and other stakeholders need to take a direct interest and play a critical role
in the planning and management of water resources. The gradual incorporation of the users into
the decision-making processes at the River Basin Councils and Aquifer Committees is
contributing to addressing the sustainability of the resource. The process however has been slow
and is not completed; it needs to be kept on-going, strengthened and scaled-up.

Decentralization of management is a long and continuous process, which requires unwavering
commitment by the Government and responsible agencies. Although the process of
decentralization has gained some momentum, it is imperative that additional activities, such as
improving the regulations and procedures in support of the LAN, and continuing to build
capacities are followed up. State and municipal governments had limited participation in the
project although they were involved in the regional water planning and the MASAS component.
The GICA project will emphasize more state and municipal involvement.

It is important that the Government provides a clear signal and remains true to the reform process
in support of the LAN, to create confidence and political support for integrated water resources
management. Often changes in policy following a political/election cycle send conflicting or
wrong signals and undermine the process. It is important to have clear objectives and a sustained
vision not only within a project designed to support IWRM but also at the highest levels of
government. Governments have multiple agendas that are often at cross purposes, which can
significantly impact the ability to achieve IWRM. A project such as this one requires strong
government support and priority. The project should support a continuing high-level dialog to
strengthen the government's water-related policy agenda. The Bank should provide continuous
support to this dialog through periodic high-level contacts and complementary AAA. Many times
during the implementation of the project, the Bank team and Mexican counterparts felt somewhat
like orphans and that there was a lack of high-level government understanding and commitment
both within CONAGUA and in other parts of the government. During the later years of project
implementation, the Bank increased its broad support to the Mexican water agenda including a
number of AAA activities. There have been corresponding improvements in the government's
support. The project would have been better designed if it had had a policy component that
included this high-level dialog and linkage to AAA activities from the beginning.




                                                 - 23 -

Irrigation and water sector development activities being carried out under the direction of
CONAGUA and other related agencies are not sufficiently taking into account water resources
availability and management parameters. The amount of water that can be consumptively used in a
basin or aquifer as well as meet environmental needs should form the basis or centerpiece for
project planning and investment. This project has provided much of the technical monitoring and
assessment necessary for determining water availability as well as some of the institutional
mechanisms necessary to ensure sustainable water resources management and use. It is
recommended that CONAGUA expand the dialogue on water resources limitations and
appropriate management with the other sub-directorates not involved in the project and also with
the other entities involved in water irrigation and water supply activities, particularly at the local
basin and aquifer level. This is a long-term issue that needs continuous focus and deepening, if
sustainable water resources management is to be achieved.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Please refer to Annex 9.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Comments provided by WMO via Email.

The World Meteorological Organization (WMO) and the World Bank have cooperated in the last
10 years providing assistance and support to Mexico through the Bank financed Mexico Water
Resources Management Project. The project has resulted in major improvements to nearly every
aspect of water resources management in Mexico. It has been recognized as an excellent example
of collaboration between WMO and the World Bank, which could serve as a model and be
applied in other countries. WMO is a specialized Agency of the United Nations for weather,
climate and water.

WMO provided technical assistance, transfer of technology, training and key advice and
recommendations for the different specific areas which contributed substantially to the
implementation of the project. This support provided through WMO professional staff and
top-class international and national experts and consultants was important for the successful
implementation of the project and continued collaboration would be very beneficial.


10. Additional Information




                                                 - 24 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix




                                        - 25 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Overall Indicators

                                                                                                                               1996                       1997                     1998                      1999                       2000                     2001                    2002                    2003


INDICATOR                                                                                                   UNIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          al
         OF              EJECUTOR                                                   INDICATORS

                                                                                                                       Original Target   Actual  Original  Target  Actual  Original Target   Actual  Original Target   Actual   Original Target   Actual  Revised Target    Actu  Revised Target  Actual  Revised Target   Actual

           TYPE



                                                                       Improved Allocation        Annual volume

                                                                       of Water as an             of water             1               65.9              2        84.2     3               201.1     5               285.8      5               334.2     285 439.4 285 585.2                             285            733
                                 SGAA                                  Economic Good              transferred
                                                                                                  (millions of m3)



                                                                       River Basin Councils
                                                                       Having Assumed
                                                                       Principal Decision
                                                                       Making                     # of councils                                                                                      1                0         1                0        3              1        6              2        11             10
                                     GCC                               Responsibilities for
                                                                       Water Management
                                                                       Activities



                                                                       Aquifer committees
                                                                       established and            # of committees                                                                                                                                         0              0        8              10       16             17
                                        GCC                            carrying out WRM
                                                                       responsibilities




                                                                       Aquifers with water
                                                                       availabilities             # of availabilities                                                                                3                0         8                0        14             0        14             0        14             202
                                           GAS                         published in the           published
                                                                       national register




                                                                       Water Bodies
                                                                       Classified and Water       # of water           2                3        30               11      160              19       240              21        320              25        320            36       48             41       54             43
                                              GSCA                     Quality Improvement        bodies
                                                                       Plans Developed


                OUTCOMES


                                                                       Hydrological
                                                                       Forecasting                # of river basins    0                0        1                0        4                2        11               3         11               4        4              4        5              4        6               4
                                                  GASIR                Systems Operational




                                                                       Accurate 96-Hour
                                                                       Weather Forecasts          % of accurate
                                                                                                  forecasts           55               50        40               65       50              75        60              79         70              77        75             75       79             79       80             79
                                                       USMN            for river basins




                                                                       Aquifers with
                                                                       integrated                 # of aquifers                                                                                                                                                                   0              0        4               4
                                                           GAS         management plans




                                                                       Financial                  % of CONAGUA

                                                                       sustainability of          budget covered      65               55        75               54       85              45        50              54         50              56        50             69       50             71       50             68
                                                              SGAA     water management           through water
                                                                                                  fee payments



                                                                       River Basin Plans
                                                                       Adopted                    # of Plans                                                               4                0        10              12         13              13        13             13       13             13       13             13
                                                                  GPH


                                                                                                                                                         - 26 -

- 27 -

                                                          Groundwater
                                                          Monitoring Networks    # of networks          16  10   35   40   57  90   68   130  88  130  99  108  102   108 120
          GAS                                             Operational




                                                          Integrated analysis
                                                          of overexploited       # of hydro-        3   7   23   12   43   18  58   18        21       23   59   23   59   23
             GAS                                          aquifers               geologic models




                                                          Integrated analysis
                                                          of aquifers in         # of hydro-        0   0   0     0    0   0   0    11        11       11   0    11    0   12
                GAS                                       equilibrium            geologic models




                                                          Analysis of
                                                          intersectoral
                                                          management,
                                                          systematic             # of studies       3   7   3    17   13   27       27        27       27   27   27   27   27
                   GAS                                    framework and
                                                          sustainability
                                                          measures




                                                          Groundwater            %                          25   50        61       70        77       82   93   90   100 100
                      GAS                                 information system     implementation




                                                          Water geographic       % progress             20       30        50  60   60    75  80   90  90  100   95   100  98
                         SIGA                             information system




OUTPUTS
                                                          National reference
                                                          laboratory installed   # of laboratories  0   0   1     0    1   0   1     1    1    1        1   1    1     1   1
                             GSCA                         and accredited




                                                          Regional and mobile
                                                          laboratories Installed # of laboratories  0   0   5     0   13   0   13    0    13   1        1   19   6    19   6
                                 GSCA




                                                          Water body
                                                          classifications
                                                          studies and plans to   # of studies       20  3   80   17   165  29       32        34       40   54   46   60   52
                                     GSCA                 improve water
                                                          quality indices




                                                          Improve and
                                                          maintain the
                                                          climatological         # of stations     790 488 1841 1865 2892 2636 3592 2799 4086 3689    4489 5336 4801 5836 5114 5539
                                         GASIR            monitoring network




                                                          Improve and
                                                          maintain the
                                                          hydrometric            # of stations     663 146 1542  645 2431 1340 3131 1377 3131 1638    1853 3840 2019 4280 2269 2340
                                              GASIR       monitoring network




                                                          Automatic
                                                          Hydrometric Stations   # of stations      0   0   44
                                                                                                             - 28 -0  44   0   44   44    54  44   54  44   54   54   63   63
                                                   GASIR  Operational

                                          Synoptic              # of observa-

                                          Observations          tions                150.5     151.5     152.5    150.2       150     149.1 175   152   180   139 120
USMN                                                            (thousands)




                                          Radio soundings       # of soundings
                                                                (thousands)           4.8       4.8      4.9       4.4        5.7       5.7   13   6     14   5.4
    USMN




                                          Bulletins             # of bulletins
                                          disseminated          (thousands)          266.3     532.1     574.2    659.3      629.2     591.5  650 372.9 650  220.9
        USMN




                                          Internet              # of

                                          consultations         consultations        13.2      63.3      178      191.9     440.2      768.8 300 1009.3 360 1550
            USMN                                                (thousands)




                                          Automatic
                                          hydroclimatological   # of stations                                                  0        60    150  74   170    84
                USMN                      stations operational




                                          Dams Inspected        # of dams        500  1   1500 210  2500 601  3500 982  4500 1229 3950 1531 4950 1790 5950 1989
                    GCT




                                          Instrumentation of    # of dams         0    0   0     0    1   1    2    2    2     2   2    3     2    3     2     3
                       GCT                dams




                                          Review of dam
                                          design and            # of dams         0    0   2     0    4   2    4    6    6     8   10   35    16   35    24    35
                          GCT             emergency plans




                                          Topobatrimetric
                                          studies and flood     # of studies      0    0   0     0    0   0    3    2    6     3   9    6     12   8     16    15
                             GCT          plain planning




                                          Water Users           # water rights
                                                                registered       80   56   150  116  220 208  280  347  300  388   300 405    327 414.2 327   424
                                SGAA      Registered            (thousands)




                                          Dischargers           # of dischargers
                                                                inspected         5   1.4  10   3.4  15  5.7   20  6.7  25     8   30   9.8  24.9 14.29  26.8 19.3
                                    SGAA  Inspected             (thousands)
                                                                                            - 29 -

        Local Area           # of networks
GIT     Computer Networks                       13   4   26  14  50   19    50  19   68   19   72    75   75  102   102
        Installed            installed




   GIT  Computers Installed  # of computers    1679 250 2637 650 3500 1350 5360 1950 5360 2100 5360 8432 8744 9672 10174 10912




                                                     - 30 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      Appraisal    Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                                       Estimate      Estimate     Appraisal
                              Component                              US$ million    US$ million
A. Institutional Development, Technological Assistance                  37.70            41.60        110.3
and Capacity-Building
B. Evaluations and Modernization of Data Monitoring                    150.00            80.70         53.8
Systems on Quantity and Quality of Water
C. Modernization of Dan Security and Operation and                      41.10            25.70         62.5
Aquifer Management
D. Water Use Administration                                             41.40            18.10         43.7
E. Planning and Information Systems for the Water Sector                71.70            55.00         76.7
F. Sustainable Management of Underground Water                            0.00             0.50          0
Sources




Total Baseline Cost                                                    341.90           221.60
                                 Total Project Costs                   341.90           221.60
                        Total Financing Required                       341.90           221.60
   Annex 2a ­ Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million
                                                      equivalent)

    Project Component                             Appraisal     Actual/Latest   Percentage
                                                  Estimate         Estimate             of
                                                                       2004      Appraisal
A   Institutional Development, Technological           37,7              41,6         110,3
    Assistance and Capacity-Building
1   Technical Assistance                               11,4               9,6          84,2

2 Capacity Building                                     16,9               12,3         72,8

3 Project Coordination                                   9,4               9,9         105,3

2 Professional Fees of PROMMA Personnel                                    9,8           NA

B   Evaluations and Modernization of Data             150,0              80,7          53,8
    Monitoring System on Quantity and Quality
    of Water
1   Meteorological Monitoring Networks                 41,2              28,4          68,9

2   Hydrometric, Climatic, Sediment and Reservoir      38,8              24,6          63,4




                                                          - 31 -

    Level Monitoring Networks
3   Evaluation and Monitoring of Underground           25,6            6,3           24,7
    Waters
 4 Networks for Monitoring Water Quality and            44,4            21,3          48,1
   Laboratories
C   Modernization of Dam Security and                  41,1            25,7          62,5
    Operation and Aquifer Management
1   Reservoir Management                               14,2            10,2          71,8

2  Dam Security                                         18,6             5,3          28,5

3  Improving Aquifer Management                          8,3            10,2         122,9

D   Water Use Administration                           41,4            18,1          43,7

1   REPDA and User Services                            11,2            7,9           70,5

2  Collection, Inspection and Control                   30,2            10,2          33,8

E   Planning and Information Systems for Water         71,7            55,0          76,7
    Sector
E1  Establishment and Strengthening of Watershed       16,5            16,4          99,4
    Councils
E2 Regional and National Planning

E3  Information, Telecommunications and SIGA           55,2            38,6          69,9

F   Sustainable Management of Underground              0,0             0,5           NA
    Water Sources
    MASAS                                                              0,5           NA

   TOTALS                                              341,9          221,6          64,8




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                              1
                                                         Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                       ICB           NCB                2        N.B.F.  Total Cost
                                                                          Other
1. Works                                       0.00          0.00          0.00          26.10      26.10
                                              (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                                      75.00          15.00         1.10           3.30      94.40
                                             (63.70)        (12.80)        (0.90)        (0.00)    (77.40)
3. Services                                    0.00          0.00         100.00          0.00     100.00
                                              (0.00)         (0.00)       (85.10)        (0.00)    (85.10)
4. Training                                    0.00          0.00          17.20          0.00      17.20
                                              (0.00)         (0.00)       (14.70)        (0.00)    (14.70)
5. Incremental Operating                       0.00          0.00          14.00          0.00      14.00
Costs - IMTA                                  (0.00)         (0.00)        (9.30)        (0.00)     (9.30)
6. Recurrent Costs                             0.00          0.00          0.00          90.10      90.10
                                              (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                                      75.00          15.00        132.30         119.50    341.80
                                             (63.70)        (12.80)      (110.00)        (0.00)   (186.50)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                              1
                                                        Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                       ICB           NCB                2       N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                          Other
1. Works                                       0.00          0.00          4.72          0.00      4.72



                                                          - 32 -

                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.11)            (0.00)           (2.11)
   2. Goods                                 31.76              0.00              4.50             0.00             36.26
                                           (17.68)            (0.00)            (3.00)            (0.00)           (20.68)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00             56.64             0.00             56.64
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (32.94)            (0.00)           (32.94)
   4. Training                              0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Incremental Operating                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
   Costs - IMTA                            (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Recurrent Costs                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                31.76              0.00             65.86             0.00             97.62
                                           (17.68)            (0.00)           (38.05)            (0.00)           (55.73)

   Expenditure Category       Budget        Total      Counterpart         Local           Total       Total Cost
                               Used         BIRF1                       Contribution    Contribution
    1 Assets                      38.652    42.724           3.154            8.306           9.272       51.997
    2 Consulting                  76.511    61.501              625           16.509          16.509       78.010
    3 Watershed Councils            1.658       834             185              300             300        1.135

    4 Capacity-Building             5.251     6.930               16             704             704        7.635
    5 Works                        11.664     8.845           2.361            5.023           5.960       14.805
   6 Vehicle                          625         0                0             625             625          625
    7 Indirects                    16.587         0                0          16.343          16.343       16.343
   8 Disbursements                     0          0                0               0               0             0
   IMTA
   Subtotal                     150.948    120.835            6.340           47.811          49.715      170.550
    9 Fiscal Resources             70.674           0             178          41.350          41.350       51.073
   9.1 Disbursement              25.672           0             178            1.111           1.111       10.833
   Eligibles
   9.2 Expenditure                 45.002         0                0          40.239          40.239       40.239
   Total US$                    221.622    120.835            6.518           89.161          91.064      221.622
   (thousands)




     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
A. Institutional               29.10         8.50                    23.10         18.50                 79.4     217.6
Development,
Technological Assistance
and Capacity Building




                                                           - 33 -

B. Evaluations and        71.70  78.40          56.50   24.20    78.8 30.9
Modernization of Data
Monitoring Systems on
Quantity and Quality of
Water
C. Modernization of Sam   22.60  18.60          13.20   12.50    58.4 67.2
Security and Operation
and Aquifer Management
D. Water Use              8.60   32.70           6.50   11.60    75.6 35.5
Administration
E. Planning and           54.50  17.20          21.00   34.00    38.5 197.7
Information Systems for
Water Sector
F. Sustainable            0.00    0.00           0.50   0.10     0.0   0.0
Management of
Underground Water
Sources




                                         - 34 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                      - 35 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              03/01/1995                3    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             CONSULTANTS (2)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/29/1995                5    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             CONSULTANTS (2);
                                             AGRICULTURALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)


 Supervision

              08/09/1996                2    WATER RESOURCES ENG.             S               S
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (1)
              06/27/1997                3    SR. HYDROGEOLOGIST (1);          S               S
                                             SR.WATER RES. ENGINEER
                                             (1); SR. FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1)
              11/27/1997                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             SR.FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              07/16/1998                4    WATER RES. ENG. (1);             S               S
                                             TTL-WATER RES. ENG. (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              02/19/1999                8    TTL - WAT. RES. ENG. (1);        S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (FAO/CP) (1);
                                             HYDROLOGIST (CONS.) (1);
                                             LAWYER (CONS.) (1);
                                             HYDROGEOLOGIST (CONS.)
                                             (1); ENGINEER (CONS.) (1);
                                             CONFLICT RESOLUTION SP
                                             (1)
              02/19/1999                3    TTL - WAT. RES. ENG. (1);        S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (FAO/CP) (1);
                                             HYDROLOGIST (WMO) (1)
              02/19/1999                3    TTL - WAT. RES. ENG. (1);        S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (FAO/CP) (1);
                                             HYDROLOGIST (WMO) (1)
              03/02/2001                7    TTL - WATER RES. ENG. (1);       S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FIN. MAN. SPEC. (2);
                                             AGRO-METEOROLOGIST (1);
                                             HYDROLOGIST (1); WAT.



                                              - 36 -

                                            RES. SPECIALIST (1)
               07/20/2001              6    TTL - WAT. RES. ENG. (1);         S    S
                                            PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                                            FIN. MAN. SPEC. (1);
                                            AGRO-METEOROLOGIST (1);
                                            HYDROLOGIST (1); WAT.
                                            RES. SPEC. (1)
               03/08/2002              6    TTL - WAT. RES. ENG. (1);         S    S
                                            FIN. MAN. SPEC. (1);
                                            ECONOMIST (1);
                                            AGRO-METEOROLOGIST (1);
                                            HYDROLOGIST (1); WAT.
                                            RES. SPEC. (1)
               08/24/2002              2    TTL _ WAT. RES. ENG. (1);         S    S
                                            ECONOMIST (1)
               08/24/2002              2    TTL- WATER RES. ENG. (1);         S    S
                                            ECONOMIST (1)
               09/06/2003              2    TTL - WAT. RES. ENG. (1);         S    S
                                            CONS. - ECONOMIST (1)
               03/15/2004              2    TTL WAT. RES. ENG. (1);           S    S
                                            CONS. ECONOMIST (1)
               08/20/2004              2    TTL WAT. RES. ENG. (1);           S    S
                                            CONS. ECONMIST (1)


 ICR
               04/11/2005             3     TASK MANAGER (1);                 S    S
                                            CONSULTANT (1);
                                            OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                            (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           182.8                         434.6
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 39.6                           96.5
  Supervision                          160.3                         503.0
  ICR                                     5.5                           6.7
  Total                                387.2                        1040.8




                                            - 37 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 38 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 39 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents




                                      - 40 -

Additional Annex 8. Project Accomplishments and Results




                                 Outputs                                Results                                   Benefits
Meteorological and Climatological (i) Technological modernization of      (i) Substantial increase in the quantity (i) Assistance daily decision-making
Prognostics                       the various networks of the             and opportunity of available data over   for social and economic activities (e.g.
                                  Meteorological Observation System,      the state of the atmosphere and the      agricultural and like activities in
Component 2                       telecommunications and the              hydrological cycle, in particular        general, social events, etc) (ii)
                                  computational base for the processing   during emergency situation like          Minimization of effects caused by
                                  of meteorological data. (ii)            hurricanes and droughts. (ii)            extraordinary hydrometeorological
                                  Improvement of the National Bank        Improvement of alert capabilities, in    phenomena (protection of human
                                  for Climatological Data (iii)           particular for the National Civil        lives, damage to cultivation zones,
                                  Improvement in the quality of           Protection System. (iii) Prognostics at  destruction of homes, involuntary
                                  meteorological prognostics.             the disposal of user and general public  displacement, economic loss, etc.) (iii)
                                                                          through SMN's website, with more         Contribute elements for the integrated
                                                                          than 2.2 million users in 2004. (iv)     management of water resources.
                                                                          Daily knowledge of the weather in the
                                                                          country for everyday use. (v)
                                                                          Prognostics and alerts for hurricanes,
                                                                          tropical storms and droughts.
·Surface water monitoring Flood   (i) Establishment of telemetric         (i) Substantial increase in the          (i) Assist the decision-making process
Prevention Dam Security           networks in a total of 100              availability and use of                  within the CONAGUA and in other
                                  hydroclimatologic stations in critical  hydroclimatological information, as      constituencies and other users, for: a)
Components 2 and 3                zones (ii) Rehabilitation and           well as information for riversheds,      planning, design and operation of
                                  continuous modernization of             and dike water levels through the        reservoirs and hydraulic projects, and
                                  conventional climatological and         SIH; (ii)Prompt transmission of          of hydrologic forecasting in priority
                                  hydrological stations (iii)             hydroclimatological information to       watersheds (Bravo, Fuerte, Yaqui and
                                  Establishment of the Hydrological       the central headquarters of the          Panuco rivers), b) investment
                                  Information System (SIH)                GASIR through the internet, the SIH;     optimization and reduction of impacts
                                  (iv)Redesign of the national            (iii) Availability of information for    due to damage from extreme events;
                                  hydroclimatological network that        sediment removal in pilot riversheds;    (ii) Contribute elements for the
                                  covers 70% of the national territory    (iv) Daily hydrologic prognostics in     integrated and sustainable
                                  (v) Modernization of the sediment       prognostics centers in the cities of     management of water resources.
                                  monitoring through the establishment    Monterrey, NL; Hermosillo, Son; Cd
                                  of a pilot program (vi) Establishment   Victoria, Tamps; y Torreón, Coah;
                                  of the River Prognostic System of the   (v) Decentralized program, with
                                  CONAGUA (SPRCONAGUA) in                 regional participation, for the
                                  four priority watersheds (vii)          realization of follow-up activities
                                  Establishment of the National Dam       related with dam security; (vi)
                                  Security Program (PNSP) (viii)          Registry of dam and report on dam
                                  Establishment of the National Dam       inspections
                                  Registry (RNP) / Dam Inventory
Evaluation and Management of      (i) Studies and aquifer analysis        (i)Publication of the average annual     (i) Assistance in the decision-making
Groundwater Resources             covering 24 of the 144 most             availability for selected priority       process in the administration and
                                  important aquifers in Mexico; (ii)      aquifers; (ii) 204 priority aquifers     management of groundwater (political
Components 2 and 3                Reactivation of piecemetric networks    count with upgraded and available        definitions, development of
                                  in the most important aquifers, an the  technical documentation; (iii)           stabilization planning, conservation
                                  installation of automatic monitors of   Complete and reliable knowledge of       and sustainable exploitation,
                                  water levels and hydraulic              geo-hydrological variables; (iv) Real    transparency in the availability of
                                  conductivity; (iii) Development of the  evotranspiration estimation and of net   information about the situation of
                                  Geographic Information System for       volume extraction of underground         every aquifer, avoid unsustainable
                                  the Management of Underground           waters with the SEBAL methodology;       exploitation of groundwater, facilitate
                                  Waters (SIGMAS); (iv) Introduction      (v) Application of technologies for the  expedited attention to requests for new
                                  of the SEBAL method, to validate the    increase of underground water            water sources; (ii) Contribute
                                  use of certain technologies of remote   recharge and control of contamination    elements for the integrated and
                                  perception, developed as an             through saline intrusion of aquifers in  sustainable management of water
                                  instrument to study hydrogeological     costal zones.                            resources.
                                  problems; (v) Development of
                                  projects for the plotting of
                                  underground waters.
Water Quality Monitoring          (i) Complete redesign and validation    (i) Availability of useful data about    (i)Assist the decision-making process
                                  of water quality monitoring networks;   the condition and tendencies in the      within the CONAGUA and other
Component 2                       (ii) Establishment of the National      quality of Mexican water resources;      constituencies for the management of




                                                                 - 41 -

                                 Reference Laboratory (LNR); (iii)         (ii) Assurance in the reliability of all  water quality (risk minimization and
                                 Eight accredited regional laboratories    nationally-produced data on water         costs for the use/consumption of
                                 to fulfill the requisites of the Norm for quality; (iii) Establishment,             contaminated water; water treatment
                                 metrology; (iv) Development of the        promulgation and application of           planning for streams and bodies of
                                 SNICA to improve the preparation of       water quality standards toward the        water), (ii) Contribute elements for the
                                 the relevant information of water         improvement of supply.                    sustainable and integrated
                                 quality.                                                                            management of water resources.


Water Rights                    (i) Consolidation of the Public Registry   (i) Regularization of a large extent of   (i) Legal certainty for users of
                                of Waters (REPDA) that is required by      the universe of users of water sources    national water and inherent assets
Component 4                     the LAN, in combination with the           and of discharges from residual           (assistance in the decision-making of
                                management of the legal                    waters, through the emission of the       users in terms of their investments);
                                documentation of assistance to             corresponding title of ownership, and     (ii) Transparency in the
                                concession and permits, (ii) Operation     its registry in the REPDA; (ii)           administration of water rights; (iii)
                                of the SIAA; (iii) Gradual compliance      Attention to the most efficient users;    Support in decision-making in the
                                with the norms relative to the controlled  (iii) Operation of a more efficient and   assignment and planning in terms of
                                use of volumes of water from               modern rights registry system; (iv)       the management of water resources
                                concessions and to the quality of          Availability of a platform to manage      and contamination control; (iv)
                                discharges, product of inspection visits   a adequate registry and control of        Consolidate a base for the proper
                                and fiscalization; (iv) Increase in the    users through a uniform and               operation of the market and water
                                collection of rights that must be paid by  homogeneous data model; (v)               banks; (v) Contribute elements toward
                                responsible stakeholders of concessions    Compliance with the LAN in what is        the integrated and sustainable
                                and permits.                               relevant with the implementation of       management of water resources.
                                                                           actions set to correct and reduce
                                                                           contamination through discharges of
                                                                           residual waters y the payment of
                                                                           rights and fines caused by infractions;
                                                                           (vi) Integral use of generated
                                                                           information from the central, regional
                                                                           and state offices of the SGAA.
Water Basin Committees           (i) Development of technical              (i) The CC and auxiliary bodies           (i) Increased participation of the civil
                                 assistance, capacity-building,            (COTAS and other assistance organs)       society and governmental authorities
Component 5                      equipment supply and specific studies     operate with the support of the           in the decision-making process of
                                 for the establishment and                 Regional and State Management             water management; (ii) Assistance
                                 consolidation of the CC and COTAS         Offices; (ii) Strengthening of the        over the decentralization of water
                                 in the 13 administrative regions of the   conceptual framework of water             management; (iii) Increased
                                 CAN; (ii) Development of capacities       management by hydrographic                confidence of users for water
                                 at the levels of the different            watershed; (iii) Availability of plans    management; (iv) Contribute elements
                                 stakeholders of water, through the        and work programs, where activities       to the integrated and sustainable
                                 realization of events in each CC and      and tasks can be gathered and             management of water resources.
                                 two national events of CC; (iii) 15 CC    complied by each Council in the
                                 have already development their            following years, and that respond to
                                 "management instruments"; (iv)            the uncertainties and necessities of
                                 Development of meetings for all CC        every watershed.
                                 and their auxiliary organs, with ample
                                 social participation.
National and Regional Planning   Elaboration of (i) Master Regional        (i) Count with a general vision of        ((i) Strengthening of the regional and
                                 Plans (MRP) for each of the 13            water resources and of the related        central planning process of water
Component 5                      Regions with a general vision until de    national and regional levels; (ii)        resources; (ii) Increase the access to
                                 year 2025; (ii) National Development      Establishment of the necessary            information to users and general
                                 Plan 2001-2006 (PND); (iii) National      projects to satisfy the defined criteria  public over the sustainable planning
                                 Hydraulic Program (PNH)                   for the three scenarios, along with the   of water resources; (iii) Contribute
                                 2001-2006 and its evaluation for the      priorities implicit in the                elements for the integrated and
                                 medium-term; (iv) the third edition of    implementation process; (iii)             sustainable management of water
                                 "Unified System of Basic Water            Availability of statistic and basic       resources.
                                 Information" (SUIBA); (vi)                cartographic information, as well as
                                 Strengthening and broadening of           information for socio-economic
                                 System for Geographic Information of      topics, land use, water use, etc. in the
                                 Water (SIGA).                             planning process; (iv) Panorama for a
                                                                           sustainable future of water resources
                                                                           until the year 2025, as well as
                                                                           scenarios, strategies and action plan
                                                                           for the period of 2001-2006; (v)
                                                                           Regional goals for the period for
                                                                           2002-2006 and necessary project
                                                                           identification with the priorities
                                                                           implicit in the implementation
                                                                           process.
Sustainable Management of        (i) Management strategies and action      (i) Sensibilization and construction of   (i) Support the reduction in the
Groundwater Resources            plans in pilot areas that include the     consensus and establishment of            unsustainable exploitation of aquifers



                                                                  - 42 -

                                Aguascalientes Valley (Ags), the        contacts, details action plans and       and the stabilization of extractions;
Component 6                     Bajío (Gto), the Centro and Sur de      mechanisms to initiate the               (ii) Contribute to the guarantee of
                                Querétaro regions (Oro), the            instrumentation of pilot areas; (ii)     sustainable use of underground water
                                Hermosillo Coast and Cuenca del Río     Availability of aquifer management       resources, from the public and private
                                Sonora (Son) and Central San Luis       policies and action plans for            sector, urban and industrial, as well as
                                Potosi region (SLP); (ii) Technical     overly-exploited aquifers; (iii)         the agriculture sector; (iii) Assist the
                                assistance to strengthen the project    Modernization projects in the            rationalization over the use of water
                                development; (iii) Establishment of     irrigation sector and strategies in the  based on its valuation; (iv) Contribute
                                pilot farms for plasticulture.          management and actions plans in five     elements for the integrated and
                                                                        pilot areas; in three of them its        sustainable water management.
                                                                        implementation is already being
                                                                        considered by the corresponding state
                                                                        governments.
Institutional development,      (i) Development of actions toward       (i) Technology transfer and increase     (i) Improvement of staff productivity
technological assistance and    institutional strengthening; (ii)       and strengthening of technical           in daily activities; (ii) Contribute
capacity-building               Elaboration of reports, manuals and     capacity of CONAGUA and CC staff         elements for the integrated and
                                technical studies; (iii) Development of and users of national waters; (ii)       sustainable management of water
Component 1                     capacity-building workshops in the      Technological assistance of              resources.
                                different components of PROMMA;         International character for
                                (iv) Execution of numerous activities   CONAGUA staff.
                                in technical assistance of national and
                                international character; (v)
                                Establishment of special covenants of
                                technical assistance.


Information Systems and         Policy definition and establishment of  (i) Establishment of modern              (i) Increasingly agile, opportune and
Telecommunications              computational and telecommunication     information infrastructure (more than    reliable decision-making and
                                networks of the CONAGUA in its          9,000 network points in the              execution of action; (ii) Contribute
Component 5                     central, regional and state offices.    CONAGUA); (ii) Integration of            elements for the integrated and
                                                                        information systems; (iii)               sustainable management of water
                                                                        optimization of corporate information    resources.
                                                                        and telecommunication services; (iv)
                                                                        Monitoring of increase demand for
                                                                        information and data, as well as the
                                                                        flow, process and storage of
                                                                        information for technical, regional
                                                                        and administrative sectors of the
                                                                        CONAGUA, as well as for the variety
                                                                        of users




                                                                - 43 -

Additional Annex 9. Comments from CONAGUA




                                     - 44 -

- 45 -

- 46 -

- 47 -

- 48 -

- 49 -

- 50 -

- 51 -

- 52 -

- 53 -

- 54 -

- 55 -

- 56 -

- 57 -

