Page  1
May 10, 1999
Mr. Roberto Casillas Contreras Medellín 
Director 
Internacional Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. 
Torre IV, piso 8 Plaza Inn, 
Insurgentes Sur 1971 01020, 
México, D.F.  México
Mr. Carlos García Moreno 
Director General de Crédito Público 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Insurgentes Sur 826, piso 9 03100 
México, D.F. México
Re:
Loan 4050-ME (Water Resources Management Project) Amendment to the 
Loan 
Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement and the Implementation 
Letter
Dear Sirs:
We refer to the Loan Agreement between the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) and Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (the Borrower), and to the 
Guarantee Agreement and Implementation Letter between the United Mexican States (the 
Guarantor) and the Bank, each dated September 28, 1996, with respect to the 
above-captioned Project.  We are pleased to inform you of our agreement to amend said 
Loan Agreement, Guarantee Agreement and Implementation Letter as follows:
I.
Amendments to the Loan Agreement
1.
Section 1.02 is hereby amended by:
(a)
redesignating original paragraphs (c) through (n) thereof as new 
paragraphs (e) through (p);
(b)
inserting a new paragraph (c) immediately after original paragraph (b) 
thereof to read as follows in its entirety:  ““COTAS” means a Comité Técnico de Aguas 
Subterraneas (Groundwater Technical Committee) which forms part of some Consejos;”;
(c)
inserting a new paragraph (d) immediately after new paragraph (c) thereof 
to read as follows in its entirety:  ““CPIAE” means CNA’s Coordinación de Protección a 
la Infraestructura y Atención de Emergencias (Infrastructure Protection and Emergency 
Attention Coordination Body);”;
(d)
redesignating original paragraph (o) thereof as new paragraph (r);
(e)
deleting the word “and” at the end of new paragraph (p) thereof; and
(f)
inserting a new paragraph (q) immediately after new paragraph (p) thereof 
to read as follows in its entirety:  ““UPRPS” means CNA’s Unidad de Programas Rurales 
y Participación Social  (Rural Programs and Social Participation Unit); and”.
2.
Section 2.02 (a) is hereby amended by inserting the words “civil works,” 
immediately before the word “goods”.
4.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule1 is hereby amended to read as follows in 
its entirety: 
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
               “Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods (except materials
   62,000,000
100% of foreign
included in Categories (3)
expenditures and
Page  2
or (4) below and vehicles)
87% of local
expenditures
(2)
Consultant services
   68,100,000
100%
(except as included in
Category (4) below)
(3)
IMTA incremental
    7,400,000
85% until withdrawals
operating costs
under this Category
have reached an
aggregate amount
equivalent to
$4,200,000; 60% until 
withdrawals under this 
Category have reached
an aggregate amount
equivalent to
$6,300,000; and 25%
thereafter
(4)
Training:
(a) provided by
    1,900,000
100%
    consultants
(b) provided by
    2,800,000
100%
    IMTA
(c) provided by
    7,000,000
100%
    academic
    institutions
(5)
Civil Works 
(a) for laboratories, 
    7,000,000
70%
    monitoring facilities,
    control of aquatic
    weeds and Part C.1
    of the Project flood
    emergency control
    centers
(b) under Part F.4 of
    8,000,000
87%
    the Project
(6)
Unallocated
   22,300,000
         ___________
TOTAL
  186,500,000
  ===========”
5.
Paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended by inserting the words “less than 
$2,500,000 equivalent (in the case of civil works),” immediately after the words “(in 
the case of goods),”.
6.
A new Part A.4 of Schedule 2 is hereby inserted immediately after Part A.3, to 
read as follows in its entirety:  “Provision, operation and maintenance of information 
and telecommunication systems, vehicles and logistical and non-consumable material 
support to CNA management units involved in the Project (except as such provision, 
operation and maintenance is covered by Parts of the Project other than this Part 
A.4).”
7.
Part B.1 of Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  
“Strengthening of GSMN's atmospheric phenomena data collection, analysis and synthesis 
facilities and procedures by upgrading, operating and maintaining its upper air 
network, radar network, automatic data collection platform monitoring network, manual 
synoptic stations, satellite ground station network, lightning detection network and 
Page  3
instrumentation laboratory; improving its weather forecasting techniques; and 
conducting meteorological and climatological studies.”.
8.
Part B.2 of Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  
“Strengthening of GASIR's surface water hydrologic assessment and monitoring 
capabilities by:  (a) designing and rehabilitating its climatological and hydrometric 
networks; (b) installing sediment laboratories; (c) upgrading its radio communications 
network; (d) installing telemetry networks in priority catchments; (e) acquiring a 
fleet of vehicles for purposes of network inspection; (f) establishing a 
hydrometereological data management system; (g) operating and maintaining the 
networks, laboratories, vehicles and system listed in this Part B.2 of the Project; 
and (h) conducting surface water related studies.”.
9.
Part B.3 of Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  
“Assessment by GAS of groundwater resources in Mexico, as part of the establishment, 
operation and maintenance of an aquifer monitoring network, by conducting 
hydrogeological studies of priority aquifers and other groundwater studies.”.
10.
Part B.5 of Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  
“Strengthening of GSCA's water quality monitoring capabilities by establishing, 
improving, operating and maintaining:  (a) its national water quality monitoring 
network; (b) its water quality laboratory network consisting of a reference 
laboratory, regional-level laboratories and mobile laboratory units; and (c) its water 
quality information systems, as well as by conducting water quality assessments and 
other water quality studies.”.
11.
A new Part B.6 of Schedule 2 is hereby inserted immediately after Part B.5 
thereof, to read as follows in its entirety: “Implementation of UPRPS’s clean water 
programs and UPRPS programs to reduce lake and reservoir invasions of aquatic weeds.”.
12.
Part C.1 of Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  
“(a) Carrying out of studies and provision of technical assistance to CNA to maximize 
benefits derived from the operation of existing hydraulic infrastructure, while 
simultaneously ensuring or improving environmental protection necessitated as a 
consequence of the operation of such infrastructure; and (b) construction and 
equipping of CPIAE flood emergency control centers, provision of training to staff of 
said centers and carrying out of studies in support of said centers.”.
13.
Part C.2 of Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  
“Strengthening of CNA's capabilities to carry out its dam safety responsibilities by 
decentralizing such responsibilities to CNA regional offices, establishing an 
information system-based registry of all dams in Mexico which are over three meters in 
height or have a reservoir capacity in excess of half a million cubic meters, carrying 
out periodic inspections of such dams, developing guidelines and procedures for dam 
safety, collecting and analyzing dam instrumentation data and installing new dam 
instrumentation, conducting hydrological analyses for selected dams, developing 
corrective action plans and designs for dams with safety deficiencies, preparing 
maintenance and protection plans for dams, conducting reviews of all new dam design, 
rehabilitation and construction projects, development of emergency action plans for 
high-risk dams, and carrying out of other dam safety studies.”.
14.
Part D.1 of Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  
“Carrying out of studies and provision of technical assistance to CNA to improve 
operation of REPDA, strengthen water user identification and support services and 
implement information systems for REPDA and for CNA's water user and water and 
discharge fee registries.”.
15.
Part E.1 of Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  
“Carrying out of water resources planning studies at the river basin, aquifer, 
regional and national levels, with participation of the Consejos and COTAS and 
attention to environmental implications as relate to water, culminating in the 
issuance of hydrographic region and national water plans.”.
16.
Part E.4 of Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety: 
“Strengthening of CNA's central and regional telecommunications and computer networks 
and geographical information systems by designing and implementing the networks, 
improving electronic data links between CNA headquarters and regional offices, 
Page  4
incorporating remote sensing capability in the information systems and allowing 
decentralized data access and processing.”.
17.
A new Part F of Schedule 2 is hereby inserted immediately after Part E thereof, 
to read as follows in its entirety:
“Part F:
Aquifer Stabilization Pilot Project
1. 
Raising of awareness among water users regarding sustainable aquifer management 
in selected overexploited aquifers, as well as establishment and strengthening of 
COTAS and local CNA staff, all by conducting public information campaigns, carrying 
out training and capacity building initiatives for COTAS and CNA regarding aquifer 
management, setting up information dissemination systems and supporting the creation 
of mechanisms for financial sustainability of the COTAS. 
2.
Setting up of adequate monitoring and information systems in the selected 
aquifers to create the conditions for their sustainable management by implementing 
monitoring networks, developing and monitoring socio-economic, environmental and 
hydrogeological indicators, conducting baseline studies and implementing a technical 
information dissemination system. 
3.
Provision of support for the elaboration and implementation of demand management 
options to promote more efficient water use and aquifer stabilization by carrying out 
studies and promoting decision making among water users in areas such as water savings 
programs, water tariffs, expansion of water markets and reallocation of water rights. 
4. 
Provision of support for the elaboration and implementation of investment plans 
by conducting studies, preparing designs and implementing structural options 
(including civil works) for enhanced aquifer water management.”.
18.
Paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 4 is hereby amended by replacing the words “and (4)” 
with the words “, (4) and (5)”.
II. 
Amendments to the Guarantee Agreement
19.
Section 3.01 (a) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety: “except 
as specified with respect to studies in paragraph (b) of this Section, carry out Parts 
A.1, A.3, A.4, B, C, D, E and F of the Project through CNA; and”.
20.
Section 3.03 is hereby amended by inserting the words “civil works,” immediately 
before the word “goods”. 
21.
Section 3.04 (a) is hereby amended by inserting the words “civil works,” 
immediately before the word “goods”.
22.
Section 3.06 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety: 
“The Guarantor shall maintain the following staff within CNA, throughout the course of 
Project implementation and for purposes of Project coordination:
(a)
at CNA central headquarters, a coordinator and two supervisors, to be 
assisted by WMO (or other expert organization acceptable to the Bank) for purposes of 
Project monitoring, reporting and evaluation;
(b)
in each of CNA's administrative regions throughout Mexico, one liaison 
officer acting on a part-time basis;
(c)
within each management unit of SGAA, SGT and SGP involved in the project, 
one liaison officer acting on a part-time basis; and
(d)
a CNA environmental or natural resource sciences professional, acting on 
a part-time basis in each of CNA's regional administrative offices throughout Mexico 
(who may at the same time occupy the liaison officer position referred to in paragraph 
(b) of this Section), to oversee environmental aspects of CNA activities and 
participate in carrying out Part E.1 of the Project.”.
23.
A new Section 3.08 is hereby added immediately after Section 3.07, to read as 
Page  5
follows in its entirety:  “The Guarantor shall, through CNA:
(a)
carry out Part F of the Project solely with respect to Mexican aquifers, 
each of which has been determined to be severely over-exploited and has a COTAS or 
analogous aquifer water user association dedicated to dealing with aquifer issues; and
(b)
carry out, or cause or allow to be carried out, civil works under Part F 
of the Project only if the civil works and their expected impact comply with 
reasonable environmental protection criteria and have each been specifically approved 
by the Bank prior to their commencement (such works shall be small-scale in nature, 
shall not be designed or used for exploitation of aquifer water, and shall consist of 
artificial aquifer recharge schemes, treatment and reuse of aquifer wastewater 
schemes, aquifer desalinization schemes or wells for aquifer monitoring).”.
24.
The title of Section I of the Schedule is hereby amended to read as follows: 
“Procurement of Goods and Civil Works”.
25.
Part A of Section I of the Schedule is hereby amended by inserting the words 
“and civil works” immediately before the words “shall be procured”.
26.
Part B.1 of Section I of the Schedule is hereby amended by inserting the words 
“civil works and” immediately before the word “goods”.
27.
Part B.2 of Section I of the Schedule is hereby amended by inserting the words 
“civil works and” immediately before the word “goods” in the preamble thereof.
28.
Part B.2 (b) of Section I of the Schedule is hereby amended by inserting the 
following words immediately before the period at the end thereof:  “, and contracts 
for civil works shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $2,500,000 
equivalent or more each”.
29.
Part C.1 of Section I of the Schedule is hereby amended in its entirety to read 
as follows: “Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract or per 
bid package and civil works estimated to cost less than $2,5000,000 per contract or 
per bid package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $30,000,000 equivalent, may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines, using standard bidding documents satisfactory to the 
Bank.”.
30.
Part D.1 of Section I of the Schedule is hereby amended by inserting the words 
“civil works and” immediately before the word “goods”.
31.
Part D.2 of Section I of the Schedule is hereby amended to read as follows in 
its entirety:  “The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply with respect to each contract procured under Part B of this 
Section.”.
32.
Part 2 (b) of Section II of the Schedule is hereby amended by replacing the 
words “Part A.1 of the Project” with the words “Parts A.1 and A.3 of the Project”.
III.
Amendments to the Implementation Letter
33.
The Attachment to the Implementation Letter is hereby amended in its entirety to 
read as set forth in the attachment to this amendment letter.  \0c
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
the three originals of this letter in the spaces provided below, and returning one to 
us.  This amendment shall enter into effect as of January 1, 1999, upon receipt by the 
Bank of the one original of this letter signed by you.
Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Olivier Lafourcade 
Page  6
Director Mexico Country Department 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By /s/ Roberto Casillas Contreras Medellín
By /s/ Carlos García Moreno
Authorized Representative
Authorized Representative
Date: July 15, 1999
Date: June 20, 1999
