Document of
FIL E: y                               The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2304-AR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
April 26, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed withaut World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
June 1977  1/          April 1978
Currency Unit    =     Argentine Peso ($a)
US$1             =     $a 380                          $a 730
USI million      =     $a 380 million                   $a 730 million
$a million       =     US$ 2,632.00                    US$ 1,370
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BNA              -     Banco de la Naci6n Argentina - State
Bank of Argentina
INTA             =     Instituto Nacional de Tecnologfa Agropecuaria -
National Institute of Agricultural Technology
PBS              -     Bancos Participantes -  Participating Banks
SEAG             =     Secretarfa de Estado de Agricultura y Gana-
derla - State Secretariat for Agriculture
and Livestock
BANADE           =     Banco Nacional de Desarrollo - National
Development Bank
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
1/ June 1977 exchange rate used at the time of the appraisal.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                  Government of Argentina
Beneficiaries:             Government would on-lend the Bank's loan proceeds
to Banco de la Nacion Argentina (BNA) and provincial
banks which, in turn, would make subloans to some
4,500 farmers and cooperatives.
Loan Amount:               US$60.0 million equivalent.
Loan Terms:                Tlhirteen years including four years of grace, at 7.5%
per annum.
Relending Terms:           Government to BNA and other participating banks at
2.75%, PBs to beneficiaries at 6% in $a adjusted by
the official general wholesale price index.  Repayment
tierms from three to nine years, including up to four
y,ears of grace.
Project Description:       The project would form an important part of the
Government's agricultural development strategy.
It would help strengthen Argentina's export capacity
and thus make it more independent from the stringent
balance of payments constraints that have been a
major factor of Argentina's erratic growth pattern
in the past. Medium-and long-term agricultural
credit and technical assistance financed under the
project aim at increasing the relatively low
productivity of farms in the Pampas and Mesopotamic
region of the country, restoring the productive
capacity of soils in an extensive area infested by
weeds, and at expanding the country's cropping and
pasture areas by clearing large portions of unproduc-
tive wooded land in the northern provinces. The
project would have no special risks other than
changes in Government pricing and exchange rate
policies.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its conterits may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Project
Cost:                   Investment Category           Local    Foreign    Total
------ (US$ Million) ----
On-farm Development            28.2        7.8      36.0
Weed Control                   28.0       12.0      40.0
Land Clearing                  25.5       28.0      53.5
Technical Assistance            0.8        0.7        1.5
Price Contingency              19.2       11.5      30.7
Total:                  101.7       60.0      161.7
Financing Plan:           Sub-borrowers    Participating Banks         Bank     Total
Amount      X       Amount         X      Amount % Amount %
(US$ M)             (US$ M)               (US$ M)    (US$ M)
31.6      20        70.1         43     60.0  37  161.7 100
Estimated
Disbursement:           Bank FY      1979       1980       1981       1982       1983
…------------- (US$ Million) ---------------
Annual        5.2       18.5      18.0       12.0        6.3
Cumulative   5.2       23.7       41.7       53.7       60.0
Economic
Rate of Return:         Weighted average of all components is 29%.
Appraisal Report:         Report No. 1918a-AR, dated April 25, 1978.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Argentine Republic for the equivalent of US$60.0 million to help
finance an Agricultural Credit Project.  The loan would have a term of 13 years,
including four years of grace, with interest at 7.5% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
Introduction
2.        A report entitled "Argentina:  Reconstruction and Development" (No.
1645-AR) dated August 31, 1977 was distributed to the Executive Directors.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex I. An updating mission visited
Argentina in March-April 1978 and is preparing a new report.
Background
3.        Argentina is endowed with a favorable human and natural resource
base and enjoys a relatively high GNP per capita, estimated at about US$1,550
in 1976. However, the country's income level masks deep-seated structural
imbalances in the economy, manifested in its inability to attain stable growth.
During most of the post-World War II period high levels of protection and
domestic market limitations contributed to a generally high-cost industrial
structure which did not reflect relative prices and factor scarcities within
the domestic economy. Lacking adequate incentives, the agricultural sector
produced and exported below its potential. Ensuing social and economic
tensions made it difficult to pursue rational economic policies and resulted
in a "stop-go" pattern of growth, and political instability.
4.        The Government which took office in March 1976 faced an economic and
financial chaos unparallelled in Argentina's history. Following months of
political violence and escalating terrorism, the public administration had
ceased to function. Along with the explosive acceleration in the rate of
inflation, the virtually complete erosion of the country's creditworthiness
and a sharp decline in the level of economic activity, there had been a
profound deterioration of key institutions, productive capacity, and support-
ing infrastructure. The military takeover was for most part well received by
the population as it meant relief from the tension and chaos of the previous
months. The new Government rapidly stabilized the political situation and
1/   This section is a revised and updated version of that of the President's
Report on the Grain Storage Project in Argentina (No. P-2219-AR), dated
February 7, 1978.



introduced major changes in fiscal, monetary and exchange rate policies to
break inflationary expectations and to shore up the country's precarious
external financial position.
Recent Performance
5.        The Government has made considerable progress in stabilizing the
economy. A restrictive wage policy, combined with improved fiscal and mone-
tary management, reduced the rate of inflation from 740% during the last year
of the previous administration to 160% in 1977. Rationalization of exchange
rate and trade policies resulted in a sharp improvement in the 1976 and 1977
balance of payments as the current account balances registered a US$1.9 billion
and US$2.7 billion improvement, respectively, over the 1975 level. Increased
confidence in the peso and the adoption of more realistic rates of interest
induced substantial repatriation of private capital.  During 1976 the Govern-
ment achieved a significant improvement in the external debt structure through
the substitution of short-term loans due in the last quarter of 1976 by new
loans with more favorable maturities. Despite large repayment of short-term
debt, gross international reserves increased by almost US$1.2 billion in 1976.
Strong export performance and continued capital inflow resulted in an additional
increase of about US$1.9 billion in 1977. Gross and net reserves reached
US$3.5 billion and US$1.6 billion, respectively, by the end of 1977.
6.        Even though a considerable reduction in the rate of price increases
has been achieved, inflation remains the single most difficult problem faced by
the Government. Monthly rates of increase in the cost of living index dropped
only slightly from an average of 8.4% in the second semester of 1976 to 7.9%
in the first quarter of 1977; a further reduction of price increases was impeded
mainly by upward adjustments of real prices of goods and services produced by
the public sector and by unusually large increases in the price of beef and
some other agricultural products which weigh heavily in the consumer price
index. In mid-March as it became apparent that the stabilization program was
not having the desired effect, a 120 day period of price restraint was put into
effect. The termination of price restraints in July, however, combined with
acceleration in the growth of money supply during the second quarter of 1977
led to a new surge in inflation, which averaged 10.6% between the months of
August and October but fell to an average of 8.1% for the last two months of
1977. In the first two months of 1978 the average monthly rate of price
increases was 9.7 percent.
7.        In order to control the continued high rate of inflation, a number
of measures were introduced in mid-1977, which aimed at slowing the growth of
the monetary aggregates. More restrictive limits were established on Central
Bank credit to the Treasury, special Central Bank rediscounts were curtailed,
and interest rates were freed and became positive in real terms. The Government
totally eliminated foreign borrowings under the system of "swaps" - guarantees
of short-term foreign loans at a subsidized forward exchange rate - which had
been a major factor in monetary expansion during 1975 and 1976. Denational-
ization of the banking system and a fractional reserve system with new regula-
tions governing the operations of banks and other financial intermediaries
were introduced in May 1977. These measures aimed at increasing the efficiency
of the financial system by stimulating competition between private financial
institutions and at strengthening the instruments of monetary policy. Controls



-3-
were established to reduce capital inflows of a speculative short-term nature
and to monitor external indlebtedness of the public sector, especially of the
state enterprises. Despites rapid accumulation of foreign exchange reserves,
these measures were successful in reducing growth of money supply during the
four-month period ending November 1977. During December, however, more
rapid increase of internatLonal reserves and strong seasonal expansion of
domestic credit resulted in an accelerated expansion in the money supply.
8.        During the two years prior to the change of Government in March 1976,
public finances in Argentina had deteriorated to an alarming extent and had
become a major factor contributing to the hyperinflation of early 1976.
Declining tax collections Ln real terms, sharply increased expenditures due to
massive wage settlements antd expanded public sector employment doubled the
Treasury deficit as a shares of GDP. Adjustments in tariffs of public enter-
prises lagged behind inflation and the consequent serious deterioration in
the financial position of a number of important enterprises, resulted in
increased Treasury transfers to these entities. The present Government
introduced a number of special emergency taxes and drastically cut current
expenditures by allowing real wages of public sector employees to decline
sharply. The Treasury deficit declined from about 13% of GDP in 1975 to 8% in
1976, 5.5% in the first semester of 1977 and 2.5% in the second semester.
The authorities made a major effort to finance the deficit through the sale of
high-yielding Treasury bilLs and indexed bonds. Central Bank financing of the
Treasury deficit declined ,sharply in real terms and fell as a share of total
financing requirements from 70% in 1975 to 48% in 1976, but is estimated to
have risen to 80% in 1977 as a result of declining yields on government bonds
relative to savings instruments offered by the private sector.
9.        The 1978 budget calls for a further reduction in the Treasury
deficit to 1% of GDP. This amount is to be financed entirely through the
issue of Treasury bills and indexed bonds and would therefore preclude Treasury
recourse to Central Bank credit. The Government expects that reduction of the
Treasury deficit, together with the monetary and balance-of-payments programs
adopted, will result in a further reduction of inflation in 1978. In order
to strenthen the finances of the state enterprises, the Government implemented
a program of periodic rate adjustments which, since mid-1976, has provided
tariff increases in real terms for a number of important state enterprises.
Further progress in reduction of Central Government transfers to state enter-
prises is assumed in the 1978 Budget, and the authorities are continuing
periodic tariff adjustments this year. The Government's program is being
monitored by the IMF under the current 1977-78 Standby Agreement which was
approved by the Board of Directors of the Fund on September 16, 1977; the
fiscal, monetary and balance-of-payments performance is well within the
ceilings specified under tlhis Agreement.
10.       During 1975 and early 1976, there was an increasingly sharp contrac-
tion in the level of economic activity. As the economic situation deteriorated
private investment declined precipitously. The sharpest decline in investment
was registered in the first quarter of 1976 as inflation accelerated and
default on the country's external debt appeared imminent. The momentum of the
recession continued into tihe second quarter of 1976 as measures required to



- 4 -
slow inflation further reduced aggregate demand and growth. Stocks of indus-
trial products, which had been accumulated for speculative reasons during 1975
and early 1976, were brought to market as the private sector shifted out of
real goods into financial assets. While this drawdown of stocks reflected a
return of confidence in economic management and a response to the sharp
increase in real interest rates, it also accentuated the decline in industrial
production.
11.       In the second half of 1976 and the first three quarters of 1977, the
situation improved significantly as a result of a turnaround in private
investment and sharply expanded exports. Responding to improved prices, agri-
cultural production grew by 3.5% during 1976 and at an annual rate of 9.7%
during the first three quarters of 1977. The 1976/77 grain crop is estimated
at a record 31 million tons. The livestock sector expanded strongly. Domestic
consumption of beef remained buoyant and the volume of beef exports doubled
following the opening of new markets. Petroleum output increased substantially
from the second quarter of 1976 on as a result of a change in the management
of YPF, the state-owned oil company, and the introduction of measures to
expand secondary recovery. Manufacturing activity fell by 4.5% in 1976 mainly
as a result of the decline in real wages, but significant recovery took place
in major branches of industry during the second and third quarters of 1977.
12.       During the fourth quarter of 1977, there was a sharp reduction in
the annual rate of growth of the Argentine economy. Growth of Gross Domestic
Product declined from 4.9% and 9.1% in the second and third quarters, respec-
tively, to 2.5% in the fourth quarter. This was the result of an absolute
decline in agricultural output as compared to the fourth quarter of 1976, and
sharply reduced growth of the manufacturing, mining and transportation sectors.
Overall GDP increased by 4.4% in 1977.
13.       Reflecting the decline in overall output, unemployment had risen from
2.7% to 4.9% in the last six months of the previous administration. The new
Government was able to stem the tide through a combination of restrictive wage
policies and arrangements with the private sector to retain employees. The
new Government even succeeded in lowering the unemployment rate to 4.1% at the
end of 1976, a major achievement in view of the continuing decline in overall
output, and was thus able to spread the costs of the stabilization program more
evenly than is usual in situations of this type. The rapid recovery in 1977
reduced unemployment even further to 2.2% in October 1977 which actually
indicates some scarcity of both skilled and unskilled labor. The improving
employment situation also had a positive impact on private sector wages as the
more dynamic branches attracted personnel from the still stagnating industries
and the public sector. Indications are that average real wages had risen by
over 15% between October 1976 and July 1977, although they were still well
below their all time high in 1975. To avoid a continued exodus of public
sector employees, the authorities decided in December 1977 to pay wage
increases in line with productivity increases in the public enterprises.
This should help narrow the wage gap in the near future.



- 5-
Development Strategy and Prospects
14.       The immediate ob:jectives of the Government's economic program
were achieved with a large measure of success in 1976, and since then the
Government has turned its attention more to its longer-term development
objectives. In contrast to the protectionist, import-substituting industrial
development strategy which prevailed during most of the post-World War II
period, the present authorities are pursuing an export-oriented growth strategy.
Through a combination of trade and internal pricing policies the internal
terms of trade have been shifted in favor of agriculture and the effective
exchange rate for agricultural exports has improved. Import duties on indus-
trial products were reducecl so as to align the internal price structure with
international levels, thereby encouraging greater efficiency and increased use
of Argentina's export potential. A unified exchange rate of a "gliding
parity" type was introducecl in November 1976, whereby continuous adjustments
to compensate the difference between domestic and international inflation have
taken place. To attract external capital and technology, a very liberal
foreign investment law was promulgated.
15.       In order to strengthen domestic resource mobilization and to
rationalize public sector finances, a reform of the financial and fiscal
systems has been undertaken. Special emphasis has been placed on restoring
the financial viability of provincial governments and state enterprises which
in recent years accounted for much of the fiscal deficit. Twenty-six private
enterprises acquired by previous administrations are to be returned to private
ownership or to be liquidated. During 1977 ambitious cost cutting measures
were implemented for the Argentine Railways which made a major contribution to
reducing its large deficit. Additional taxes were introduced at the national
level and important improvements in tax administration were carried out. A
new group was created in the Ministry of Economy to rationalize public sector
investment planning and to develop a medium-term public investment program.
Taken in their entirety, the measures adopted by the new Government represent
a major shift in Argentine development strategy which, when fully implemented,
should lay the foundation for strong self-sustained growth in the future.
16.       Over the longer term, the prospects for strong growth of the Argentine
economy are favorable. In the immediate future, growth rates are likely to be
moderate, due to the high priority which the Government has placed on the
reduction of inflation. Price and trade policies aimed at opening the economy
are expected to bring about a shift in the structure of industry and agricul-
ture, which is needed to increase economic efficiency and stimulate growth.
The levels of international trade, which have been low for an economy of
Argentina's resource endowment and size, are expected to expand signifi-
cantly as the economy adjusts to a new price structure and set of investment
incentives. It will, however, take a number of years and continuing large
capital inflows to carry out these tasks, partly because of their inherent
complexity and partly because public support needed to maintain the effort can
be sustained only if social costs of the adjustment process are held within
tolerable limits. The inflows of medium- and long-term capital from both
private and official sourcets will, in addition to their support of moderniza-
tion of infrastructure and productive capacity, play essential roles in this
process.



-6-
17.       Export prospects for the longer term appear to be excellent and
assuming continued strong beef exports and substantial increases in the
volume of grain exports, total export earnings should increase by an average
of 7% annually in real terms through 1980. Roughly two-thirds of that increase
would be generated by agriculture and about one-third by the industrial sector.
Maintenance of a 5% to 6% growth rate of GDP through 1980 and beyond will
require imports to increase at 10% annually. This pattern of growth of
imports and exports would permit the country to maintain a favorable trade
surplus over the medium term. This surplus would be adequate to cover factor
services and still yield a modest but declining current account surplus
through 1980. Given Argentina's heavy debt service payments, and the need to
continue to improve the structure of its external debt and to rebuild its
international reserves, however, considerable gross inflows of medium- and
long-term capital will be required, averaging US$1.8 billion annually for the
next four years. The bulk of these capital requirements should be available
from bilateral arrangements, suppliers' credits, world capital markets, direct
private investments and foreign commercial banks. Multilateral sources,
however, are expected to play an important role both by providing capital and
by stimulating capital flows from other sources.
Debt Service and Creditworthiness
18.       In March 1976, Argentina was faced with external debt payments
falling due before the end of the year estimated at US$3.7 billion, equiv-
alent to two-fifths of Argentina's total outstanding external debt. Overall
indebtedness included short-, medium- and long-term obligations of the public
sector in the amount of US$5.3 billion, "swaps" of approximately US$1.3 billion,
exchange rate guaranteed imports of roughly US$600 million and miscellaneous
other private debt estimated at US$1.9 billion. Disposable foreign exchange
reserves amounted to only US$23 million. The new administration moved imme-
diately to arrange short-term loans with commercial banks. It obtained a
standby credit from the IMF of about US$300 million of which the first credit
tranche of about US$180 million was used in 1976. The Government secured a
four-year loan of approximately US$970 million from commercial banks in the
U.S., Canada, Europe and Japan. These medium-term credits, although needed
to make payments on the previously short-term bank borrowing and rollovers,
strengthened Argentina's foreign exchange position, and contributed to an
improvement in the external debt structure. As a consequence of these trans-
actions and of the favorable performance of the current account of the
balance of payments, Argentina was able to reduce outstanding foreign exchange
guarantees by US$1.5 billion and increase gross foreign exchange reserves
by US$1.2 billion or by more than double the increase in total outstanding and
disbursed external debt in 1976.
19.       Argentina's medium- and long-term external public debt outstanding
and disbursed was US$4.2 billion at the end of 1976. Private external debt
amounted to roughly US$2.0 billion. Preliminary estimates show that the
public and publicly guaranteed debt outstanding increased only moderately in
1977. External public and total debt service ratios during 1976 were 18% and
32%, respectively. Due to the rapid increase in exports these rates are
expected to have declined to 16% and 25% in 1977. Despite the large gross



- 7 -
borrowings envisaged over t.he next several years, and continued use of finan-
cial and suppliers' credits, these debt service ratios are expected to decline
to about 13% and 19%, respectively, in the early 1980's, because of the
improvement in the term structure of debt and the expected increase in exports.
Provided the authorities continue to effectively manage the country's external
indebtedness, Argentina should have no difficulty servicing the aforementioned
external borrowing required. for economic reconstruction and sustained economic
growth.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
Bank Operations
20.       Past Bank lending to Argentina has been sporadic because of periodic
macroeconomic difficulties and unsatisfactory sector policies, along with
delays and problems in complying with specific project conditions. A loan for
an electric transmission and distribution project, approved by the Executive
Directors in September 1976, marked the resumption of lending to Argentina
after a hiatus of over five years. Six loans are now being disbursed. Annex
II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of March 31, 1978, and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
21.       In its lending to Argentina, the Bank is supporting several impor-
tant interdependent and complementary objectives. The first objective is to
contribute to the Government's efforts to diversify and increase Argentina's
export capacity and overall economic efficiency in line with the country's
economic resources and development base. While recent policy changes have
provided much of the initial stimulus, sustained growth will require an expan-
sion of productive facilities both in the agricultural and industrial sectors.
The fourth highway project approved in March 1977 will support the resumption
of economic growth and the expansion of agricultural export traffic; a second
railway project, now under preparation, would assist in rehabilitation and
modernization of Argentina's railway system. The industrial credit project
would support the modernization and expansion of efficient industry in general
and potential export industries in particular. The recently approved grain
storage project will enable Argentina to achieve better prices on the world
market and to export larger quantities of grain in a more orderly manner through-
out the year by introducing large-scale silos in the grain production areas.
22.       The second lending objective is institutional development and policy
reform to ensure that investments are made and used efficiently. Under the
industrial credit project, reforms are being implemented so that BANADE can
fulfill more effectively the role of a major provider of medium- and long-term
funds to the industrial sector. Under the highway loan, the Bank has supported
efforts to improve the management, planning capabilities, and operation of the
National Highways Authority. Likewise, in the power sector, the Bank has
supported important reforms in the tariff structure and has assisted in the
preparation of a long overdue national power expansion program and a national
power organization study. The Grain Storage Project includes training in
modern silo operations and improvements in the Grain Board's inspection and
supervision procedures and computerized inventory control systems.



- 8 -
23.       Thirdly, Bank lending to Argentina is helping to provide essential
long-term external capital when it can be absorbed effectively within the
framework of sound overall financial planning and when capital requirements
exceed availabilities from other external sources. It will take Argentina
some years of successful economic management to regain its position as a
substantial borrower of long-term capital in private markets. In the meantime,
very large amounts of relatively short-term external loans and credits will
have to be repaid. During this period, the Bank would serve as a catalyst to
stimulate medium- and long-term lending from other sources as well as to
provide a part of the needed capital inflow. In connection with the indus-
trial credit project, the National Development Bank (BANADE) obtained in
October 1977 a US$100 million Eurodollar loan through a co-financing
arrangement with 36 private banks. This was the second such loan for
Argentina in 1977, following a US$50 million Eurodollar loan to SEGBA in
August.
24.       Finally, the Bank is maintaining a dialogue with the Government
regarding possible Bank assistance in projects that would foster physical in-
tegration between Argentina and its neighboring countries, especially Bolivia
and Paraguay. Such projects should serve as a major impetus to the economic
growth of these two lower income landlocked countries. The Bank project for a
gas pipeline between Bolivia and Argentina has been a milestone in integrating
the two economies in the energy field to the benefit of both countries. Other
integration projects are in preparation, notably the Yacyreta hydroelectric
project, which would benefit both Argentina and Paraguay.
IFC Operations
25.       As of March 31, 1978, IFC had made thirteen loans to borrowers
in Argentina totalling US$67.2 million and one equity investment of US$2.0
million, of which US$36.6 million has been repaid, cancelled or sold. A
summary of IFC's investments up to March 31, 1978, is shown in Annex II.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
The Agricultural Sector
26.       The agricultural sector has maintained a share of about 14% of GDP
during the past decade. Excluding the comparatively small contribution of
forestry and fisheries, the total sectoral output is fairly equally divided
between crops and livestock. There are, however, significant regional differ-
ences, with the Pampas accounting for about 62% of all livestock output but
only 38% of all crops. Agriculture is by far the most important source of
foreign exchange earnings. From 1970-76, the sector accounted for 79% of
all exports. This share, however, declined from 83% in 1970 to 74% in 1976,
leading to serious balance of payments difficulties and a drastic decline
in foreign reserves. Between 1970 and 1976, the share of grains in total
exports grew from 29% to 31%, meats declined from 21% to 14% and oilseeds



products'remained constant at 10% of total exports. Agricultural produc-
tion in Argentina grew at ia rate of 1.8% p.a. during 1953-77 (crops 2.6%
p.a. and livestock 1.4% p.a.). Growth during the second half of the
period was almost double that of the first half mainly as a result of
a more widespread use of commercial inputs, especially improved seeds and
intensified mechanization.
27.       Argentina's agriculture is organized on a purely commercial basis
and thus is quite different from most of the other developing countries.
Abundant resources of fert:Lle land in relation to the size of the population
have led to relatively large market oriented farms. Problems of widespread
rural poverty, land pressure and subsistance farming common to most developing
countries are unknown in Argentina. While there are, naturally, differences
in income levels by households and regions according to differences in farm
size, land potential and proximity to markets, available information indicates
a fairly well balanced income distribution in the agricultural sector by
international standards. Moreover, average productivity in agriculture is
virtually at the same leve]L as in the rest of the economy; with 15% of the
labor force, agriculture contributes 14% to GDP.  The Government's agri-
cultural policy, therefore, is geared exclusively to increasing agricultural
output for the domestic ancd export markets rather than improving the incomes
of specific rural target groups.  While increases in agricultural productivity
will, of course, also raise the income levels in rural areas, this effect is
incidental to the primary objective of increasing production.
28.       Argentina's agriculture is characterized by extensive farming
methods if compared to standards in North America, Europe, and Australia.
Resource use and land productivity are at a comparatively low level. The
Government's strategy aims at realizing the agricultural potential. A policy
package of tax, tariff, marketing, and exchange rate increases has improved
the terms of trade for agriculture and brought input and output prices more in
line with international levels. The sector has responded quickly and agri-
cultural output has reached record levels. To ensure sustained high growth
rates of agricultural production, however, structural changes will be
necessary. More intensive farming techniques will have to be applied, land
use will have to be changed to a more intensive cropping pattern and extensive
ranching will have to be displaced from the most fertile soils to the northern
"agricultural frontier" of suitable but presently unused land. The Government
has created an economic climate and is providing the technical assistance
conducive to the implementation of advanced technology.
29.       The Government has made impressive progress in implementing the
new agricultural policy. Differential exchange rates for many agricul-
tural exports have been reduced or eliminated. The export retention tax for
wheat has been eliminated and the export tax for coarse grains was cut from
40% to 10% and is scheduled to be eliminated in May 1978. By the end of 1976,
most domestic price controls had been removed, the state monopoly on grain
trading lifted, the system of cattle slaughter quotas abolished, and the
National Meat Board was no longer engaged in direct selling abroad. To help
offset the revenue shortfall due to the reduction in export taxes, a temporary
sales tax of 4% on agricultural products at point of first sale was introduced



- 10 -
on September 1, 1976, which will be in effect until December 1979. Fifty
percent of this sales tax payment is deductible from income subject to income
tax. The provinces are in the process of revising the land tax to an annual
rate of 1% levied on a base of 70% of current market value. This measure is
intended to increase revenues for the provincial governments while encouraging
landowners to use land more intensively.
30.        As a result of Government policy, prices (in constant April 1976
pesos) of agricultural products increased by 21% from April 1976 to September
1977; crop prices increased by 22% and livestock prices by 20%. Improved terms
of trade are likely to cause production expansion in the future by stimulating
the wider use of more advanced techniques, intensification of the cropping
pattern and increase in the productivity of pastures. Nonetheless, farmers
will need time to carry out the planned investments and to organize resource
use. Also, to sustain a high growth rate in agricultural production, farmers
have to be convinced that the present favorable Government policies will be
maintained.
The Crop Subsector
31.        Production.  Grain and oilseeds are the major crops in Argentina.
From 1974 to 76, they covered some 87% of the harvested area in the country.
Grain production, covering 71% of the harvested area, is dominated by three
main products, wheat, maize and sorghum, which together contributed 91% to
total grain production and 96% to the total volume of exports. Oilseeds
accounted for 16% of the harvested area. Sunflower, linseed, peanuts and
soybeans were the dominating crops totalling 85% of oilseed production.
Grain and oilseed production is heavily concentrated in the Pampas, a fertile
plain of some 45 million ha radiating out to the north, west and south
of Buenos Aires. However, less than half of the arable land of the Pampas is
cropped with the rest being used as pasture for the large cattle population.
32.        Since productivity and land use intensity are generally low, the
potential for increasing crop production in the Pampas is substantial; about
one-quarter of the land under forage cultivation could rapidly be converted to
crop production, while the use of fertilizers, agricultural chemicals, improved
seed stock and irrigation would result in significant yield increases. Large
tracts of undeveloped land in the periphery of the Pampas could also be
converted to crop production by clearing scrub and light forest cover. These
processes are already underway: grain production reached 31 million m tons in
1976/77 and is projected to reach 38 million m tons by 1985, as compared to
the average of 23 million m tons per year during the past decade. Soybean
production grew from around 20,000 tons in 1967 to 1.2 million tons in 1976,
while the area planted during the same period increased from about 18,000 ha
to 660,000 ha.
33.        Exports.  Argentina was one of the world's leading exporters of
grains in the years prior to World War II. At the peak, annual average
export reached about 9.8 million m tons and accounted for about 20% of total
quantity of world exports of wheat and 64% of corn. This situation has changed



- 11 -
because of severe fluctuations in production and poor marketing which eroded
the country's reputation as a reliable supplier of grain.  During the 70's,
annual grain exports averaged 8.7 million m tons which accounted for only 2.7%
and 9.2%, respectively, of the greatly expanded world trade in wheat and
coarse grains.
The Livestock Subsector
34.       Production.  Argentina is one of the major livestock producing and
exporting nations of the world due largely to its abundance of fertile, highly
productive land relative to population. Livestock population in 1974 was
55.5 million cattle, 34.5 million sheep, 4.6 million goats, 4.1 million pigs
and 2.8 million horses. Over the period 1960-76, growth of beef production
was about 1% per year whi:Le consumption increased at about 1.5% per year -
approximately equivalent to the growth in population. Exports decreased
by about 1.2% per year.
35.       The Pampas support approximately 50% of the country's cattle
population and 35% of the sheep flock. Production methods are relatively
sophisticated compared to other developing countries. However, there is
considerable scope for further increases in productivity by adoption of
technology similar to thal: used in the Bank supported Balcarce Livestock
Development Project. Production methods are much less intensive in the other
major cattle producting areas, principally the northern and north-eastern
region. Productivity in these areas can be increased by investment in
basic improvements such as fencing and water facilities, by land clearing and
pasture improvement and by better disease control and herd management. The
sheep industry has shown ]Little or no growth over the past twenty years.
36.       Exports.  Over the past twenty years Argentina's role as a beef
exporter has declined vis--a-vis other major exporters, principally Australia
and New Zealand because of policies which acted as disincentives to production.
These policies have changed since early 1976 and the country is now in a
position to increase production fairly rapidly. Bank projections indicate
that world beef trade will grow at more than 6% per year up to 1985. Because
of import restrictions of the three major beef import markets U.S.A., Japan,
and to some extent EEC, Argentine beef exporters have been seeking actively
outlets in other areas with a growing demand for beef, notably other Latin
American countries, Eastern Europe, non-EEC countries in Western Europe, the
Middle East and some countries in Africa. The return of the major meat
procesing facilities to the private sector will help make the adjustments
needed to develop fully the new market outlets.
Agricultural Credit
37.       Until recently, Argentina's banking system was controlled strictly
by the Central Bank which held all deposits and allocated financial resources
according to the centrally determined national priorities; individual banks
merely acted as agents of the Central Bank. Interest rates, fixed by the
authorities, became increaLsingly negative as inflation accelerated; this led



- 12 -
to a serious erosion of major financial institutions. During the early part
of 1977, the Government enacted two decree laws providing substantial positive
changes in the national financing system. In accordance with these laws, the
Central Bank limited rediscounts to the banking system to few exceptional
cases, and decentralized deposits. Financial institutions are now free to fix
interest rates for deposits and loans according to market conditions. As of
June 1977, subsidized negative interest rates have been eliminated, and
interest rates, from any sources of lending, are provided at positive rates
either through periodical adjustment of principal outstanding in the case of
investment loans or rates which incorporate projected inflation in the case of
short-term loans.
38.       The new Government policy which aims at an improvement in the terms
of trade for the agricultural sector is likely to increase the demand for
credit even though positive interest rates have been introduced. If the
intended production intensification is to be achieved, short-term credit
requirements for fertilizers, chemicals, and seed will increase sharply.
Promising investment possibilities will generate equally strong demand for
long-term funds including outlays for tractors and associated farm machinery;
fertilizer distribution facilities; on-farm infrastructure (particularly for
livestock); support for promising technologies such as no-tillage (initially
in the wheat-soybean complex) and sprinkler irrigation.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       The Government of Argentina has requested a Bank loan to help
finance credit for on-farm investments, weed control and land clearing in
several areas of the country. The project was appraised by a Bank mission
which visited Argentina in October 1977. A report, entitled "Staff Appraisal
Report Argentina Agricultural Credit Project," dated April 25, 1978, is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors. A supplementary data sheet
is presented in Annex III. Negotiations took place in Washington from March 27
to March 31. The Government of Argentina was represented by Mr. Guillermo Felix
Blanco; the Banco de la Nacion Argentina by Messrs. Jose Manuel Ros and Carlos
Gregorio Pagadizabal; and the Instituto Nacional de Tecnologia Agropecuaria by
Mr. Martin Naumann.
40.       Background:  The proposed project would be the Bank's third operation
to assist Argentina in agricultural development. The first Bank loan, US$15.3
million, for the Balcarce Livestock Development Project in 1967, assisted in
the financing of agricultural credit and technical services for livestock
production. The second loan of US$105.0 million was presented to the Board
on February 21, 1978. It aims at improving the marketing system for grain by
financing the construction of grain storage silos and Improvements in the
transportation network between farms and markets.
41.       The implementation of the Balcarce Livestock Development Project
experienced some difficulties from 1967-69 and 1975-76 which slowed down
disbursement and led to several postponements of the closing date of the loan.



- 13-
In the initial years, credit demand was low because of unfavorable terms of
trade for beef production. The greatly increased demand in the period 1970-74
resulted from improvement in the terms of trade and the demonstration effect
of the productivity increases achieved on those farms which had taken subloans
in the earlier period. The almost complete lack of demand in 1975 and 1976
was caused by several factors: very adverse terms of trade because of reduced
sales of beef to the EEC market and the collapse of world market prices,
Government policies which did not favor beef producers, and the introduction
of an indexing system of project subloans, making them less favorable compared
to loans from other sources with negative interest rates. Since the change in
Government in 1976, outlook and terms of trade for beef producers have improved,
largely as a result of Government policies on taxes, prices and exchange
rates. Also, as credit policies have been changed to ensure that all credit
in the country is at positive real interest rates, subloans under the project
have become relatively more attractive. The loan is now more than 95%
committed and is expected to be fully disbursed by 1979.
42.       Prolect ObJectives:  The proposed project would form an important
part of the Government's agricultural development strategy. It would consti-
tute the logical continuation of policy measures taken already and help
translate the increased profitability of agricultural operations into struc-
tural change. Inspite of its limited size, we expect that the proposed
project would serve, because of its design and composition, as a catalyst to
demonstrate the benefits of more intensive land use and thus promote changes
in production techniques on a much larger scale than is indicated by the
number of direct beneficiaries. The project would support the Argentine
Government in its efforts to strengthen the country's export capacity and thus
make it more independent from the stringent balance of payments constraints
that have been a major factor of Argentina's erratic growth pattern in the
past. Success in these efforts is the more important now in view of the large
import requirements to carry out the economic reconstruction program. By
improving the country's foreign exchange position, the project would also help
increase Argentina's role in the international markets as a low price supplier
for developing countries which account for the largest share of Argentina's
food exports. In support: of these objectives, the proposed project would
provide financial and technical assistance to help:
(i) increase productivity on crop and livestock farms through
intensification of land use and application of advanced
farming techniques;
(ii)  restore the productive capacity in heavily weed infested
areas through a special control program;
(iii)  expand the agricultural frontier to the fertile but presently
unexploited lands in the north through land clearing.
Project Description
43.       On-farm development:  Under this component the project would provide
capital and technical assistance for on-farm investment on livestock and



- 14 -
crop farms. The area of this component would include the Eastern portion of
Buenos Aires province, the provinces of Entre Rios, Corrientes, San Luis and
the northeastern part of La Pampa province. In the Buenos Aires province
the proposed project would finance on-farm investments for livestock and
crop, based on introduction of technologies similar to those under the
Balcarce Project with proven success. They would involve establishment
of improved pastures comprising grasses and legumes and, in suitable areas,
growing of crops such as wheat, linseed, sunflower and oats in rotation
with improved pastures. In the southern and central portion of Entre Rios
province, credit would be provided for mixed agriculture and livestock pro-
duction using improved pastures. The northern portion of the province is
less suitable for production of grain crops, and investments in this zone
would generally be for an extensive type of livestock operation. In the
O zrientes province technology for establishment and management of improved
pastures is less well-developed than in Buenos Aires and Entre Rios provinces,
but there is some evidence that improved pastures can be established and that
they can substantially increase productivity. In the San Luis and La Pampa
Province, investment would be for mixed livestock and crop farms.
44.       Weed control:  The project would finance a pilot program to control
two weeds - Johnson grass and Bermuda grass - on crop and livestock farms in
three counties in the Pampas. As a result of the increasing infestation,
yields of the most important crops in the area, maize, soybean, and wheat,
have been seriously reduced. Under the project, direct technical assistance
would be provided to the sub-borrowers to insure proper assessment, planning,
timing and follow-up, which is essential for the success of the program.
To ensure the application of appropriate technologies and to avoid negative
environmental impacts, farm investment plans for weed control would have
to be authorized by INTA (Schedule 4, Part II of the Loan Agreement).
45.       Land clearing:  Some 90,000 ha of fertile but presently unexploited
land in the northern provinces of Argentina would be cleared from light,
generally low quality, forest cover and brought under cultivation. Since
land clearing requires substantial investments, these operations have been
restricted to very large and financially strong enterprises. Farmers in the
project area generally lack the necessary long-term credits for land clearing
operations; as a result, clearing efforts are limited, technologies applied
inefficient and cleared land is not properly exploited. The project would,
for the first time in Argentina, provide long-term funds combined with tech-
nical assistance to farmers and cooperatives willing to bring virgin land
under cultivation. Because of the indivisibility of land clearing invest-
ments, and to introduce efficient land clearing methods, taking advantage of
economies of scale, individual loans would be rather large. Smaller farmers
would receive subloans to finance clearing on their farms by contractors,
and larger farmers and cooperatives would receive subloans to purchase
directly equipment for land clearing on their farms. The technical assistance
and its supervision by INTA would ensure that the cleared land is used pro-
ductively and that soil erosion or other negative environmental impacts
are kept to a minimum. Assurances have been obtained that farm investment
plans for land clearing would be accompanied by a land clearing permit issued
by the competent authorities (Schedule 4, Part II of the Loan Agreement).



- 15 -
46.       Technical Assistance:  The project would provide technical assistance
to participating farmers in order to improve resource management, to intensify
the use of land and to increase the application of modern inputs and technolo-
gies. Assistance would be provided on two levels: (i) The Instituto Nacional
de Tecnologia Agropecuaria (INTA) would establish technical guidelines,
standards and methodologies for the preparation of farm plans, approve the
selection and supervise the technical services of consultants and train
participating technical advisers; (ii) Consultants, employed by participating
farmers, would prepare farm investment plans and provide assistance at the
farm level. A detailed plan for the provision and financing of technical
assistance required under the project has been presented and its main compo-
nents have been included in the Loan Agreement (Schedule 2, Part B).
Loject Implementation
47.       Organization and Management:  The project would be administered
by a Project Committee (PC) composed of representatives of, inter alia, SEAG,
BNA and INTA, the three main entities directly responsible for implementation
of the different project components. Committee members would be qualified
staff members of the respective institutions, selected and appointed by the
Secretary of SEAG, the president of BNA and the president of INTA. The
representative of SEAG would be president of the Committee. The Committee's
main functions would be to supervise and coordinate the project implementation,
and it would also serve as the borrower's official representative in dealing
with the Bank in all technical, economical and financial matters related to
the project.
48.       A project coordinator, under the Project Committee, would assist,
supervise and coordinate the participating entities in carrying out project
activities. He would also serve as the liaison officer between the Bank, the
Government and other participating entities. The project coordinator would be
a qualified professional with experience in agricultural development activi-
ties, selected and appointed by the Committee. Assurances on this have been
obtained; the establishment of the Project Committee and the employment of the
project coordinator would. be conditions of loan effectiveness (Sections 3.03
and 5.01 of the Loan Agreement).
49.       Channels of Financing:  Credits to sub-borrowers would be channeled
through BNA and selected provincial banks in the project area under subsidiary
loan agreements with the government, as represented by the Ministry of Economy,
which would route through BNA funds intended for other participating banks.
50.       Banco de la Nacion Argentina (BNA):  BNA, established in 1891 and
owned by the Government, is the most important financial institution in the
country's banking system. BNA is classified as a commercial bank, but its
charter gives it priority responsibilities, including credit to the agricul-
tural sector. BNA has, historically, accounted for around half of the banking
system lending to the agricultural sector, and its share of medium- and
long-term credit has been, around 80% of the total. BNA is governed by a Board
of Directors, comprising a President, a Vice-President and nine directors
representing various economic sectors and regions, all appointed by the



- 16 -
Government. One of the directors is responsible for agricultural credit. BNA
has 572 branch offices throughout the country, maintains branches in neighbor-
ing countries and in main international financial centers, and has been the
financial agent of the Government for borrowing from the Bank, USAID, IDB and
other foreign agencies. As of December 31, 1976, BNA's total assets amounted
to $a481 billion and its net worth was $a37 million. The assets were mainly
composed of liquid assets like cash, bank balances and such ($al44 billion),
and loans ($al76 billion). Agricultural loans, which decreased from 32.8% of
the loan portfolio in 1974 to 27.3% in 1975, rose to 45.1% at the end of 1976.
Short-term loans (up to three years), which formed 85% of the portfolio in
1975, declined to about 70% in 1976. The proportion of medium-term loans
(three to five years) increased from 11% around 4% over the last two years.
Arrears as a percentage of the loan portfolio decreased from 1.57% in 1972 to
^.32% in 1976. These figures exclude loans written off, which amounted to
$a 6.3 million and $a 2.8 million in 1975 and 1976, respectively. They do,
however, show improvement in loan collection and the level of arrears.
Although a full picture of loan collection is not available, because of the
lack of information on renewed loans, it is apparent that BNA's loan recovery
performance is good, which reflected in part its conservative and cautious
policy. The financial performance of BNA is satisfactory; profits have been
about 10% of gross income in the last two years, compared with about 6% in
1974.
51.       Provincial Banks:  Provincial banks are autonomous entities and are
predominantly owned by the respective provincial governments. The Banco de
la Provincia de Buenos Aires (BPB) is the largest of the official provincial
banks and the second largest bank in the country. BPB has 264 branches of
which 150 are in the Province of Buenos Aires. BPB is subdivided into a
banking and a land mortgage section with separate equity capital, reserves,
assets and liabilities. It is the financial agent of the Provincial Govern-
ment and collects taxes in the Federal Capital and the Province. The Board of
Directors is appointed by the Provincial Government. BPB is a sound financial
institution and plays an important role in the provision of agricultural
credit; it offers short-term loans to finance production costs and medium term
loans for farm investment, land clearing and rural electrification.
52.       The participating provincial banks would be selected by the Ministry
of Economy on the basis of the following minimum creditworthiness requirements:
that they have been in operation for at least 10 years; have complied with
central bank regulations on liquidity, solvency and legal reserves against
deposits; have a satisfactory financial position, a record of sound agri-
cultural lending and competent management. In addition, a participating
provincial bank would also have to be able to provide counterpart funds and
short-term credit to complement investment subloans partially financed by the
Bank.
53.       Sub-borrowers:  To qualify for a subloan, sub-borrowers would have
to prepare, with the assistance of technical staff of INTA, other participating
entities or private consultants previously authorized by the project coordi-
nator, viable farm investment plans for the development of crop and livestock
production, weed control or land clearing operations tQ be carried out on



- 17 -
farm and ranches within the project area. 20% of the cost of the these farm
investment plans would have to be provided by the sub-borrowers. Evaluation
of the creditworthiness of subloans applicants and analysis of the investment
plans would be carried out by the participating banks who would be responsible
for the approval of subloans and would assume the risk of default.
54.       Project Costs:  The total project cost including price contingencies
and expressed in mid-1977 prices is estimated at US$161.7 million of which
US$60.0 million, or 37%, represent foreign exchange costs net of import
duties and taxes. The project costs are summarized in the following table:
Investment Category                   Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange
------US$ million------       (%)
-  On-farm development                 28.2      7.8      36.0      22
2.  Weed control                       28.0     12.0      40.0       30
3.  Land clearing                      25.5     28.0      53.5       52
4.  Technical assistance                0.8      0.7       1.5       50
Baseline total cost                82.5     48.5    131.0       37
Price contingencies                19.2     11.5      30.7      37
Total project cost                101.7     60.0    161.7       37
55.       Financing:  The proposed Bank loan of US$60.0 million would finance
the entire foreign exchange cost, which has been estimated at 37% of the
total project cost. Project beneficiaries would finance US$31.6 million
representing about 20% of the total project cost, and US$70.1 million, or
43%, would be provided by the participating banks. The Government would be
the borrower and would assume the foreign exchange risk. It would onlend
the proceeds of the loan to participating banks which, in turn, would make
subloans to project benefEiciaries of up to 80% of the cost of farmers' invest-
ment plans. Bank loan proceeds, accordingly, would finance 46% of the value
of project subloans; the remaining 54% would be financed by PBs.
56.       Relending Terms:  Lending terms and conditions between Government
and participating banks iand those between participating banks and project
beneficiaries would be set in subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into
by the Government and each participating bank. The Government will charge
no less than 2.75% to the PBs and PBs will charge no less than 6% to project
beneficiaries. Interest rates will be positive in real terms since outstanding
balances of the loans will be adjusted by the general wholesale price index
of Argentina. Subsidiary loans from Government to PBs would have the same
repayment terms as the Bank loan and grace periods of up to four years.
Repayment terms of subloans to project beneficiaries would range from 3 years
to a maximum of 9 years, including grace periods of up to 4 years. Repayment
terms and grace period would be established for each subloan according to
the requirements based on cash flow projections. The minimum rate the Govern-
ment charges to PBs does not constitute a subsidy under present conditions in
view of the gliding parity adjustment of the Argentine peso and the proposed
indexation of the outstanding balances. The Government is firmly committed to



- 18 -
avoid any subsidy and therefore intends, after consultation with the Bank, to
raise the interest rate to PBs should changing conditions require it to do so.
The signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between Government and BNA, satis-
factory to the Bank, would be a condition of effectiveness (Section 5.01 of
the Loan Agreement).
57.       Financial Analysis:  Producers' benefits were analyzed for 11 farm
models on the basis of financial assumptions regarding investment, operating
costs and income. Producers' financial rates of return derived from the
analysis of the different illustrated models range from 12 to 41% depending on
farm size, cropping pattern and project component. The financial rates of
retur- indicate that it would be highly profitable to farmers to undertake
the investment envisaged in the illustrated models. The estimated financial
rpturns for the different types of investment are in line with the actual
demand of funds for investment for beef and grain crop production in the areas
covered by the project, for weed control in the infested areas and for exten-
sion of the agricultural land through land clearing.
58.       Cost Recovery of Technical Assistance Component:  In accordance
with recent government policies, technical assistance should not be provided
cost free by government entities to commercial farmers. Technical assistance
at the level of individual farms would be provided by private groups or indi-
vidual private consultants. Therefore, at the request of the Government,
the lending program includes 2% equivalent for the cost of technical assist-
ance; it would be recovered through repayment of subloans.
59.       Procurement:  The investment items to be financed under the project
would be procured by approximately 4,500 sub-borrowers over a 5-year invest-
ment period. Since the items to be procured are varied and would not be
suitable for bulk procurement through international competitive bidding,
procurement would be through established local commercial agents, who repre-
sent a broad spectrum of international suppliers. Sub-borrowers would pur-
chase items of their choice. Vehicles and equipment related to the technical
assistance project component would be varied and individual orders are not
expected to exceed the equivalent of US$100,000; therefore, these items
would be procured through local competitive procedures, which are satisfactory
to the Bank. Major suppliers of land clearing machines, farm tractors,
equipment and agricultural chemical products from the Bank's member countries
are represented in Argentina and service is satisfactory throughout the
project area. There are no import or foreign exchange restrictions on the
importation of any of the items financed under the project. Locally manu-
factured items are sold at prices that are competitive with foreign manu-
factured items. Import duties for items not manufactured in the country are
of the order of 5% to 10% and those for imported products that compete with
locally manufactured items are being gradually lowered from an average of 37%
to levels expected not to exceed an average of 25%.
60.       Disbursement:  The Bank would disburse 46% of the amounts of the
subloans made by participating banks to project beneficiaries, totalling
US$59.2 million, against statements of expenditures which would be certified
and documented by each participating bank. The documentation for expenditures



- 19 -
would not be submitted to the Bank, but would be retained by the participating
bank for inspection during the course of Bank supervision missions. Under the
technical assistance component of the project the Bank would disburse a total
of US$0.8 million representing 100% of foreign expenditures of direct imports
of vehicles and equipment, or 50% of local expenditures representing the
foreign exchange cost of these items. With participating banks' commitments
extended over a 3-year period and with up to 3-year periods of on-farm invest-
ment by sub-borrowers, it is estimated that Bank disbursement would take place
over a 5-year period. Because Argentina follows a policy of gliding parity
exchange rate adjustments Bank disbursements would be made at the exchange
rate prevailing at the mid point of the month in which disbursements by PBs
are made rather than at the exchange rate existing on the date the Bank
disbiiLsement is actually made.
6I.       Justification, Benefits and Risks:  The proposed project would be
an important step towards fuller exploitation of one of the most fertile agri-
cultural regions of the world. The overall economic rate of return (ERR) of
29% is evidence of the high profitability of the project for the country.
Real benefits are likely to be even higher. The projected 20% ERR of the land
clearing component, the cost of which is US$53.5 million, is based on a conser-
vative estimate, assuming that the cleared land would be used with methods
presently prevailing in the region. There is potential, however, for sub-
stantially higher yields using more advanced and already tested technology.
Economic returns of the other two project components demonstrate the scope of
modern techniques over presently used practices in the Pampas. With esti-
mated cost of US$36 million, the ERR of the on-farm investment component
would be 30%; the weed control component, with costs totalling US$40 million,
would have an ERR of 43%. The economic evaluation does not incorporate
important benefits from the catalytic effect of the project. The combination
of credit and technical assistance will result in substantial increases of
farm incomes and hence demonstrate to the Argentine farmers at large advantages
of productive investments, increased application of modern inputs and intensi-
fication of land use.
62.       Proposed investments under the project would result in incremental
production of over US$72 million per annum at full development, most of which
would be exported. The iLncremental herd value at full development would
amount to another US$30 million.  The Government would participate in the
benefits through incremental taxes on sales and increased land values. About
4,500 farmers, with present farm sizes ranging from 170 ha to 2,800 ha, would
benefit directly from the project. About 31% of the subloans under the
project would go to smalLer farmers with holdings of up to 300 ha; 30% to
medium farmers with up to 650 ha; and the remaining 39% to larger farmers
with up to 2,800 ha. Present farm incomes would be increased substantially;
the largest relative increase would accrue to farmers with the lowest present
income. The land clearing component would contribute to the general develop-
ment of Argentina's northern provinces through an increase in income and
multiplier effects.



- 20 -
63.       The project would be of low risk.  The Government considers the
project as an integral part of its development strategy and has expressed
strong commitment. The current development of the Balcarce Project as well
as farmers' response to the new economic policy of the Government demonstrates
that Argentina's agricultural sector positively reacts to a favorable economic
environment. The recently approved Grain Storage Project would facilitate
marketing of increased grain production and should help mitigate the negative
effects of international price fluctuations on the farmer. The Government has
expressed its commitment to maintain realistic agricultural prices in order to
stimulate continuous production increases.
64.       The project would help increase Argentina's role as a reliable low
cost producer and low price supplier of food in the world market. This would
have particular importance for developing countries: Bank projections estimate
trat production deficits of grain will increase and that many developing
nations will become more dependent on food imports. At present, about 80%
of Argentina's wheat and about 50% of its sorghum and corn exports are
delivered to third world contries. The temporary closure of the EEC market
for beef and restrictions imposed by the United States and Japan led to a
reorientation of Argentina's beef exports to third world countries. Argentina
has the potential to contribute significantly more towards meeting the ever
increasing demand for food.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Argentine Republic and the Bank
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
66.       Special conditions of the proposed loan are listed in Section III
of Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness would be the establish-
ment of the Project Committee, the employment of the Project Coordinator and
the signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and BNA.
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
AttachmentsPrsdn
President
April 26, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 1
ARGENTINA          - SOCIAL INOICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                            ARGENTINA                           REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL     2776.9                                      MOSTTRECEN
AGIC.    16.5                         1960      197'   ESTIMATE          VENEZUELA      SPAIN          AUSTRALIA **
14-                            -- - -----                        - -         - ---------- -1814…
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    560.0*   990.0*  1550.0*              1540.0*    1580.0*    3710.0*
…-  _ _  _- - -  _ _ _ _
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)          20.6       23.7      25.7                10.3       33.6        12.5
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       7.0        8.0       9.0               11.0        67.0         2.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       12.0       13.0      14.0               49.0       105.0         2.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)        24.9       22.5      21.8               42.1        21.0        20.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          9.0        8.6       9.8                8.7         8.8         8.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       59.4       59.0                         48.0        27.9       17.9
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YIRS)     66.0       67.4     68.3                63.8        70.5       72.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               1.5       1.5       1.5                2.9         1.4         1.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE C%)                        1.4      1.3                 3.4         1 1         2.0 la
TOTAL                                1.2.                 .                   .           .          .
URBAN                                2.6        2.4       2.3                4.7         2.0         2.9
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)         71.2       77.4      80.0               75.7        59.1        88.5
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                      30.7       29.3      29.0                           27.8       28.B
15 TO 64 YEARS                      63.7       63.7      63.0                 ..        62.5       62.8
65 YEARS AND OVER                    5.6        7.0       8.0                            9 ,.7       8.3
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.6       0.6       0.8                  .-        0.6         0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0       1.0                  ..                  1.1         0.9 /bF
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)          ..         .          .               67.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..         ..        ..                 ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        7500.0/a  9000.0         *-             3100.0    11900.0      4900.0/b c
LABCR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE ()         18.0/b    15.0         ..               22.0        25.0         9.0  m
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)          9.0 -      5.0       2.2/a              6.0         1.1 /a      1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS           27.5       21.4 /a     ..                 ..          .         14.1/d
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS           50.9       47.0 a      ..                 ..          ..       38.9S/
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            6.9       5.67   -
LOWEST  401 OP HOUSEHOLDS           16.6       11.2  -200
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS            ..         ..         ..                ..
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..        ..         ..                ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             650.0/C.d5o0.0       460.0             1080.0       740.Ob    840.0 /b
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            ..     980.0/b  610.0               520.0          ..       150.0 /N
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          16O.0/C   170.0                         310.0       220.0        60.0 /
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)       115.0     129.0      129.O              100.0       107.0       115.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)             98.0       99.0     107.1               62.0        81.0       101.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE:       54.0       64.0      68.5               32.0        40.0        71.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4             4.4       3.2         ..               5.4         0.9         0.9
EDUCATION
ADUUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      98.0      106.0     108.0              100.0       123.0       106.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                    31.0       37.0      55.0               41.0        57.0        83.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)            12.0       12.0      12.0               11.0        11.0        13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                    50.0       59.0      63.0                           20.0        16.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                91.0      93.0         ..               77.0       94.0        99.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                1.3       1.4         ..                 ..         ..0.7/
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                     53.0         ..         ..                ..          .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                69.0       76.0      79.0 /b               .          .         98.0/_c
RURAL OWELLINOS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                   19.0        ..         ..                 ..C
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)        176.0    370.0       838.0              164.0         ..      211.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)          24.0     61.0        81.0               55.0       71.0       312.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          524.0     936.0    1161.0              1229.0     1634.0      4496.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               8.6      11.4         7.4               8.2         5.8       35.9
S-----O----------------------------------------------A------------------------------------------------
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2
NOTES
'rIces  'rhonwiun noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1969 and 1971, and for Most Recent Estimate between
1973 osd 19/6.
*  .NI' I-r capita data arc based on World Bank Atlas methodology (1974-76 basts).
%-lret tun or Australia as an objective country is based on comparable resource endowments and  -rononic atractur-
ARiVENVI.'     1960     {a  Persons 14 years of age and over;    /b  Persons 15 years of  age and over;                   /c  1962;      /d  Registered, not all practicing
in the country.
190)      a  Income recipients, Buenos Aires - urban;    /b  Hospital personnel only;                  ic  Households, total, urban and rtral;
/d  Percentage of population.
__nS; RFCFNT t_STIATE:    la  October 1977;    /b  Percentage of population.
SPAITN         170    'a  Employnent office estimate;            /b  Registered, not all practicing in the country.
AUs;IA;loA    197()      a  Due to immigration, population growth rate is higher then rate of natural increase;                    /b  1966;       /c    ncluding full-blooded
Abortigines;     /d  1967-68.
R7, April 7, 1978
DSYINXTIION OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Ares (tbouth                                                                               Ppulatios  per nursing person - Popslstion divided by n,unber of practicing
'rotal - Total surnfce  rea comprising land area and inland waters,                                ale and female graduate nurses, "trained" or "certified" suroes, and
gric,  M.Host recent eatimnte of agricultural area used temporarily or pesms-                     auxiliery personnel with training or experience.
nently fon crops, pastures, market f kitchen gardens or co lie fallow.                        Population per hospital bed - Population divided by number of hospital beds
available in public and private general and specialized hospital and
ClPet caita_us_1 - GNP per capita animates at current market prices,                              rehabilitation centers:  -cludes nursing homes and eotabliahb-nt. far
ceiculeted by same conoersios: nethod as World Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis);                      cstndial and preventive care.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                     Per capita supply of calories (8 of requirem.ents) - Cssnputed fran energy
equivalent of n-c food supplies availble in country per capita per day;
Population  and vital statistic:                                                                  available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less exports, and
Population (Id-year million)   As of July first:  if not available, average                       changes in stock; net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds, quantities used
of two end-year estiastes; 1?60, 1970 and 1975 data,                                            in fowd processing and loases In distributian; requiressents were estimated
by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity and health consid-
Penulation density  - per 5uarm hk  - Mid-year population per square kiloester                    erng ervironmental temperature, body weights, age and sew distnribuione of
(100 hactares) of total area,                                                                   population, and allowing 10% for waste at household level.
Population desaity - per s             _ute ks_ of syric  land - Cowputed as above for          Per cespts supply of protein  (srass Per day) - Protein content of per capita
agricultural land only                                                                          net supply of fond per day; net aupply of food is defined as above; require-
mants for a11 countries established by USDA Economic Research Services
Vital statistics                                                                                  provide for a  inauts  allowance of 60 grea of total protein per day, snd
Crude birth  taco per rhonsand. average - Annual live births per thowuand of                       20 grass of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal
,id-year population; ten-year arithmietic averages ending in 1960 sod 1970,                     proteit; these standards are lower than those of 75 grams of Cotal protein
and five-year average ending in 1975 for  sost recent eatimate.                                 and 23 grass of anisal protein as an average for the wnrld, proposed by FAO
Crude death rote per thoasand. average - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-year                    in the Third World Food Survey.
Population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 end 1970 and five-                    Per capita protein supply froa  animal and pulse - Proteio supply of food
year  verage ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                                           derived from animals end pulses is grams  per day.
Infant martality rate  C/thou) - Annual deaths of infants under one year of age                 Death rate (/thou) ages 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age group 1-4
per thousand live birthS.                                                                       years, to children in this age group; suggested as an indicator of
life  expectancy  at birth  f_rs) - Aoerage nasker of years of life resaining at                  malnutrition.
birth; usually five-yesr averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing countries.                                                                                Education
Gro5s  reproduction  rate - Average number of live daughters a woman will bear                  Adiusted enrollment ratio - primary school - Enrollment of al' ages as per-
in her nornal reproductive period if she experiences present age-specific                       centage of primary school-age population; includes children aged 6-11 years
ferttliry rates: osally fic-year average- ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                         but adjusted for different isngthe of primary educction; for countries with
for developing countries.                                                                       universal education, enrollmnt may exceed 1007. since ame pupils are below
Population growth  rate  (7,) - total - Compound annual growth rates of mid-year                   or above the official school age.
population  for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                                 Adlustad enrollment ratio - secondary school - Computed an above; secondary
Pooslatiom  growth rate (x) - urbsn - Computed like growth rate of totel                           education requires at least four years of approved primary tnstruction;
populatIon; different definitions  of urban areas may affect comparability of                   provides general, vocational or teacher training insrr,,ctinns for pupils
data among countries,                                                                            of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally excluded.
Urban  puopulation  (2 of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different                Years of schooling Provided (first aad second levels) - Total years of
definitions of urban areas may affect comparability of data among cnoutries.                     schooling; at secondary level, vocational instructton may be partially or
completely excluded.
age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), wnrking-age (15-64 years),                     Vocational enrollnent  (b of necondas-l - Vocational institution   include
and retired (65 years and  -ov) as percentsges of mid-year population                           technical, industrial or other programs which operate independently or as
Age dependencv ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to those                       departuents of secondary institutfons
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                         Adult lireraco rare  (S) - Literato adults (ablc to rend asd writs) as peo-
-ccromic  dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to                       centage of total adult pnpslatiosi aged 15 years and  ver.
the labor force in age groop of 15-64 years.
Fapilv  plsnning - acceptors (cumulative, rhoo) - C0u-lativo nunber of anoeptors                 husogin
of birth-catsrol devices under auspices of national family planning progran                   Persons per rotm (urban) - Aherase nusaber of persons per room in occapicd
since i-neption,                                                                                 conventional dwellings in urban areas; dwcllings  nccludrnon-permanen,
ro-ily  pan                       - users  (e¾ of warriedwae)-Prntgsonrrd womn of                  aurunt.r-  and sooccpied parts..
child-bearing age (15-44 yours) who one birth-control devices to all married                  Occpie          ings  without  pied water an- pied cnventional dwecliogu
women i,s sane age group.                                                                        in urban and rural areas without inside or osutide piped  at    fcili tie
as percentage of all occupied dwellings.
incloyssent                                                                                      Access to electricity (% ofall dllings) - Conventional donlliovs with
,otsl labor force (thousand) - Economically active persons, including armed                        electricity in licing quarters as percent ot total dwnllinrs In  rbn b         -d
forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc. ; definitions                     rural areas.
in various countries are not comparable.                                                      Rural dwellinis  connected  to electricity  (%) - Computed as above for rural
Labor - ome  is agriculture  (%) - Agricultural labor force (in farming, forestry,                 dwellings Only.
husting and fishing) as percentage of total labor force.
lJnerplayed  (7 of labor force) - losenployed are usually defined so persons who                 Consumption
are able and willing to take a job, out of a job on a given day, rmnained out                  Radio receivers (per thou pop) - All types of receivers far redio broadcasts
of a Job, and seeking work for a specified  inisimsas period noc e-ceeding one                   to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed receivers
week; may not be compparable between countries due to differert definitions                      in countsios and in years when registration of radio sets was in effect;
of unoployed and so,urce of data, e.g., employment office statistics, sample                     data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries abolished
surveys, compalsory unemploynent insurance,                                                      licensing.
Passengter tars (per thou pop)- Passenger trsr comprise mator cars seating
Inaowe distribution - Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind)                         less than eight perston; excludes ahsul.ances, hearses  nd  Jilitary
rereived by richest 5°, richest 207, poorest 207, and poorest 40% of hous-                       vehicles.
holds.                                                                                         Electricity (kwh/yr per cap) - Annual consumption of industrial, commercia.l
public and private electricity in kilowatt hours per capita, generally
Distribution of land ownership  - Percentages of land owned by wealthiest 10%                       besed on production data, without allowance for loasses in grd  but allow-
and poorest 10' of land owners,                                                                  irg for imports cod exports of electricity.
Newprint (kg/yr per cap) - Per capite annual conaUnption in kilogras
Hecith  and Nutricin                                                                               estimated from domestic production plus net imports of newaprint.
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing
physicians qualified frm a medical school at university level.



ECONDM)IC DEVELOPMENT DATA                                             ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4 pages
Actual  _   Projected               1970-         1976-
1970      1976      1977e      1979      1982    1985                     1976          1985             1970       1976      1985
NATIONAL ACCO05NTS
Million of US$ at 1975 Prices and Exchange Rates                         Annual Growth Rates                 As Percent of GDY
Gross D-mestic Product           33,519    39,210   40,935       45,995   55,040  65,877                    2.6           6.0              100.7      100.9     100.1
Gains fron Terms of Trade (+)    -237         -353     *-269       -137      - 82    - 33                    --            --                  * .7   -.9   .....1
Gross Domestic Income            33,282    38,857   40,666       45,858   54,958  65,843                    2.6           6.1              100.0      100.0      100.0
Import (intl. NF9)                3,427      2,814    3,304       3,876    5,159   6,761                   -3.2          10.3               10.3        7.2       10.3
Exports   " (import capacity)  -3.644    -3.664   -498           -4,285   -5,424  -6,887                      .1          7.4              -10.9       -9.4      -10.5
Resosrc  Gap                    -  217    -  850   -1,676       -  409   -  265  -  126                     --            --              - 0.6       -2.2      -  .2
Consumption Expenditures         25,393    30,173   30,459       34,869   42,032  50,566                    2.9           6.0               76.3       77.7       76.8
I-vestment  "  (incl. stocks)   7,672        7,834   89,531      10,579   12,658  15,151                      .3          7.7               23.1       20.2       23.0
Domestic Ravings                  7,989      8,684   10,207      10,989   12,924  15,277                     1.6           6.6               23.7      22.3       23.2
NationlI Savings                  7,441      8,387    9,852      10,691   12,646  15,054                     1.1          6.9                22.4      21.4       22.9
MERCHANDISE TRADE                            Anual Data at Current Prices                                                                       As Percent of Total
Imports
Capitol Goods                     365       550       874       1,327    2,423   4,004                     --            --               21.5       18.0       28.3
Intermediate Goods              1,168     1,870    2,402        3,310    5,477   9,010                     __            __               68.9       61.3       63.8
FPels and related materials        79       560       584         635       721     B18                    --            --                4.7       18.4        5.8
Consumption goods                  82         70       98         124      185      298                    --            --                4.9        2.3        2.1
Total Nerch. Imports (cif)    1,694       3,050    3,958        5,396    8,806  14,130                                                   100.0      100.0      100.0
Exports
Primary products                1.485     2.807    3.842        4.457    6.876  10.421                     --            --               83.7       74.6       72.5
Manufactured goods              ..&Q  Q.35          2..u        1.271    LZ       32954                                                    16.3      25.4       27.5
Total Mereh. Exports (fob)    1,774       3.763    5,337        5,835    9,143  14375                                                   100.0      100.0      100.0
Morchaondise Trade Indices                    Average 1975  -  100
Export Price Index                 45         95      105         125      156      193
Import Price Index                 49       104       121         129      158      194
Terms of Trade Index               93         91       95          97        98     100
Export Volume Index               132        136      178         157      198      251
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR             Annual Data at 1975 Prices acd ExchansR  Rates
Agriculture                     4,478     4,664      5,094      5,690      6,849  7,807                    1.5            5.4              14.6       13.0      13.6
Industry and Mining            12,452    15,248    15,432    17,237    20,749 23,652                      2.9             6.9             40.6       42.5       41.2
Services                       13.740    15,965    16,930    18,911    22.764 25,948                      2.8            5.4               44.8      44.5       45.2
Total                          30,670    35,877    37,456    41,838    50,362 57,407                      2.7             6.0             100.0     100.0      100.0
Pt3LIC FINANCE                                                                                                                                  As Percent of GDP
(Central GCvmrnnt-Treasury)
Current Receipts                5,027     5,960                                                           2.9            --                15.0      15.2        --
Current Expenditures           3.889      5,254                                                           5.1            __               11.6       13.4        __
Budgetary Savings               1,139       760                                                            --            --                3.3        1.8        -_
Other Public Sector Transfers   670       2,509                                                          24.6            --                 2.0       6.4        __
Public Sector Investment          737     1,686                                                          14.8            --                 2.2       4.3        --
SELECTED INDICATORS                              1965-     1970-      1975-      1980-
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)          1970       1975       1980       1985
Average ICOR                                      4.4        6.9       6.8        3.7
Import Elasticity                                 1.1       0,9        1.4        1.7
Marginal Domestic Savings Rate (%)               26.7       10.6      43.7       24.5
Marginal National Savings Rate (7.)              23.2      16.2       44.5       24.9
LABOR FORCE AND                               Total Reommerated Labor Force                                  Value Added Per Worker (1975          Prices & Ec-. Rates)
OUTPUT PER WOREER                  In Millions             7% of Total       Annual Grovth Rate         In U.S.Dollars       Percent of Average
1970        1973       1970         1973                               1970       1973     1970           1973        1970-73
Agriculture                      1.181       1.264         18          17           2.3                 4,854      4,636    85.9            78.9          1.5
Induatry                         2.488      2.666         37           36           2.3                 6,392      7,162   113.2          121.9           3.9
Services                         3.082      3.434         45           47           3.7                 5.702      5.830   100.9            99,2           .7
Total Average                    6.751      7.364        100          100           2.9                 5,649      5,876   100.0           100.0          1.03



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(amounts in millions of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Actual                                      Ettimated                Projected
1972      1973        1974       1975    1976           1977               1980       1985
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                                          2,389       3,799      4,761      3,669   4,669          6,461              7,989    16,509
ImPorts (incl. NFS)                                           2.222      2.633      4.218      4.517   3.584          4,561               7,317    16.208
Resourte Balance                                                167      1,166       1543       -848   1,084          r                  .g 6X72       301
Net Factcr Service Income                                      -386       -455       -416       -440    -490            -487               -491       -517
Net Interest Payments                                      (-323)    (-382)    (-388)    (-425)  (-464)            (_457)             (-427)    (-377)
Direct Investment ISome                                     (-60)      (-77)      (-35)      (-16)   (.28)          (.30)              (-65)    (-140)
Other Factor Service Itcce-                                 (-3)       ( 4)       ( 7)         1)       2)             -                  -          -
Current Transfers (net)                                          -4         10         -           5       18              7                 -5        -10
Balance on Correct Account                                     -223        721        127    -1,283       611          1.420               Lzi        _2j
Private Direct Invetrtent                                        10         10         10         -         -              -                 40        120
Official Capital Grants                                          10         26          17        9         8              6                  1          0
Public MkLT Loans
Disbursement                                                 522        832        776        448   1,908          1,144              1,236      1,190
-Amorti-ation                                                -317       -468       -548       -516   _-90            -734             -1.087    -1z114
Net Disbcrsesentc                                            205        364        228        -68   1,319            410                 149         76
Other MLkT Loans
Disbursement                                                101          71        244        405     268            650                550         625
-Amortization                                                 -50       -100       -216       -408    -427           _399                 392        408
Net Disbursements                                             51        -29         28         -3    -159            251                 168        217
Short-Tarn Capital and
Transactions n.e.i.                                             82       _444       -339        275  -1,814           -203
Change in Net Reserves
( -    increase)                                             -135        -648        -71      1,070       35        -1,884
Change in Gross Reserves
( - = increase)                                              -195       -865          44        85:  -1,157         -1,884               -534       -187
GRANT AND LOAN COMMMT_NT
Official Grants & Grant-Like
Public MkLT Loans
IBRD                                                          -          -          -          -     115
Other Multilateral                                            92         57          1        177    165
Covernments                                                   82         42        519         42    146
Suppliers                                                    118        116        535        307    196
Financial Institutions                                       390        156        488        126    970
Bonds                                                        120         65        290        200    207
Public Lans n.e.i.                                            -          -          -          -      -
Total Public MkLT Loans                                      892        436      1,833        852  1,803
Actual                        Est.
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE             1972   1973   1974   1975   197    -7
Public Debt Outstanding
& Disbursed                    2,368  2,792  3,046  2,901  4,251    4,613
Interest am Public Debt          156    199    233    250    258          289
Repaysents on Public Debt        317    468    548    516    589          734
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31. 1976            Total Public Debt Service        473    667    781    766    847    1,023
EXTERNAL DEBT (Disbursed only)                  Disbursed Only                      Percent         Other Debt Service                174    244    408    626    659
Total Debt Service               647    911  1,189  1,392  1,506
IBRD                                                 342                            8.1
Other Multilateral                                   294                            6.9        BURDEN ON ExPORT EABNINGS (%)
Governments                                          567                           13.3
Suppliers                                            686                           16.1          Public Debt Service              19.8   17.6   16.4   20.9   18.1          15.8
Financial Institutions                             1,566                           36.8
Bonds                                                743                           17.5          Total Debt Service               27.1   24.0   25.0   37.9   32,3
Public Debts n.e.i.                                   53                            1.3          TDS + Dir. Inv. Icncme           29.6   26.0   25.7   38.4   32.9
Total Public MkLT Debt                              4,251                          100.0
AVER5AGE-TERME OP PUBLIC DEBT
Int. as % Prior Yesar DO&D       83    8.4    8.3    8.2    8.9
Amort. as 7 Prior Year DOD  16.9   19.8   19.6   16.9   20.3
IBRD Debt Out. & Disbursed       256    302    340    341    342
IBRD as 7 of Pub. Debt O&D   10,8   10.8   11.2   11.8    8.0
IBRD Debt Serv. as % of
Pub. Debt Serv.                 5.1    4.6    4.5       5.6    5.1



Annex II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of March 31, 1978)
Amount less        Undis-
Loan No.   Year         Borrower          PurRose         Cancellations       bursed
(US$ million)
Fully disbursed loans                                        342.3
505       1968        Argentina          Livestock           15.3              2.6
733       1971        Ferrocarriles      Railways            56.5              2.5
Argentinos S.A.
734       1971        Argentina          Highways            67.5             10.9
1330       1977        SEGBA, S.A.        Power              115.0            111.0
1384       1977        Argentina          Highways           105.0            104.9
1463       1978        Banco Nacional    Industrial
de Desarrollo      Credit           100.0            100.0
Total                                             801.6           331.9
Of which has bieen repaid                         123.3
678.3
Amount sold                      11.3
Of which has been repaid          7.0               4.3
Total now held by Bank                            674.0
Total undisbursed                                                 331.9



Annex II
Page 2 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
(As of March 31, 1978)
Fiscal                                                              Amount in US$ million
Year                Obligor               Type of Business         Loans     Equity   Total
(US$ million)
1960           Acindar Industria           Steel Products           3.7        -        3.7
Argentina de Aceros, S.A.
1960           Papelera Rio Parana, S.A. Pulp and Paper            3.0         -        3.0
1961           Fabrica Argentina de        Automotive               1.5        -        1.5
Engranajes, S.A.I.C.       Transmission
1962           PASA, Petroquimica          Petrochemicals          3.0         -        3.0
Argentina, S.A.I.C.
1965/1972      Celulosa Argentina, S.A.  Pulp and Paper           12.5         -       12.5
1969/1975      Dalmine Siderca, S.A.       Steel Products         17.0         -       17.0
1969           Editorial Codex, S.A.       Printing and            5.0        2.0       7.0
Publishing
1971/1973      Calera Avellaneda, S.A.   Cement                    5.5         -        5.5
1977           Alpargastas S.A.I.C.        Textiles & Fibers        7.0        -        7.0
1977           Soyex S.A.                  Soybean Processing      9.0         -        9.0
Plant
Total Gross Commitments                            67.2       2.0       69.2
Less Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                               33.6        2.0      35.6
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                  33.6         -       33.6
Total Undisbursed                                   9.0         -        9.0



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
(As of December 31, 1977)
Loan 505-AR - Balcarce Livestock Project, US$15.3 million loan of July 31,
1967; Effective Date: August 31, 1967; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Lending to ranchers progressed very slowly from loan effectiveness
until 1970, then accelerated as cattle prices increased and technical services
improved. From 1970 to 1973, project performance was satisfactory and a sub-
stantial amount of the loan was disbursed. However, the closing of the
European Economic Community (EEC) to Argentine beef imports in 1974 limited
external demand for beef and slowed down ranchers' demand for investment
credits. Current prospects for beef cattle development in Argentina are
.mproving significantly since producers' prices are increasing in real terms
under new Government pricing policies and since beef exports are expanding
rapidly due in part to the! reopening of the EEC market. At present, about 25%
of the Bank loan still remains to be disbursed.
Loan 733-AR - Railway Project. US$84.0 million loan of April 28. 1971; Effective
Date: July 30. 1971; Closing Date: September 30. 1978.
Due to the socio-economic situation of the country, it became clear
in 1973-1974 that the original Project could not be implemented. On July 2,
1974, US$27.5 million was cancelled. The remaining US$56.5 million was to
finance procurement committed by the original Closing Date, April 30, 1974.
After having come to a standstill in 1975, procurement has regained momentum.
The last of 59 contracts for Bank-financed goods was finally signed in May
1976. Goods have been deLivered for 40 contracts, and the revised loan is now
88% disbursed.
Loan 734-AR - Third Highway Project, US$67.5 million loan of May 5. 1971;
Effective Date: July 30. 1971; Closing Date: December 31. 1979.
The overall quaLity of construction and supervision for the 28 road
sections included in the project is satisfactory. Fifteen of the road sections
have now been completed, but construction of the remaining thirteen sections
ran into severe problems caused by the difficult economic situation prevailing
in 1975 and early 1976.  :Since March 1976, the Government has taken measures
to improve the situation and work has now resumed at a normal pace. The bulk
of the remaining work is expected to be carried out during 1978, with the
completion of several other contracts extending into the first half of
1979.
Loan 1330-AR - Electric Transmission and Distribution Program. US$115.0
million loan of November 1. 1976; Effective Date: January 10. 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
Although there was an initial delay of 3 to 6 months with the
procurement procedures mainly because of changes in SEGBA's management staff,
the project is now proceeding well.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Loan 1384-AR - Fourth Highway Pro1ect: US$105.0 million loan of May 16, 1977;
Effective Date: December 13, 1977: Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project is proceeding on schedule.
Loan 1463-AR - Industrial Credit Prolect; US$100.0 million loan of September 23,
1977; Effective Date: November 28. 1977: Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is proceeding on schedule.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Supplementary Data Project Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:              Twelve months
(b)  Agencies which prepared project:            Government, FAO/CP, Bank
(c)  First presentation to Bank:                 January 1977
(d)  First Bank mission to review project:       July 1977
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:             October 1977
(f)  Completion of negotiations:                 March 31, 1978
(g)  Planned Data of' Effectiveness:             September 15, 1978
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
1.   The Bank has obtained assurances that:
(a) Government would establish a Project Committee consisting,
inter alia, of representatives of SEAG, BNA and INTA (para. 46).
(b) Government would cause the Project Committee to appoint a
competent and experienced Project Coordinator (para. 47).
(c) Technicians of INTA, pertinent official entities or private
consultants authorized by the Project Coordinator would
provide technical assistance for the preparation, execution
and supervision of the farm investment plans of subborrowers;
the training of field technicians would be carried out by
INTA.
(d) The Government would enter into subsidiary loan agreements,
satisfactory to the Bank, with BNA and other participating
banks (para. 54).
(e) Separate project accounts would be kept by each participating
bank and would be made available for inspection by the Bank;
project accounts would be audited by independent auditors
satisfactory to the Bank; certified copies of the financial
statements audited, together with the report from the auditors,
would be sent to the Bank no later than four months after the
close of each fiscal year.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(f) Farm investment plans for weed control would be authorized by
INTA (para. 43).
(g) Farm investment plans for land clearing would have to be
accompanied by a land clearing permit issued by the competent
authorities (para. 44).
2.   Conditions of effectiveness of the loan would be that:
(a) the Project Committee to administer execution of the project
had been established (para. 46);
(b) the project coordinator had been employed (para. 47); and
(c) the Government had signed a subsidiary loan agreement,
satisfactory to the Bank, with BNA (para. 54).



IBRD 13337
N    %tt4k4tA a  A Y' AC
V~~~~~~ 2                                                                                                                   .           .                     . -,NW    .wjX
ORAN                                 -                       ORANZtLs
~~~~~~ALTA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ALEIC
)                   2                                                                 -            a            *                 A                  K 5   A  L *
U                                                             As ''T
i  i - .  A Y.t ko'F MA < L < <; < < &.; i U L A,r; , Jt i . R A -. Z. , . . L .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SA  MGEL -MI ~   u; .    -~~
O ~ ~  ~    ~ ~~ I .O .                                                                                                                 't)rQI    i> 4 f   . AML   -     ,_|*_r           5;z         n     
Ei ,'   f -ES.ISTEP,AC   oAUNTS5CA i
72r    tJtI    t  4,     -                                                 LMNTIUGU
72'E                                         ?GIUGGACA    ;L ESTEAi                                                                                 'Ž''Y
-2D' TILLI     IIAMA                                   HERAAAAO                                               ,,                          ........................................   , '  .ii . T'  i. *-   '-    ':.,RERA
b                                    MREACEUL
r =      - ;:   }                                                                                 F                      [)  GAMALSE                                     B    K    AZ:-        ,   f -:E  : ,,    t_-:.' : A,
l W                        WAROJA                                                r   i 0    A    <   W  z>
As~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0                                                AC ASE ES
SN. CAISTOSAL
SAN JUSTUa'(AE                       A q.                                      .     .
-ro                  SANTA FE1        , '                                                                          *t
9                   ~~~~~~~~SAN JUAI            r                                                                0DE       ,   AT  E X C N O D                            -
0                     j0 0>c 0                                        - VILAGUA                                                                              -     A,
j~~~~~~~~~~~aO
-32'                       .N                                                                           L OEL.A          5, (TULr-lA   GUALAEGU.
GULLAGAA  . AUEGVA'
A     LUIS                  EIDOA CCNSTITUCIO                                 If                                               I
MERCEDS°50 0                                            dEE$AAlO1-.
-i AF     '      5~ '' ' VA  ° ~KIN        ;EN     AIR                                                                   S'
_  U LMCEDES           ,/1A 3PLATA
RLA EALCE                                                      ONANFTC
TENENL                       I                                                                              O'LIO  Q CEA  N
OSBOL VAAA                     0    \OM9L, LAGALEE                         RA
LUILTA AG,                              CL A I                                                   CMONENT A__EAS                                $5-
0                            0      ~~~~~~~~0 AAUCr                           On- Form DenAelopmeME
OLAUARAIA0  MAUL   UALACUSO                                  WedCoto
LA MAOURDo0                 OT ANDIL            /                      Land Cienong
0                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~BANKING  NETWORK
GONZALEZ'M DEPLT
C,-,AVES 0                                         B- Saco Nacion ArM/entEIno (brornches) B N.A.
TEES 0                                                 I NTA  NETWORK                                 SM,-
ARACAGS            ..<______
I               ~~~~R$ewarchI Stai-ssi
Field Offices
j                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~N ProAincaCIO BoUndaries
- 5   1AM  AMU 3 '  15  750          I           ---   International Boundaries
.     . /  f  °   5D  lf,    .    .   ; I       -_-       Rivers
-Ur- EU'                                 S:M>                SU-                 ZEF         tA' A. -          40



