CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1564 AR
Loan Agreement
(Agricultural Credit Project)
between
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 29, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1564 AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 29, 1978, between THE ARGENTINE
REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General. Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "BNA" means Banco de la Naci6n Argentina.
(b) "Participating Banks" means BNA and any other banks
selected by the Borrower for purposes of carrying out the Project
in accordance with the Lending Policies.
(c) "Lending Policies" means the policies set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time.
(d) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any of the agreements
to be entered into between the Borrower and each of the Partici-
pating Banks pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement; and
"Subsidiary Loan" means a loan provided for in a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
(e) "sub-borrower" means a farmer or cooperative of farmers
to which a sub-loan is made or proposed to be made.
(f) "sub-loan" means a loan to finance a farm investment
plan made or proposed to be made in accordance with the provisions
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement.


﻿- 2 -
(g) "farm investment plan" means a plan consisting of on-
farm improvements, weed control or land clearing to be carried out
by a sub-borrower and to be financed in part by means of a sub-
loan.
(h) "Project Committee" means the committee referred to in
Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement.
(i) "Project Coordinator" means the coordinator referred
to in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement.
(j) "INTA" means Instituto Nacional de Tecnologfa Agro-
pecuaria.
(k) "peso" means the currency unit of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty
million dollars ($60,000,000).
Section 2,002. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the goods and services for the technical assistance included
in Part B of the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, shall be procured in accordance with local procurement
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983 or
such later date as the Bank shall otherwise establish. The Bank
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)


﻿- 3 -
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
seven and one-half per cent (7.50%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with the Lending
Policies and appropriate technical, administrative, economic and
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of
the Loan to the Participating Banks under Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ments on the terms and conditions specified in Part I of Schedule
4 to this Agreement, or on such other terms and conditions as the
Bank shall agree.
(b) The Borrower shall require the Participating Banks to
lend the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loans to sub-borrowers on the
terms and conditions specified in Part II of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, or on such other terms and conditions as the Bank shall
agree.
(c) The Borrower shall require the Participating Banks to
operate, in respect of the Project, in accordance with appropriate
business, technical, economic, banking and financial practices,
under the supervision of experienced and competent management.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) establish and maintain a Project Committee for purposes
of coordinating and supervising the execution of the Project; the


﻿-4-
members of the Project Committee to be representatives, inter
alia, of the Borrower's Secretarla de Estado de Agricultura y
Ganaderla, BNA and INTA; and
(b) employ a competent and experienced Project Coordinator.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause
to be maintained records and procedures adequate to record and
monitor the progress of the Project (including its cost and the
benefits to be derived from it), to identify the goods and ser-
vices financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose
their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(b) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any


﻿- 5 -
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
cireating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause the Participating
Banks:
(a) to establish and maintain separate accounts to record
their receipts and payments for or in connection with the Project,
including: (i) amounts received and payments made under Subsidiary
Loan Agreements, and (ii) amounts disbursed to and received from
the sub-borrowers; and


﻿-6-
(b) (i) to have such accounts for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) to
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of such accounts for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) to furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
such accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) a Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf
of the Borrower and BNA;
(b) the Project Committee has been established;
(c) the Project Coordinator has been employed; and
(d) the Tribunal de Cuentas of the Borrower has examined
this Agreement in accordance with the laws of t'B borrower and has
issued its opinion thereon without formulating any objection
thereto.
Section 5.02. The date October 30, 1978, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-7-
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economia
Hip6lito Yrigoyen 250
Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address:                     Telex:
Ministerio de Economla           121952
Buenos Aires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Guillermo Walter Klein
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 8 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in e2ach Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans                                    46% of payments
(Part A of                                  made by Partici-
the Project)                                pating Banks to
finance sub-
(a) on-farm              8,700,000          loans for farm
investment                             development
plans
(b) weed control        13,500,000
(c) land clearing       32,000,000
(2) Vehicles and                                 100% of foreign
equipment for                               expenditures or
Part B of the                               50% of local
Project and for                             expenditures
Project adminis-
tration                    800,000
(3) Unallocated               5,000,000
TOTAL      60,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and


﻿- 9 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
(b) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory
of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; and
(c) expenditures made before the execution and delivery
of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement in respect of any portion of
the Loan to be lent thereunder.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has
reasonably estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed per-
centage of all expenditures in that Category, the Bank may,
by notice to the Borrower, reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the
Loan which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures.
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.
6.   Withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of Category (1)
shall be made in pesos bought by the Bank from the Central Bank of
the. Borrower at the official prevailing rate of exchange of the
peso in terms of the dollar on the fifteenth day of the month in
which the Participating Banks disbursed the funds in respect of
which withdrawal is requested or on the fifteenth day of the
fourth month preceding the month in which the withdrawal applica-
tion therefor is received by the Bank, whichever shall be later.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A.   Making of sub-loans to sub-borrowers to finance on-
farm investment, weed control and land clearing.
Part B.
1.   Provision of technical assistance to sub-borrowers for
the preparation and execution of farm investment plans.
2.   Supervision by technicians of INTA, pertinent official
entities or the technicians authorized by the Project
Coordinator of the execution by sub-borrowers of farm
investment plans.
3.   Training by INTA of field technicians.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 1982
through   September 15, 1990                 3,335,000
On March 15, 1991                                 3,305,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 12 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years                         1.75%
before maturity
More than three years but                         2.90%
not more than five years
before maturity
More than five years but not                      5.20%
more than nine years
before maturity
More than nine years but                          6.35%
not more than eleven
years before maturity
More than eleven years                            7.50%
before maturity


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 4
Lending Policies
Part I.   Terms and conditions of Subsidiary Loans
1.   Subsidiary Loans shall:
(a) be denominated in pesos;
(b) bear interest at a rate of not less than 2.75% per
annum on their outstanding principal amount,
adjusted from time to time in accordance with the
fndice general de precios al por mayor of the
Borrower; and
(c) be repayable over a period of time equal to that
applicable to the repayment of the Loan including
a grace period of not more than 4 years.
2.   Each Participating Bank shall provide out of its own
resources:
(a) 54% of the amount of each sub-loan made by such
Participating Bank; and
(b) short-term credit to sub-borrowers in such amounts
and on such terms and conditions as shall be
required to ensure that the purposes of the Loan
will be accomplished.
3.   Participating Banks shall be required to use any funds
accruing to them from the carrying out of the Project
for similar purposes and on the same terms and condi-
tions as the proceeds of Subsidiary Loans.
Part II. Terms and conditions of Sub-loans
1.   Sub-loans shall:
(a) be denominated in pesos;
(b) bear interest at an annual rate on their outstand-
ing principal amount, adjusted from time to time in
accordance with the fndice general de precios al


﻿- 14 -
por mayor of the Borrower, equal to the annual rate
of interest on the corresponding Subsidiary Loan
plus at least three percentage points; provided,
however, that the resulting annual rate of interest
is not less than 6%; and
(c) be repayable over a period of not less than 3 years
and not more than 9 years, including a grace period
of not more than 4 years, such periods to be deter-
mined on the basis of the projected cash-flow of
the farm investment plan concerned.
2.   Sub-loans shall be made only to finance farm investment
plans prepared by the sub-borrowers with the assistance
of INTA or consultants authorized by the Project Coordi-
nator.
3.   Each sub-borrower shall be required to provide not less
than 20% of the cost of his farm investment plan out of
his own resources.
4.   The technical assistance referred to in paragraph 2
above may be included in the cost of a farm investment
plan, provided, however, that it does not exceed 10% of
the amount of the sub-loan made therefor.
5.   Applications for sub-loans to finance farm investment
plans consisting of:
(a) land clearing shall be accompanied by a land
clearing permit issued by the competent authori-
ties; and
(b) weed control shall be authorized by INTA.


