                                      Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 29153

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                       (TF-28488)

                                         ON A

                                      GEF GRANT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 16.8 MILLION

                                  TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                      INDONESIA

                                         FOR

                            THE SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS PROJECT




                                      June 21, 2004




Energy and Mining Sector Unit
Infrastructure Department
East Asia and Pacific Region

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective as of December 31, 2003)

                            Currency Unit = Indonesia Rupiah (Rp)
                                 Rp 1,000 = US$ 0.118
                                     US$ 1 = 8,464

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1     December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BAPPENAS              National Development Planning Agency
BPPT                  Agency for the Assessment and Aplication of Technology
BRI                   Bank Rakyat Indonesia
CFL                   Compact Fluorescent Lamp
CO2                   Carbon Dioxide
DGEED                 Directorate-General of Electricity and Energy Development
DGEEU                 Directorate-General of Electricity and Energy Utilization
DRE                   Decentralized Rural Electrification
EA                    Environmental Assessment
ERR                   Economic Rate of Return
FRR                   Financial Rate of Return
GEF                   Global Environment Facility
GOI                   Government of Indonesia
ISO                   International Standards Organization
LRMC                  Long Run Marginal Cost
LSDE                  Technical Implementation Unit & Energy Technology Laboratory
MME                   Ministry of Mines and Energy
NPV                   Net Present Value
OED                   Operations Evaluation Department
PLN                   State Electricity Corporation
PSG                   Project Support Group
PV                    Photovoltaic
RE                    Rural Electrification
SDF                   Solar Development Foundation
SHS                   Solar Home System
TA                    Technical Assistance
WTP                   Willingness To Pay

                           Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum
                         Country Director      Andrew D. Steer
                          Sector Manager       Junhui Wu
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Yuling Zhou

                                         INDONESIA
                                SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             42
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             44
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                45
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            46
Annex 8. Letter from BPPT responding to request to provide comments on ICR       47
Annex 9. ICR Aide Memoire                                                        48

Project ID: P003700                                                  Project Name: Solar Home Systems
Team Leader: Esperanza Miranda                                       TL Unit: EASIN
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 21, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Solar Home Systems                                       L/C/TF Number: TF-28488
   Country/Department: INDONESIA                                                          Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Renewable energy (95%); Central government administration (5%)
                  Theme: Climate change (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Other
                            financial and private sector development (P); Infrastructure services
                            for private sector development (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/30/1994                                     Effective:                           10/01/1997
     Appraisal: 07/06/1996                                         MTR: 05/31/1999                  09/22/2000
      Approval: 01/28/1997                                      Closing: 04/30/2002                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOI/BPPT AND DGEEU
                      Other Partners:      IBRD

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Marianne Haug (Acting VP)
Country Director:               Andrew D. Steer                                Marianne Haug
Sector Manager:                 Junhui Wu                                      Peter R. Scherer
Team Leader at ICR:             Yuling Zhou                                    Arun Sanghvi
ICR Primary Author:             Esperanza Miranda; Peter Meier
                                (Consultant); Yuling Zhou


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         HS
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: HS                               HS
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
The project was at risk several times during its implementation period (1998-2003) as weak country
conditions contributed to the low levels of SHS sales and prospects for large-scale market development
became limited, which led the project to be rated unsatisfactory in either implementation progress and
development objectives.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The national objectives of the project, as stated in the SAR, were to: (i) provide modern energy form of
electricity in an environmentally sustainable manner to rural consumers who cannot be economically served
in a timely manner by conventional rural electrification; (ii) facilitate participation by the private sector in
advancing renewable energy commercialization; (iii) promote environmentally sound energy resource
development in Indonesia and reduce the energy sector's dependence on fossil fuels; and (iv) strengthen
Indonesia's institutional capacity to support and sustain decentralized rural electrification using solar
photovoltaics.

The global environmental objective was to mitigate emissions of CO by displacing the use of fossil fuels
                                                                          2
such as kerosene for lighting or diesel-based power generation, with SHS. A related objective was to
remove barriers to large scale SHS market development.

These objectives were clear and realistic, and reflected Indonesia's priorities for rural development and
rural electrification at that time. Indonesia's Outlines of State Policy (1993) recognized the importance of
meeting the country's rapidly growing energy needs efficiently - through conservation, diversification, and
more efficient utilization of primary energy resources. Further, the GOI viewed rural electrification as a
key and integral part of rural development, and Indonesia's long term goal was to electrify all villages and
enable the basic services provided by electricity.

The objectives had clear links to the Bank's prevailing Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, 1995 and CAS
Progress Report, 1996) as well as the on-going operations at the time of project preparation/GEF grant
approval (1996/1997), which aimed at assisting the country to meet its critical demand for electricity in an
efficient and environmentally sustainable way. The CAS supported renewable energy development, and
recognized the potential role for off-grid decentralized rural electrification (RE) as a complement to the
least cost grid extension program. The Solar Home System (SHS) project was designed to continue the
Bank's dialogue with the GOI and to support the implementation of a sustainable and environmentally
sound RE development program, which was initiated in the Rural Electrification Project (Loan 3180-IND)
and continued through the Second Rural Electrification Project (Loan 3845-IND) and the Renewable
Energy Small Power Project (Loan 4198-IND, which was expected to finance grid-connected renewable
energy power generation but never became effective due to the 1997 regional financial crisis).

In addition, the SHS project was fully consistent with the GEF Operational Strategy of promoting adoption
of renewable energy by removing barriers and reducing implementation costs. The barriers targeted by the
project included the lack of established large markets for SHS, and the lack of term credit for SHS
purchases.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised during project implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of two major components:

(1) Credit component ­ comprised an IBRD loan (US$20 million) and a GEF grant (US$20 million) - to
enable purchase of solar home systems by rural households and commercial establishments on an
installment plan basis. Under the credit component, the project was to provide electricity to about one
million people in three provinces - West Java, Lampung and South Sulawesi - through the sale and



                                                       - 2 -

installation of 200,000 PV systems in homes, and commercial establishments such as small shops. The
sales of SHS units would be undertaken by private enterprises ("SHS dealers"), who would take
responsibility for procurement of components, installation and maintenance, and enter into
hire-purchase-contracts with the households. The SHS dealers would extend credit to rural households to
enable them to pay for their units on regular monthly installments. Participating local commercial banks
("Participating Bank" - PBs) would provide credit, on normal commercial terms, to SHS dealers, to enable
them to sell solar home systems on an installment plan basis as well as to finance their ongoing operations,
for up to five years. The PBs, in turn, would re-finance 80 percent of the credit extended to SHS dealers
from the IBRD loan made available to them at market rates, under on lending arrangements through the
Government of Indonesia (GOI). The GEF grant would provide payments to SHS dealers for each SHS
unit sold and installed (US$75 per unit installed in Java and US$125 per unit installed in Lampung and
South Sulawesi). These arrangements were modified later during project implementation in response to
changing market conditions.

(2) Technical assistance component ­ consisted of technical assistance for: (i) implementation support - to
establish a Project Support Group (PSG) to provide assistance to SHS dealers and end-users, monitor and
evaluate project progress, and conduct limited SHS related training to government officials and private
sector organizations; (ii) policy support - to carry out and prepare a Decentralized Rural Electrification
Study and SHS Implementation Plan; and (iii) institutional development - to assist GOI in building
Indonesia's institutional capabilities for the dissemination of solar PV technology, mainly BPPT-LSDE
capability to technically certify SHS systems and establish national SHS component standards. An amount
of US$4.3 million from the GEF grant was allocated to support the technical assistance component.

3.4 Revised Components:
The original components of the project were not changed during project implementation. However, soon
after the project became effective (October 1997), it became clear that adjustments to the project were
required to respond to the deteriorating economic and political situation in Indonesia as a result of the East
Asia financial crisis. Beginning in 1998, significant realignments were made by amendments to the legal
agreements along with a number of non-structural modifications on an on-going basis in line with findings
of the supervision missions. The main realignments were:

Minimum size of SHS system eligible for a grant was reduced from 50 Wp to 10 Wp. To counter the
reduced affordability of the 50 Wp system, technical specifications were modified to provide for a 10 Wp
minimum size system. Grant amounts were accordingly established, in 1998, for the smaller size systems.

Bank loan reduced and closed ahead of schedule. Less than $0.1 million of the $20 million IBRD loan
was utilized by December 2000. There was no demand for the loan from the dealers and the PBs were not
in a position to offer fresh credits to the dealers following the banking sector crisis. Thus, the loan was
closed on January 31, 2001, fifteen months ahead of the original schedule of April 30, 2002.

GEF grant reduced. With the closing of the IBRD loan in January 2001, the GEF grant was also reduced
from $24.3 million to $11 million, and further reduced to $5.2 million in April 2003 because of diminishing
sale prospects for SHS.

GEF grant closing date extended, then brought back. In reconfiguring the project as a stand-alone GEF
operation, the closing date was extended by two years to April 30, 2004, to offset the impact of the
country's financial crisis on the participating banks and dealers, and to respond to the promising market
conditions that prevailed in mid-2000. However, as the positive prospect gave way to high uncertainties due
to political turmoil, civil unrest and financial trends during much of 2001-02, the World Bank and the


                                                        - 3 -

Government concluded that the project was not likely to achieve any further strategic market development
benefits or significant sales in the near term, and it was agreed to close the GEF grant ahead of time on
December 31, 2003.

Grant sales eligibility changed. In 2000, the basis of the grant to dealers was changed from per unit basis
to per unit of power output (per Wp) basis. The shift to a per Wp grant would permit sales of larger
systems to be eligible for proportionally larger grants, while lowering the minimum size would enable sales
of affordable units on a cash basis to a wider market segment.

Number of project areas expanded. In early 2003, five kabupaten were added to the project's market
areas to enhance sales potential in areas adjoining the current areas.

TA study canceled. TA for a Decentralized Rural Electrification Study and the Solar Home System
Action Plan was replaced by Renewable Energy for Rural Transformation Study and Action Plan. This
change, arising from the increasing focus in Indonesia and the Bank on poverty reduction, was to focus the
study and plan on utilizing renewable energy for social and economic development of rural communities.
However, the study had to be cancelled in 2002 given the limited time available and procurement delays
related to consultant selection.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project quality at entry was rated "Good" (highest rating) by QAG's First Quality at Entry Assessment
in 1998. According to this assessment, projects rated "good" were projects with high probability of meeting
their development objectives and with substantial elements of best practice. The project received top ratings
in five of the eight quality dimensions reviewed by QAG, namely, (i) project concept, objectives and
approach; (ii) technical, economic and financial aspects; (iii) environmental aspects; (iv) social and
stakeholder aspects; and (v) Bank inputs and processes. Based on this review, the project team was honored
for Excellence in Quality by the Bank senior management in 1998. The essential elements of this project
design have since been incorporated, with appropriate changes and refinements, in a number of
Bank/GEF-financed solar PV projects in Asia (Sri Lanka and China) and Africa (Uganda). Most
importantly, the basic concept is now well-accepted that Bank-GEF projects can set up functioning markets
for solar pv products in remote, rural areas by helping to establish dealer supply chains on the one hand
and informed consumers on the other hand, with performance-based grants to kick-start the process.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of the project objectives is mixed. Project efforts to develop a large scale market for SHS
were largely hampered by the financial crisis of 1997 - which hit the country as project implementation
started - and by the resulting weak business environment. As a result, the project fell short of achieving the
key performance targets set for its national and global objectives, and the overall outcome of the project is
therefore rated unsatisfactory. Nevertheless, while the actual SHS sales fell far short of the appraisal
target, the project has had substantial results in the areas of institutional development and laying the
foundations for a well-functioning solar PV market. A detailed discussion of each the project objectives
follows.

Provide the modern energy form of electricity to rural customers who cannot be served economically
or in a timely manner by conventional rural electrification. The key performance indicators (KPIs)
established to measure the achievement of this objective were the number of SHS units sold per year and
the cumulative number of people served by the Project. The macro-economic crisis in 1997 substantially



                                                       - 4 -

hampered the project's efforts to introduce large-scale commercial SHS market development in rural areas
as economic conditions (high inflation, high interest rates, sharp local currency devaluation and falling
incomes) greatly reduced consumer affordability. Also, the country's financial sector made it difficult for
the original four participating banks, which were among the uppermost tier of top rated banks in Indonesia
at the time of appraisal, to provide financing to the SHS dealers. Consequently, SHS sales levels until late
2003 were consistently below expectations. By the end of the project, a total of 8,054 SHS units, serving
about 35,000 people, were installed. This level was well below the appraisal targets of 200,000 units
serving about one million people, and below even the January 2001 revised targets of 70,000 units and
300,000 people, respectively. Therefore, the achievement of this objective is rated unsatisfactory.

Facilitate participation of private sector in advancing renewable energy commercialization.
Achievement of this objective was measured against the following performance indicators: (i) number of
dealers, to measure the extent of market development; (ii) number of dealers with "problem loans" by PBs,
to measure the extent to which the Project was successful in establishing a sustainable delivery mechanism;
(iii) installed price, to measure the cost-effectiveness of the SHS units in meeting the customer's needs; and
(iv) customer timely repayment rates, to measure customer satisfaction with their SHS systems and also the
extent of cost recovery. By the end of the project, the number of participating dealers had increased to six
from only one dealer operating at the end of 2000; there were no problem loans among dealers except for a
small nominal loan to one dealer in 1990; dealers reported credit repayment rates of above 95% (most of
the units were purchased on dealer-supplied credit); and SHS prices were reduced to the range of $450 to
$525 for a 50 Wp system (compared to actual prices ranging from $550 to $800 at appraisal). Therefore,
the achievement of this objective is rated satisfactory.

Further, the project encouraged local Indonesian firms to manufacture "balance of system" components of
SHS (excluding the solar PV panels), had them tested initially on a grant basis at international laboratories
and subsequently on a commercial basis at the LSDE/BPPT laboratory (after this had been ISO 25
qualified) to check whether they met the project's technical specifications, and arranged for technical
support from interested international organization to improve their quality. Two companies that received
assistance with component design and testing are now exporting the components. One of these companies,
while still relatively small, is becoming a major exporter of some integrated balance of system components,
contributing, for example, to sales in Sri Lanka under the World Bank supported Energy Services Delivery
Project and to commercial sales in Kenya. Another company whose development has been supported under
the project has sold systems in rural areas under the World Bank-financed Kecamatan Development Project
in Indonesia and other provincial and local government-supported rural energy programs.

Promote environmentally sound energy resource development in Indonesia and reduce the energy
sector's dependence on fossil fuels. Achievement of this objective was to be measured by the amount of
fossil fuel conserved. Although the development impact study conducted under the Project found that the
use of kerosene for lighting among the SHS uses decreased in average by 45.7%, or from 25.9 liters to 14.1
liters per month, the cumulative amount of fossil fuel conserved under the project amounted only to 20,441
kilo-liters as opposed to the original target of 546,720 kilo-liters, as result of the lower number of SHS
units sold under the project. Therefore, the achievement of this objective is rated unsatisfactory.

Strengthen Indonesia's institutional capacity to support and sustain decentralized rural electrification
using solar photovoltaics. Achievement of this objective was to be measured by (i) strengthening BPPT's
capacity to certify the technical capabilities of solar PV systems through technical assistance and project
support activities, and (ii) the completion of the Decentralized Rural Electrification Strategy Study and
SHS Implementation Plan. Implementation of the TA for institutional development and project support



                                                       - 5 -

activities was carried out in a highly satisfactory way and resulted in the following positive outcomes: first,
strict technical criteria and procedures for testing and certification of SHS units were developed within the
Technical Implementation Unit and Energy Technology Laboratory (LSDE) of the Indonesian Agency for
Assessment and Application of Technology (BPPT). These technical standards are now being used, with
adaptations, in a number of other countries (Sri Lanka, China and Uganda). Further, these standards also
formed a base for the activities of an international NGO, Photovoltaic Global Approval Program, which is
developing a Seal and Mark of quality; second, technical assistance provided through the project enabled
the Photovoltaic Testing Laboratory of BPPT to obtain ISO 17025 accreditation for PV components
testing, which was beyond the original target. This certification has allowed the laboratory to achieve
international standing for testing and certifying balance of system components. The laboratory has tested
and certified products from the USA, Indonesia and the Netherlands that have been accepted for use under
World Bank projects in other countries; and third, the Project Support Group (PSG), established under the
Project, effectively carried out field audits and other monitoring responsibilities and provided capacity
building and technical assistance, including the training of more than 479 staff in the rural distribution
networks of the participating companies.

The Decentralized Rural Electrification Study and SHS Implementation Plan was reformulated as a
Renewable Energy for Rural Transformation Study and Action Plan in response to the Borrower's request
to develop a strategy for renewable energy for rural transformation. After several months of procurement
preparation, DGEEU (previously DGEED) decided not to conduct the study given the limited time
available and Bank procurement requirements. Despite the disappointing cancellation of the latter study,
the outcomes achieved under the remaining TA activities, as described above, have been substantial, and
therefore the achievement of this objective is rated highly satisfactory.

Mitigate emissions of CO in Indonesia. Due to the small scale of SHS units sold and corresponding
                             2
environmental benefits when compared to the appraisal targets, the achievement of this objective is rated
unsatisfactory

Other Benefits

In addition to the above outcomes, it is recognized that the project has had other beneficial effects that go
beyond the project itself:

(i) the relatively ambitious scale of the project and the Bank/GEF's continued support for the project in
difficult economic times sent a clear signal to solar PV dealers and supply companies that the Bank and
GEF were seriously committed to the development of commercial solar PV distribution in particular, and
renewable energy in general;

(ii) the project's demonstration effect of a semi-commercial approach for SHS market development will be
a strong input into decisions on official subsidies for SHS and similar projects in the future. The project
demonstrated that approximately 20% of credit subsidy was sufficient to provide renewable energy to rural
households, rather than the 90-100% subsidies often found in donor and government (including local
government) supported programs. The price reductions have also shown that cost savings are possible; and

(iii) some of the innovative design features of the project have since been utilized in other
Bank/GEF-financed projects. These include a transparent and simple system to administer
performance-based GEF grants to dealers, within a commercial and competitive framework, with a project
scale that enabled a clear commercial exit strategy. This system also provided for end-user audits to verify



                                                       - 6 -

and monitor dealer performance. In contrast, prior to this project, solar PV projects in most countries
typically followed a government procurement approach, even in situations where governance structures
were not sustainable and did not lead to a self-sustaining commercial solar PV market.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Credit Component
After the closing of the IBRD loan in January 2001, the GEF grant continued supporting the
implementation of the credit component by providing grants payments to SHS dealers for each SHS sold
and installed under the project. After project realignment, grant payments to SHS dealers were changed to
per Wp basis. Dealers received a grant payment of $2/Wp for systems, 10 Wp and above, sold in any of
the market areas. As of September 30, 2003 (which was set as the deadline by which dealers could submit
grant applications), a total of 8,054 SHS units had been sold in the areas of South Sulawesi, Lampung and
West Jawa, of which 4,139 (51%) were sold in 2003 alone (Table 1). SHS sales accelerated in 2003 in
response to the increased consumer affordability as commodity prices (mostly cacao and palm oil)
improved, and the increased competitiveness resulting from reduction of subsidies on competing products
such as kerosene and diesel. Over half of the units sold under the project were 50 Wp system (Table 2) with
retail prices ranging from US$450 to US$525 compared to US$550 to US$800 at appraisal.

Six participating dealers were active at the end of the project (compared to only one at the end of 2000,
when the IBRD loan was about to close). One of these dealers, however, did not make grant eligible sales
under the project. Most of the sales (95%) were financed through dealer-supplied credits over 2 years with
20% to 30% down payments (Table 3). Four of the six participating companies have expressed that they
will continue expansion of rural retail distribution networks and sale of SHS on a fully commercial basis.

Of the four participating banks that initially signed agreements to participate in the project, only one bank
worked actively with SHS dealers throughout project implementation. By end 1997, as a result of the
financial sector crisis and the contraction of the banking sector, one of the banks was closed and the other
three were barred by Central Bank from issuing fresh credits to any customers. One of these three stopped
operating in 1999. In mid-2000, the two remaining banks were refinanced and were permitted to offer fresh
credits. However, only one bank provided for near-term expansion in the SME sector targeted by the
project.

The IBRD loan and GEF Grant Agreement had prohibited the charging of any fees for processing grant
payments, as it was expected that PBs would be able to recoup their costs through the normal fees that they
would be earning on their loans and other banking services that they would be providing to the dealers.
However, when the IBRD Loan was closed, it became clear that the PBs would not earn any significant
fees from loans to dealers. The Bank then agreed in 2001 to allow PBs to receive U$100 as processing fee
for each batch of grant payment requests.

Table 1: Summary of SHS Unit Sales
 Market Area             1999        2000         2001        2002         2003        Totals
 South Sulawesi         76           997         708         200           1,184       3,165
 Lampung                14           281         686         648           2,197       3,826
 West Java              2            21          158         124           798         1,063
 Total                  92           1,299       1,552       972           4,139       8,054




                                                      - 7 -

Table 2: SHS Sales by Unit Size and Market Area
 Market Area           32 Wp 40 Wp 42 Wp 49.3 Wp 50 Wp 53 Wp 60 Wp 100 Wp Total
 South Sulawesi           6      1,585    251       2      1,285                   36        3,165
 Lampung                  3       338     25       437     2,935      56           32        3,826
 West Java                2        75      3        82      795       28       1   77        1,063
 Total                    11     1,998    279      521     5,015      84       1   145       8,054

Table 3: Consumer Financing Terms
 Dealer      Down        Interest       Credit Term (Months)          Cash       Total
           Payment (Flat rate)                                                   Sales
                                      18      24      30      36
 A        20%          24%                   2,594                        155      2,749
 B        30%          24%                     945   2,034                178      3,157
 C        20%          18%                                   1,224         73      1,297
 D        30%          18%             373                                 22        395
 E        30%          22%                     430                         26        456
 Total                                 373 3,970 2,034 1,224              453      8,054

A total of 7,712 end-user audits of the SHS installed under the project were conducted by PSG
successfully. The purpose of the audit was the verification of SHS sales and installations, and compliance
with technical standards and consumer protection requirements. These audits consistently found high
consumer satisfaction levels with the SHS performance and continued strong rural consumer interest in
purchasing SHS, with the only negative comment being that many customers would like higher rated
systems capable of powering color television.

Technical Assistance Component
The project's technical assistance component for institutional strengthening was highly successful, and was
completed ahead of schedule by BPPT/LSDE in 2000. A national certification and testing facility was
established at LSDE with ISO 17025 accreditation received in June 2001. In addition, the project also
developed excellent in-country testing and certification capabilities within the BPPT-LSDE. All staff
training activities were completed on schedule.

In terms of implementation support, BPPT contracted a consultant firm to establish the Project Support
Group (PSG). The PSG successfully set up an effective system for approving dealers, monitoring the
actual performance of SHS, auditing sales data for GEF grant release and extending technical assistance to
banks and dealers (particularly on market and business development matters).

Under the policy support sub-component, following procurement delays, the DGEEU decided in 2002 not
to proceed with the planned study on Renewable Energy for Rural Transformation.

Pilot development impact study
A pilot development impact study was conducted in Lampung of 50 households with and 50 households
without SHS. The study was carried out in three steps of data gathering and analysis. The first was to
establish the base line data by interviewing the respondent households on the day of the SHS installation in
their houses. The second step was the first follow up round of research which aimed at initial observations
and estimates of the impact of the use of SHS over the initial six months. The respondents who had
installed the systems and the control group were revisited and interviewed based on the same variables of
the baseline survey. The respondents were revisited during the third and final round of survey at a point



                                                     - 8 -

approximately one year after the installation of the systems.

The study found positive impacts of SHS, ranging from additional lighting for more hours of study by
children, reductions in expenditures for kerosene, increased use of the SHS house for social gatherings to
enhanced appreciation of the house. On the other hand, the use of SHS has not directly improved the
household income except for a few households whose shop services could be extended until late at night.
The gender allocation of roles in the household was not found to be affected by the SHS, other than perhaps
to reinforce the role of the women in domestic tasks such as cooking and cleaning.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

According to the SAR (para 4.16), two types of benefits were taken into account in the economic
benefit-cost analysis: (i) global environmental benefits and (ii) local benefits that accrue directly to
households. The local benefits were calculated by the household's "willingness-to-pay"(WTP), taken as
the households' actual SHS expenditures. Global environmental benefits were calculated as per Bank
Guidelines (OP 10.04, Paragraph 8). The SAR showed an ERR of 11.6% without GEF benefits, and 39%
with GEF benefits.

The ICR for the IBRD loan followed the same approach used at appraisal to re-estimate the ERR, though
adjusted for the much smaller number of SHS actually sold in 1999 and 2000. An ERR was not calculated,
for reasons explained in Annex 3.

Two rigorous methods of computing benefits were used in the present GEF-ICR: (i) avoided costs: benefits
are taken as the avoided economic costs of kerosene, candles, dry cells and battery charging; and (ii)
change in consumer surplus: benefits are taken as the change in consumer surplus, adjusted for transfer of
payments (i.e. for both the with and without SHS case, the consumer surplus is calculated as the area under
the demand curve less costs: the net benefit is the resulting change in consumer surplus). The detailed
economic and financial analysis is provided in Annex 3.

Using replacement costs as the method of calculating benefits, the ERR is estimated by this ICR at 24.1%
before the GEF benefit (compared to 11.6% at appraisal), and at 32.7% with the GEF benefit (compared to
39% at appraisal). When consumer surplus benefits are added, the economic benefits are larger (ERR of
30.6% before GEF benefit, and 40.9% with GEF benefit).

Table 4: ERR
                    ERR, before GEF ERR, with GEF             Method used to calculate benefits
                    benefit              benefit
 At appraisal        11.6%               39%
 IBRD-ICR            Not calculated      Not calculated
 GEF-ICR            24.1%                32.7%                Replacement cost
                     30.6%               40.9%                Change in consumer surplus

Table 5: NPV
                          Number of SHS         NPV before GEF             NPV with GEF
 At appraisal                                   $1.1m                      $15.3m
 IBRD-ICR                  1,391                $2.1m                     $2.2m
 GEF-ICR                   8,054                $2.06m                     $2.6 m




                                                      - 9 -

Even though the number of SHS installed is substantially smaller than expected at appraisal, the ERR is
significantly higher. This is due to the increase in international price of kerosene (which at time of
appraisal was atypically low), and decreases in the real cost of PV panels and their installation cost.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Although not calculated at project appraisal, a financial rate of return has been calculated at project
completion in this ICR. Based on a representative sample of consumer financing terms (i.e. 20% down
payment, and a two year loan at 24% interest), the financial rate of return (FRR) to the household
purchasing SHS is 14.6% - which is above the discount rate, though perhaps still somewhat lower than the
discount rate typical of rural households. However, there remain substantial subsidies on kerosene, and the
FRR would be significantly higher if this subsidy was reduced. At present levels of kerosene subsidy and
the difficulties of obtaining consumer credit, the market penetration of SHS will remain modest without
further government support.

A comparison of economic and financial flows among several stakeholders (i.e. consumer, dealers,
financing institutions, and government) for a single household with SHS revealed that the government is the
biggest beneficiary of the SHS, because it avoids the substantial kerosene subsidy, while the financial
benefit to consumers, as noted above, is modest. The details of this analysis are shown in Annex 3.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact is substantial. The project successfully helped strengthen
BPPT-LSDE's capability to technically certify SHS by carrying out system testing as well as product
testing, and to monitor systems in the field. BPPT-LSDE has been able to develop national standards for
SHS. All proposed training activities for staff of BPTT-LSDE have also been successfully carried out,
including an one-month training of about 5-6 people in Germany. Also as a direct result of the project's
support, LSDE was awarded ISO 25 accreditation in June 2001 ­ which goes beyond the original TA that
required only a plan to be prepared for obtaining accreditation. Currently, BPTT-LSDE is exploring
opportunities for technical cooperation with other countries (i.e. Vietnam, Sri Lanka) through provision of
training on system testing.

In addition, institutional strengthening services were extended by PSG to other stakeholders such as
participating banks and dealers/suppliers. For participating banks, the focus was to familiarize them with
the SHS technology, the market being targeted and how to handle loans for SHS vendors and isolated rural
end-users. For SHS dealers/suppliers, particular attention was given to market and business development
(e.g., business model development, business plan elaboration, training on marketing, etc).

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The financial sector crisis blocked entry of PBs and SHS dealers into the project. In late 1997, when
the project became effective, Indonesia was engulfed in a deepening economic and political crisis. To enter
the project, dealers were required to have a loan from one of the PBs under the credit component. However,
the near total paralysis of the financial sector largely blocked implementation of the credit component up to
mid-2000. Two of the expected PBs were prevented by their financial situations from participating in the
project, while the other two PBs were not able to issue fresh credits until their recapitalization was
completed in May and June 2000. The SHS dealers were unable to borrow from the banks (only one dealer
was able to meet conditions for credit approval by a PB in 2001), and they were unable to offer any
significant credit to their customers.




                                                       - 10 -

Market collapse, weak business environment, depreciation and other factors reduced the
attractiveness of investment in SHS business and reduced affordability of potential SHS end-users.
The financial and economic downturn of 1997 also had a strong detrimental impact on the business
environment. During the first two years of the project, commercial sales plummeted and the one successful
dealer went out of business. At the same time, sharp depreciation of the Rupiah contributed to a significant
increase in the retail prices of SHS units. At appraisal in September 1996, the Rupiah was valued at Rp.
2,341/US$; by January 1998, it had declined to Rp. 17,000/US$. Since then, the value of the Rupiah has
slowly improved, remaining stable at around Rp. 8,500/US$ in 2003. However, the business environment
and investor confidence continues to be weak, in response to local and international security concerns, local
governance and judicial system issues, and concerns about political stability in advance of the 2004
elections.

Unprecedented decline in commodity prices reduced affordability of SHS in the target rural areas.
The main sources of income for rural families in many of the project areas depend on coffee, cacao and oil
palm. In 2001, international coffee prices reached their lowest level since 1973. Palm oil prices over
2000-2001 were roughly half those of 1998. Since then, international prices of these crops moved up
sharply in 2002. However, producer prices in the project areas remained stable at low levels mainly
because international increases have been offset by the Rupiah appreciation. Likewise, cacao farmers have
benefited from improved prices over 2002-2003, but poor growing conditions have reduced production.
Although low prices in the early years of project implementation have improved since then, overall
commodity prices have declined reducing the affordability of SHS customers in many of the project areas.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Continuing subsidies for kerosene and diesel lowered the competitiveness of SHS. The price
competitiveness of SHS in rural areas declined and then stayed at comparatively low levels during
1998-2001 as fuel and tariff subsidies were maintained for competing products, (for example, kerosene for
lighting and diesel for operating a small genset). In comparison with the 400% increase (in rupiah terms) in
the retail price of SHS, retail prices of kerosene and diesel up to early 2001 were only 40% and 58% higher
than in 1997. However, SHS competitiveness increased as the government began to implement subsidy
reduction policies in late 2000 for kerosene, diesel and electricity. By 2003, kerosene and diesel prices had
been raised to Rp 900 and Rp. 1,650 per liter respectively, and additional increases have continued, with
some postponements, on a regular basis, though the subsidies have not yet been fully removed.

Government/Donor funded programs. The competitiveness of commercial SHS has also been
occasionally lowered in some areas by government or donor funded programs which supply SHS at
nominal prices well below market prices, effectively crowding out commercial sales as people prefer to
queue and wait for a gift than purchase the system based on market price.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
BPPT established a Project Support Group (PSG) that provided effective services for business
development, end user verifications, consumer satisfaction monitoring, monitoring of transparent grant
releases, and reporting. It also undertook a number of unanticipated tasks, such as the study of development
impacts, design and financial closing of credit enhancement mechanism for BRI loans to SHS customers,
project level financial reporting and liaison among the World Bank, Ministry of Finance, and participating
bank to ensure consistent recording of transactions.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project cost at appraisal was US$118.1 million, including the IBRD loan (US$20 million), the
GEF grant (US$24.3 million), the local counterpart funding from GOI/BPPT (US$1.5 million), the



                                                     - 11 -

participating banks (US$5 million), and the participating SHS dealers and end users (US$67.3 million).

At the end of the project, actual project costs were US$8.95 million, only 7.6% of the original cost, mostly
as the result of the low level of SHS units sold under the credit component. Conversely, the cost of the TA
component was more in line with the original estimates, with actual costs for this component amounting to
$4.36 million or 69% of the original estimate (US$6.3 million). The $8.95 million total project costs
consisted of US$0.08 million of the Bank loan; US$4.52 million of GEF grant, US$0.59 million of
GOI/BPPT contribution, US$0.06 million from the participating banks, and US$3.70 million from
dealers/end-users.

Cancellations during the project significantly reduced the budgets available from the loan and grant. After
the IBRD loan was canceled in January 2001, the GEF grant was reduced from the original amount of
US$24.3 to US$11.0 million as part of the project alignment. In April 2003, the grant was further reduced
to US$5.22 million in response to the diminishing opportunities for increased sales. As of April 30, 2004,
$4.52 million of GEF grant has been disbursed.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is rated likely because of the following factors:

(1) Broad business environment conditions are slowly recovering from the low levels of the 1997-99
crisis. Although the business environment is still weak, signs of improvements had emerged since 2000 and
continued through 2003, including: (i) a stronger currency - the rupiah remained stable and stronger during
2003 as compared with 1997-2002; (ii) moderate inflation - inflation was reduced to 4.8% in 2003,
compared with inflation of 10% in 2002, 12.5% in 2001 and a record high of 77% in 1998; (iii) falling
interest rates; and (iv) relatively stable cash crop prices in 2003.

(2) SHS sales have continued in the project areas even after grant closing. Of the total 8,054 SHS sold
under the project, 4,139 were sold in 2003 (51%), reflecting not only the intensive efforts by the dealers to
increase sales before the grant closing, but also the increasing demand for SHS as result of the following
factors: (i) increased competitiveness of SHS as subsidies continued to be lowered on competing products,
especially kerosene (lighting), diesel (gensets) and electricity (battery charging); and (ii) increased Rupiah
income of farmers growing export crops in Lampung and South Sulawesi. After grant payments to dealers
were discontinued under the project as of September 30, 2003, a total of 427 SHS units were sold from
September 30 to December 31, 2003 by the participating dealers. This sales momentum is expected to
continue in 2004 and thereafter.

(3) Marketing, business and technical capabilities of SHS dealers have improved. During the last year
of the project, substantial support was provided to SHS dealers to facilitate their transition to the
post-project phase. Support was given to strengthen dealer's internal controls, and marketing, business and
technical capabilities. Companies were assisted to link with commercial investors and funding sources,
including the Solar Development Fund (SDF), which has now developed a client relationship with three of
the dealers that participated in the project and established with BRI (a commercial bank with extensive
service network in rural areas in Indonesia) a guarantee facility. As a result of the GEF support,
considerable capacity has been built and a solid base for future SHS development has been established.

(4) National quality standards and testing capabilities are in place. National quality standards and
certification procedures, domestic testing and certification capabilities to ISO 25 standards have been



                                                      - 12 -

established in the country. Quality certified products from several local suppliers at internationally
competitive prices are also available. One of the qualified suppliers is becoming a major exporter of SHS
components (such as lamps and controllers) on the basis of support provided and quality certifications
awarded under the project.

(5) Decrease in the real cost of PV modules and their installation cost. Supply prices for photovoltaic
panels continue to decline internationally, which will contribute to continuing retail price declines for SHS
in Indonesia.

Nonetheless, this is a market-based project, and sustainability will be largely affected by market conditions
and the overall business environment, including improvements in the frameworks for enforcing contracts
and for transparency in official transactions, and unforeseeable security and political events.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
A number of initiatives are underway which will assist the dealers in their transition to full commercial
operation:

BRI - SDF guarantee facility for SHS credits. In early 2002, the PSG and several dealers started
discussions with BRI on the establishment of a credit support facility for SHS. In early 2003, SDF joined
the discussions. After long negotiations, a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between BRI and SDF
for a guarantee facility for qualified SHS dealers was signed in March 2004. This BRI partial guarantee
facility is a potentially significant step forward in addressing the consumer finance barrier. The facility will
operate initially as a two-year pilot with a target of 1,500 customers located in the areas of South
Sumatera, Riau, and South Sulawesi provinces. Funding for this facility is based on deposit accounts
opened by the dealers and buyback guarantees issued by the dealers and SDF. The maximum loan amount
that can be provided by BRI to the SHS consumers is Rp 3 million (about US$350 equivalent) per unit
system, with a maximum loan maturity period of 24 months at interest rates set by BRI. When a consumer
falls behind in his/her loan payments by up to two months, then BRI is authorized by the SHS company to
automatically deduct from the guarantee fund the total balance of the consumer's obligation and at the
same time, the company is automatically requested and entitled to de-install and claim the customer SHS
unit. Given the extensive rural branch network of BRI (with more than 3,000 rural outlets), it is expected
that the facility has a big potential for a breakthrough in providing access to consumer finance to SHS
customers, a main barrier to PV market development in Indonesia.

Local governments starting to adopt market based approach to SHS subsidies. A long standing
constraint in Indonesia has been the practice of local governments procuring SHS units which are then
provided to households on a free or highly subsidized basis. Following discussions with the Bank June
2001 supervision mission of the experience in Uva Province in Sri Lanka, where the Uva provincial
government has provided matching grants parallel to the grants from the Energy Services Delivery project
with resulting increases in SHS sales, the PSG promoted a similar competitive market-based approach to
such subsidies to local governments in the SHS Project areas. Although the local governments, in general,
have not been willing to change from their practice of direct procurement, last year in Bengkulu an
estimated 200 units were procured on the basis of a subsidy of $150, with the balance (approximately $200
- $300) to be paid by the consumer who decides to purchase the unit. This represents a positive a step
towards the direction of a more market-based approach. Positive results from this experience are expected
to contribute to similar approaches being adopted in additional areas.

Re-activation of Association of Indonesian SHS Dealers. Established in 1992 but reactivated in 2000,
the Association's goals are to promote SHS business activities, provide advice to SHS dealers, and inform



                                                       - 13 -

the Government of SHS market opportunities. Eight companies are currently registered as members of this
Association. The Association is currently working on establishing an accreditation system and setting
minimum quality standards for SHS dealers. Future activities would include carrying out presentations to
several governments agencies (i.e. Ministry of Environment, DGEEU, People Welfare Ministry) to promote
renewable energy SHS business opportunities.

SHS pricing after removal of grant support. The dealer with the largest sales volume is currently
planning a 10% increase in SHS prices after removal of grant support. This relatively small increase
appears possible partly because this dealer has anticipated the removal of the grant support in its pricing
over the past nine months, and secondly, the strengthening of the Rupiah together with international price
declines for modules has lowered the supply costs of the systems.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during project identification, preparation and appraisal is considered highly
satisfactory because of the reasons explained in Section 3.5 above. Furthermore, from the initial stages of
project identification to Board approval, the Bank provided considerable assistance to the Borrower and
Implementing Agencies in all aspects of the project.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision was highly satisfactory throughout the project implementation. The performance of the
Bank supervision team was notable in its commitment to focus on ultimate development effectiveness rather
than merely the mechanical implementation of the project as initially designed. The project was restructured
several times to respond to the changing market conditions, and to maximize its development impact and
ensure that project objectives could be achieved, albeit, on smaller scale. Without these efforts, the project
would most likely have been ended much earlier as a matter of routine portfolio clean up, which would have
reduced the benefits achieved by the project up to date, most notably the technical and institutional capacity
that has been built up in the country.

Field visits were carried out twice a year by the Bank team until project completion, including an intensive
mid-term review in September 2000. The Bank team enjoyed continuity and an appropriate skill mix to suit
the nature of the project. The supervision reporting was complete and candid in all aspects. The project
stakeholders benefited from Bank technical assistance under supervision, and the relationship between the
Government and the Bank on the project was open and effective throughout implementation.

In addition, project supervision was rated "Superior" by QAG's Second Rapid Supervision Assessment
(RSA2) which assessed the quality of Bank's supervision in FY98. The project was reviewed again under
the QAG's Fourth Supervision Assessment in FY2000 (QSA4), which rated project supervision as "highly
satisfactory".

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated highly satisfactory. Although the decision to close the grant four months
earlier than planned and at the time when sales were going up could be questioned, there was an overall
agreement between the Bank and the Borrower that carrying on the project for additional four months
would only yield marginal benefits. It was clear that the project had already delivered its major
accomplishments by mid-2003, and the foundations for further SHS market development in Indonesia were
already in place.




                                                    - 14 -

It should be noted that the Bank's performance assessment is also rated highly satisfactory by the BPPT in
their own evaluation report on behalf of the borrower.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during project preparation is rated satisfactory. There was close cooperation
at the time of preparation between the Government and the Bank, and the leadership and vision provided by
the main counterparts in GOI ensured that the project was appropriate to Indonesia's needs.
Representatives from all the counterpart agencies and private sector were involved in the preparation and
implementation of the project. The Borrower was familiar with PV technology, given the Government's
pilot solar PV demonstration programs beginning in 1987, and recognizing the heavy and recurrent subsidy
burden associated with these programs, the GOI was also keen to support the objectives of the project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The performance of BPPT, the government implementing agency and main recipient of the technical
assistance of the project is deemed satisfactory, as it was able to successfully meet (even exceed) the
objectives it was directly responsible for. The performance of DGEEU, another government implementing
agency, is rated unsatisfactory due to the protracted procurement delays and ultimate cancellation of the
Renewable Energy for Rural Transformation Study.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the Project Support Group (PSG) is considered highly satisfactory. It provided
substantial support and effective monitoring of project performance throughout project implementation, and
complete reporting through quarterly and annual progress reports of high quality. The PSG support was
effective in verifying that: (i) the private dealers were using the funds provided to them under the project in
accordance with the project design; (ii) the dealers were complying with the pre-designated technical,
after-sales service and consumer protection standards; and (iii) that customers were satisfied with their
SHS units. The PSG took a leading role in conceptualizing, motivating and managing the process of
establishing the partial guarantee facility at BRI, and facilitating the resolution of the many issues that were
raised among the parties during the gestation of the facility.

The performance of the private sector participants (dealers, banks), with the exception of Bank Niaga - the
only active participating bank during project implementation- is considered unsatisfactory because of the
slow progress of the SHS sales, weak investment in rural distribution networks and inability of the banks to
make loans available to SHS dealers, although such was caused mainly by factors beyond their control,
including the collapse of the banking sector, civil unrest and the sharp depreciation of Rupiah.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall borrower performance is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

A satisfactory business environment is necessary for success in a market development project. Project
interventions can spark the interest of investors and provide some of the incentives for a commercially
driven market framework, but success in a project that is based on implementation by market means
requires a satisfactory business environment.

Market-based projects should provide broad scope for companies to adjust product lines and
business models to meet changing market signals. The thrust of the changes and the eventual
realignment of the project were to increase the scope and time for companies to adjust products and



                                                       - 15 -

business models in response to changing market conditions. The dealers responded with product lines that
maintained affordability and a variety of revised business models in line with local capabilities and
opportunities.

Both front-loaded and performance based grant support help induce retail market entry by for-profit
companies for a variety of reasons. An upstream, cost-shared support helps to induce the market entry of
dealers and assist them to develop retail distribution operations in remote rural areas where market entry
costs are high by making the products more affordable to consumers, reducing risks to companies, and
improving cash flows. This approach has been proven in Sri-Lanka, where a well-functioning market has
now developed.

Project design should focus as much on profitability as on affordability. During project preparation,
great attention should be paid to profitability. Determining the profit potential that will be necessary to
induce the risk taking for investment and market development should be a factor in setting grant levels and
timing ­ a factor as important as affordability and willingness and ability to pay.

Performance based grants for SHS sales in retail markets should scale down during implementation
to facilitate transition of companies to commercial operations. The per Wp performance-based grant
initially was to remain at the same level for the life of the project. While this arrangement may induce
dealers to develop sales in the early years, it would not encourage companies to prepare themselves for
transition to a fully commercial operation at the end of the project. The project realignment provided for a
scaling down of the grant level over time, with some flexibility linked to the pace of market development.

A convincing end-user audit program and transparent grant releases encourages companies to
participate in the project and follow the consumer protection requirements. A strong end-user audit
facility, in addition to ensuring compliance with consumer protection requirements, assures that there will
be fair competition among the companies. The arrangements for transparent grant releases minimize the
time and transaction costs of the companies, minimize opportunities for corruption, and encourage dealers
to focus their learning and marketing efforts on rural consumers, rather than on processing paperwork for
grant payments.

Support to financial organizations is necessary to increase their knowledge of the market. The high
costs of market entry that confront dealers are mirrored by the costs that confront organizations that would
finance them, especially the high costs of information about the market and dealer performance in remote
rural areas beyond the reach of the branch networks of Indonesia's financial institutions. Facilitating initial
field visits and providing information on dealers and sales performance, much of which is generated as a
by-product of the end-user audits, reduces the transaction costs of financial institutions, thus partially
lowering a barrier to their financing of SHS dealers.

The household and institutional market segments should be targeted in an integrated way in order to
achieve sustainable access and development impacts. The main emphasis of the project was originally
on sales of SHS to rural households. The realigned project, with its shift to a per Wp grant basis, provided
the basis for sales to health, education and community based institutions. This is an opportunity to expand
sales and spread the development benefits to families that may not be able to afford to purchase an
individual household unit.

Highly subsidized systems made available to consumers through government and donor supported
programs can undercut market development based projects. Project arrangements should actively



                                                      - 16 -

promote the adoption of sustainable, market based approaches in government and donor SHS and PV
projects, including competitive arrangements and community driven approaches.

A carefully designed socio-economic survey mechanism should be built in the SHS projects to assess
the development impact. A development impact study was introduced during the project implementation.
The study included three steps ­ baseline establishment, initial impact survey after six months of SHS
installment, and follow up survey after one year of SHS installment. While the interval between the two
impact survey steps appears to be short, the study produced positive and useful findings.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The borrower's report was received by the Bank on November 19, 2003 but not attached to the ICR
because of the length. The borrower's report is available in the project files. The draft ICR was provided to
the borrower and implementing agencies, who confirmed that they do not have any comments (see Annex
8).

(b) Cofinanciers:
None

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None

10. Additional Information




                                                    - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


    Project Objective        Performance Indicators         Baseline Year       Target       Revised Target       Actual
                                                             (SAR-1996)         (SAR)            (2001)       (as of Sept 30,
                                                                                                                  2003)
A. Provide modern energy Outcome Indicators
form of electricity, in an   l Number of units sold per          4,000        about 55,000     about 34,000     about 1,610
environmentally sustainable    year on credit
manner, to rural customers   l Cumulative number of
who cannot be served           SHS units sold under          Not applicable     200,000        about 70,000       8,054
economically or in a timely    Project
manner by conventional       l Customer timely payment       Not applicable      95%               95%          above 95%
rural electrification          rates
                            Impact Indicators
                             l Cumulative number of
                               people served by SHS          Not applicable     880,000          350,000          35,438
                               project*
                             l Cumulative environmental
                               benefits ('000 tons CO2       Not applicable      1,334             450             52.9
                               emissions abated)**
                             l Cumulative fossil fuel        Not applicable     546,720          180,000          21,793
                               conserved (kilo-liters)**
B. Establish private sector Outcome Indicators
based efficient and          l Installed SHS Price (in
sustainable delivery,          constant 1996 dollars):
financing, and loan            a) Java                     a) $550 - $650  a) About $425     About $8 -10/Wp       $440
collection mechanism for       b) off Java                 b) $700 - $800   b) About $500 w/ without GEF grant     $490
providing solar PV products l Dealers with "problem                            GEF grant
to rural customers             loans"                        Not applicable     2 or less          none            none
                            Impact Indicators
                             l Number of dealers selling
                               to households on credit
                               basis.                              2           5 or more          4 to 6             6
C. Capacity building of key Outcome Indicators
sector institutions          l Decentralized rural
                               electrification strategy
                               study                         Not applicable    Completed        Completed        Canceled
                             l Procurement of equipment
                               for BPPT's laboratory         Not applicable    Completed        Completed       Completed
                             l Attainment of ISO 25
                               status for BPPT's                               Action plan      Action plan
                               laboratory                    Not applicable     adopted          adopted        Completed
                            Impact Indicator
                             l GOI adoption of
                               decentralized rural
                               electrification strategy and                                                     Action plan
                               action plan                   Not applicable    Completed        Completed        canceled

* The cumulative number of people served by the project is derived by multiplying the number of SHS units sold by
the average family size (4.4)
** Over 15 years. Source: GEF Project Document, Annex 3.1, December 1996
Note: HH expenditure data on purchases of kerosene show that households reduced their monthly kerosene
consumption from 25.9 to 14.1 liters after purchase of SHS (or, savings of 11.8 liter/unit). Source: Development
Impact Study in the Province of Lampung, September 2003




                                                           - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Costs by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                Appraisal         Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                                                 Estimate           Estimate          Appraisal
Component                                      US$ million         US$ million
1. Credit Component                                92.1                4.22             4.6
2. Technical Assistance                             6.3                4.36             69.2
2.1 Implementation Support                          4.1                3.76             91.7
2.2 Policy Support                                  1.2                0.00              0
2.3 Institutional Development                       1.0                0.60              60
Base Cost                                          98.4                8.58             8.7
Duties and Taxes                                    9.8                0.37
Price Contingencies (Credit component)              9.8
Total Project Cost                                118.1                8.95             7.6
Total Financing Required                          118.1                8.95             7.6


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (in US$ million equivalent)

                                        Procurement Method
Expenditure Category                   Other 1/         N.B.F. 2/     Total Cost
 1. Credit Component                    101.9             0.0             101.9
                                         (20)                              (20)
                                         [20]                              [20]
    Taxes                                0.00             9.8               9.8
 Subtotal                               101.9             9.8             111.8
                                         (20)                              (20)
                                         [20]                              [20]
 2. Technical Assistance
 2.1 Implementation Support               4.1                               4.1
                                         [3.1]                            [3.1]
 2.2 Policy Support                       1.2             0.0               1.2
                                         [0.7]                            [0.7]
 2.3 Institutional Development            1.0             0.0               1.0
                                         [0.5]                            [0.5]
 Subtotal                                 6.3             0.0               6.3
                                         (0.0)                            (0.0)
                                         [4.3]                            [4.3]
 Total                                  108.2             9.8             118.1
                                        (20.0)            (0.0)           (20.0)
                                        [24.3]            [0.0]           [24.3]

Terms in ( ) and [ ] are amounts financed by IBRD and GEF, respectively
1/ Goods and services to be procured by limited international bidding or established commercial practice.
2/ NBF : Not Bank Financed




                                                   - 19 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (in US$ Million equivalent)

                                        Procurement Method
Expenditure Category                   Other 1/         N.B.F. 2/     Total Cost
 1. Credit Component                     4.22             0.0              4.22
                                        (0.08)                            (0.08)
                                        [0.81]                            [0.81]
    Taxes                                0.00             0.37             0.37
 Subtotal                                4.22             0.37             4.59
                                        (0.08)                            (0.08)
                                        [0.81]                            [0.81]
 2. Technical Assistance
 2.1 Implementation Support              3.76                              3.76
                                        [3.21]                            [3.21]
 2.2 Policy Support                      0.00             0.0              0.00
                                         [0.0]                            [0.00]
 2.3 Institutional Development           0.60             0.0              0.60
                                        [0.50]                            [0.50]
 Subtotal                                4.36             0.0              4.36
                                        (0.00)                            (0.00)
                                        [3.71]                            [3.71]
 Total                                   8.58             0.37             8.95
                                        (0.08)            (0.0)           (0.08)
                                        [4.52]            [0.0]           [4.52]

Terms in ( ) and [ ] are amounts financed by IBRD and GEF, respectively
1/ Goods and services to be procured by limited international bidding or established commercial practice.
2/ NBF : Not Bank Financed




                                                   - 20 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                               Appraisal         Actual/Latest       Percentage
                                               Estimate             Estimate        of Appraisal
 Component                                    US$ million         US$ million
 1. Credit Component                               111.8                4.59              4.1
·   IBRD                                            20.0                0.08              0.4
·   GEF                                             20.0                0.81              4.1
·   Participating Banks                               5.0               0.06              1.2
·   Subborrowers/Endusers                           66.8                3.64              5.4
 2. Technical Assistance
 2.1 Implementation Support                         4.10                3.76             91.7
 ·   GEF                                            3.10                3.21           103.5
 ·   GOI/BPPT                                       0.50                0.49             98.0
 ·   Subborrowers/Endusers                          0.50                0.06             12.0
 2.2 Policy Support                                 1.20                0.00              0.0
 ·   GEF                                            0.70
 ·   GOI/DGEED                                      0.50
 2.3 Institutional Development                      1.00                0.60             60.0
 ·   GEF                                            0.50                0.50           100.0
 ·   GOI/BPPT                                       0.50                0.10             20.0

 Total                                             118.1                8.95              7.6
 ·   IBRD                                           20.0                0.08              0.4
 ·   GEF                                            24.3                4.52             18.6
 ·   GOI/BPPT                                         1.5               0.59             39.3
 ·   Participating Banks                              5.0               0.06              1.2
 ·   Subborrowers/Endusers                          67.3                3.70              5.5
 Total Financing Required                          118.1                8.95              7.6

Note: Subborrowers are dealers, who will be providing equity and reinvested profits; end-users are the
households, who will be providing the downpayments.




                                                 - 21 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Economic Analysis at Appraisal

The SAR calculates an economic rate of return (ERR) of 11.6% without GEF benefits and 39% with GEF
benefits. (Annex 4.2, page 1). Table 3.1 reproduces the SAR analysis.

Table 3.1 Economic Analysis in SAR
                     NPV        1    2      3    4      5     6     7    8     9  10   11   12   13 14    15  16    17  18    19

  1 per SAR
  2
  3 Costs
  4 Invesment costs  66.2   6.07 12.45 23.25 27.18 23.15
  5 Replacement      21.8          0.02  0.07 0.51   1.28  2.84  4.62  6.44 5.96 6.3 3.98 3.86 6.06 7.1 5.54 2.7  2.38 0.23 0.11
    costs
  6 O&M costs          3.6  0.03   0.11  0.26 0.44    0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6  0.6 0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6 0.6  0.6 0.57  0.5 0.35 0.16
  7 total costs      91.6     6.1 12.58 23.58 28.13 25.03  3.44  5.22  7.04 6.56 6.9 4.58 4.46 6.66 7.7 6.14 3.27 2.88 0.58 0.27
  8
  9 Consumer expenditures
 10 down payments    12.5   0.81   2.36  4.38 5.35   4.63
 11 Monthly          54.8   1.19   4.15   9.7 16.29 20.77 17.81 12.26  5.67
    payments
 12 Replacement      21.8       0  0.02  0.07 0.51   1.28  2.84  4.62  6.44 5.96 6.3 3.98 3.86 6.06 7.1 5.54 2.7  2.38 0.23 0.11
    expenditures
 13 O&M                3.6  0.03   0.11  0.26 0.44    0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6  0.6 0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6 0.6  0.6 0.57  0.5 0.35 0.16
    expenditures
 14 Consumer         92.7   2.03   6.64 14.41 22.59 27.28 21.25 17.48 12.71 6.56 6.9 4.58 4.46 6.66 7.7 6.14 3.27 2.88 0.58 0.27
    subtotal
 16 GEF grant        14.2   0.83   2.45     5 6.13    5.6
 17 total benefits  106.9   2.86   9.09 19.41 28.72 32.88 21.25 17.48 12.71 6.56 6.9 4.58 4.46 6.66 7.7 6.14 3.27 2.88 0.58 0.27
 18
 19 net flows(with    15.3 -3.24 -3.49 -4.17  0.59  7.85 17.81 12.26  5.67    0   0    0    0    0   0    0    0    0    0    0
    GEF)
 20 ERR             39.5%
 21
 22 net                1.1 -4.07 -5.94 -9.17 -5.54   2.25 17.81 12.26  5.67    0   0    0    0    0   0    0   0     0   0     0
    flows(without
    GEF)
 23 ERR             11.6%


According to the SAR (para 4.16), two types of benefits are taken into account in the economic
benefit-cost analysis: (i) global environmental benefits and (ii) local benefits that accrue directly to
households, which are given by the household's "willingness-to-pay". Global environmental benefits are
calculated as per Bank Guidelines (Bank OP 10.04, Paragraph 8). Household benefits are calculated as
"actual payments made by household" plus "consumer surplus." Because of difficulties in measuring
consumer surplus, only the former are used. In this regard, the SAR notes that "estimates of benefits were
biased downwards because of the exclusion of the consumer's surplus from the benefits"

As shown in Table 3.2, this definition of net economic benefit stream (before GEF contribution) is
equivalent to the following formula: monthly installment expenditures by customers (a financial cost) plus
down payments by customers(a financial cost) minus SHS investment costs (presumably an economic cost)

This approach has problems, because the monthly installment payments by consumers are financial costs
(whose magnitude is determined by the financial rate of interest charged by the financial institutions).
Indeed, if the financial rate of interest were exactly equal to the discount rate, then the result of the above
calculation is an NPV of zero and an IRR equal to the discount rate.            1




                                                             - 22 -

Table 3.2 Restatement of SAR Analysis
                   NPV      1      2     3      4       5    6      7    8      9    10    11    12   13    14     15    16    17    18   19
Investment costs  -66.2 -6.07 -12.45 -23.25 -27.18 -23.15
monthly            54.8  1.19    4.15   9.7 16.29 20.77 17.81 12.26    5.67
expenditures
down payments      12.5  0.81    2.36 4.38   5.35    4.63    0      0    0
"net benefits, no    1.1 -4.07 -5.94 -9.17 -5.54     2.25 17.81 12.26  5.67     0     0     0     0     0    0     0      0     0     0    0
GEF"
ERR               11.6%

GEF grant                0.83    2.45    5   6.13     5.6    0      0    0
net benefits,      15.3 -3.24 -3.49 -4.17    0.59    7.85 17.81 12.26  5.67     0     0     0     0     0    0     0      0     0     0    0
 with GEF"
ERR               39.5%


According to this calculation, the computed "ERR" is exactly equal to the weighted financial rate of
interest (which was evidently taken in 1996 at the time of the SAR, as 11.6%). The NPV of this payment
stream represents the magnitude of the transfer payment from consumers to financial institutions (i.e. the
difference between the capital cost at the opportunity cost of capital, and the financial payments actually
made by consumers at the financial rate of interest). In short, the problem in the SAR approach is the
inter-mixing of economic and financial costs without the necessary reconciliation.

Annex 3 of the IBRD-ICR repeats the same format of calculation, as shown in Table 3.3, though for a
much smaller number of SHS actually implemented in 1999 and 2000. An ERR could not be calculated
because this format contains only years with net benefits, but not years with net annual costs. However, the
NPV remains as before, equal to the value of the transfer payment from consumers to the financial
institutions as a consequence of the financial rate of interest being higher than the discount rate (of 10%).

Table 3.3 IBRD ICR Analysis
                       NPV        1      2       3       4      5      6       7      8      9    10     11      12     13    14     15      16
Costs
Invesment costs         0.7    0.05   0.76
Replacement costs       0.2          0.000   0.003   0.007   0.059  0.009  0.093 0.059  0.003  0.007  0.066  0.089   0.007 0.059  0.003  0.002
O&M costs               0.0   0.000  0.000   0.000   0.000   0.000  0.000  0.000 0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000   0.000 0.000  0.000  0.000
total costs             0.9   0.050  0.760   0.003   0.007   0.060  0.009  0.093 0.060  0.003  0.007  0.066  0.089   0.007 0.060  0.003  0.003

Consumer expenditures
down payments           0.1    0.01   0.17
Monthly payments        2.6    0.13   2.65    0.39
Replacement             0.2       0 0.0002 0.0026 0.0067 0.0594 0.0088 0.0932 0.0594 0.0026 0.0067 0.0656 0.0892 0.0067 0.0594 0.0026 0.0024
expenditures
O&M expenditures        0.0 0.0001 0.0002 0.0002 0.0002 0.0002 0.0002 0.0002 0.0002 0.0002 0.0002 0.0002 0.0002 0.0002 0.0002 0.0002 0.0002
Consumer subtotal       3.0 0.1401 2.8204 0.3928 0.0069 0.0596      0.009 0.0934 0.0596 0.0028 0.0069 0.0658 0.0894 0.0069 0.0596 0.0028 0.0026

GEF grant               0.1    0.01   0.13
total benefits          3.1 0.1501 2.9504 0.3928 0.0069 0.0596      0.009 0.0934 0.0596 0.0028 0.0069 0.0658 0.0894 0.0069 0.0596 0.0028 0.0026

net flows(with          2.2     0.1   2.19    0.39       0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
GEF)
ERR                 Not calculated

net flows(without       2.1    0.09   2.06    0.39       0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
GEF)
ERR                 Not calculated




Issues in the Economic analysis

The economic disruptions during the implementation of the project also created difficulties for economic
analysis, as the important indicators exhibited great volatility, with local prices shifting very rapidly, not



                                                                  - 23 -

just during the initial period of Rupiah collapse, but in the subsequent years as well. Figure 1 shows the
exchange rate, which stood at 2,341Rs/$US at the time of appraisal in 1996, reached a peak of 15,400 in
June 1998, dropped to an average of 7,500 in 1999, and stood at around Rp8,500/$US in 2003.

     Figure 1: Exchange rate: Monthly (annual) averages Rp:$US

                                 20




                                 15




                                                                                            10441

                                 10                         9501                                        9549
                                                                                  8470                             8577
                     Rupiah/$US                                        7782




                                  5

                                                  3116
                                         2341



                                  0
                                     1996     1997     1998       1999      2000       2001       2002       2003




 Domestic interest rates show the same variation (Figure 2), which is a particular problem for the
 economic analysis methodology used in the SAR, since its economic benefits are dependant upon the
 financial rate of interest

     Figure 2: Rp interest rates: SBI 1-month rate


                               0.8




                               0.6



                                                          0.49



         rate
                               0.4

             interest




                                                                     0.22

                               0.2                                                         0.17
                                                                                                      0.15
                                                                                0.13
                                                                                                                 0.10




                                0
                                    1996     1997     1998       1999       2000       2001       2002       2003




The attractiveness of SHS, and its economic analysis, will be strongly influenced by the relative changes in
the capital cost of the SHS, and the price of kerosene. The problem faced by the project in generating



                                                                                - 24 -

consumer interest in SHS sales is illustrated in Table 3.4. In 1997 the capital cost of one SHS unit was 5
times the cost of a typical annual energy bill (for kerosene, dry cells and battery charging). In 1998 and
1999, this cost rose to 15 times, before gradually declining, reaching 4.9 in 2003. As one might expect,
the sales of SHS increased sharply in 2003, as the retail cost of kerosene increased by 50%.

Table 3.4: SHS sales v. household energy bill

                                                                        1997      1998            1999        2000               2001    2002    2003
 SHS cost                                             Rp                1000000   3000000        3100000     3200000             3300000 3400000 3500000
Kerosene price                                      Rp/litre           250        250            250         350                 400     600     900
exchange rate                                       Rp/$US             3116       9501           7782        8470                10411   9549    8577
Kerosene price                                      UScents/litre      0.08       0.03           0.03        0.04                0.04    0.06    0.10
HHkerosene bill (1)                                 Rp/year            75000      75000          75000       105000              120000  180000  270000
Estimated energy                                    Rp/year            199500     199500         199500      279300              319200  478800  720000
expenditure (2)
Simple payback                                      years              5.0        15.0           15.5        11.5                10.3    7.1     4.9
 SHS                                                  sales                                      92          1299                1552    972     4139
(1) based on 2003 survey data of average monthly consumption of 25 liters. There is evidence that in 1998-2000
households reduced their consumption of kerosene as income decreased following the economic disruption of
1998/1998 ­ this would make the paybacks even greater.
(2) 2003 based on actual survey data. Values in 1997-2002 scaled to the ratio of kerosene expenditure to total
expenditure in 2003.

Figure 3: SHS sales v. estimated payback (of annual energy bill)


                       18                                                                                     5




                       16
                               <<<left scale: payback, years                       SHS sales, right scale>>>>
                                                                                                              4


                       14



    years                                                                                                     3
                       12
                                                                                                                1000s


         payback,                                                                                                    sales,
                       10
                                                                                                              2            SHS
                 simple

                        8


                                                                                                              1

                        6




                        4                                                                                     0
                          1997           1998               1999    2000      2001         2002          2003




The SHS Final Report presents an alternative way of expressing the affordability of a SHS unit by
                                                2/


comparing with the quantities of major crops produced in the project areas, and that would need to be sold
in order to equal the capital cost of an SHS: this calculation reflects the huge shifts in exchange rates and
terms of trade that have occurred since 1997. By 2003, the affordability of SHS, in terms of both palm oil
and cacao, returned to the conditions that prevailed at the time of project appraisal; however, the decline of
international coffee prices ­ rather than adjustments in Indonesia ­ explains the sharp deterioration of SHS
in terms of coffee trade. On balance, however, the Final Report concludes that the affordability conditions
have generally returned to those expected at appraisal, particularly when combined with the reduction in



                                                                                - 25 -

kerosene subsidy ­ and hence the sharp rise in SHS sales in 2003.

Table 3.5: Kg of major crops equivalent to one SHS
   Years       Palm oil    Coffee Cacao
    1997 *       8,930        423 493
   1998        10,158         220 281
   1999         8,497         393 392
   2000        13,770      1,018     545
   2001        11,443      1,160     499
   2002          9,127     1,262     432
    2003       8,122       901       357

A rigorous framework for analysis

There are two rigorous methods that can be used to capture economic benefits: (i) avoided costs: i.e.
benefits are taken as the avoided economic costs of kerosene, candles, dry cells and battery charging; and
(ii) change in consumer surplus: benefits are taken as the change in consumer surplus (i.e. for both the
with and without SHS case, the consumer surplus is calculated as the area under the demand curve less
costs: the net benefit is the resulting change in consumer surplus).

The "avoided cost" method is easily applied because the information required can be provided by surveys
of existing households, and the resulting calculations are straightforward. However, for two reasons this
method generally underestimates the actual benefits:

    l First, the quality of energy supply from SHS is superior to that from most alternative devices: for
         example, the illumination derived from a compact fluorescent lamp (CFL) is much higher than that
         provided by candles or kerosene lamp (in addition to avoiding many of the harmful side-effects
         such as smoke and odor, and the risk of fire and injury). Consumers are prepared to pay more for
         a better quality of service, for example they value a given number of lumens from solar-based
         electricity generation much more than the equivalent number of lumens from candles and kerosene.
         In other words, the benefits are greater than those inferred from replacement costs alone.

    l Second, the demand curve for electricity (or an equivalent service, such as lighting, or
         TV-viewing), is not flat. It is well established that consumers are prepared to pay very high prices
         for the first few kWh of electricity (or lumens), sufficient, for one or two Cols. They are also
         prepared to pay high prices for enough electricity to power a TV. But the amount they are
         prepared to pay for the 10th and 11th CFL will be much less than the first and second CFL. This
         demand curve ­ of quantity demanded as a function of price -- is therefore downward sloping, and
         the total benefits from level of consumption is given by the area under the demand curve (to that
         point).

The second or the consumer surplus (CS) approach to calculating benefits requires estimation of such a
demand curve. This is generally more difficult, because there may be few actual data points available to
accurately determine the shape of the curve. But despite the additional uncertainty, this method of
estimating the demand curve and the formalization of willingness-to-pay (WTP) is generally accepted as a
better measure of the benefits of electrification. The CS approach has been used in several recent World
Bank studies of off-grid electrification projects, including, in 2002, the economic analysis of the SHS
component of the Philippines Rural Energy Project (SHS) , the 2003 ICR for the Sri Lanka Energy
                                                             3




                                                      - 26 -

Services Delivery Project (SHS and village hydro) , the 2003 Bolivia project (SHS) , and the 2003 study
                                                       4                                     5


of off-grid commune-scale hydro systems in the SEIER project in Vietnam .         6




Re-estimation of the SAR Results: Avoided Cost

Table 3.6 shows the ERR and NPV, for a single system in Java, using the avoided cost method.

Table 3.6: Benefits at avoided costs (of kerosene replacement)
                             NPV        1     2    3     4    5      6     7     8      9    10
SHS Costs
Investment costs              636    636
Replacement & O&M costs       304            40   40    40   40    40     40    40     40    40
total costs                   940    636     40   40    40   40    40     40    40     40    40

Benefits (avoided costs)
Kerosene expenditures (at     867           114  114   114  114   114   114    114   114    114
   economic prices)
total avoided costs           867       0   114  114   114  114   114   114    114   114    114

net flows(without GEF)       -66.5  -636     74   74    74   74    74     74    74     74    74
ERR                          7.9%

GEF grant                      73     73
total benefits                940     73    114  114   114  114   114   114    114   114    114

net flows(with GEF)           -0.1 -563.0 74.0 74.0 74.0 74.0 74.0 74.0 74.0 74.0 74.0
ERR                         10.0%


Note: calculations done (in spreadsheet) for 16 years: we show just the first 10 for clarity

Thus we note that the economic rate of return, when benefits are taken as avoided costs (of kerosene), is
7.9%, which is below the hurdle rate of 10%. The incremental contribution from GEF (73$) then brings
the ERR to exactly 10%. This is, of course, the standard calculation presented in the SAR for GEF
incremental costs . The $73 GEF contribution shown here is exactly as calculated in the SAR .
                    7                                                                              8




ICR re-estimation: avoided cost

As noted above, the methodology used in the IBRD-ICR economic analysis made impossible to calculate
the ERR. However, it is in all cases possible to estimate an ERR for a single system, whose first-period
cash flow is negative, followed by some number of years of positive flow. In the calculation that follows,
we present an estimate of the ERR at 2003 price levels: this has the benefit of assumptions based on the
results of the detailed impact survey.

Assumptions

The average 2003 economic price of kerosene (as the average of the monthly Platts Singapore averages) is
$33/bbl (Table 9). The official domestic price for household kerosene is Rp700/litre (effective 1/1/2003),
while the general kerosene price was Rp1,800 (effective 17/12/2003), compared to the domestic gasoline
price of Rp1,810/litre, almost the same as the international price. The domestic base price for household
kerosene remains heavily subsidized.




                                                       - 27 -

Table 3.7 Kerosene prices
                                                $/bbl    Rp/litre  UScents/litre
[1] international price                         33       1780      20.8
[2] domestic price                                       1800      21.0
[3] household price                                      700       8.2
[4] Reported average selling price in                    2640      30.8
      Lampung *
[5] transport differential                               1940      22.6
[6] Adjusted for SCF                                     1746      20.4
[7] Economic price in rural area                         3526      41.1
      [1] + [6]
[8] Subsidy [7]-[4]                                      886       10.3
Average 2003 Exchange rate: Rp 8,577/$US
* see Table 3.8

However, over the last six months, Singapore kerosene prices have climbed significantly, as world crude
prices (but only in US dollar terms) have climbed upwards. By late 2003 the kerosene price was 38$/bbl,
and in the first quarter of 2004, prices have been as high as $42/bbl.

Table 3.8 shows average monthly expenditures before and after installation of SHS. The "before SHS"
condition relates to 2000-2001, since the bulk of the systems were purchased in 2002 and 2003. Kerosene
expenditure has dropped from 40,254Rp/month to 16,6671Rp/month (while the reported purchase price of
kerosene has increased from 1,555Rp/litre to 2,638 Rp/litre, following the decrease in Government
subsidy) .9




Table 3.8: Average monthly energy expenditures, 2003
                                                  before    After
                                                  SHS       SHS
Kerosene consumption              liters/month    25.88     6.32
Kerosene expenditure             Rp/month        40254      16671
Dry Cells                        Rp/month        8140       5819
Battery Charging                 Rp/month        11657      4653
total expenditure                Rp/month        60051      27143
average reported buying           Rp/litre        1555      2638
price for kerosene
Source: Lampung SHS Survey, 2003

Table 3.9 shows a breakdown of total program sales by type of consumer finance: only 453 (5%) were
cash sales, the bulk of the remainder were financed over 2 to 3 years with 20% or 30% down payments.
For the representative system we chose the terms offered by dealer A: 20% down payment, and two year
financing at 24% interest




                                                    - 28 -

Table 3.9 Consumer financing terms

  DEALER        Down INTEREST                  CREDIT TERM (months)             Cash     TOTAL
               payment (Flat Rate)       12     18      24      30       36     sales     SALES

        A         20%         24%        -      -    2,594        -      -       155       2,749
        B         30%         24%        -      -       945    2,034     -       178       3,157
        C         20%         18%        -      -       -         -    1,224      73       1,297
        D         30%         18%        -     373      -         -      -        22         395
        E         30%         22%        -      -       430       -      -        26         456
                TOTAL                     -    373    3,970    2,034   1,224    453        8,054


With these assumptions the financial rate of return to the household installing a SHS unit is shown in Table
3.10. The FRR is 14.6%, which is above the discount rate, though perhaps still somewhat lower than the
discount rate typical of rural households. However, there remain substantial subsidies on kerosene, and the
FRR would be significantly higher if this subsidy were further reduced. This relatively high FIRR explains
the sharp increase in SHS sales in 2003. However, at present levels of kerosene subsidy, and the
difficulties of obtaining consumer credit, the market penetration of SHS will remain modest without further
government support.

Table 3.10 Financial rate of return to households purchasing a SHS (in $US)
                           NPV    1     2     3   4    5    6    7    8    9 10    11   12    13   14  15  16
SHS Costs
Net cost to                360 396.
consumer                          4
amount financed            354 317
Downpayment           20%   72 79.3
repayments            24%  343  0.0 217.7 217.7
Replacement & O&M costs
Controller                  36 0.0                            43.4                     43.4
Batteries                   54 0.0                  31.9           31.9          31.9             31.9
Lamps                         9 0.0   1.4   1.4 1.4  1.4  1.4  1.4  1.4  1.4 1.4   1.4 1.4    1.4  1.4 1.4 1.4
Fixtures                      4 0.0                            5.2                     5.2
O&M costs                     6 0.0   0.8   0.8 0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8 0.8   0.8 0.8    0.8  0.8 0.8 0.8
total O&M costs            110  0.0   2.2   2.2 2.2 34.0  2.2 50.7 34.0  2.2 2.2 34.0  50.7   2.2 34.0 2.2 2.2
total costs                525 79.3 219.9 219.9 2.2 34.0  2.2 50.7 34.0  2.2 2.2 34.0  50.7   2.2 34.0 2.2 2.2
Benefits (avoided costs)
official price  [Rp/litre]           700   700  700 700   700  700  700 700  700  700  700   700  700  700 700
transport       [Rp/litre]          1940 1940 1940 1940 1940 1940 1940 1940 1940 1940 1940 1940 1940 1940 1940
differential
retail kerosene [Rp/litre]          2640 2640 2640 2640 2640 2640 2640 2640 2640 2640 2640 2640 2640 2640 2640
price
avoided         [litres/mo            20    20   20  20    20   20  20   20  20    20   20    20   20  20  20
kerosene        nth]
avoided costs
 kerosene                  516    0   75    75   75  75    75   75  75   75  75    75   75    75   75  75  75
 drycell                    23    0     3     3   3    3    3    3    3    3   3     3    3    3     3  3    3
 battery                    69    0   10    10   10  10    10   10  10   10  10    10   10    10   10  10  10
charging
total avoided              608    0   88    88   88  88    88   88  88   88  88    88   88    88   88  88  88
costs

net flows                   83 -79 -132 -132     86  54    86   37  54   86  86    54   37    86   54  86  86
FRR                        14.6%


Table 3.11 shows the corresponding economic analysis, for which the basis is the economic cost of
kerosene . The ERR is 24.1% before the GEF benefit, 32.7% with the GEF benefit
            10




                                                        - 29 -

Table 3.11: Economic analysis, benefits at replacement cost (in constant 2003 US$)

                                 NPV       0     1     2     3    4      5   6    7     8     9   10   11    12   13    14    15
SHS Costs
Consumer price           Rp           3400000
                         $US      360     396
 . . less sales tax                33     36
ex-dealer cost                    328     360
GEF subsidy                        91     100
effective cost                    419     460
of which
  imported panel          0.600   251     276
  duty on imported panel  0.030    13     14
  balance of system(BOS)  0.300   126     138
  SCF for BOS             0.030    13     14
  installation            0.030    13     14
  dealer margin           0.010     4      5

economic cost                     389     428

O&M cost adjusted for SCF          99      0   2.0   2.0   2.0  30.6   2.0 45.6 30.6   2.0  2.0  30.6 45.6  2.0  30.6  2.0    2.0
Benefits (avoided costs)
kerosene@border price             402      0    58    58    58   58    58   58   58    58    58   58   58    58   58    58    58
transport                         342      0    49    49    49   49    49   49   49    49    49   49   49    49   49    49    49
avoided dry cell                   20      0     3     3     3    3      3   3    3     3     3    3    3     3    3     3     3
expenditures
avoided battery charging           62      0     9     9     9    9      9   9    9     9     9    9    9     9    9     9     9
expenditures
total avoided costs               825      0   119   119   119  119   119  119  119   119   119  119  119   119  119   119   119

net flows(without GEF)            338    -428  117   117   117   89   117   74   89   117   117   89   74   117   89   117   117
ERR                             24.1%

GEF grant                          91     100
net flows(with GEF)               429  -328.2 117.4 117.4 117.4 88.8 117.4 73.8 88.8 117.4 117.4 88.8 73.8 117.4 88.8 117.4 117.4
ERR                             32.7%



Table 3.12 shows the reconciliation of economic and financial flows. The columns of this table represent
the stakeholders, while the rows of the table represent the individual transactions. Column 6 represents the
economic benefits, in which taxes, duties and transfer payments cancel out (e.g. the GEF grant is paid by
GEF to the dealers, and represents a transfer payment; the economic benefit of carbon emissions is
assumed to equal GEF's willingness-to-pay, and is then added as a environmental benefit in column 7).
Similarly the financing transactions involving the financial institutions and consumers (representing down
payments and monthly repayments) have no impact on the economic accounts, but do show a gain to the
financial institutions, a reflection of the fact that the financial rate of interest (24%) exceeds the discount
rate(10%)




                                                         - 30 -

Table 3.12: Reconciliation of economic and financial flows (as NPV at 10%, constant 2003 US$):
Single household with SHS

                                consumer  dealer    FI     govt        GEF           total  global     total
                                                                                            environ.
                                                                                            benefit
 downpayment                      -72      72                                          0                   0
amount financed                            288     -288                                0                    0
monthly repayments                -343             343                                 0                    0
panel                                     -251                                       -251                 -251
balance of system                         -138              13                       -126                 -126
installation                               -13                                       -13                  -13
import duty on PV panel                    -13              13                         0                    0
sales tax on SHS                           -33              33                         0                    0
replacement& O&M costs            -110                      11                       -99                  -99
avoided costs[=benefits]
 kerosene (incl.transport)        516                      227                       743                  743
 dry cells                         23                        -2                       20                   20
 battery charging                  69                        -7                       62                   62
GEF grant                                  91                           -91            0                    0
environmental benefit                                                                  0      91           91
                                   83       4       55     287          -91          338      91          429
returns                          14.6%                                              24.1%                32.7%
                                (=FRR to                                           (=ERR)             (=ERR with
                                consumer)                                                            global benefit)


 It is clear from this table (and Figure 4) that government is the biggest beneficiary of the SHS, because it
 avoids the substantial kerosene subsidy (while the financial benefit to consumers, as noted above, is
 modest).

 Figure 4: Winners and losers (as NPV at 10%, constant 2003 $US): Single household with SHS

           600




           400




       US$ 200




            0




          -200
                consumer            FI            GEF        global environ. benefit
                          dealer          govt            total                   total



However, it should be noted that the decline in kerosene subsidy does not, in itself, significantly change the



                                                     - 31 -

economic benefit of a given SHS, because whether the government pays the cost of kerosene, or the
consumer, the same quantity of kerosene is replaced by a given SHS (and the country benefits by the
reduction in border cost of kerosene). It only changes (in a static analysis) the distribution of costs and
benefits: the higher the retail kerosene price, the lower the subsidy (so Govt. gains); but also the higher the
kerosene price, the greater is the incentive for consumers to purchase a SHS, so the main economic effect
of a reduction in kerosene subsidy is a larger number of systems installed (other things equal) -- which
increases the NPV, but does not (significantly) change the ERR. Thus the decrease in kerosene subsidy
has improved the financial returns to households that install SHS.

The relationship of ERR to the kerosene price is illustrated by the sensitivity analysis of Figure 5. As the
kerosene price has increased over the past five years, the ERR has also increased. We note that the
switching value for kerosene price (i.e. at which the ERR exactly equals the 10% discount rate) is an
unlikely $8/bbl, far below the price in late 1998 when (for a few months) Brent Crude traded at $10/bbl.

Figure 5: Sensitivity analysis to the border price of Kerosene

         0.3
                                                                             1stQ 2004 high

                                                                    Dec 2003

                    1998                  2001-2002




         0.2




     ERR




         0.1




           0
            10               20                     30                      40                 50
                                        Kerosene price $/bbl




The other significant uncertainty is the lifetime of the system, assumed at 15 years for the base case.
Figure 6 shows the sensitivity of ERR to this assumption, for high ($40/bbl) and low (25$/bbl) kerosene
border prices. The curves are not smooth because of the aperiodic major outlays for battery and controller
replacement. The switching values range from 7 years for the low kerosene price to less than 5 years for a
high kerosene price. The experience in other countries shows that the vast majority of systems have at least
a 10 year life (few systems have been in place for much longer), so the economic returns may be regarded
as robust. In any event, consumer surplus based ERRs are several percentage points higher, implying even
lower system lifetime switching values.




                                                            - 32 -

Figure 6: Sensitivity to system life

        25

                                                                    high kerosene price ($40/bbl)




        20

                                                                           low kerosene price (25$/bbl)




        15
     ERR




        10




         5
          4             6            8             10             12               14                 16
                                         Kerosene price $/bbl




The NPV for the entire programme (see Table 3.13) is $2.06million (before GEF) and $2.62 (with GEF
benefit).

Table 3.13: Aggregate results (1000 $US)
                             NPV 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
                        [#]         0   1     2      3      4   5   6       7      8      9     10     11 12  13   14  15  16 17   18  19
 Economic flows, before GEF grant
 SHS installed   1999    92    31 -39  11    11    11       8  11   7       8     11     11      8      7 11   8   11  11
 in
                 2000 1299    399     -556  152   152     152 116  152    96    116     152    152   116  96  152 116 152 152
                 2001 1552    433          -664   182     182 182  138   182    115     138    182   182  138 115 182 138 182 182
                 2002   972   247                -416     114 114  114    86    114      72     86   114  114 86   72 114  86 114 114
                 2003 4139    955                      -1772  486  486   486    368     486    307   368  486 486 368 307 486 368 486 486
 total flows                 2064 -39 -545 -501   -71 -1315   908  897   858    724     859    736   787  845 848 749 722 906 664 600 486
 ERR                        24.1%

 Economic flows, with GEF grant
 SHS installed in 1999   92    39 -30  11    11    11       8  11   7       8     11     11      8      7 11   8   11  11   0  0    0   0
                 2000 1299    506     -426  152   152     152 116  152    96    116     152    152   116  96  152 116 152 152
                 2001 1552    550          -509   182     182 182  138   182    115     138    182   182  138 115 182 138 182 182
                 2002   972   313                -319     114 114  114    86    114      72     86   114  114 86   72 114  86 114 114
                 2003 4139   1212                      -1358  486  486   486    368     486    307   368  486 486 368 307 486 368 486 486
 total flows                 2620 -30 -415 -346    26 -902    908  897   858    724     859    736   787  845 848 749 722 906 664 600 486
 ERR                        32.7%




ICR re-estimation: benefits as changes in consumer surplus

Demand curves for lighting (as lumen-hours), and for TV/Radio/VCR listening-hours were derived using
the methodology described in Attachment 1. Figure 7 shows the demand curve for lighting: the y-axis
represents $ per million-lumen hours. The change in consumer surplus is then calculated as the areas
B+C in Figure 7: these are calculated as NPVs over the 15-year life, with details shown in Table 3.15.




                                                             - 33 -

 Figure 7: Demand curve for lighting

                         40




                         30


                                        B:=327


     lumen-hours         20
                                                              C:=162

                $/million


                         10

                                        D:=189                          F:=284



                          0
                           0               10                   20              30    40
                                                     million lumen-hrs



In the case of the corresponding demand curve for listening hours, the increase in listening hours is based
on the survey data shown in Table 3.14 (increasing from 7 to 9.5 hours). This increase is much smaller
than observed in other countries: in the Philippines, the corresponding listening hours increased from less
than 1 hour to four hours per day.

                         Table 3.14: Daily usage hours
                                      Before      After
                                      SHS         SHS
TV BW                                 3.0         3.1
Tape recorder                         2.0         1.6
Radio                                 2.0         3.1
VCD                                               1.6
                                      7.0         9.4
Source: Lampung Survey, op.cit.,Table 4.53

Using the changes in consumer surplus as the benefits, the ERR increases from 24.1% (before GEF) to
30.6%, and from 32.7% (with GEF benefit) to 40.9%. (Table 3.15)




                                                                        - 34 -

Table 3.15: Economic benefits as changes in consumer surplus

                              NPV        1      2       3     4     5     6    7     8    9    10    11   12    13    14    15    16
Lighting
allocated costs                  473   71.4  197.9  197.9  2.0   30.6  2.0 45.6   30.6  2.0   2.0   30.6 45.6   2.0  30.6   2.0  2.0
levelised                        473   60.4   60.4   60.4  60.4  60.4  60.4 60.4  60.4  60.4  60.4  60.4 60.4  60.4  60.4  60.4  60.4
lumen-hours [Qpv]               34.6          5.0    5.0   5.0    5.0  5.0  5.0    5.0  5.0   5.0    5.0  5.0   5.0  5.0    5.0  5.0
P[PV][$/million lumen-hrs]      13.7
area D+E                         473
avoided kerosene costs           516   0.0    74.7   74.7  74.7  74.7  74.7 74.7  74.7  74.7  74.7  74.7 74.7  74.7  74.7  74.7  74.7
lumen-hours [Qkero]             13.8          2.0    2.0   2.0    2.0  2.0  2.0    2.0  2.0   2.0    2.0  2.0   2.0  2.0    2.0  2.0
P[KERO][$/mill lumen-hrs]         37
area B+D                         516
TV/RadioListening
allocated costs                   53   7.9    22.0   22.0  0.2    3.4  0.2  5.1    3.4  0.2   0.2    3.4  5.1   0.2  3.4    0.2  0.2
levelised                         53   6.7    6.7    6.7   6.7    6.7  6.7  6.7    6.7  6.7   6.7    6.7  6.7   6.7  6.7    6.7  6.7
TV-hours [9.4]                 23724         3431   3431 3431 3431 3431 3431 3431 3431 3431 3431 3431 3431 3431 3431 3431
P[PV]                          0.002
area D+E                          53
avoided costs
drycells+battery charging         91   0.0    13.2   13.2  13.2  13.2  13.2 13.2  13.2  13.2  13.2  13.2 13.2  13.2  13.2  13.2  13.2
TV-hours [7]                   17667         2555   2555 2555 2555 2555 2555 2555 2555 2555 2555 2555 2555 2555 2555 2555
P[KERO]                        0.005
area B+D                          91
net financial flow to consumer    83  -79.3 -132.0 -132.0  85.7  53.9  85.7 37.2  53.9  85.7  85.7  53.9 37.2  85.7  53.9  85.7  85.7
additional CS benefits           168           24    24.3  24.3  24.3  24.3 24.3  24.3  24.3  24.3  24.3 24.3  24.3  24.3  24.3  24.3
net flows [to consumer]          251  -79.3 -107.7 -107.7 110.0  78.1 110.0 61.5  78.1 110.0 110.0  78.1 61.5 110.0  78.1 110.0 110.0
ERR [to consumer]             24.0%
Govt, sales tax, duties           58   63.7
Dealer                             4   4.6
Fis                               55 -317.1  217.7  217.7
GEF                              -91 -100.0
Govt                             229          33.1   33.1  33.1  33.1  33.1 33.1  33.1  33.1  33.1  33.1 33.1  33.1  33.1  33.1  33.1
Total                            506 -428.2  143.1  143.1 143.1 111.2 143.1 94.6 111.2 143.1 143.1 111.2 94.6 143.1 111.2 143.1 143.1
ERR                           30.6%
net flows with GEF               597 -328.2  143.1  143.1 143.1 111.2 143.1 94.6 111.2 143.1 143.1 111.2 94.6 143.1 111.2 143.1 143.1
ERR                           40.9%




The corresponding reconciliation of economic and financial flows is shown in Table 3.16. The entries for
the stakeholders other than consumers are the same as before (compare to Table 3.12), but the economic
benefits for consumers, and the corresponding totals, now reflect the change in consumer surplus.




                                                              - 35 -

Table 3.16 Reconciliation of economic and financial flows

                               consumer  dealer       FI         govt             GEF        total  global   total
                                                                                                   environ.
                                                                                                    benefit
Costs of SHS
downpayment                         -72       72                                                 0               0
amount financed                              288    -288                                         0               0
monthly repayments                 -343              343                                         0               0

panel                                      -251                                              -251            -251
balance of system                          -138                     13                       -126            -126
installation                                 -13                                               -13             -13
import duty on PV panel                      -13                    13                           0               0
sales tax on SHS                             -33                    33                           0               0

replacement& O&M costs             -110                             11                         -99             -99
                                                                                                 0
avoided costs
 kerosene (incl.transport)          516                           227                         743             743
                     dry cells       23                              -2                         20              20
            battery charging         69                              -7                         62              62

Incremental CS                      168                                                       168             168

GEF grant                                     91                                     -91         0
environmental benefit                                                                                   91      91
                                    251        4      55          287                -91      506       91    597
                                 24.0%                                                      30.6%           40.9%



Figure 8: Winners and losers using change in consumer surplus as benefits (as NPV@10%, constant
2003 US$): impact of single household with SHS

       800




       600




       400



   US$

       200




         0




       -200
              consumer             FI            GEF           global environ. benefit
                         dealer          govt             total                       total




                                                    - 36 -

Comparison with other countries

These results are generally consistent with results obtained in other countries, as shown in Table 3.17.

Table 3.17: Comparison with other countries (without any GEF subsidy): ERR
                Source                           Replacement        Consumer
                                                 (avoided cost)     Surplus
Indonesia                                        24.1%              30.6%
Sri Lanka       ICR, Energy Services            8%                  31%
                Delivery Project
Philippines     SAR, Rural Energy Project       15%                 32-47%
                                                                    (20Wp-75Wp
                                                                    systems)
Bolivia           SAR, renewable energy                               27-40%
                  project




                                                    - 37 -

 Attachment 1: Estimating the demand curve           11/




Figure 9 depicts the demand for services (lighting, TV viewing) of a rural household. The demand curve is
downward sloping, and typically has a shape that is concave (with respect to the origin). This shape
frequently emerges where more than two points on the curve can be plotted (in Figure 2.1 only the points x
and y are assumed known) . A concave shape also follows from the (convenient) assumption of constant
                             12


elasticity (an assumption often made in econometric models) .     13




      Figure 9: Demand curve for electricity-provided services
     price


             A

     PKERO        x




             B




                         C
                                               y
      PE

             D           E


                QKERO                          QE

                               service level


Before electrification, these services are typically provided by a mix of kerosene (for lighting) and batteries
(for TV and radio viewing). For simplicity, assume that the only service provided is lighting by use of
kerosene lamps: the quantity of services so consumed is QKERO, at the price PKERO. The total
household expenditure on lighting is therefore QKERO x PKERO, equal to the area B + D.

The total willingness to pay (WTP) for the service at level QKERO is the total area under the demand
curve to that level of consumption, i.e. areas A + B + D. This is the total benefit to the consumer.
However, the cost is area B + D, and therefore the net benefit, also called the consumer surplus, is the
difference between the two, namely the area A.

After electrification, the level of service (in the case of lighting, the number of lumen-hours) typically
increases substantially; consumption increases from QKERO to QE, but the price paid for the electrified
service also falls (typically) from PKERO to PE. Now the household's expenditure for electricity is PE x
QE, equal to the area D+E.

At this level of consumption, the total area under the demand curve to QE, i.e. the total benefit, is now the
area A + B + C + D + E. Therefore the net benefit, or consumer surplus, after subtracting the cost D + E,
is A + B + C. Thus it follows that the net economic benefit of electrification is the increase in consumer
surplus, which is the area B + C.    14




                                                        - 38 -

Areas B, D and E are readily calculated from knowledge of consumption before and after electrification,
from the household budget for kerosene (and battery charging), and from the tariff of electrified service: i.e.
given knowledge of the two points on the demand curve x and y, the areas B, D and E are immediately
calculable. But area C is more difficult to estimate, since it requires knowledge of the shape of the
demand curve between points x and y. The most convenient assumption­ and therefore the one most
frequently encountered -- is that the demand curve is linear            15.




Unfortunately such an assumption will lead to an overestimate of the area C, and of the net benefits of
electrification, because, as noted, the empirical evidence indicates that the demand curve is much more
likely to have a concave shape, as shown in Figure 1: given some functional form for such a demand curve,
the area C is readily calculated as the definite integral (see Box 1).

      Box 1: Functional specification of the demand curve
        For example, if the demand curve is specified as the simple exponential form of
        constant elasticity 

                          P 
                  Q2 = Q1    2  
                           P1 
        then given the two points in Figure 2.1 of x (PKERO,QKERO) and y (PE,QE), the elasticity
        computes to

                                  log QKERO
                                        QE

                           =
                                  log    PE
                                      PKERO

        The area C+E, the area under the demand curve between points x and y, then follows as the
        definite integral

                  C + E =  PKERO      QE                          Q1   +1/ 

                                           1 / dQ =PKERO      QE


                           QKERO      Q
                              1 /                  QKERO
                                                      1 / 
                                                                   1 + 1 / 
                                     QKERO                   QKERO

        In some studies (e.g. the World Bank's Solar Homes project in Bolivia) the area C is
        approximated as one third of the area determined by a linear demand curve



The consumer surplus calculations are done using financial costs (since these are the costs actually seen by
the consumer). However, the financial and economic costs require careful enumeration, because often the
quantities both before and after electrification are subject to taxes and subsidies. Figure 10 illustrates a
typical situation where the price of kerosene is subsidized, and where electrification involves both taxes
(e.g. VAT on construction costs) and subsidies (say provided by GEF).

Suppose the electrification subsidy per kWh, is d. Then one needs to distinguish between the economic and
subsidized prices PE[econ] and PE[subs] respectively: the total amount of the subsidy is the area d QE.
Suppose that this subsidized price is also taxed at the rate t, the price to the consumer then increases to PE
= PE[SUBS] + t (the amount of taxes collected being the area D*+E*). As drawn, the assumption is that
the subsidy exceeds related taxes (which is the case for the micro-hydro systems, where the proposed
subsidy far exceeds the amount of VAT and profits tax on construction). For kerosene, the total (financial)
cost to the consumer is B*+B+D*+D. Of this, the area B* represents taxes.



                                                          - 39 -

Figure 10: Reconciliation of economic and financial flows.

      price


                 A

      PKERO

                 B*
      PKERO
      [economic]


                 B



                         C

      PE[econ]

        PE                                       
                 D*             E*
      PE[SUBS]

                 D              E

                   QKERO                       QE

                               service level




The various economic and financial quantities therefore reconcile as shown in Table 20. For example,
before electrification, the actual economic benefit is A+ B*, but the area B* is captured by Government as
tax, so what accrues to the consumer is only the area A.

     Table 3.18 Reconciliation of economic and financial flows.
                                          Kerosene        Electrification        Difference
 Consumer surplus                         A               A+B*+B+C               B+B*+C
 Taxes and duties (VAT)                   B*              D*+E*                 D*+E*-B*
 Subsidy                                                  -dQE                  -dQE
 Economic cost                            B+D*+D          D+E+dQE               +E+dQE -B-D*

 Total benefit to consumer                 A+B*+B+D*+D     A+B+B*+C+             C+E*+E
  (area under demand curve)                                 D*+D+E*+E




                                                     - 40 -

Endnotes:
1/ It also follows that the NPV for a household that purchased a SHS for cash would also be zero
2/ Indonesia SHS Project Project Support Group, Final Report 2003
3/ P. Meier, Economic Analysis of Solar Home Systems: A Case Study for the Philippines, World Bank, 2003
4/ World Bank, Implementation Completion Report, Sri Lanka Energy Services Delivery Project, June 2003
5/ Draft SAR, Bolivia Renewable Energy Project, Annex 4: Economic Analysis, February 2003
6/ Vietnam System Efficiency Improvement, Equitization and Renewables Project (SEIERP):Economic and Financial Analysis
of Community-based Small Hydro Projects, World Bank, December 2003
7/ To replicate the incremental cost analysis of the SAR it was necessary to use a non-standard methodology for the NPV
calculation. Normally, all costs and benefits are assumed to occur at year end, and the NPV (as provided in standard
spreadsheet functions) is calculated at the beginning of the first year. However, in the case of the GEF incremental cost
analysis, the NPVs appear to have been calculated as coincident with the first payment (i.e. at the end of the first year).
However, in the spreadsheet tables of the SAR, and IBRD-ICR, the normal conventions are used
8/ SAR, Annex 3.6, para 7-10
9/ The detailed survey report shows that households without SHS have also reduced their energy expenditure, which one would
expect not just in response to the increase in Kerosene price, but also in response to the economic depression in Lampung in
2001-2002. The Lampung SHS survey report discusses the survey results in more detail.
10/ This table assumes an international price for kerosene of 38.5$/bbl, which is representative of the Singapore kerosene
trading range over the past 9 months (in the range of $36 to 42$/bbl) with 0.5$/bbl added for freight differential
11/ This Annex is based on P. Meier, Vietnam System Efficiency Improvement, Equitization and Renewables Project
(SEIERP):Economic and Financial Analysis of Community-based Small Hydro Projects, World Bank, December 2003.
12/ However, the demand curve is often taken as linear, which (for reasons explained below) tends to result in an
overestimation of the benefits.
13/ A linear demand curve does not have a constant elasticity; in the case of Figure 7, for example, if the demand curve were a
straight line between x and y, the own-price elasticity at point x is different to the own-price elasticity at point y.
14/ Therefore, for the calculation of net benefits of electrification, there is no need to calculate the area A.
15/ For example, a linear demand curve was used in the Philippines study of rural electrification benefits (Barnes, D. F,. A.
Domdom, V. Peskin, and H. Peskin. 2002. Rural Electrification and Development in the Philippines: Measuring the Social
and Economic Benefits. ESMAP Report 255/02. Washington, D.C.: World Bank).




                                                                - 41 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/95                     4    ECONOMIST (2), ENERGY
                                             SPECIALIST (2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/96                     4    ECONOMIST (2); ENERGY
                                             SPECIALIST (2)
              05/96                     7    ECONOMIST (2); ENERGY
                                             SPECIALIST (3);
                                             RESETTLEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1)

 Supervision
              11/97                     3    ECONOMIST (2); ENERGY            S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              03/98                     3    ECONOMIST (2); ENERGY            S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              06/98                     3    ECONOMIST (2); ENERGY            S               U
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              12/98                     3    ECONOMIST (2); ENERGY            S               U
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              05/99                     3    ECONOMIST (1); ENERGY            S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (2)
              12/99                     2    ECONOMIST (1); ENERGY            U               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              02/00                     2    ENERGY SPECIALIST                U               S
              09/00                     1    ENERGY SPECIALIST                S               S
              03/01                     4    ENERGY SPECIALIST (1);           S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1); FMS (1);
                                             LAWYER (1)
              06/01                     3    ENERGY SPECIALIST (2);           S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              02/02                     4    ENERGY SPECIALIST (2);           U               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (2)
              06/02                     4    ENERGY SPECIALIST (1);           U               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FMS (1); FINANCE (1)
              02/03                     1    ENERGY SPECIALIST                S               U
              06/03                     1    ENERGY SPECIALIST                S               U

 ICR
              02/04                     2     OPERATIONS OFFICER              S               U
                                              (2)




                                              - 42 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                             Actual/Latest Estimate
                                            No. Staff weeks                        US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                      147.2                                      807
  Appraisal/Negotiation                             47.8                                     238
  Supervision                                     113.7                                      650
  ICR                                               10.3                                    52.8
  Total                                           319.0                              1,747.8**
Notes:
* Expenditures in FY1994-2000 marked up by 25% to convert direct costs to full costs, affecting 93% of total costs.
** Total cost include $838,930 (49%) from Bank Budget and $908,870 (52%) from GEF budget.
ICR totals as of June 17, 2004.




                                                        - 43 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 44 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 45 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

l Project Document, GEF, December 1996


l GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, March 11, 1997


l PSG Progress Reports


l Borrower Evaluation Report, prepared by BPPT, November 2003


l Implementation Completion Report, Solar Home Systems Project, July 2001 (Report No. 22588)


l "The Development Impact of SHS in the Province of Lampung", by Yayasan Dian Desa consultants,
  Final Report, September 2003

l Project Files




                                             - 46 -

Additional Annex 8. Letter from BPPT responding to the request to provide comments on
the ICR




                                        - 47 -

Additional Annex 9. ICR Aide Memoire

                                                   Indonesia
                            SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS PROJECT (TF 28488)

                              February 2004 Implementation Completion Mission
                                                 Aide Memoire

A World Bank mission comprising Mr. Yuling Zhou (Sr. Operations Officer) and Ms. Esperanza Miranda
(Operations Officer), visited Indonesia from February 2 through February 6, 2004 to review the
implementation completion of the Solar Home Systems (SHS) project. This Aide Memoire summarizes the
main findings of the mission and its discussions with Ministry of Finance (MOF), the Indonesian Agency
for Application and Assessment of Technology (BPPT), the Directorate-General of Electricity and Energy
Utilization (DGEEU); Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI), two participating companies, and Bank Niaga. A list
of the people met during the mission is attached as Annex A. The mission expresses its appreciation for the
support and generous hospitality received from the above institutions and participating companies. The
mission would also like to express its thanks to P.T. Mambruk for organizing field visits to several SHS
villagers in the province of Lampung.

The main objectives of the mission were the following: (i) to discuss the achievement of the project
objectives and implementation experience with key stakeholders, with particular emphasis on lessons
learned; (ii) to review the findings of Borrower's own project completion report and final report of the
Development Impacts Study; and (iii) to review the operational arrangements for continued SHS operations
and the prospects for project's sustainability.

Implementation Experience

All key stakeholders agreed that the project has provided substantial support for the commercialization and
market development of SHS, but its implementation was adversely affected by the financial crisis of 1997
-which hit the country as project implementation started ­ and by the resulting weak business environment.
As a result, the number of SHS units sold under the project was well below expectations. By the end of the
project, a total of 8,054 units had been installed compared to the appraisal target of 200,000 units, and
below even the January 2001 revised targets of 70,000 units.

Despite the low levels of SHS units throughout implementation, the project achieved substantial results in
the areas of institutional development, mainly through the development of strict technical criteria and
procedures for testing and certification of SHS units by LSDE-BPPT, which enabled LSDE-BPPT to
obtain ISO 17025 accreditation for PV components testing, an achievement that went beyond original
target. In addition, the Project Support Group (PSG), established under the project, effectively carried out
field audits and other monitoring responsibilities and provided capacity building and technical assistance to
participating bank and dealers (particularly on market and business development matters).

A long standing constraint in Indonesia and a factor affecting project implementation has been the practice
of local governments procuring SHS units which are then provided to households on a free or highly
subsidized basis. This practice has worked against commercial market development, and it's a key concern
for participating companies. According to one of the participating SHS dealers, the project was helpful in
changing perceptions among SHS users who were dissatisfied with the lack of service provided by the
procurement approach of these government funded programs.



                                                     - 48 -

According to Bank Niaga, a constraint for commercial banks for entering the SHS market development
business is their limited access to rural areas, and cost-effectiveness in ensuring timely loan repayment in
rural areas.

Project Sustainability

There was a general consensus among the officials and companies met during the mission that market
conditions are improving and demand for SHS is picking up. Public awareness of the benefits of SHS is
also increasing. One of the participating companies informed the mission that due to improving market
conditions, the Association of Indonesia SHS Dealers has been reactivated after several years of inactivity,
to further promote SHS market development and provide assistance to member companies.

Prospects for project sustainability are good. BPPT continues to implement SHS programs in support of
the Government's goal to increase renewable energy utilization to meet energy demands in an efficiently,
reliable, end environmentally sustainable way. BPPT informed the mission that some of these programs are
based on financing sharing arrangements between BPPT and local governments, with rural households
paying for the down payment to purchase a SHS unit. Service and equipment maintenance is provided by
local government units, which in turn, receive training and technical support from BPPT. While these
programs still involve official subsidies, they represent a positive step towards the direction of a more
market based approach.

The proposed BRI-SDF guarantee facility for SHS credits ­ expected to be effective in March 2004 ­ is a
significant step towards further SHS market development as it will provide access to consumer finance to
SHS customers, a main barrier to PV market development in Indonesia. The facility would be established
by deposits made by the dealers funded by loans from SDF to the dealers. The SDF would guarantee up to
30% of the loans while the remaining 70% would be guaranteed by the dealers. The maximum loan amount
that can be provided by BRI to the SHS consumers is RP 3 million (about $350 equivalent) per unit, with
a maximum loan maturity period of 24 months at interest rates set by BRI. The facility will be initiated on
a pilot basis for a targeted 1,500 customers located in the areas of South Sumatera, Riau, and South
Sulawesi provinces.

SHS Dealers Commercial Operations

The two participating dealers met during the mission show total readiness to move to full commercial
operations. Both companies have been aggressively developing their rural distribution networks over the
past year as well as aggressive marketing campaigns (one dealer is doing door-to-door advertisement, and
the other is offering an increasing selection of SHS products). Further, business and technical capabilities
of SHS dealers have improved substantially through years of business experience and through direct
support from the project. As a result, dealers are more confident now on their capacity to work together
with financing institutions and government agencies on establishing credit facilities to increase consumer
affordability and a national strategy plan for SHS market development, respectively.

Pilot Development Impacts Study

The mission reviewed the final follow up survey and analysis for the pilot development impacts study
conducted in Lampung of 50 households with and 50 households without SHS during a one-year period.
The study found positive impacts of SHS, ranging from additional lighting for more hours of study by
children, reductions in expenditures for kerosene, increased use of the SHS house for social gatherings to


                                                      - 49 -

better appreciation of the house. On the other hand, the use of SHS has not directly improved the household
income except for a few households whose shop services could be extended until late at night.

The mission visited several households with SHS in the Lampung area to confirm the findings of the
development impacts study. The mission found that with the exception of one household, end-users were
satisfied with their SHS units which were used for lighting and small electronic appliances, such as TVs
and radios. End-users were familiar on how the equipment functions, and some of them were able to take
care of small repairs and general equipment maintenance. A household was dissatisfied with the SHS
system installed in their house because malfunctioning of the SHS unit. The mission advised the household
members that this problem could be solved by seeking assistance from the dealer about re-charging the
battery or replacing it at not cost if equipment and installation is still under the warranty period.

Next Steps

A draft ICR will be prepared by the ICR mission team by April 2004, and will be submitted to the
Borrowers for comments by mid-May 2004. The final ICR will be distributed to the Bank's Board of
Directors by June 30, 2004.




                                                     - 50 -

                                                    Annex A
                                              List of People Met



Ms. Ratna Ariati      Director for New Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation, Ministry of Energy and Mineral
                      Resources
Mr. Kosasih Abbas Head of New Renewable Energy Division, Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources
Dr. Martin Djamin Deputy Chairman for Information, Energy, Material and Environmental Technologies, BPPT
Dr. Agus Rusyana Head of Energy Technology Laboratory, UPT-LSDE BPPT PUSPIPTEK
Hoetman
Dr. Arya Rezavidi     Staff of Energy Technology Laboratory, UPT-LSDE BPPT PUSPIPTEK
Ir. Febrian           Renewable and Energy Conservation Division Staff, BPPT
Alyuswar
Ms. Ir. Ira Fitiriana Renewable and Energy Conservation Division Staff, BPPT
S. Si
Ms. Poppy Irmasari Sub Manager, Business Development Group, Bank Niaga
Muhamad Rifai         Head of Business Micro Division, Bank Rakyat Indonesia
Mr. Bambang           Micro Business Division, Bank Rakyat Indonesia
Widjanarko
Mr. Feri Sudiarto     Micro Business Division, Bank Rakyat Indonesia
Mr. Agus              Micro Business Division, Bank Rakyat Indonesia
Mr R.M. Sudjono       Director, PT. Mambruk Energy International
Respati
Mr. Himsa             Head of Lampung branch, PT. Mambruk Energy International
Simanjuntak
Ms. Yanidar           Director, PT. Sundaya Indonesia
Witjaksono
Mr. Hermani Noor Head of Sub Directorate of Foreign Loan and Grant I, Directorate of Foreign Fund - Directorate
                      General of Budget, Ministry of Finance
Ms. Sedardjuningsih Staff of Sub Directorate of Foreign Loan and Grant I, Financial, Mining and Energy
                      Directorate of Foreign Fund - Directorate General of Budget, Ministry of Finance




                                                     - 51 -

- 52 -

