Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16365
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR PRIVATIZATION, ENTERPRISE
AND BANKING SECTOR REFORM
(CREDIT 2402-EGT)
November 5, 1997
Infrastructure Development Group      L                          *
Middle East and North Africa Region                          -
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Currency equivalents
Currency Unit = Egyptian Pound (L.E.)
L.E. per US Dollar
(average)
1993: 3.33
1994: 3.37
1995: 3.39
1996: 3.40 (estimated)
1997: 3.39 (as of October 31)
Fiscal Year
July 1-June 30
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACs          Affiliated Companies
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CBE          Central Bank of Egypt
CIDA         Canadian International Development Agency
EDI          Economist Development Institute
ERSAP        Economic Reform and Sectoral Adjustment Program
EU           European Union
FDI          Foreign Direct Investment
HCs          Holding Companies
HQ           Headquarters
IDA          International Development Association
IMF          International Monetary Fund
KfW          Kreditanstalt fuir Wiederaufbau
NCCD         National Company for Construction and Development
ODA          Overseas Development Administration
PE           Public Enterprises
PEO          Public Enterprise Office
SAL          Structural Adjustment Loan
TAP          Technical Assistance Project for Privatization, Enterprise
and Banking Sector Reform
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:        Kemal Dervis
Country Director:      Khalid Ikram
Sector Director:       Jean-Claude Villiard
Task Manager:          Mohsin Alikhan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR PRIVATIZATION, ENTERPRISE
AND ANKING SECTOR REFORM
(Credit 2402-EGT)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION  SUMMARY................................................................................i
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.        Background .......................................................1
B.        Objectives and Project Description .......................................................2
C.        Achievement of Objectives .......................................................4
Institutional Development of PEO .......................................................4
Training .......................................................5
Professional Advisory Services for Privatization and Restructuring .......................6
Banking Sector Reform .......................................................6
D.        Project Sustainability .......................................................7
E.        IDA  Performance .......................................................7
Project Identification .......................................................7
Project Preparation and Appraisal .......................................................8
Supervision .......................................................8
F.        Borrower Performance .......................................................9
G.        Assessment of Outcome .......................................................9
H.        Key Lessons Learned .......................................................9
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:                        Summary of Assessments .............................                            I 1
Table 2:                        Related Bank Loans/Credits .............................                        12
Table 3:                        Project Timetable .............................                                 13
Table 4:                        The Original Credit Agreement .............................                     14
Table 5:                        Loan/Credit Disbursements .............................                         15
Table 6:                        Key Indicators for Project Implementation ............................. 16
Table 7:                        Project Costs and Financing .............................                       17
Table 8                         Project Financing .............................                                 18
Table 9:                        Status of Legal Covenants .............................                         19
Table 10:                       Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .............................                      21
Table 11:                       Bank Resources: Missions .............................                          22
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Summary of PEO Components
Annex 2: Summary of Banking Sector Reform Components



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR PRIVATIZATION, ENTERPRISE
AND BANKING SECTOR REFORM
Preface
This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) analyzes the Technical Assistance Project
For Privatization, Enterprise and Banking Sector Reform from preparation to cancellation. The
Credit (Cr. 2402-EGT), in the amount of SDR 6.6 million (US$9 million equivalent) was
approved by the Board on June 25, 1992 and became effective on March 19, 1993. The Credit
was canceled at the request of the Government of Egypt effective November 19, 1996. Of the
Credit amount, total disbursement was SDR325,840 (US$455,000 equivalent). Cofinancing for
the project has been provided by the EU, USAID, UNDP, KfW, ODA, and CIDA.
The Credit was refocussed effective March 7, 1995 and the funds reallocated within the
original categories of the Credit.
This ICR has been prepared by Mr. Mohsin Alikhan based on material in the project files,
the supervision reports throughout the life of the project, interviews with some of the task
managers who supervised the project and a draft Project Completion Note that was prepared
previously. Ms. Elisabeth Sherwood provided editorial and preparation assistance; Mr. Ramon
De Mesa provided production assistance. The ICR was reviewed by Mr. Alastair J. McKechnie,
the then Division Chief, MN2PI.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR PRIVATIZATION, ENTERPRISE AND
BANKING SECTOR REFORM
(CREDIT 2402-EGT)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.   IDA's strategy in Egypt during the early 1990s was to assist the Government in designing
a comprehensive Economic Reform and Structural Adjustment Program (ERSAP) and to provide
the necessary resources to support effective implementation. The strategy also aimed to mobilize
donor support for the reform program. This was supported by the Bank's Structural Adjustment
Loan (SAL) and an IMF Standby Arrangement, both approved in mid-1991. Central to the
success of the ERSAP was a thorough reform of the Public Enterprise (PE) sector, including
initiation of a privatization program. The Technical Assistance Project for Privatization,
Enterprise and Banking Sector Reform (TAP), intended to support the PE program, was
developed within the framework of the SAL.
Project Objectives
2.    The objectives of the TAP were as follows: (i) the institutional development of the Public
Enterprise Office (PEO) and the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE) to design and implement the
public enterprise reform and privatization programs and the banking sector reform program,
respectively; (ii) training of executives and board members of the PEO, Holding Companies
(HCs) and Affiliated Companies (ACs); and (iii) preparation of strategies and plans to privatize
or restructure public enterprises and assistance with specific privatization transactions. The
project was refocussed effective March 7, 1995, and the funds reallocated within the categories
of the Credit. The project objectives remained the same.
Achievement of Objectives
3.   In terms of the institutional development of the PEO .and the CBE to implement their
respective reform programs, performance during the life of the project was less than satisfactory.
However, some benefits continue to materialize, albeit slowly. Renewed commitment and
support for the privatization program from the recently (1996) elected Government and
continued donor interest indicate a certain level of momentum for privatization that will likely
continue.



ii                                                             Evaluation Summary
4.    The Government allowed PEO only a restricted role and gave insufficient authority to it
to become an apex institution for the privatization program as envisaged under the project.
However, the PEO was strengthened enough to allow it to act as a focal point where donors,
experts, management and staff of HCs and ACs and purchasers and other parties interested in
privatization could communicate. This enabled the hiring of international expertise to assist
local counterparts in moving forward with the program, albeit slowly.
5.    According to the latest Country Assistance Strategy (CAS dated May 5, 1997), by the end
of December 1996, 42 of the 314 (Law 203) public companies had been privatized. Of these 42
companies, six were sold to strategic investors, fifteen through the stock markets, and ten to
employees shareholder associations, while eleven were liquidated. The sales to date however,
have mostly involved smaller companies or minority stakes of larger companies. The value of
privatization is estimated at 10 percent of the public companies identified. However, the PEO
would need to be further strengthened and supported to enable it to tackle the complexities of the
major privatizations that are expected to follow.
6.    In terms of training, IDA, with the assistance of donors, arranged for training and study
tours to other countries where similar privatizations programs had taken place or were under
implementation. It also designed and conducted training sessions and procurement seminars at
Bank headquarters and the Resident Mission in Cairo.
7.    The TAP did fund two organizational studies of the CBE, the results of which will be
used to support modernization efforts funded by the EU and other donors. In terms of banking
sector reform, some of the goals of the TAP have been achieved - i.e., indirect monetary control
and bank supervision - albeit with little IDA involvement.
Project Sustainability
8.   It is likely that the modest achievements of the project will be sustainable. With the
support of the President, the Prime Minister has become one of the main forces behind the
privatization program. A Cabinet Committee has been formed to drive and monitor the
privatization process, there are strong signals to the private sector that portfolio investment is
welcomed as much as foreign direct investment, and there is a stronger role for the PEO to act as
a catalyst for privatization.
9.    Similarly for the banking sector reform program, the modest achievements of the TAP
will likely be sustainable. TAP-financed studies are being used to support the modernization
efforts of the CBE, which is being funded by other donors.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
10.   The most important factor affecting the TAP was the apparent weakening of the
Government's commitment to privatization after the project was approved. This was likely due
to many factors, including fear of unemployment resulting from privatization, lack of consensus
in the country and within the Government on the pace and methods of privatization, and



Evaluation Summary                                                            iii
decentralization of the authority for privatization to the HCs. The availability of grant funding
was another key factor that hindered IDA from playing an effective role.
IDA Performance
11.   The privatization program was under discussion with the Egyptian authorities for some
time as part of the economic reform program and specifically under SAL. All concerned knew of
the issues affecting the privatization program. TAP came about as part of the SAL and the need
to meet creditors' requirements for debt relief.  However, since this was technically an
independent project, it should have been treated as such, and the risks and constraints facing the
project given more emphasis in the design and implementation of the project. During
implementation, IDA identified early the difficulties facing the project, but internal Government
constraints prevented effective corrective measures from being taken despite recommendations
from IDA staff and management. With respect to project supervision, there were four Task
Managers (TMs); two had been involved with Egypt's privatization program for some time and
provided continuity until 1994, when the second half of SAL was canceled. The other two TMs
supervised TAP for a brief period when the project was losing its raison d'etre. IDA's
supervision of the project was carried out as a combined effort on this project and that on the
SAL, given the close interlinkage between the two projects. Thus, implementation of this project
was subject to the policy dialogue under the SAL.
12.  IDA has not played a substantial role in the privatization process in Egypt, though its
catalytic role in strengthening the institutional capacity of the PEO, even with all its
shortcomings, formed an important base for the eventual continuation of the process. Similar
observations apply to the banking reform component.
Borrower Performance
13.   During preparation of the TAP, the Government expressed its commitment to the project,
but was unable to build the necessary consensus to follow through. The project was originally
committed to more out of a necessity to satisfy SAL conditionality, and it did not receive the
degree of stakeholder commitment that was essential to successful implementation. GOE
perhaps promised far more under the TAP than it had the commitment or capacity to deliver.
Borrower performance left much to be desired. Furthermore, the availability of grant funding
made use of IDA funding less attractive, thereby adversely affecting IDA Credit disbursements.
Assessment of Outcome
14.   Rated according to both its original and refocussed objectives, the project's performance
was unsatisfactory.



iv                                                             Evaluation Summary
Key Lessons Learned
15.   Commitment: Strong commitment from borrowers is needed for technical assistance.
When there are doubts of government commitment, proper safeguards should be built into the
project design.
16.   Risks: Identify risks and assess likelihood of their occurrence and take these into account
in the project design.
17.   Project Cancellation: Where borrower commitment to a project has weakened, and
willingness to use IDA funding has become insufficient, decisions to cancel the project should be
made earlier rather than later in the interest of both the Client and IDA.
18.   Numerical Targets Should be Realistic: Constraints should be taken into account in
establishing realistic targets.
19.   The Timing of Privatization: A careful assessment should be made on the advisability of
undertaking privatization transactions while an economic reform or structural adjustrnent
program is underway, due to the need for PEO-type organizations to be restructured and
strengthened prior to being able to operate effectively in a sensitive and difficult economic
environment.
20.   Should TA Services Offered for a Fee?: Consideration should be given by the Bank
Group to offering technical assistance for a fee to be charged to donors. Although this
mechanism is not available, this is in essence what occurred in the TAP, although without a fee.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR PRIVATIZATION, ENTERPRISE AND
BANKING SECTOR REFORM
(CREDIT 2402-EGT)
A.    Bacikground
1.    Until recently, and for most of the last four decades, Egypt pursued a public-sector led
and inward-looking development strategy and gave high priority to social welfare. This strategy
generated large fiscal and current account deficits financed (in part) by foreign debt
accumulation. Over time, Egypt was unable to service its debts, triggering substantial reductions
in gross capital inflows and accumulation of arrears and making apparent a heavy external debt
overhang.
2.    In response to the deteriorating economic conditions starting in the late 1980s, the
Government of Egypt (GOE) began implementing a comprehensive Economic Reform and
Structural Adjustment Program (ERSAP) in the spring of 1990. This was supported by the
Bank's Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) and an IMF Standby Arrangement, both approved in
mid-1991. Central to the success of the ERSAP was a thorough reform of the Public Enterprise
(PE) sector, including initiation of a privatization program. The goal was to improve the overall
efficiency and productivity of the economy through privatization and the reform of the policy
environment in which public enterprises operated. A new Minister for Public Business-Sector
Enterprises was appointed, and to assist the Minister a small technical secretariat, the Public
Enterprise Office (PEO), was created. The Technical Assistance Project for Privatization,
Enterprise, and Banking Sector Reform (TAP), intended to support the PE reform program, was
developed within the framework of the SAL.1
3.    As part of the overall reform program, in 1991 GOE liberalized interest rates, relaxed
Government control of foreign exchange and unified exchange rates. These,crucial steps toward
a market-based system needed to be accompanied by reforms in other parts of the financial
sector, in particular, strengthening the operations of the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE). The TAP
was also intended to support the Government's efforts in carrying out banking and financial
sector reforms.
At the time, Egypt was to benefit from the Paris Club's debt forgiveness of US$15 billion and other economic
support. The last tranche of debt forgiveness took place in October 1996 (compared to an original date of mid-
1994). The reason for the delay was the inability of the Government to meet IMF conditions, including
privatization targets. Similarly, in the case of the SAL, the Government was only able to partially meet the
conditions of the privatization program. Nonetheless, a waiver was requested and granted by IDA for the
second tranche release (March 1993).



2                                                    Implementation Completion Report
4.    IDA's strategy in Egypt during the early 1990s was to assist the Government in designing
a comprehensive reform program (ERSAP) and to provide the necessary resources to support
effective implementation. The strategy also aimed to mobilize donor support for the reform
program. The TAP was consistent with both strategic objectives.
B.    Objectives and Project Description - Evaluation of Objectives
5.    The project was prepared in response to explicit requests from the Government for
technical assistance and with the active participation of the PEO and the CBE. During the
preparation and appraisal of the project, the Government had expressed a strong commitment to
the objectives of the project at both the ministerial and working levels.
6.    The project was designed to provide technical assistance, funded through an IDA Credit
and donor grant funds, to promote privatization and restructuring of PEs, training, and banking
sector reform.2 More specifically, the project had three objectives: (i) institutional development
of the Public Enterprise Office (PEO) and the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE) to design and
implement the public enterprise reform and privatization programs and the banking sector reform
program, respectively; (ii) training of the PEO's, Holding Companies' (HCs) and Affiliated
Companies' (ACs) executives and board members; and (iii) preparation of strategies and plans to
privatize or restructure PEs and assistance with specific privatization transactions.
7.    The project as originally designed comprised the following components: (i) consulting
services to assist with the preparation for the privatization of about 65 ACs' major assets or
shareholdings; (ii) strengthen the capabilities of the PEO over a 5-year period and recruitment of
an international team of experts to help the PEO design and monitor privatization and PE reform
programs; (iii) training and seminars for senior and middle managers; and (iv) design and
implementation of a comprehensive banking sector reform program.3 Through its banking sector
reform component, the TAP was to help the CBE improve its banking regulation and supervision
capability, develop a modem clearing and payments system, strengthen its market monitoring
capacity, and reform and privatize state-owned banks.
8.    At the Government's request, IDA organized a donor's conference in May 1992 to
mobilize donor support. Donors participating in this conference made commitments of grant
resources equivalent to US$90 million to support Egypt's technical assistance program, which
were to be spread over the next few years depending on the completion of bilateral agreements.
However, firm donor commitments from six countries were made for this project for a total cost
of the project of US$43.9 million (Tables 7 and 8), including IDA and GOE resources. In the
At negotiations, the Government requested inclusion of the banking sector component and IDA agreed.
The CBE recognized the urgency of the reforms. Donor agencies also supported the project. Generous grant
funding was made available by donors, however, this reduced the need for IDA funding to a negligible
amount.



Implementation Completion Report                                               3
design of the project, IDA took into account the findings and recommendations contained in the
Bank document, "Managing Technical Assistance in the 1990s."
9.    At the request of the Government, the project components were refocussed in March
1995 and the Credit proceeds reallocated largely to PE restructuring in the expectation that this
would provide impetus to the privatization process and accelerate the use of IDA funds.
Objectives of the project remained the same. The refocussed TAP placed greater emphasis on
enterprise restructuring as a first step in the plan for privatization, the training program, and
banking sector reform, rather than preparation of transactions for the privatization of the ACs.
The refocussed project components covered: (i) consulting services for restructuring of about 20
ACs; (ii) training and seminars and management information system activities for the National
Company for Construction and Development (NCCD) and its ACs; and (iii) the design and
implementation of the comprehensive Central Bank reform program.
10.   As originally designed, the project was to be implemented over 5 years by two agencies.
The PEO was to be responsible for implementing three components of the project - the
privatization, restructuring and training programs. The CBE was to be responsible for the design
and implementation of a comprehensive bank reform program. With the refocus of the IDA
Credit, however, the PEO became responsible for PE restructuring activities, and the NCCD (one
of the HCs), on behalf of the PEO, for the training of its ACs. The CBE's responsibilities
remained the same.
11.   Despite refocussing the Credit, four years after effectiveness only a small amount of IDA
funds had been utilized - the CBE had conducted two studies at a cost of US$455,000. None of
the other agencies utilized IDA funds. The refocussed project did not accelerate the use of IDA
funds largely due to the large amount of available donor funding.
12.   Although the objectives of the project were sound, they were overly ambitious. As noted
earlier, the Government had demonstrated strong commitment at the preparation stage of the
project. The Government was eager to solve its debt crisis and IDA responded, but neither
parties realized that it would take far more time to build the domestic consensus for the
privatization program and the institutional capacity to carry forward such a complex and
comprehensive program within the envisaged timeframe. IDA was aware that donor countries
were already assisting Egypt's privatization program and were facing difficulties making
progress. Despite these risks, IDA thought it worthwhile to take a calculated risk in processing
the TAP, because of the project's high potential benefits to Egypt's and the region's economic
development.
13.   A number of key risks to the project were highlighted in the TAP's Memorandum of the
President (June 2, 1992). These were: (i) Government may weaken its commitment to the
overall program; (ii) institutional development and capacity building would require more time
than expected; (iii) project activities may prove to be too complex relative to the absorptive
4  Related to IDA Credit.



4                                                 Implementation Completion Report
capacity of the PEO and the CBE; and (iv) the Government's targets for privatizing and
restructuring enterprises, which were fairly ambitious given the experience of other countries,
may not be accomplished. Some measures were taken to address and minimize the above risks,
but despite this, all came to materialize to different degrees and the project faced major
implementation difficulties both in terms of utilization of IDA funds and in moving the project
ahead. By agreeing to refocus the project it was hoped that the situation would improve, but
unfortunately the project continued to face the same difficulties.
C.   Achievement of Objectives
14.  In assessing the performance of the project two key aspects of TAP operations should be
kept in perspective: (i) utilization of the Credit; and (ii) the institutional impact made by IDA to
enable the Government to implement its privatization program. On (i), TAP's performance was
unsatisfactory, however, experience elsewhere suggests that non-utilization of Bank/IDA funds
should be expected on TAP-type operations when grant funds from other donors are readily
available. There are a number of reasons for this, including more favorable financial terms and
no repayment requirements on grant funds, perceptions that IDA's procurement procedures are
complex and strict, and encouragement from bilateral donors to accept grant funds.
15.   At appraisal, IDA knew that donors were already assisting the Government on
privatization in some form or another and were providing grant funds. The IDA Credit did
provide about 20 percent of the total funding for the larger TA program. The Government chose
not to utilize IDA funds and this in turn restricted IDA's role. However, the unused IDA funds
were recycled and returned to the IDA pool allocation for Egypt for utilization elsewhere. The
TAP experience provides important lessons in terms of how much funding should be provided in
technical assistance operations. These lessons are discussed later in the report.
16.   On (ii), performance of the project was also less than satisfactory despite continual
attempts by IDA supervision and review missions urging the Government to strengthen and give
sufficient authority to the PEO to enable it to carry out the privatization program agreed to under
TAP. However, benefits seem to be materializing now, albeit with delay. Preparation of the
transactions for privatization of PEs was slow and did not fully begin until recently, the bulk of it
being done with donor funding. The Government itself faced political difficulties related to the
sensitive and potentially explosive unemployment situation, opposing viewpoints within the
Government itself on the pace and methods for achieving privatization, the lobbying power of
the PEs and nationalistic economic sentiment. It also lacked the institutional capacity and did
not recruit appropriate staff for the PEO to deal with such a complex and comprehensive
program. Perhaps the most important factor that affected the project was the Government's
weakened commitment once the debt crisis had passed.
17.  Institutional Development of PEO: At the depth of the debt crisis the Government was
enthusiastic about undertaking far-ranging reforms in return for debt relief from the international
community. The Government's subsequent lukewarm support had a negative impact on the
strengthening of the institutional capacity of the PEO. Delays occurred in the recruitment for the
PEO, experienced staff could not be attracted and retained, and there was a lack of donor



Implementation Completion Report                                               5
coordination by the PEO in terms of project implementation. Although currently donor funding
for privatization is high, the initial weakness of the PEO delayed donor community participation
in the project. For example, the European Union (EU) earmarked funding of up to US$60
million to support Egypt's TA program, but did not finalize its agreement with the Government
until 1995 and did not fully staff its unit until mid-1996. Other donor countries faced similar
difficulties. The exception to this was UNDP, which covered salary and other costs of the PEO.
However, it should be pointed out that not all the constraints were from the Egyptian side, but
also due to the internal procedural requirements of the donor countries themselves. IDA
supervision missions concentrated on strengthening the institutional capacity of the PEO to
minimize these problems and hence facilitate donor participation.
18.   Other contributors to the slowdown of the privatization program were: (i) decentralization
of the privatization process to the HCs, which further exacerbated the scarcity of skills; (ii)
marginalization of the role of the PEO as the coordinator of the privatization program; (iii)
PEO's limited capacity to manage the program; and (iv) internal personnel problems within the
PEO. Additional implementation difficulties followed: (i) the PEO proceeded with consultant
selection and evaluation and then canceled the request prior to negotiations with the consultant;
(ii) the PEO recruited international consultants but canceled their contract within a few weeks' of
arrival in Cairo; and (iii) the PEO filled the position of training manager with a candidate with
less than adequate skills after the originally selected candidate declined the position.
19.   Despite these difficulties, the PEO provided a focal point where donors, experts,
management and staff of HCs and ACs and purchasers and other parties interested in the
privatization process could communicate their views. IDA's involvement did strengthen the
PEO's institutional capacity to tackle these matters. However, IDA's role should not be
overemphasized as its impact on the operations of the PEO was marginal. The Government
allowed the PEO only a restricted role and gave insufficient authority to it to become an apex
institution for the privatization program as envisaged under the project. Since the formation of
the new Government in 1996, however, the PEO has been more relied upon by the Minister, and
increased technical responsibility and donor coordination has been entrusted to the PEO.
20.   Training: IDA, with assistance from the donor community, arranged for training and
study tours to other countries where similar privatization programs were done or were under
implementation. It also used the expertise of the Economic Development Institute (EDI) to
design and conduct training sessions and procurement seminars at Bank HQ and the Resident
Mission. The training program targeted senior managers, members of boards of directors,
members of the general assemblies of the ACs and HCs and trainers.
21.   A number of training and related activities were carried out, including: (i) workshops on
valuation techniques and stock flotation for PE managers; (ii) training programs for financial
management and planning; (iii) development of the proposal for the German-Egyptian
Management Center; (iv) formulation of human resource development strategies for public
enterprises; (v) advice to the Ministry of Labor on employment and labor issues; and (vi) a
seminar on reviving the Alexandria Cotton Exchange. The activities have led to improved: (i)



6                                                    Implementation Completion Report
financial management skills; (ii) personnel management skills; and (iii) technical knowledge of
quality control, marketing and information processing.
22.   Training has improved the ability of Egyptian personnel to operate more successfully in
an increasingly market-based economy, which has facilitated to some extent the process of public
enterprise reforms and privatization. It is difficult to assess the full impact of the training
component.  Due to the decentralization of the privatization process, skills requirements
increased considerably. Given the large needs of the country for skilled personnel in the
privatization area, it was unfortunate that, despite the availability of IDA Credit funds for
training, they remained unutilized by the Government and were subsequently canceled.
23.   Professional Advisory Services for Privatization and Restructuring: This component of
the project was designed to support the provision of professional advisory services to assist HCs
and ACs to: (i) prepare and carry out specific transactions to privatize individual companies or
major holdings, and (ii) support the provision of advisory services to restructure certain
companies. The provision of advisory services was envisaged in the Project Appraisal report as
jointly funded by a number of donor agencies.5 None of the IDA Credit funds were utilized for
this component of the project and IDA had little impact on (i) and on (ii).
24.   Just prior to project closing, both the number of donors and the size of grant financing
increased substantially as compared with the original plan. The EU, which originally did not
plan to support this component, provided grant funding of about US$60 million beginning in late
1995. At the same time, USAID concluded its second-phase grant agreement with the
Government to fund US$25 million covering the 1995-99 period. The provision of advisory
services has been vastly expanded, with overall donor funding of about US$120 million.
25.   According to the latest Country Assistance Strategy (CAS dated May 5, 1997), by the end
of December 1996, 42 of the 314 (Law 203) public companies had been privatized. Of these 42
companies, six were sold to strategic investors, fifteen through the stock markets, and ten to
employees shareholder associations, while eleven were liquidated. The sales to date however,
have mostly involved smaller companies or minority stakes of larger companies. The value of
privatizations is estimated at 10 percent of the public companies identified. The more difficult
task of major privatizations is still to come and will require considerable strengthening of PEO's
institutional capacity. The complexity of future large transactions is likely to continue to delay
the process. The PEO will continue to provide a mechanism for the donor community to channel
funds. However, on the larger question of whether the project was able to build sufficient local
institutional capacity to tackle the complexities of the privatization program, much remains to be
desired.
26.   Banking Sector Reform. Advisory services were to be provided to CBE to help study,
provide recommendations, and implement: (i) organizational structure of the CBE; (ii) indirect
Advisory services were generally funded in parallel with IDA services, rather than jointly funded. Each donor
would make its own contractual arrangements but would coordinate with IDA.



Implementation Completion Report                                                   7
monetary control; (iii) foreign exchange management; (iv) bank supervision; (v) payments and
clearing systems; (vi) privatization of joint venture banks; (vii) CBE automation study; (viii)
assistance to the Banking Institute; and (ix) a CBE research and training.
27.   The implementation of this component experienced some delay, but despite this some
progress was made. IDA once again played a limited catalytic role in facilitating two
organizational studies covering some of the areas above. The CBE utilized IDA Credit funds
amounting to SDRO.325 million (US$0.455 million equivalent). Based on the findings of the
studies, the EU will provide US$16 million to support the modernization efforts of the CBE.
Other donors will also support different advisory services on a bilateral basis.  While
comprehensive reform of the banking sector will take time, implementation of indirect monetary
control and bank supervision has already been achieved. Prospects for moving ahead in the other
areas are positive, and there is strong donor support.
D.    Project Sustainability
28.   Privatization. As a follow up to the Economic Summit in Amman in October 1995, the
Government announced its decision to accelerate the implementation of the privatization
program.  The new momentum  for privatization has been supported by strong political
commitment and concrete Government action plans in a number of areas. With the support of
the President, the Prime Minister has become one of the main forces behind the privatization
program. A Cabinet Committee has been formed to drive and monitor the privatization process,
there are strong signals to the private sector that portfolio investment is welcomed as much as
foreign direct investment,6 and there is a stronger role for the PEO to act as a catalyst for
privatization. Sustainability, however, should be measured in terms of whether sufficient
capacity was created under the project for the Government to carry out the program substantially
on its own. The Government's renewed commitment, donor support, and greater domestic
consensus on privatization, provide reasons for cautious optimism for the privatization program.
29.   Banking Reform. Similarly for the banking sector reform  program, the modest
achievements of the TAP will likely be sustainable. TAP-financed studies are being used to
support the modernization efforts of the CBE, which is being funded by other donors.
E.    IDA Performance
30.   Project Identification. The privatization program was under discussion between the
Bank/IDA and Egyptian authorities for some time as part of the economic reform program and
specifically under SAL. All concerned knew of the issues affecting the privatization program.
TAP came about as part of SAL and the need to meet creditors' requirements for debt relief. A
significant amount of work went into the preparation of the project and even though risks to the
6  In early 1996, The Government announced the sale of 49 enterprises, of which only 14 would be seeking
strategic investors and the balance through the capital market. There has been a large demand for shares
floated in the capital market, as evidenced by over subscription and acceptance of initial price offers.



8                                                 Implementation Completion Report
project were recognized, IDA took a calculated risk due to the impact a successful privatization
program would have on Egypt's economic development. Since the program was ambitious,
more weight should have been given to the Government's limited implementation capacity, skills
scarcity and the longer time it would take the Government to build domestic consensus or
political will to implement the privatization program.
31.   Project Preparation and Appraisal. One aim of IDA's strategy was to mobilize donor
support for the reform program. IDA's catalytic role and arranging of a donors' conference
helped to mobilize large pledges for Egypt's TA program and the TAP. In a sense, this worked
against the TAP as the Government decided not to utilize IDA funds. IDA could have
conditioned effectiveness on recruitment of qualified and experienced personnel for the PEO and
strengthening of the PEO's advisory services. These measures, if insisted upon, would have
created delays in project effectiveness, but would have demonstrated some measure of the
Government's commitment to the TAP. However, there was pressure to quickly approve the
TAP in order to satisfy creditors for debt relief.
32.   The donor community was ready and willing to provide sufficient grant funds for the
TAP. At appraisal, it was thought that allocation of sufficient IDA funds would allow it to play a
more effective role in assisting and strengthening PEO capacity. Unfortunately, the Government
chose not to use IDA funds to strengthen the PEO. For the most part, all parties dealt with the
PEO on a bilateral basis, leaving IDA with little leverage. Under these circumstances, the
original project cost estimates of US$43.9 million meant little, as the donor community
negotiated bilaterally with the PEO on the privatization work and with CBE on the banking
sector reform  initiatives. Annexes 1 and 2 present summaries of the bilateral donors'
contributions to the TAP.
33.  IDA has not played a substantial role in the privatization process in Egypt, though its
catalytic role in strengthening the institutional capacity of the PEO, even with all its
shortcomings, formed an important base for the eventual continuation of the process. Similar
observations apply to the banking reform component. Again, the availability of donor funds to
support advisory services has limited IDA's role in this area.
34.   Supervision. IDA identified early the difficulties facing project implementation. Bank
missions worked with the Government, performed special project reviews and showed flexibility
to facilitate project implementation. Weakening of the Government's commitment to the project,
problems with PEO operations, decentralization of responsibility for privatization to HCs and
non-utilization of IDA funds were brought to the attention of IDA management, including
recommendation by supervision missions to cancel the project. Despite recognition of the
problems with the project by all concerned, project implementation did not improve. As alluded
to before, TAP was not considered a stand-alone project, but was closely interlinked with SAL.
IDA Management did not opt to cancel TAP due to the larger issues affecting SAL and Egypt's
comprehensive economic reform program (see para. 37). However, even after the cancellation of
the SAL, the TAP Credit was still not canceled.
35.   There were four task managers over the life of the project who supervised TAP. Two had



Implementation Completion Report                                               9
been involved with Egypt's privatization program for some time and provided continuity until
1994, when second half of SAL was canceled. The other two TMs supervised TAP for a brief
period when the project was losing its raison d'etre. There was a long gap in the supervision of
the project between 1993 and 1995, however, IDA did conduct special reviews of the country's
privatization program, which also covered issues affecting this project. IDA's supervision of the
project was carried out as a combined effort with the SAL, given the close interlinkages between
the two projects. Under the circumstances, project implementation was subject to the policy
dialogue under the SAL.
F.    Borrower Performance
36.   The Government expressed its commitment to the project, but was unable to build the
consensus or demonstrate the political will necessary to follow through.  Staffing and
strengthening of the PEO to enable it to spearhead privatization work was not supported by the
Government. The PEO's role was further eroded by the Government's decision to decentralize
privatization responsibility to the HCs. Given the scarcity of skills, this further diluted efforts on
privatization. The implementing agencies decided to use grant to fund advisory services instead
of the TAP funds. If the intention of the Government was not to utilize IDA funds because of the
availability of grant funds, the Government could have requested cancellation earlier, which it
did not do. The Government did, however, propose alternative use of the TAP funds, but these
unfortunately did not meet the project objectives approved by the Bank's Board. The Credit was
ultimately refocussed and the funds reallocated at the Government's request. Despite this
accommodation, the Government chose not to utilize the reallocated funds due to the availability
of more competitive funding.
37.   The concluding remarks in the SAL's ICR (dated January 22, 1996) are pertinent here:
"given the comprehensive nature of the reform program the Government should be commended
for the very impressive progress made towards stabilization of the economy." However, it also
notes that "implementation on privatization has been rather hesitant." GOE promised far more
under the SAL and the TAP than it had the commitment or capacity to deliver.
G.   Assessment of Outcome
38.   Rated according to its original and refocussed objectives, the project's performance was
unsatisfactory. It failed to achieve major objectives within the envisaged timeframe. However,
if the Government's renewed commitment and donor interest and support continues, the
privatization and the banking sector reforms should move ahead, albeit slowly.
H.   Key Lessons Learned
39.   Commitment: Strong Government commitment is essential for TAP-type operations to be
successful. Proper safeguards should be built into the project design in case commitment
weakened, as happened in this project.



10                                                 Implementation Completion Report
40.   Appraise the risks and seek to contain and mitigate them: Appraising the risks that may
affect a project should not be limited to identifying them, but assessing the likelihood of their
occurrence. If the risks are too high, the project design must be adjusted to reduce them. One
way of reducing risk is to require that crucial actions for institutional strengthening be in place
before the project is presented to the Board or is declared effective.
41.   Do not hesitate to cancel a non-performing project: If the Government was committed to
the project during preparation and appraisal, but subsequently loses interest, the difficult decision
to cancel should be made earlier than later in the interest of the Client and IDA. The possibility
of unilateral cancellation by IDA of non-performing projects/components should be given
consideration.
42.   Numerical targets should be realistic: All Bank missions involved with the TAP,
including special review missions, noted that the privatization program was ambitious and that
skills resources in the country were scarce. Having rightly recognized these constraints, were the
numerical targets for privatizing ACs (65) realistic within the envisaged timeframe? If they were
not, IDA could have explored the possibility of selecting a few priority candidate PEs with the
Government to work through the privatization process and demonstrate success, which could
have had a duplicative effect.
43.   Should privatization transactions be attempted during the course of an economic reform
program? A careful assessment should be made on the advisability of undertaking privatization
transactions while an economic reform or structural adjustment program is underway, i.e., in an
already sensitive and difficult economic environment. Institution building and strengthening for
undertaking a privatization program subsequently could be included as part of an economic
reform program.
44.   Should the Bank Group offer TA services for afee? Perhaps the most important lesson is
that in TAP-type operations, consideration should be given by the Bank Group to confining itself
to strengthening institutional capacity and mobilizing financial resources. Should these services
be offered for a fee to be charged to donors with the concurrence of the concerned government
and donors? If the idea is feasible and could be put into practice, it could have a number of
potential benefits. This mechanism, however, was unavailable at the time TAP was conceived
and is probably still unavailable. It should be noted, however, that IDA ended up doing precisely
that, to some degree, under the TAP, although without a fee and with considerable difficulties.



Implementation Completion Report                                               11
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives   Substantial | Partial   Negligible   | NotApplicable |
Macroeconomic Policies                                 V
Sector Policies                                        V
Financial Objectives                                                  V
Institutional Development                 V
Physical Objectives                                                   V
Poverty Reduction                                                     V
Gender Issues
Other Social Objectives                                               V
Environmental Objectives                                              V
Public Sector Management                               V
Private Sector Development                             V
Other (Training)                           .             .
Likely            Unlikely       Uncertain
B. Project Sustainability   I
C. Bank Performance             Highly Satisfactory   Satisfactory     Deficient
Identification                                                     Dfce
Preparation                                            V
Appraisal                                              V
Supervision                                                           V' 
|D. Borrower Performance        Highly Satisfactory   |Satisfactory  |Deficient |
Preparation                                     l
Implementation                                                       / ***
Covenant compliance
Operation                                       |              |              l
Highly                                  Highly
Satisfactory  Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory
[E. Assessment of Outcome         I      l                  ***                    I
*   Greater recent Government commitment to the objectives of the TAP and continued donor
support make the sustainability of the project likely.
* * Identification took place largely within the context of the SAL, which included privatization
as a reform objective.
*** Unsatisfactory within the envisaged time frame. Subsequent events may contribute to a
more positive outcome.



12                                              Implementation Completion Report
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Approval
Loan/Credit Title             Purpose                Year         Status
(mm/yr)
Preceding Operations
Structural Adjustment   Objectives:                   6/21/91   Declared effective
Loan (Ln. 3353-EGT)   * to stabilize the economy, achieve       2/20/92;
internal and external equilibrium,      First tranche
and liberalize the fnancial and         disbursed 8/17/92;
foreign exchange markets;               Second trance
* to restructure the economy and          canceled in 10/93
increase the efficiency of              due to
resource use through price              improvements in
liberalization, decontrol of            balance-of-
investment, a more outward              payments position;
orientation, and the reshaping of       Closed on 6/30/94;
the regulatory framework; and           Overall
* to minimize any transitory              satisfactory
adverse effects of the reforms on       implementation
the poor through improved social
policies.
Following Operations
None



Implementation Completion Report                                              13
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle       Date Planned    Date Actual/ Latest
Estimate
Identification                                         June 1991
Preparation                                             July 1991
Appraisal                                             February 1992
Negotiations                                            May 1992
Board Presentation                                      June 1992
Signing                                               July 29, 1992
Effectiveness                     November 1992      March 19, 1993
Credit Refocussing                                    March 7, 1995
Project Completion                June 30, 1998    November 19, 1996
Loan Closing/Cancellation                          November 19, 1996



14                                               Implementation Completion Report
Table 4
The Original Credit Agreement
Revised Schedule 1
Final Disbursements and Cancellation
AOunt f h    Revie Crdi   isure              :cnee1dCe
. catWegor                     C redit AlctAll  llbae         Credit Amount   n0n
Express  in     Epse In:  (Exree iin
SDRSRSRSD
yauiv4e it Equivan)          Eqiaet         Eqvln)
1. Office Equipment of PEO            185,000             0              0
2. Consultant Services
(a) PEO:
Institutional Development    2,015,000             0              0
Privatization of PE          1,835,000             0              0
Restructuring of PE            365,000     4,475,0001             0        4,475,000
(b) CBE                          1,465,000      1,465,000       325,840        1,139,160
3. Training for PEO                   735,000       660,000              0         660,000
TOTAL                               6,600,000      600,000         325,840        6,274,160
The Govermnent had agreed with the Bank to use the Credit proceeds for non-investment restructuring
purposes as preparation towards privatization.



Implementation Completion Report                                               15
Table 5: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
|  FY93       FY94       FY95       FY96       FY97  |
Appraisal estimate              2.2       5.4         7.5        8.59
Actual                         0.0        0.72       0.91       0.97      0.46
Actual as a percentage of      0%         1.8%      0.12%      0.11%      .05%
estimate
Date of final disbursement  September 1995                              .
US$5 10,000, the utilization of which had not been identified, was returned by the Government
in December 1996, leaving the total amount disbursed at US$455,000.
Disbursements totalled only SDR 325,840 (US$455,000), all of which went toward two studies
for services for the CBE. Final disbursement was in September 1995. Special Accounts were
closed in December 1996.



16                                                     Implementation Completion Report
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Indicators'                                  Achievements
1. Develop privatization programn:                        Majority interests in 31 PEs had been
* number of enterprises privatized                    sold by end- 1996 (six to strategic
*  higher level of private-sector investment          investors, 15 through the stock market,
and ten to employee shareholder
associations);
Minority interests in 25 PEs had been
sold; and
2
11 PEs had been liquidated.
2. Reform public enterprises:
*  delivery of studies3 and implementation of         None
recommendations
*  increased efficiency of public enterprises         Partial
3. Reforn the banking sector:
*  delivery of studies3 and imnplementation of        Partial (2 studies)
recommendations
*  improved financial sector performance              Partial. Will take time to implement
substantial reforms.
4. Build institutional capacity for privatization:
*  number of trained and fully equipped experts        Satisfactory4
*  increased private-sector investmnent               See note above in (1)
I Discussed and agreed with Borrower in June, 1996
2 Figures from 1997 Egypt CAS (Report No. 16533-EGT, May 5, 1997); Egypt TAP
Memorandum and Recommendation of the President established as a goal the privatization of
65 ACs over the life of the project.
3 Studies were not defined at appraisal. Areas of coverage were defined, i.e., PEO support,
professional advisory services for privatization and restructuring, and banking sector reform.
Two organizational studies regarding Central Bank of Egypt operations were financed under
the Credit.
4 Difficult to assess impact of training. Formal assessment was to be made by UNDP, but in
principle effort on training was satisfactory.



Implementation Completion Report                                                    17
Table 7: Project Costs and Financing *
Appraisal estimate (US$M)
Item                Foreign costs    Local costs    Total
Public Enterprise Office            3.9            7.1         11.0
IDA                               3.0             -          3.0
UNDP                              0.3            2.7         3.0
GOE                               0.6            4.4         5.0
Training Program                    2.5             1.6        4.1
IDA                               0.5            0.5         1.0
GOE and Fees                                     1.1         1.1
EEC                               2.0            -           2.0
Professional Advisory Services                                        l
Privatization transactions        6.5            3.5        10.0
IDA                            1.7            0.8         2.5
CIDA                           1.7            0.8         2.5
USAID                          3.1            1.1         4.2
GOE and fees                                  0.2         0.8
Restructuring transactions        2.5            1.3         3.8
IDA                            0.4            0.1         0.5
CIDA                           0.3            0.2         0.5
German Government              1.8             -          1.8
GOE and Fees                                  1.0         1.0
-Banking Sector Reforms              12.5           2.5         15.0
IDA                               1.0            1.0         2.0
EEC                               7.5            0.5         8.0
Fees                        __1.0                            1.0
German Government                 1.0             -          1.0
ODA                               3.0            -           3.0
TOTAL                               27.9           16.0        43.9
* Project costs include probable contributions from bilateral donors at the time of appraisal. These
contributions were negotiated bilaterally; IDA project supervision monitored IDA's contribution, although
there was some involvement in facilitating negotiations with other donors.
IDA Contribution (US$M)
Appraisal estimate   Refocus Estimate (1995)      Actual
Item                   Total
Public Enterprise Office         3.0                      _
Training Program                  1.0                   0.86
Professional Advisory
Services
Privatization                  2.5                     _
transactions
Restructuring                  0.5                    6.14                   _
transactions
Banking Sector Reforms           2.0                     2.0          |        0.46
TOTAL                            9.0                     9.0          1       0.46



18                                               Implementation Completion Report
Table 8: Project Financing
(at Appraisal)
Appraisal estimate (US$M)
Source           Local costs   Foreign costs    Total
IBRD/IDA                     2.4            6.6           9.0
CIDA                         1.0            2.0           3.0
EEC/EU                       0.5            9.5           10.0
KfW                      _                  2.8           2.8
ODA                                         3.0           3.0
USAID                        1.1            3.1           4.2
UNDP                         2.7            0.3           3.0
GOE and fees                 8.3            0.6           8.9
TOTAL                        16.0          27.9           43.9



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                 19
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement      Section     Covenant  Present   Original    Revised      Description of covenant           Comments
Type     Status  fulfillment fulfillment
date       date
Loan        3.01(a), (b) (i)   3         CP                           GOE to carry out project     * Complied with for
Covenant    and (ii)                                                  through PEO and CBE and        Banking Reform
provide promptly funds,      * Action Plan disregarded
facilities, services, and other
resources for the project
according to implementation
arrangements.
Loan        3.01 (b) (i)       3         C                            GOE to ensure availability of   Complied with
Covenant                                                              adequate funding to PEO for its
operations.
Loan        3.02               3         C                            Procurement of goods and     * PEO initiated
Covenant                                                              services financed out of credit   procurement, but ended up
proceeds to be governed by the   using its own funds rather
provisions of Schedule 3.     than the Credit;
* Complied with for
banking sector reform;
* No disbursement for PEO
Loan        4.01 (a) and (b)    I       CP                            Maintain records and accounts  Audit reports received with
Covenant                                                              of the project separately for    delay.
PEO and CBE components and
furnish to the Bank audit reports
of project accounts, including
special accounts, prepared by
auditors acceptable to IDA.
Loan        4.01 (c)            1        C                            Maintain records for all     Complied with for Banking
Covenant                                                              expenditures withdrawn on the  Reform. Special account of
basis of statements of       PEO was not utilized.
expenditures. These to be
___________   ________    ______  _________   ________   included  in  the  annual audits.
Loan        Schedule 4,        5         C                            Hire experienced and qualified  * Complied with, but
Covenant    para I (a)                                                PEO director.                  experience and
qualifications left much to
be desired;
* After July, 1996, director
is marginalized due to
greater authority given to
Holding Companies.
Loan        Schedule 4,        5        CP       7/31/92   12/31/92   Recruitment of 4 staff.      Complied with, but skills
lCovenant   para I (b)                                                                             and mix left much to be
l_________   ________   ___________   __________   ______________________________  d esired
Loan        Schedule 4,        5         C       12/31/92  3/31/93    PEO and CBE to prepare action * PEO actions program
Covenant   para 2                                                     program for carrying out       agreed to in minutes of
respective parts of project.  negotiations in May 1992;
* Banking Sector Reform
Program agreed with CBE
in March 1993.
Loan        Schedule 4,        5        CP       12/31/92             PEO and CBE to prepare annual * Plans not prepared by
Covenant   para 3 (a)                                                 work plans for respective parts   PEO;
of the project.              * Prepared by CBE after
1996.
Loan        Schedule 4,        9         CP                           PEO and CBE to prepare       Received late, but PEO
Covenant   para 3 (b)                                                 quarterly progress reports on    never submitted after
i___________                                             respective parts of the project.  October 1994.



20                                                                      Implementation Completion Report
Agreement     Section     Covenant  Present   Original    Revised     Description of covenant          Comments
Type    Status  fulfillment fulfillment
date       date
Loan        Schedule 4,       5        NC       6/30/92             Appointment of PEO Training  Four members appointed,
Covenant   para 4                                                   Advisory Committee.         but committee was never
I_________  _______  _I_________  __________                          activated.
Loan        Schedule 4,       9        NC       1/31/93   1/31/95    PEO and CBE to carry out   Not complied with.
Covenant   para 5                                                   annual performance reviews
jointty with IDA
Loan        Schedule 4,       10       CP      6/30/92    8/15/92  Adherence to "guidelines" on   * Prepared and agreed by
Covenant   para 6 (a)                                               privatization and restructuring.   Bank and PEO in October
1992; issued by PE
Minister in February
1993;
*Partial compliance to
agreed guidelines.
Loan        Schedule 4,       10       NC      11/15/92             Professional Advisory Services Professional Advisory
Covenant   para 6 (b)                                               to be carTied out according to   Services contract never put
procedures satisfactory to IDA. in force.
Loan        Schedule 4,       13        C                           Only affiliated companies   Complied with.
Covenant   para 6 (c)                                               (ACs) subject to restructuring.
Loan        Schedule 4,       13        C                           Privatization transaction defined Complied with.
Covenant   para 6 (d)                                               as one in which major
ownership is transferred to the
I         lprivate sector.
Covenant Typ
I =     Accounts/audits
2 =     Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries
3 =     Flow and utilization of project funds
4 =     Counterpart funding
5 =     Management aspects of the project or executing agency
6 =     Environmental covenants
7 =     Involuntary resettlement
8 =     Indigenous people
9 =     Monitoring, review and reporting
10 =    Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
11 =    Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12 =    Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/ institutional action
13=    Other
Present Status:
C =     Covenant complied with
CD =   Complied with after delay
CP =   Complied with partially
NC =   Not complied with



Implementation Completion Report                                           21
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
(in US$ thousands)
Actual
Stage of Project Cycle    Weeks        USS
Preparation to appraisal      13.5        36.5
Appraisal                     21.0        68.9
Negotiations through Board    12.4         41.7
approval
Supervision                   114         380.4
Completion
TOTAL                       160.9       527.5



22                                                                Implementation Completion Report
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of    Month/ Number of Days in  Specialized staff    IP       DO         Types of problems
project cycle   year    persons    field       skills
Through         7/91                                           n/a      n/a
appraisal                                                                                             l
Appraisal       1/92       8        20                         n/a      n/a
through
Board
approval
6/92       5        12      Banking reform     n/a      n/a
Supervision     7/92       4        12    Financial specialist;  1       1
information
technology specialist
11/92      4        13    Financial specialist;    2     2    Administrative overload on
economist; training                the PEO; lack of a clearly
specialist                     articulated committment to
privatization by the GOE;
uneven acceptance of
privatization objectives at the
HC level; and unwillingness
of the GOE to proceed with
liquidation of clearly unviable
enterprises out of concern for
the political consequences for
labor redundancy.
3/93       1        5    Financial specialist    n/a    n/a   Decentralization of
privatization process to HCs;
insufficient capacity within
the PEO.
7/93       3        10       Privatization     2        2    Lack of consistent ministerial
specialist; financial              leadership and episodic
analyst; economist                 government decision-making;
lack of clear government
commitment to privatization;
deficient program
management; unclear
responsibilities of HCs and
____________  _______ ______PEO; non-use of IDA funds.
12/95      2        10    Financial specialist    HU    HU    Weak management of PEO;
lack of GOE support.
7/96      2               Financial specialist    U     HU   Non-implementation of
project; use of donor rather
.__ _   than IDA funds.
Note: There were no supervision missions specifically for the TAP between July 1993 and December 1995.



Annex 1
Summary of PEO Components
EypVt: TA for Privatization and Enterprise and Banking Sector Reforms
Privatization Components
Recap as ofOctober 1996
Components              Donors        Plan                           Implementation                    Comments
Part A: Institutional  IDA            Recruit S international experts  PEO tendered for expertise but did    IDA funding was not utilized
Development of the                                                   not negotiate. Re-tendered by
PEO                                                                  recruiting individuals followed by
cancellation after few months
UNDP          Financing of Egyptian          PEO recruited specialists         Quality of experts varied significantly -
Specialists                                                     high turnover among quality staff.
Part B: Training        IDA           PEO Follow Training Program    Training Specialist selected, IDA  IDA funds not utilized because of
Agreed with IDA               gave no objection, but did not join  disagreement on the award. IDA made
PEO.                             available training in
Gov't request for NCCD (an HC)   privatization/restructuring and
to implement a training program for   procurement for PEO staff at the Bank.
its ACs.                         IDA agreed to NCCD's role, but it was
not undertaken due PEO informing
NCCD of seeking grant funding.
UNDP          Series of Short Term training  Training provided to HCs and ACs    No assessment of the quality of training
Program for the executives of  Executives and PEO staff, CMA    program available. UNDP plans to
HCs and ACs, and PEO                                            review the program in principle
satisfactory.
EU            Short term training consultants  Not yet materialized            EU signed an agreement in late 1996
with the Govermment.
Part C: Professional    IDA           Preparation for privatization of    In 1995, Bank agreed to      No IDA funding utilized. Due to
Advisory Services for                 65 companies                   restructuring of 20 companies as a  availability of grant funding. EU
Privatization and                                                    step towards privatization        funding is utilized to undertake IDA's
Restructuring (PAS)                                                                                    portion.
CIDA          Mainly untied funding for PAS  CIDA funding is still in process of    CIDA has informed IDA and PEO that
being made available             its technical assistance, now, is fully tied.
EU            None was planned               Up to 90 ACs planned for          New entrant! largest donor funding (US$
privatization transactions       60m). Program started early 96,
complicated by staff tumover. Project
Up to 30 ACs for restructuring   Mgmt. Unit (PMU) is now staffed and
operations                       recruitment planned for local experts.
USAID         Prepare companies for          4 companies privatized            Due to decentralization of privatization
privatization/restructuding   10 companies sold to employees    program, USAID directly support
25 companies partially floated   HCs/ACs. Recently, USAID has been
working more closely with PEO and has
provided: Ist phase S15m (90-95). 2nd
phase S35m (95-99).



Amecx2
Summarv of Banking Sector Reform Components
Evvgt: TA for Privatization and Enterprlse and Bankine Sector Reforms
Banking Sector Reform Component
Recap as of Octaber 1996
Components             Donors         Plan                               Implementation                  Comments
Part D: Banking Sector    IDA          Support for Banking Sector Reform,    Less than 25% utilized to   used by CBEI and donors to contiue
Reform (Central Bank                   Mainly CBE                         finance two studies on CBE     with the reforms.
of Egypt - CBE)                                                           orgamization.
IDA fimding not needed due to grant
funds
EU             finance(a) indirect monetary control    EU reached agreement in mid-  EU has doubled its original
(b)bank supervision(c)clearing and  1995 and PMU is on board since   commitment to $16 million. EU's
payment system(d) FX reserve      the beginning of 1996           support for TAP is 70%/ out of about
management.                                                       US$ 120m.
KfW           Training                           CBE staff training in Germany  Overall satisfied
ODA           Finance Automation study and        Automation study completed,    ODA agreed to CBEs request to
Banking Institute Seminar series.  series of seminars on banking  finance advisor for implementation of
canied out                     study
USAID          Privatization of joint-venture banks  To be done by the PE Ministry.    Various share valuation taken place,
Provide funding for Research   though actual bank privatization has
and to supplement EU's         been sluggish.
program                        New entrant to support (supplement
EU) CBE



