CREDIT NUMBER 2402 EGT
Development Credit Agreement
(Technical Assistance Project for Privatization
and Enterprise and Banking Sector Reforms)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1992


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2402 EGT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                        , 1992, between ARAB
REPUBLIC OF EGYPT (the Borrower    and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
(B)   to assist in financing the Project, the Borrower intends
to obtain grants or concessionary loans from other external sources
of finance; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a)   "PEO" means the Public Enterprise Office established
under the Decree of the Borrower's Prime Minister No. 1741 of 1991;
(b)   "Public Enterprise Sector" means all companies operating
under the Borrower's Law No. 203 of the year 1991;
(c)   "Cofinanciers" means the sources for Project financing
referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to the Agreement;


﻿- 2 -
(d)   "Cofinancing Agreements" means the agreements to be
entered into between the Borrower and each of the Confinanciers;
(e)   "Cofinancing Amount" means the grants and loans to be
provided for purposes of the Project under the Cofinancing
Agreements;
(f)   "Special Accounts" means the  PEO Special Account and
the CBE Special Account, collectively, and "Special Account" means
any of the Special Accounts;
(g)   "Fiscal Year" and the sign "FY" mean any fiscal year of
the Borrower covering the period from July 1 in any calendar year to
June 30 in the following calendar year;
(h)   "CBE" means the Central Bank of Egypt;
(i)   "Implementing Agencies" means PEO and CBE; and
(j)   "PEO Special Account" and "CBE Special Account" mean the
accounts referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to six million
six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars two separate special deposit accounts
in CBE on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, to
be known as the CBE Special Account and the PEO Special Account,
respectively. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
5 to this Agreement.


﻿-3..
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) t the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time t-o time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1
commencing September 1, 2002, and ending March 1, 2027. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on March 1,
2012 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿-4-
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph   (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. Each of the Director and the Deputy Director of
PEO, acting severally, is designated in respect of Parts A, B and C
of the Project and each of the Governor and the Deputy Governor of
CBE, acting severally, is designated in respect of Part D of the
Project as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking
any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.10. The Borrower represents that it has designated
its Ministry of Finance for the purposes of handling on behalf of
the Borrower debt service payments with respect to the Credit.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
financial, managerial and administrative practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall (i) except as the Borrower and
the Association shall otherwise agree, carry out the Project through
the Implementing Agencies and in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) ensure
the availability to PEO of all funds (currently estimated at the
equivalent of about $5,000,000 for the period from FY 1992/93
through FY 1996/97) required for the carrying out of its operations
and for securing its staffing needs in accordance with the Action
Program referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project and of the Implementing
Agencies.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with internationally accepted
auditing principles consistently applied, by


﻿- 6 -
independent   auditors    acceptable   to   the
Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than three months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at   least one year after     the
Association has received the audit for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)   enable  the  Association's  representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure  that  such  records  and  accounts  are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together  with  the   procedures  and  internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the Bnrrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall h:ne taken any action for the dissolution of PEO or for the
suspension of its operation; and
(b)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this pare3raph
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant made by any Cofinancier to
the Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
Cofinancing Agreement providing therefor.
(ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
suspension,    cancellation,   termination    or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, the event
specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of this Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
Cofinancing Agreements providing for a total Cofinancing Amount of
not less than $6,000,000 equivalent (other than conditions related
to the effectiveness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled; and
(b)   PEO has acquired the staff referred to in paragraph (1)
(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section   7.01.  The  Borrower's  Minister   of  State   for
International  Cooperation   or  the   First  Undersecretary   for
International   Finance  in   said  Ministry   is  designated  as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of International Cooperation
(International Finance Sector)
8 Adly Street
Cairo, Egypt
Cable address:                 Telex:
MINISTRY OF                227-23348
INTERNATIONAL
COOPERATION


﻿-9-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
4     Regional Vice President
Midle East and North Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Office equipment            185,000        100% of foreign
for PEO                                   expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures
(2) Consultants'                               100%
services:
(a) for Part A           2,015,000
of the Project
(b) for Part C(l)        1,835,000
of the Project
(c) for Part C(2)          365,000
of the Project
(d) for Part D of
the Project           1,465,000
(3) Training under              735,000        100%
Part B of the
Project
TOTAL                 6,600,000


﻿- 12 -
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above: (a) no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals
in an aggregate amount not to exceed $700, 000 equivalent may be made
in respect of Categories 1, 2(a), 2(b), 2(c) and 3 on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after January 1,
1992; and (b) no withdrawals shall be made in respect of expen-
ditures under Category 2(d) until the Borrower has submitted to the
Association an action plan satisfactory to the Association covering
the banking sector reform program.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to provide the Borrower with
the technical assistance required to enable it to carry out the
enterprise sector reform and privatization components of the
structural adjustment and economic reform program, namely, (a)
strengthening the capacity of PEO and CBE to design and implement
the public enterprise reform and privatization programs and the
banking sector reform program, respectively, (b) training, and (c)
preparation of strategies and plans to privatize or restructure
public enterprises and assistance with specific transactions for
privatization of some public enterprises.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Institutional Development of PEO
Provision of advisory services to PEO to assist in conducting
its activities in the areas of privatization, enterprise restruc-
turing, financial planning and management, business management, and
manpower development and labor redeployment.
Part B:     Training
Carrying out by PEO, with the assistance of experts and a
qualified professional training management specialist employed by
the PEO, of a training program for (1) the staff of PEO and (2)
senior managers and members of boards of directors and general
assemblies of holding and affiliated companies in the Public
Enterprise Sector.
Part C:     Professional Advisory Services for Privatization and
Restructuring
Provision of professional advisory services to assist (1) in
the design and implementation of specific transactions to privatize
affiliated companies in the Public Enterprise Sector and public
shareholdings in economic enterprises governed by the Borrower's
Investment Law No. 230 of the year 1989, and (2) in the design of
plans to restructure entities in the Public Enterprise Sector.


﻿- 14 -
Part D: Banking Sector Reform
Provision of advisory services to CBE to assist in the design
and implementation of a comprehensive banking sector reform program.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
A.    Procurement of Goods
Items of equipment shall be procured under contracts awarded,
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association, on the
basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in May 1985.
B.    Employment of Consultants
In order to assist in the carrying out of the Project, the
Borrower s,all cause the Implementing Agencies and any other entity
employing consultants for the Project to employ only consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.    PEO shall be responsible for the carrying out of Parts A, B
and C of the Project and CBE shall be responsible for the carrying
out of Part D of the Project. For that purpose, PEO shall: (a) at
all times be managed by a Director with experience and quali-
fications acceptable to the Association, and (b) prepare in
consultation with the Association, and thereafter implement a plan
for engaging a deputy director, a manpower development specialist,
a procurement specialist and a training management specialist with
experience and qualifications acceptable to the Association.
2.    PEO  and  CBE  shall  prepare, in    consultation  with  the
Association, an Action Program for the carrying out of their
respective Parts of the Project.
3.    PEO and CBE shall prepare and furnish to the Association, in
a format acceptable to the Association (a) by December 31st of each
year or such other date as may be agreed, an Annual Work Plan which
shall include a description of the activities to be carried out
under their respective Parts of the Project in the ensuing year,
together with the budgetary requirements and implementation
arrangements thereof, and (b) quarterly progress reports on the
status of their respective Parts of Project implementation.
4.    PEO shall establish, by June 30, 1992, a Training Advisory
Committee, consisting of representatives from PEO, the Public
Enterprise Sector and the private sector, to advise the Director of
PEO on (i) annual training programs to be carried out under Part B
of the Project, (ii) selection criteria of consultants to carry out
such programs, (iii) financial arrangements for carrying out of such
programs, and (iv) progress in carrying out such programs.
5.    PEO and CBE shall carry out, in participation with the
Association, by January 31st of each year or such other date as may
be agreed, an annual evaluation for the preceding year of their
respective parts of the Project with a view to reviewing progress in
carrying out the Project on the basis of indicators acceptable to
the Borrower and the Association. The third such annual evaluation
shall be a detailed mid-term review of the Project.


﻿- 17 -
6.    PEO shall arrange for the carrying out of advisory services
for privatization and restructuring transactions included in Part C
of the Project in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association. Such procedures shall, in particular, include the
following:
(a)   adherence to the guidelines to be formulated by PEO for
use by holding companies and affiliated companies in the Public
Enterprises  Sector   for,  inter  alia,   the  carrying  out   of
privatization and restructuring transactions;
(b)   procedures satisfactory to the Association for the
selection of companies for technical assistance and for the approval
by PEO of funding for such technical assistance on behalf of
selected companies;
(c)   only affiliated companies in the Public Enterprise
Sector may be subject to restructuring; and
(d)   a privatization transaction shall be defined as one in
which majority ownership of assets or a company is to be transferred
from the government or a government-controlled entity to the private
sector.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means: (i) for the CBE
Special Account, Category 2(d); and (ii) for the PEO Special
Account, Categories (1) (2)(a), 2(b), 2(c) and (3), all as set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the  term  "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to: (i) for the CBE Special Account, $100,000; and (ii)
for the PEO Special Account, $500,000, all to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish said
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in said Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of said Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into said Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.


﻿- 19 -
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
said Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of said Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph     3 of   this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into a Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals in respect of the respective Parts of
the Project should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
(b)   once  the total unwithdrawn amount of the      Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories for said Special Account, less
the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to the respective Parts of the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories for said Special Account shall follow such procedures as


﻿- 20 -
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in said Special Account as of the date of such
notice  will   be  utilized  in  making   payments  for  eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of a Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into said Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into said Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
(FOR SECRfARY


