The World Bank                                  OFFIM        wer.         Telephone:  (66) 0 26868300
INTERNATIONAL E!ANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT         t4mwan     Facsimile:  (66) 0 26868301
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                        laod       www.worldbank.or.th
September 7, 2012
H.E. 'v1r. Phouphet Khamphounvong
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
23rd Singha Road
Vienii ane
Lao People's Democratic Republic
Excellency:
Re: TF Grant No. 91201-LA (Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Trade Development Facility
Project)
Amendment to Additional Instructions: Disbursement
I refer to the Grant Agreement ("Agreement") between the Lao People's Democratic
Republic (the "Recipient") and the International Development Association ("World Bank"),
acting, as administrator of the Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Trade Development Facility, for the
abovc,-referenced project, dated August 8, 2008. The Agreement provides that the World Bank
may issue additional instructions regarding the withdrawal of the proceeds of Grant No.
TF091201-LA ("Grant"). This letter ("Disbursement Letter"), as revised from time to time,
constitutes the additional instructions and supersedes the disbursement letter issued on August 8,
2008 ("Original Disbursement Letter") by (a) increasing the Ceiling of Advance to the
Designated Account from US$300,000 to US$500,000, as set out in paragraph II (vi) below, (b)
the addition of new subsection on Electronic Delivery as set out in paragraph II (iii) below, and
(c) amending Supporting Documentation requirements as set out in paragraph III (i) below,
provided, however, that all attachments' to the Original Disbursement Letter shall form an
integral part of this Disbursement Letter.
The World Bank Disburse nent Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006,
("Disbursement Guidelines"), are an integral part of the Disbursement Letter. The manner in
which the provisions in the Disbursement Guidelines apply to the Grant is specified below.
Sections and subsections in parentheses below refer to the relevant sections and subsections in
the Disbursement Guidelines and, unless otherwise defined in this letter, the capitalized terms
used have the meanings ascribed to them in the Disbursement Guidelines.
1Includes i) World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects dated May 1, 2006; ii) Form for Authorized
Signa.ures; iii) Format of Statement of Expenditure; and iv) Form of Payments Against Contracts Subject to the
World Bank's Prior Review..


﻿H.E. Mir. Phouphet Khamphounvong        -2-                        September 7, 2012
I. Disbursement Arrangements
(i) Disbursement Methods (section 2). The following Disbursement Methods may be used
under the Grant:
* Reimbursement
* Advance
* Direct Payment
(ii) Disbursement Deadline Date (subsection 3.7). The Disbursement Deadline Date is four (4)
months after the Closing Date specified in the Grant Agreement. Any changes to this date will be
notified by the World Bank.
(iii) Disbursement Conditions (subsection 3.8). Please refer to the Disbursement Condition(s)
in the Grant Agreement.
II. Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
(i) Aithorized Signatures (subsection 3.1). A letter should be furnished to the World Bank at the
address indicated below providing the name(s) and specimen signature(s) of the official(s)
autho'ized to sign Applications:
The World Bank-
Patou Xay Nehru Road
P.O. Box 345
Vientiane, Lao PDR
Attention:   Keiko Miwa
Country Manager
(ii) Applications (subsections 3.2 - 3.3). Please provide completed and signed applications for
withdrawal, together with supporting documents, to the address indicated below:
The World Bank
23/F, The Taipan Place Building
Emerald Avenue, Ortegas Center
Pasig City, Metro Manila
Philippines
Attention: Loan Department
(iii) Electronic Delivery (subsection 3.4) The World Bank may permit the Recipient to
electronically deliver to the World Bank Applications (with supporting documents) through the
World Bank's Client Connection, web-based portal. The option to deliver Applications to the
World Bank by electronic means may be effected if: (a) the Recipient has designated in writing,
pursuant to the terms of subparagraph (i) of this Section, its officials who are authorized to sign
and deliver Applications and to receive secure identification devices ("Tokens") from the World
Bank for the purpose of delivering such Applications by electronic means; and (b) all such


﻿H.E. Mr. Phouphet Khamphounvong           -3-                        September 7, 2012
officials designated by the Recipient have registered as users of Client Connection. If the World
Bank agrees, the World Bank will provide the Recipient with Tokens for the designated officials.
Following which, the designated officials may deliver Applications electronically by completing
Form      2380,     which      is    accessible    through     Client     Connection
(http://clientconnection.worldbank.org). The Recipient may continue to exercise the option of
preparing and delivering Applications in paper form. The World Bank reserves the right and
may, in its sole discretion, temporarily or permanently disallow the electronic delivery of
Appli -ations by the Recipient.
(iv) Terms and Conditions of Use of Tokens to Process Applications. By designating officials
to accept Tokens and by choosing to deliver the Applications electronically, the Recipient
confirms through the authorized signatory letter its agreement to: (a) abide by the Terms and
Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Devices in connection with Use of Electronic Means
to Process Applications and Suppotting Documentation ("Terms and Conditions of Use of
Tokens") provided in Attachment 1; and (b) to deliver the Terms and Conditions of Use of
Tokens to each such official and to cause such official to abide by those terms and conditions.
(v) Minimum Value of Applications (subsection 3.5). The Minimum Value of Applications for
reimbursement and direct payment is 20% of the balance of the Designated Account.
(vi) A dvances (sections 5 and 6).
*  Type of Designated Account (subsection 5.3). Segregated.
*  Currency of Designated Account (subsection 5.4): United States Dollars.
*  Financial Institution at which the Designated Account Will Be Opened (subsection
5.5): Bank of LAO PDR provided that no transaction fees are charged to the project.
*  Ceiling (subsection 6.1): US$500,000.
III. Reporting on Use of Grant Proceeds
(i) Supporting Documentation (section 4). Supporting documentation should be provided with
each application for withdrawal as set out below:
* For requests for Reimbursement:
o  List of payments against contracts, together with records evidencing eligible
expenditures (e.g., copies of receipts, supplier invoices), for the contracts
subject to the World !3ank's prior review as required in the Grant Agreement.
o  Statement of Expend'iture for all other expenditures / contracts not subject to the
World Bank's prior review.


﻿H.E. MIr. Phouphet Khamphounvong          -4-                        September 7, 2012
* For reporting eligible expenditures paid from the Designated Account:
o  List of payments against contracts, together with records evidencing eligible
expenditures (e.g., copies of receipts, supplier invoices), for the contracts
subject to the World Bank's prior review as required in the Grant Agreement.
o  Statement of Expenditure for all other expenditures / contracts not subject to the
World Bank's prior review.
o  DA Reconciliation Statement and bank statement
* For requests for Direct Payment: Records evidencing eligible expenditures, e.g.,
copies of receipts, supplier invoices, etc.
(ii) Frequency of Reporting Eligible Expenditures Paid from the Designated Account
(subsection 6.3): Monthly.
IV. Other Important Information
For additional information on disbursement arrangements, please refer to the
Disbi.irsement  Handbook   availab le  on  the  World   Bank's   public  website  at
https:,'/www.worldbank.org  and  its   secure   website   "Client   Connection"   at
https:,'/clientconnection.worldbank.org. Print copies are available upon request.
If you have not already done so, the World Bank recommends that you register as a user
of thi Client Connection website (https://clientconnection.worldbank.org). From this website
you will be able to download Applications, monitor the near real-time status of the Grant, and
retrieve related policy, financial, and procurement information.  All Recipient officials
authorized to sign and deliver Applications by electronic means are required to register with
Clien1 Connection before electronic delivery can be effected. For more information about the
website and registration arrangements, please contact the World Bank by email at
<clientconnection@worldbank.org>.


﻿H.E. Mr. Phouphet Khamphounvong         -5-                        September 7, 2012
If you have any queries in relation to the above, please contact Mr. Chau-Ching Shen,
Senio- Finance  Officer at loaeap@(worldbank.org  or Carmenchu   D. Austriaco   at
caustriaco@worldbank.org using the above reference.
Yours sincerely,
Annette Dixon
Country Director, Lao PDR
East Asia and Pacific Region
Attachment
1. Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Devices in connection with Use of
Electronic Means to Process Applications and Supporting Documentation, dated January 20,
2010
Cc:
-  Mme. Thipphakone Chanthavongsa, Director General of External Finance Department,
Ministry of Finance
-  Director General of International Cooperation Department, Ministry of Planning and
Investment
-  Mr. Phouvieng Phongsa, Director of National Implementation Unit, Ministry of Industry and
Commerce
-  Mr. Hekinus Manao, Executive Director for Lao PDR, World Bank


﻿H.E. Mr. Phouphet Khamphounvong         -6-                        September 7, 2012
Attachment 1
Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Devices
in connection with Use of Electronic Means
to Process Applications
and Sipporting Documentation
January 20, 2010
The World Bank (Bank)2 will prov de secure identification devices (Tokens) to permit the
Borrower3 to deliver applications for withdrawal and applications for special commitments under
the Agreement(s) ' and supporting documentation (such applications and supporting
docu::nentation together referred to in these Terms and Conditions of Use as Applications) to the
Bank electronically, on the terms and conditions of use specified herein.
A.    Identification of Users.
1.    The Borrower will be required to identify in a completed Authorized Signatory Letter
(ASL) duly delivered to and received by the Bank each person who will be authorized to
deliver Applications. The Bank will provide Tokens to each person identified in the ASL
(Signatory), as provided below. The Borrower shall also immediately notify the Bank if
a Signatory is no longer authorized by the Borrower to act as a Signatory.
2.    Each Signatory must register as a user on the Bank's Client Connection (CC) website
(https://clientconnection.worldbank.org ) prior to delivery of Tokens. Registration on CC
will require that the Signatory establish a CC password (CC Password). The Signatory
shall not reveal his/her CC Password to anyone or store or record the CC Password in
written or other form. Upon registration as a CC user, the Signatory will be assigned a
unique identifying account name.
B.    Distribution, Initialization and Return of Tokens.
1.    The Bank will physically delixer a Token to each Signatory in a manner to be determined
by and satisfactory to the Bank.
2.    At the time of delivery of a Token to a Signatory, the Signatory will receive a copy of
these Terms and Conditions of Use for purposes of initializing the Token.
3.    The Bank will verify that the Token, Temporary Password and Terms and Conditions of
Use have been duly delivered to and received by the CC User.
4.    Promptly upon receipt of the Token and Terms and Conditions of Use, the Signatory will
access CC using his/her account name and CC Password and register his/her Token and
2 "Bank" includes IBRD and IDA.
"Borower" includes the borrower of an IBRD loan, IDA credit, or Project Preparation Facility advance and the
recipient of a grant.


﻿H.E. Mr. Phouphet Khamphounvong         -7-                        September 7, 2012
set a personal identification number (PIN) to be used in connection with the use of his/her
Token, after which the Token will be initialized for use by the Signatory exclusively for
purposes of delivering Applications. Upon initialization of the Token, the Signatory will
be a "Token User". The Bank will maintain in its database a user account (Account) for
each Token User for purposes of managing the Token of the Token User. Neither the
Borrower nor the Token User will have any access to the Account.
5.    Prior to first use of the Token by the Token User for delivering Applications, the
Borrower shall ensure that the Token User has received training materials provided by
the Bank in use of the Token.
6.    Tokens shall be promptly returned to the Bank upon request of the Bank.
C.    Management of Tokens.
1 .   Tokens will remain the property of the Bank.
2.    Use of the Token is strictly limited to use in the delivery of Applications by the Token
User in the manner prescribed by the Bank in the Agreement(s) and these Terms and
Conditions. Any other use of the Token is prohibited.
3.    The Bank assumes no responsibility or liability whatsoever for any misuse of the Token
by the Token User, other representatives of the Borrower, or third parties.
4.    The Borrower undertakes to ensure, and represents and warrants to the Bank (such
representation and warranty being expressly relied upon by the Bank in delivery of a
Token to each Token User) that each Token User is provided, understands and will abide
by, these Terms and Conditions of Use, including without limitation the following:
Security
4.1.  The Token User shall not reveal his/her PIN to anyone or store or record the PIN
in written or other form.
4.2.  The Token User shall not allow anyone else to utilize a Token to deliver an
Application to the Bank.
4.3.  The Token User shall always logout from CC when not using the system. Failure
to logout properly can create a route into the system that is unprotected.
4.4.  If the Token User believes a third party has learned his/her PIN or has lost his/her
Token he/she shall immediately notify clientconnectionAworldbank.org.
4.5.  The     Borrower    shall   immediately    notify   the    Bank    at
clientconnection@worldbank.org of any lost, stolen or compromised Tokens, and take
other reasonable steps to ensure such Tokens are disabled immediately.


﻿H.E. Mr. Phouphet Khamphounvong         -8-                        September 7, 2012
Care of Tokens
4.6.  Tokens contain delicate and sophisticated instrumentation and therefore should be
handled with due care, and should not be immersed in liquids, exposed to extreme
temperatures, crushed or bent. Also, Tokens should be kept more than five (5) cm from
devices that generate electromagnetic radiation (EMR), such as mobile phones, phone-
enabled PDAs, smart phones and other similar devices. Tokens should be carried and
stored separate from any EMR device. At close range (less than 5 cm), these devices can
output high levels of EMR that can interfere with the proper operation of electronic
equipment, including the Token.
4.7   Without derogating from these Terms and Conditions of Use, other technical
instructions on the proper use and care Tokens are available at http://www.rsa.com.
5.    Replacement
5.1.  Lost, damaged, comprcmised (in terms of 4.5, above) or destroyed Tokens will be
replaced at the expense of the Borrower.
5.2.  The Bank reserves the right, in its sole discretion, not to replace any Token in the
case of misuse, or not to reactivate a Token User's Account
6.    Reservation of Right to disable Token
6.1.  The Borrower shall reserve the right to revoke the authorization of a Token User
to use a Token for any reason.
6.2.  The Bank reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to temporarily or permanently
disable a Token, de-activate a Token User's Account or both.


﻿H.E. dr. Phouphet Khamphounvong        -9-                        September 7, 2012
For Internal Distribution Only
Prepa-ed by Carmenchu D. Austriaco [CTRLN)/Tony Shen (CTRLN)
Cleared with and bcc: Richard Record (EASPT)
Bcc: Roch Levesque (LEGES), Kanitta Kaikittipoom, Luc Lecuit (EACTF), Malarak Souksavat,
Konesawang Nghardsaysone, Phet Udom Mainolath (EASPT)


