c- X)
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 1037 7-BD
Report No. 10377-BD Type: (SAR)
SCHWERMER,/ X81287 / D9027/ SAlAG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
MAY 21, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(December 1991)
Bangladesh Taka 1 (Tk)               US$  0.0258
US$1.00                               Tk  38.8
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)         =           0.62 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                       2.47 acres (ac)
1 cubic meter (m3)       =            35.31 cubic feet (ft3)
ABBR.EVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB         -    Asian Development Bank
ACF         -    Assistant Conservator of Forests
ACCF        -    Assistant Chief Conservator of Forests
BCIC        -    Bangladesh Chemical IndustriAs Corporation
BFIDC       -    Bangladesh Forest Industries Development Corporation
BFRI        -    Bangladesh Forest Research Institute
CCF         -    Chief Conservator of Forests
CF          -    Conservator of Forests
DCCF        -    Deputy Chief Conservator of Forests
DFO         -    Divisional Forest Officer
DOE         -    Derartment of Environment
ERR         -    Economic Rate of Return
FAO         -     Food and Agriculture Organization of the United
Nations
FD          -     Forest Department
FMP         -     Forest Management Plan
GDP         -    Gross Domestic Product
GIS         -    Geographical Information System
GOB         -    Government of Bangladesh
IBRD        -    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB         -     International Competitive Bidding
IDA         -     International Development Association
IFCU        -     Institute of Forestry of the Chittagong University
LCB         -    Local Competitive Bidding
M&E         -    Monitoring and Evaluation
MOEF        -    Ministry of Environment and Forests
MOL         -    Ministry of Land
NGO         -    Non-Governmental Organization
RIMS        -    Resource Information Management System
UNDP        -    United Nations Development Programme
WFP         -    World Food Program
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCILM USE ONLY
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJEGX
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No,
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMHARy  ,                                       (iii)
I. SECTOR MN  PROJECT BACKGROUND
A. Forestry in the Economy .2
B. Forest Cover and Types ..
C. Production and Consumption.                                    2
D. Nature Conservation ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  2
E. Forestry Institutions ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  3
F. Forestry Education and Training.                               4
C. Forest Research.                                               5
H. Government Plans and Policies .5
I. IDA's Sector Assistance Strategy.                              6
J.  Sector Assistance by Other Donors.                            8
II. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale for IDA Support.                                     9
B. Project Objectives and General Description                     9
C.  Project Area  .....  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  10
D. Detailed Features ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  11
E. Status of Project Preparatlon .21
F. Environmental Aspects ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  21
G. Cost Estimates  .....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  22
H. Project Financing .22
I. Procurement .....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  23
J. Disbursement  .....  .  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  25
K. Accounts and Audlts ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  26
III. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEHENT
A. Project Organization  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  27
B. Control Over Newly Accreted Land and
Land Use Coordination ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  29
C. Forestry Sector Master Plan .30
D. Monitoring, Evaluation and Supervision .30
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Bangladesh in November/December 1991. Mission members were M/M Walter
Schwermer, Orhan Baykal, Augusta Molnar, Ghulam Faruq (IDA) and Ali Husain
(Consultant). The report has been endorsed by Messrs. Taso-He "oon,
Chief, SAlAG, and Jochen Kraske, Director, SAl. The peer review team
comprised Messrs. James Douglas (policy aspects), Horst Wagner (technical
aspects), and Harald Stier (economic justLfication).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
or their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwvise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
IV.  PRODUCTION. MARKETING AND PRICES
A.  Yields and Production ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  31
B.  Markets   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .  32
C.  Prices  ....  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  33
V. BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.  Project Benefits  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  34
B.  Economic Analysis ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  35
C.  Risks ....  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  36
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . .          37
TABLES IN THE TEXT
2.1   Project Targets and Implementation Program  . . . . . . . .         12
2.2   Project Targets and Implementation Program  . . . . . . . .         14
2.3   Project Cost Estimates  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         22
2.4   Financing Plan  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  23
2.5   Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements  . . . . . . .         25
4.1   Estimated Yield of Project Plantations  . . . . . . . . . .         32
4.2   TWood  Prices   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  33
5.1   Economic Rates of Return  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         36
AENNEXES
1.  The Project's Link to the Bank's Forest Sector Policy  . . .         39
2.  Pilot Scheme on Participatory Forest Development . . . . . .         41
3.  Responsibility Distribution Under the Forest Department's
new Organization  ....  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  47
4.    Project  Costs    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  49
5.  Technical Assistance Needs ... .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  80
6.  Procurement Schedule ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  81
7.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . .         82
8.  Project Implementation Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         83
9.  Supervision Plan   ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  84
10.  Yields and Production  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         86
11.  Economic Analysis  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  88
12.  Sensitivity Analysis ....  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  95
13.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File            96
CHARTS
Chart I : Forest Department - Existing Organization
Chart 1N: Forest Department - Revised Organization
MAP
IBRD No. 23513 - Foresst Resources Management Project



- iii -
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrower:             People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount.:               SDR 36.4 million (US$49.6 million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard, with a maturity of 40 years
Project Description:  Tre project's primary objectives would be to: (a) estab-
lish and maintain a forest management system that Is
fully respor-ive to the economic, environmental and
social goals of the country; (b) improve the productivi-
ty of Government-owned forests in orde -o meet, as much
as possible, the country's wood and e?      needs; and
(c) protect the country's environment.  _. s would be
achieved by: (i) improving and further institutionaliz-
ing the forest resource information management system
evolved under the Second Forestry Project (Cr. 1634-BD);
(ii) integrating environment and socio-economic factors
and criteria into resource management and utilization;
(iii) carrying out a pilot scheme for people's partici-
pation in forest development; (iv) expanding the coun-
try's forest resources through plantation establishment
(59,780 ha) and improved management; (v) formulating
management plans for nature conservation areas and
supporting investments in selected sanctuaries and
parks; (vi) streamlining the organization of the Forest
Department, and creating within the Department a new
responsibility for environmental management; and
(vii) providing support for professional and technical
education and training, and for mangrove research. The
project would finance civil works, vehicles, boats,
equipment, furniture, materials, service contracts,
technical assistance, training, labor, and incremental
staff and operating costs.
Benefits and Risks:   A major direct benefit from the project would be the
production of about 15 million m3 of wood which would
help maintain the country's supply of wood for indus-
trial use and fuel consumption. The project would also
make significant institutional improvements to ensure
that forest development is sustainable and environmen-
tally, socially and scientifically sound. Significant
environmental and social benefits would be expected Erom
the project's nature conservation and participatory
forest development activities. The project would pro-
vide 1,150 permanent staff positions and create labor
requirements for 83,500 person years. There are no
major risks. However, natural events, especially cy-



-iv-
clones and storm surges, could damage young and estab-
lished plantations. Due to wlde spacial distribution of
coastal plantations, this damage is likely to be limit-
ed. Also, in case of such natural disasters, the plan-
tations would normally provide protection to inland
propertles which might otherwise experience greater
losses. Plantations could also be damaged by uncon-
trolled activities of communities living in the vicinity
of the plantations. This risk would be minimized by
promoting and establishing people's participation in
resource management and utilization. Finally, poor
performance of implementing agencies could reduce the
level of the expected benefits. Technical assistance,
training and monitoring provided under the project to
improve institutional performances would address this
risk.
Estimated Proiect Costs:
Lgcal         Foreign          Total
------------(US$ million)----------
A. Forest Resources Management
Forest Management Plans              1.4             2.3            3.7
Resources Information
Management System                  0.3             0.8            1.1
Silvicultural Treatment              1.1            0.1             1.1
Participatory Forest Development    LA              0.4             1.7
Sub-total                        4.1            3.5             7.6
B. Forest Resources Expansion
Mangrove Afforestation               6.4             1.3            7.8
Industrial Plantations              13.9            2.1            16.0
Maintenance of Existing
Plantations                        .1             0.O
Sub-total                       21.5            3.4            24.9
C.  Nature Conservation                    1.6             0.7            2.3
D. Institutional Support
General Support to Forest
Department                         3.3            2.2             5.4
Environmental Management             0.8            0.9             1.7
Professional Foresters Education    1.1              1.6            2.7
In-service Training                  0.9            0.7             1.6
Foresters Training                   1.8            0.9             2.7
Forest Guard Training                0.1            0.1             0.2
Mangrove Research                    0.7             0.6            1.3
Sub-total                       -L8              .             15.6
Base Cost                           36.0            14.4           50.4
Physical Contingencies               1.7            0.3             2.0
Price Contingencies                  4.8            L.4             6.2
Total Project Cost a/             AA             1l.2            58.7
a/  Including taxes and duties of US$3.3 million.
Note: Figures may not fully add up due to rounding.



-V
Financing Plan
Local          Forgign          T:otal
----------- (US$ million)--
Government of Bangladesh                     9.1             0.0             9.1
IDA                                        33.             1.2              49.6
Total                              42.5            16.2            58.7
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY            93      94                                          2 9    Z 98  99  20
---------------------- (US$ million)-----------------------
Annual           6.2 a/  7.9    9.7      6.9      6.8      5.8      5.3       1.0
Cumv.-2tive      6.2    14.1   23.8    30.7    37.5    43.3        48.6      49.6
a/ Includes authorized Special Account allocation of US$2.2 million.
Economic Rate of Return:        16X
gag:        IBRD No. 23513 - Forest Resources Management Project



BANGLIDESH
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
I. SECTOR ALND PROJECT BACKGROUND
A.  frZnstrt  in the Economy
1.1       In 1990, the fore>-    sector contributed about Tk 28 billion to the
country's economy, or 3.51 of  DP. This statistic does not, however, reflect
the true importance of forestry in Bangladesh. To measure the sector's full
contribution, one needs to add: (a) the subsidies provided for state-owned
industries through controlled prices of wood raw material (para. 4.10);
(b) the 'arge quantities of fuelwood, fodder, thatching grass and other minor
forest products taken by villagers; and (c) illicit fellings. Forests also
play an important role in protecting watershed and irrigation structures, in
reclaiming land from the sea, in protecting coastal areas, and in the overall
environment. The sector employs about 2X of Bangladesh's labor force.
B. Forest Cover and Types
1.2       Some three million ha, or about 24X of Bangladesh's total land
area, is classified as forest. The Government-owned forest area is about two
million ha; the rest consists of privately controlled village forests and
homestead plantations spread throughout the country. The latter are of major
importance in supplying most of the bamboo (90X), timber (701) and fuelwood
(801) used by the rural population. The Government-owned forest area
comprises almost 1.5 million ha of natural forests and plantations under the
control of the Forest Department (FD) in the Ministry of Environment and
Forests (MOEF), and some 0.6 million ha of unclassified state forest
administered by the Ministry of Land through local authorities.
1.3       Forest land controlled by FD comprises 660,000 ha of hill forests,
located in Chittagong, Cox's Bazar, Sylhet and the Chittagong Hill Tracts
region; 120,000 ha of sal (Shorea robusta) forest, located in the center of
the country; and 570,000 ha of mangrove forests, located in the deltaic zone
of Sundarbans and in small areas of the Chittagong region's coastal belt. In
addition, since 1965, FD has established about 104,000 ha of mangrove
plantations in coastal areas along the Bay of Bengal and on offshore islands.
1.4       The hill forests have suffered from shifting cultivation and
illegal fellings. Various estimates indicate that about half of the forest
area under the control of FD has no tree cover. Most of these forests are
located in the Chittagong Hill Tracts, where Government control is limited due
to chronic civil disturbances. The sal forests, located in FD's Dhaka and
Mymensingh forest divisions, were significantly damaged, illicitly felled and
encroached due to population pressure and disturbances after the Liberation
War of 1971. Sundarbans is a large contiguous and isolated mangrove forest
block which is well preserved despite 100 years of commercial utilization.
1.5       The timber species of the natural forests are mainly Garjan
(DiRterocarpus M=) and Civit (Swintonia floribunda). There are also several
species of bamboo, which are of commercial importance. Sundri (Heritiera
minor), Gewa (Excoecaria agallocha), Baen (Avicennia officinalis) and Keora
(Sonneratia aRetala) are the main timber species of the mangrove forests.



- 2 -
Teak (Toctona zramnis) has been widely used in establishing early plantations.
There are also plantations of indigenous species such as Garjan and Dakijam.
More recently, EuclalDtus and Acscia species have been used for plantation
establishment. According to FD records, the total plantation area, including
mangrove plantations, is about 178,000 ha. However, the forest inventory
taken in 1985 classified about 9,000 ha of this area as failed plantations.
C. Production and Consumotion
1.6       Annual wood p-3duction is estimated at about 9.5 million m3, of
which 80X is used for fuel and 20% is converted primarily to sawnwood. About
801 of the production come from private sources, mainly homestead woodlots.
In recent years the annual production from Government-owned forests averaged
440,000 m3 of timber, 800,000 m3 of fuelwood and 90 million pieces of bamboo,
representing only about 20X of total wood production, and revealing the low
productivity of the state forests. Annual per capita wood consumption in
Bangladesh is about 0.1 m3, one of the lowest in the world. With Bangladesh's
population projected to increase to 145 million by the year 2000, per capita
consumption is likely to decline further. To help meet the country's wood
requirements, it is crucial for the Government to increase the productivity of
FD-managed forests and to expand FD's forest plantations.
1.7       Energy consumption in rural areas is dominated by biomass fuels
including firewood, agricultural residues and dung, which are readily
available and cheap. The consumption of other fuels constitutes only a small
fraction of total consumption in rural areas and is mainly limited to natural
gas. Because of the skewed distribution of the forests, wood is not available
in most rural areas; thus, agricultural residues and dung provide about 901 of
rural energy sources. Ir. contrast, agro-processing industries and commercial
entities (such as bakeries and brick kilns) mostly use fuelwood. 1/
1.8       Due to Bangladesh's wood shortage and the present ban on logging in
natural forests (para. 1.23), domestic market prices for wood are higher than
world prices. However, prices charged by FD to state-owned sawmills and pulp
and paper industries are generally well below world prices (para. 4.10).
D. Nature Conservation
1.9       There are 15 protected areas in Bangladesh.  With the exception of
the Sundarbans wildlife sanctuaries (para. 2.27), these areas have been
significantly degraded from many sources. In particular, illegal logging,
watercourse diversion, land clearing and poaching of wildlife have
significantly reduced the value of biological resources at some sites. Most
areas are poorly protected due to inadequate staff and facilities; lack of
management plans; and insufficient institutional capacity, especially within
FD (para. 2.32). Also, there is a dearth of current and correct information
on the environmental value and biodiversity of the protected areas.
1/ The use of fuelwood in brick manufacturing is banned, but the ban is
largely ineffective.



-3
1.10      Three wildlife sanctuaries in Sundarbans, totaling 32,386 ha, were
established in 1977 under the Bangladesh Wildlife (Preservation) Act of 1973.
The sanctuaries are managed under a plan, which waS prepared in 1983 uander
joint sponsorship of the World Wide Fund for Nature and the National
Zoological Park of the SLlthsonian Institution. This plan emphasizes the
preservation of tigers and other wildlife as an integral part of forest
management. Implementation of the plan, however, is suffering from several
constraints, including insufficient staff and infrastructure facilities
(para. 2.27).
E. Forestry Institutions
Forest and Environmental Management
1.11      Ministry of Environment and forests.  MOEF has overall
responsibility for the development of the forestry sector. It has
jurisdiction over FD, the Department of Environment (DOE), the Bangladesh
Forest Research Institute (BFRI), and the Bangladesh Forest Induscries
Development Corporation (BFIDC). The Ministry was established in 1989 through
the merger of the Department of Environmental Pollution Control, which had
been in the Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development, and the
Department of Forestry, formerly part of the Ministry of Agriculture. MOEF is
in the process of becoming fully established, but is still weak, particularly
in the following areas: (a) monitoring and evaluating the operations of its
executing agencies; (b) inter-agency coordination; and (c) resolution with
other ministries of important inter-sectoral issues, including land
allocation, wood prices, and human resource development.
1.12      Forest DeRartment.  FD is the primary Government agency responsible
for day-to-day management of forest resources in Bangladesh. The Department
is headed by a Chief Conservator of Forests (CCF). At FD's headquarters, the
CCF is assisted by three Deputy Chief ronservators (DCCF), responsible for
development planning, forest extension, and forest management planning,
respectively. Each DCCF is supported by an Assistant Chief Conservator of
Forests (ACCF). Also reporting to the CCF is a Conservator of Forests (CF)
who, with the assistance of two ACCFs, is responsible for general
administration and wildlife. Furthermore, the Directors of FD's Forest
Development and Training Center and the Upazila Afforestation and Nursery
Development Project (para. 1.30) are directly responsible to the CCF.
1.13      FD's field operations, consisting of six Circles headed by CFs and
concerned with territorial forestry, also come under tho CCF's direction. The
CF of each Circle is in charge of several forest divisions, which are normally
within the boundary of an administrative district, and under the charge of a
Divisional Forest Officer (DFO). There are 37 forest divisions, including one
covering the National Botanical Garden. The divisions are divided into
several forest ranges which are controlled by Forest Range Officers, who are
in charge of several beats, each under a Deputy Ranger or Forester. The field
staff is responsible for the establishment and maintenance of plantations,
supervision of state forest lands, provision of industrial wood supplies, and
extension and public relations at the local level.
1.14      At end-1991, FD's staff was about 10,000, including 4,850 technical
and professional staff. In addition, FD employs a labor force of about



- 4 -
500,000. The existing 'rganization of the Department (Chart I) is based -
traditional administration-oriented management with accountability focusing
mainly on adherence to budget allocations. Because work quality and
effectiveness are not systematically measured, the performance of FD's field
organization varies widely. The structure also relies exte.asively on the CCF
for control of and decision-making on all forestry aspects, thereby reducing
his effectiveness in auch vital areas as planning and programming. Moreover,
the organization is not sufficiently developed along functional lines,
combining, for instance, administration with wildlife activities and lacking
adequate integra.ior. of overlapping activities. In general, FD's headquarters
is weak in its planning, programming, monitoring, evaluating and environmental
management capabilities. Also, the Department's effectiveness is severely
hampered by a shortage of technical staff at the middle and upper management
levels. Furthermore, FD has been slow to introduce people-oriented forestry
development, which, in view of the country's extreme population p -sure, is
crlcial for the establishment, protection, and utilization of f    .s.  While
a ch nge in attitude toward people's participation is already eN--ant, clear
policies, institutional changes and proper programs have yet to be developed.
1.15      DepaXtment of Enironmgnt.  DOE is Bangladesh's only agency
specifically directed to exercise environmental regulatory authority. Its
mandate has recently been substantially broadened to include a strong role in
formulating environmental guidelines, preparing environmental assessments, and
advising line agencies whose activities affect soil and water conservation,
afforestation, wildlife, fisheries and other natural resource uses.
eorest Industries
1.16      The primary processing industries for forest products include
1,634 sawmills, 4 pulp and paper mills, 13 board mills, 2 timber treatment
plants, and 22 match faictories. Of these, the pulp and paper mills, one
hardboard mill, one particle board mill and four match factories are owned and
operated by the Bangladesh Chemical industries Corporation (BCIC), a
parastatel company. BFIDC, which is under MOEF;s control (para. 1.11),
manages one large sawmill, the timber treatment plants, one particle board
plant, one hardboard mill, one plywood mill, and the heavy logging industry in
the Chittagong Hill Tracts. The remaining 8 board mills, 18 match factories
and 1,632 sawmills are privately owned. The primary forest industries sector
is characterized by a shortage of raw material in relation to the installed
manufacturing capacity. In additio.i, the major large-scale industries face
problems resulting from inferior equipment and lack of trained personnel. The
private small-sized sawmills, however, have demonstrated good ability to adapt
to the fluctuating supply and demand situation.
F. Forestry Education and Training
1.17      General.  FD is responsible for training all technical forestry
staff such as rangers, foresters and forest guards. The Institute of Forestry
of the Chittagong University (IFCU) provides professional forestry education.
At present, the two agencies are unable to meet the sector's education and
training needs due to insufficient experienced teaching staff, lack of staff
continuity and career incentives, and severe shortages of facilities,
equipment and books. As a result, many FD staff members, particularly
foresters and forest guards, have not had formal training in forestry.



-5-
1..L8     University Education. IFCU offers a four-year university-level
education in forestry leadtng to a B.Sc. (Hons) degree.  The Institute admits
about 35 students arnually, and some 90 students have been graduated over the
past three years. During the Fourth Five-Year Plan period (FY91-FY95), about
150-175 students are expected to graduate from IFCU. The Institute is flow
planning to introduce two additional career paths: one leading to an M.Sc.
degree in forestry; the other to a B.Sc. degree in environmental science.
1.19      Forest College Training.  Until 1985, the Chittagong Forest College
of FD provided forest rangers a two-year course leading to a B.Sc. (Pass)
degree in forestry. The minimum entry qualification was a B.Sc. (Pass) degree
in natural sciences. Because of FD's 1985 decision to abolish the sub-
professional ranger cadre, the College is discontinuing the ranger course and
will be converted into FD's in-service training institute. As part of its new
role, the College will offer in-service training for professional forest
graduates and refresher courses for FD's staff. For a limited period, it will
also continue upgrading existing forest rangers to professional foresters.
1.20      Forest School Training.  The forest schools at Sylhet (established
in 1948) and at Rajshahi (established in 1985), both under the control of FD,
offer two-year diploma courses for foresters and three-month courses for
forest guards. The schools have combined accommodation for about 100
foresters and 30 forest guards. FD recently decided to change the entry level
requirement for forester candidates to 10 years of high school (from the
current 12 years) and increase course duration to 3 years. For forest guards,
training courses will be increased to 4 months' duration.
G. Forest Research
1.21      Bangladesh Forest Research Institute.  BFRI was established at
Chittagong in 1968 by enlarging the then-existing Forest Research Laboratory.
BFRI has two research branches (the Forest Products Branch with 6 research
divisions, and the Forest Management Branch with 13 research divisions) and a
General Services branch with four divisions. All three branches report
directly to the Director. BFRI's staff strength is almost 700, divided among
its 2 research branches, the General Services branch, and the Institute's
17 field research stations. The Institute is working in isolation with
virtually no coordination with FD or other user agencies. As a result, BFRI's
potential has not been fully utilized. Research priorities are too diverse,
and research efforts are neither field-oriented nor geared to users' needs.
H. Government Plans and Policies
1.22      The Government of Bangladesh's (GOB's) overall objectives in the
forestry sector, as outlined in its Fourth Five-Year Plan (FY91-FY95), are to
optimize sustainable production of goods and services from the existing
limited forest lands, expand the current forest cover and improve the overall
environmental condition of the country. GOB's strategy aims to improve the
forests' productive and protective base through better management, investment
in coastal plantations and rehabilitation of degraded forest areas, and
through promoting people's participation in the management and utilization of
the forest resources. Proposed actions focus on: (a) bringing all forest
resources under objective-oriented management; (b) establishing plantations,



- 6 -
including coastal plantations, to stabilize newly accreted lands and protect
from cyclones; (c) identifying and managing protective areas to conserve
nature; (d) imuproving planning, implementation, monitoring and environmental
management capabilities of sector institutions; and (e) expanding the
information base by undertaking appropriate research programs. GOB also
promotes farm/community forestry. The Government's objectives and strategy
are in line with IDA's forest sector pol.icy and are supported by the donor
community. 2/
1.23      To help achieve its se.-tor objectives, GOB has included in its
Fourth Five-Year Plan a series of planned investments in forest plantations,
forestry education and training, fo-rest research, and nature conservation.
The proposed Forest Resources Management Project is part of GOB's overall
program, whose cost is estimated at Tk 8.5 billion (US$220 million
equivalent). GOB's ability to implement the program will largely depend on
the availability of donor funding. GOB is also preparing a Forestry Sector
Master Plan (para. 1.32) to develop a long-term perspective for the sector.
In support of its conservation efforts, GOB has ordered a ban on logging in
natural forests, which has had only limited success -- indeed it has led to a
significant increase in illegal logging. GOB is therefore considering lifting
the ban.
I. IDA's Sector Assistance Strategy
1.24      IDA's sector dialogue with GOB and its financial support to the
sector have concentrated on the need to ensure a sustainable supply of forest
products and services. In this context, the emphasis of IDA's previous
assistance has been on developing forest plantations, better managing existing
forest resources, and improving the effectiveness of sector institutions.
While these aspects continue to be the thrust of IDA's sector assistance
strategy, experience from the implementation of IDA-financed forestry projects
in Bangladesh (paras. 1.25-1.29) and from elsewhere has made it clear that a
broader approach is required for successful forest development. In its sector
strategy, IDA is therefore also emphasizing the need for reforms in the
following areas: (a) environment and nature conservation, (b) forest land use
and people's participation in sector development, and (c) pricing of forest
products sold to public sector agencies.
1.25      Mangrove Afforestation Project.  IDA started its financial support
of forest develupment in Bangladesh with the Mangrove Afforestation Project
(Cr. 1042-BD; Credit amount: US$11 million), which was approved in June 1980
and implemented over five-and-a-half years. The main project objectives were
to stabilize accreted lands along the Bay of Bengal through the establishment
of 40,000 ha of mangrove plantations, and to increase the production of
fuelwood and industrial wood through management of the project's plantations
ar,d of 32,000 ha of previously established plantations. The project also
provided for (a) the establishment of a Plantation Trial Unit for applied
research; (b) the initiation of a program to monitor plantation establishment,
land accretion and erosion througn aerial photography and remote sensing; and
2   Under its forest sector policy, IDA finances forestry operations, if there
is government commitment to sustainable and conservation-oriented forestry.
Annex 1 summarizes the project's link to IDA's policy.



-7-
(c) the strengthening of forest training institutions. The project
established about 30,500 ha of new plantations and demonstrated the value of
remote sensing. It also helped to meet the increased forestry training needs.
The project's Plantation Trial Unit failed, however, mainly due to lack of
experienced staff, and the achievements in plantation management also fell
short of appraisal expectations. Overall, project implementation was
successful, with an 18% economic rate of return.
1.26      Second Forestry Project.  Upon completion of the Mangrove
Afforestation Project in 1985, IDA continued its support to the sector by
financing the ongoing Second Forestry Project (Cr. 1634-BD). A Credit of
US$28 million was approved in November 1985; implementation started in 1986;
and the Credit is scheduled to close in June 1992, one year later than
originally expected. The project aims at increasing the supply of forest
products by improving the productivity of natural forests and expanding FD's
plantation program. It provides for (a) establishment of 40,000 ha of
mangrove plantations, and maintenance of about 81,000 ha of existing mangrove
plantations; (b) establishment of 23,000 ha of industrial plantations, and
maintenance of 28,030 ha of existing industrial plantations; (c) development
of a resource management system; and (d) improvement of mangrove afforestation
research, and forestry training and education.
1.27      Overall project performance is satisfactory.  By September 1991,
mangrove planting and industrial forest plantations reached 35,200 ha and
19,800 ha, respectively (88% and 86%, respectively, of project targets), and
the remaining plantations are expected to be completed by mid-1992.
Maintenance of existing mangrove plantations is also proceeding well.
However, progress in thinning industrial plantations is slow, and only 60% of
the target has been achieved due to (a) priority given by FD to plantation
establishment, (b) inadequate local funds allocated by GOB, and (c) delays in
preparing forest management plans (FMPs). Under the project, FD has developed
a computerized Resource Information Management System (RIMS), which is capable
of continuously updating resource information and forecasting future resource
changes uncder various scenarios. Its data base has gaps, however, and further
research is needed on yields of tree species and stands to improve the basis
for forest management decisions. Implementation of the system has been slow
due to insufficient qualified personnel and inadequate training of field
staff.
1.28      The mangrove research program, carried out by BFRI, is progressing,
but it has had little impact so far, due to weak management and inadequate
coordination between BFRI and FD. The project's education program,
implem9nted by IFCU, is doing well, but FD has not started in-service training
at its Chittagong Forest College and has now stopped foresters' training
courses at its Sylhet Forest School due to indecision on the type of training
to be adopted and the limitation of physical facilities. The civil works
program at IFCU is in progress and is expected to be completed end-June 1992.
However, the civil works programs at Chittagong Forest College and Sylhet
Forest School were delayed because of GOB's indecision on FD's recruitment and
education policies (para. 3.6), and they can no longer be undertaken in the
time remaining until the Credit closes.
1.29      The experience gained under both projects underlines the importance
of a reliable data base and information system for effective development of
the forestry sector. It also points to the need for improved arrangements and



procedures in such areas as program development and approval, monitoring and
managezient accountability, and planning and budget preparation. During
project implementation, it has further become clear that forestry development
will not be sustainable unless local people and their needs are fully
integrated. In addition, environmental aspects must play a more prominent
role in the planning and decision-making process. The experience under these
projects has also underlined the need for sound policies on (a) forestry
education and recruitment, to enable FD to meet its professional and technical
staff needs and permit the establishment of a supportive education and
training infrastructure, and (b) pricing, to ensure proper valuation of forest
products sold to state-owned industries and thereby discourage inefficiency.
J. Sector Assistance by Other Donors
1.30      The Asian Development Bank (ADB) has provided significant
assistance to Bangladesh's forestry sector, concentrating mainly on social
forestry. ADB first financed a Community Forestry Project, which was
completed in 1987; it then supported the ongoing Upazila Afforestation and
Nursery Development Project. The latter, approved in 1989 and cofinanced by
the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), covers 61 districts and
concentrates on tree planting on public non-forest land, on homesteads, along
roadsides, railways and canals, and on river and coastal embankments. The
project is being implemented primarily through local governments (Upazilas).
1.31      UNDP and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United
Nations (FAO) have provided valuable technical assistance to the forestry
sector for over a decade. Some seven different projects have been
implemented. Technical assistance provided by UNDP and FAO under the Second
Forestry Project has been effective in (a) developing RIMS, and (b) preparing
several forest management plans which were approved by MOEF in late-1991.
UNDP is also financing the FAO-executed Integrated Resource Development of
Sundarbans Reserve Forest Project, which supports mangrove research and the
preparation of a new multiple-use manage.ment plan for Sundarbans.
Implementation of this project recently started and will be closely integrated
into the proposed Forest Resources Management Project.
1.32      ADB, UNDP and FAO are also providing funds to GOB to help formulate
a Forestry Sector Master Plan. Preparation of the Plan started in late-1991
and is scheduled to be completed in 1993. The Plan is expected to establish a
framework for the protection and development of forest resources that will
optimize the sector's long-term contribution to environmental stability and
economic and social development. In particular, it will (a) identify sectoral
issues and constraints; (b) prepare a long-term sector strategy and
development program; (c) design an institutional reform program for all
forestry institutions; and (d) define required policy reforms in areas such as
legislation, regulation, law enforcement, land use and allocation, and pricing
of forest products. The Plan will draw extensively on the policy dialogue
already carried out between GOB and IDA during the preparation of the propostd
Forest Resources Management Project; it is also expected to include the policy
and institutional reforms which would be covered under the project. IDA will
provide input at all critical stages of Plan preparation, and actively
participate in the resolution of policy and institutional issues which are not
addressed under the proposed project, such as rationalization of forest
industries.



- 9-
II.TH PRO~J.ECT
A. Rationale for IDA SunRort
2.1       The proposed project, which is a component of GOB's sector
investment program, would form an integral part of IDA's sectoral support
strategy, and would enable GOB and IDA to consolidate initiatives undertaken
in the first and second IDA-financed forestry projects (paras. 1.25-1.29).
IDA's involvement would help ensure that the improvements made and lessons
drawn from these projects would be fully integrated into the sector's
development and that experience from other countries could be brought to
Bangladesh's forestry operations. In particular, IDA would be able to
contribute to establishing (a) a functional and accountable FD, equipped with
up-to-date resource management technology and well-trained staff; (b) a sound
forest policy, which would be responsive to environmental and social goals and
realities of the country; (c) education and training facilities capable of
supplying the sector with qualified staff; and (d) an effectively managed and
protected area system for nature and environment conservation. Because of the
scope and extent of its past and current involvement in the sector, IDA has a
comparative advantage in assisting GOB to attain sound forest development.
2.2       The project would also be an instrument to achieve the development
and conservation goals outlined in the World Bank's forest sector policy,
especially with regard to (a) encouragement of sustainable resource use and
discouragement of deforestation, (b) forest resource expansion, (c) local
people's participation in forest management, and (d) nature preservation
(Annex 1). In addition, the project would assist IDA in achieving its poverty
alleviation objectives. The project would be implemented over a large area;
it would provide employment to rural people and improve their income by
adopting forest management systems which would be more responsive to local
needs. Continuation of IDA assistance to the forestry sector would also help
to more effectively channel assistance from other donor agencies into the
sector. The project, together with the ongoing ADB-assisted Upazila
Afforestation and Nursery Development Project (para. 1.30), would bring the
entire sector under a comprehensive and well-balanced development program.
B. Proiect Objectives and General Descrintion
Proiect Objectives
2.3       The project's primary objectives would be to (a) establish and
maintain a forest management system that is fully responsive to the economic,
environmental and social goals of the country; (b) improve the productivity of
Government-owned forests in order to meet, as much as possible, the country's
wood and energy needs; and (c) protect the country's environment. This would
be achieved by (i) improving and further institutionalizing RIMS, which
evolved under the Second Forestry Project; (ii) integrating environment and
socio-economic factors and criteria into resource ma~nagement; (iii) carrying
out a pilot scheme for people's participation in forest development;
(iv) expanding the country's forest resources through plantation establishment
and improved management; (v) formulating management plans for nature
conservation areas and supporting investments in selected sanctuaries and
parks; (vi) streamlining FD's organization, and creating within PD an



- 10 -
effective environmental management capability; and (vii) supporting
professional and technical education and training, and mangrove research.
General DescriRtion
2.4       The project, to be implemented over seven years i/, would include
the following components:
(a) Forest Resources Management. This component would help ensure that
the allocation and intensity of forest uses would be regulated in
accordance with appropriate forest management plans (FMPs). It
would establish additional planning capacity within FD; carry out
new forest resopurce inventories; improve data collection and
processing systems; prepare new FMPs, arl revise and update
existing FMPs, as required; develop and implement pilot activities
to involve local communities in forest development and protection;
and undertake silvicultural treatment of forest stands;
(b) Forest Resources Expansion. This component would fund some 60,000
ha of new mangrove and conventional forest plantations through
rehabilitating degraded forest areas, regenerating harvested
stands, and consolidating newly accreted land along the Bay of
Bengal. In addition, tending programs for young plantatio4is
established under the Second Forestry Project would be continued;
(c) Nature Conservation. Management plans would be prepared for all
national parks and wildlife sanctuaries where adequate natural
values exist. The component would meet the investment requirements
for the three Sundarbans sanctuaries and provide US$500,000 to help
meet investment needs in the remaining protected areas. The plans
for these areas would be used for soliciting additional funding
from international donor agencies; and
(d) Institutional Support. FD's headquarters would be reorganized and
its field organization expanded in line with the needs of FD's key
functions and the needs of the project. Also, a new Environmental
Management Wing would be set up within FD. The component would
further support education of professional foresters at IFCU, and
training of technical staff at FD's training facilities. BFRI
would receive assistance for continuing and expanding the mangrove
research started under the Second Forestry Project, and for
revitalizing its mangrove silviculture division in Khulna.
C.  Project Area
2.5       The project would have national coverage, except for plantation
activities in (a) the Chittagong Hill Tracts, where security conditions
prevent normal operations, and (b) the remnant sal forest north of Dhaka,
which is being supported under the ADB-financed Upazila Afforestation and
./ The implementation period has been determined on the basis of the
project's investment program and the experience gained under the first two
IDA-assisted forestry projects in Bangladesh (paras. 1.25-1.29).



- 11 -
Nursery Development Project (para. 1.30). The coastal afforestation divisions
of Bhola, Patuakhali, Noakhali and Chittagong would concentrate on the
establishment and management of the project's mangrove plantations, while the
forest divisions of Chittagong, Cox's Bazar, Sylhet and Khulna (Sundarbans)
would be concerned with the establishment and management of industrial
plantations and the management of natural forests. The project would not
cover investment and rationalization needs of the primary forest industries
sector. Key issues affecting this subsector will be addressed under the
Forestry Sector Master Plan (para. 1.32).
D. Detailed Features
Forest Resources Management (Base Cost: USS7.6 million)
2.6       Forest Management Plans (Base Cost: USS3.' million).  To ensure
sound forest management, FD would carry out future operations in accordance
with detailed FMPs. Progress has been made under the Second Forestry Project
in FMP preparation; and MOEF, in late-1991, approved the FMPs for the Sylhet,
Chittagong and Cox's Bazar forest divisions. FD has also prepared a manual
for the management of coastal plantations, and a Forest Management Manual,
which describes the procedures regulating the preparation, implementation and
revision of FMPs. An FMP for the Sundarbans has not yet been prepared.
2.7       While recent developments are encouraging, constraints are being
encounzered in the preparation, revision and implementation of FMPs. The two
existing management planning offices, in Chittagong and Dhaka, oversee an
excessively larga area and are inadequately staffed and equipped. As a
result, preparation of FMPs has been slow and is now based to large extent on
outdated inventory data. The project would strengthen FD's planning
capability through financing the establishment of a third management planning
office in Khulna, which would be responsible for the preparation, updating and
revision of FMPs for the Sundarbans mangrove forest and the four coastal
afforestation divisions. Funding would also be provided for additional
technical staff, facilities, vehicles and equipment required at FD's
headquarters and in the field to ensure the accuracy of forest inventories,
the effectiveness of photo interpretation, and the coordination between the
various management plan offices. The project would furthermore finance the
preparation of new forest inventories since existing ones are incomplete, up
tc nine years old, and no longer reliable due to unrecorded forest depletion,
fires, illegal fellings, diseases and encroachments. The inventory program
would cover the Chittagong, Cox's Bazar, Sylhet, and Sundarbans forest
divisions and the four coastal afforestation divisions. Forest inventories
would update forest c"ver and stand-related data and enable FD to design
appropriate and location-specific management systems responsive to the
country's economic, environmental and social objectives. The preparation of
new inventories would require strengthening of the mapping base to facilitate
digitizing of maps onto a new Geographical Information System (GIS)
(para. 2.9), and updating tree growth information. For Sundarbans and the
Chittagong, Cox's Bazar and coastal divisions, it would also involve new
aerial photography. Due to difficulties in flying near border areas, Sylhet
forest inventories would be prepared using ground-based methods.
2.8       The project would provide technical assistance to FD to help
(a) design'the inventory updating program and guide its execution (36 months);



- 12 -
(b) train FD staff in photo interpretation (8 months); (c) prepare new and
revise existing FMPs, and assist in their implementation (8 months);
(d) strengthen its cartographic mapping operations and prepare new maps
(45 months); and (e) upgrade existing computer capabilities to fully meet FD's
planning needs (26 months). The project would also finance materials and
incremental operating costs required to strengthen FD's forest management
planning operations.
2.9       Resource Information Management System (Base Cost: USSl.l million).
RIMS, which was established under the Second Forestry Project, would be
expanded and upgraded to a GIS-based system. Improvement of RIMS would aim at
(a) including socio-economic, environmental, and administrative information
into the data base (para. 2.32); and (b) modifying and expanding the
capebility of the system to respond to a larger spectrum of management goals
and  wider data base.  Building on the expanded data base and a broader set
of economic, social and environmental objectives, new FMPs would be prepared
and existing ones revised for about 700,000 ha of forest area within the Cox's
Bazar, Chittagong, Sylhet, Sundarbans and coastal divisions.
2.10      The project would finance the upgrading of existing equipment and
the addition of new equipment and staff required for GIS operations. It would
also provide necessary materials and transportation facilities, and finance
incremental operating costs. To assist in (a) acquiring and installing
suitable equipment and software, (b) designing and executing GIS training
programs for FD staff, and (c) monitoring the effectiveness of GIS use, FD
would periodically engage the services of a GIS specialist for a total of
about 14 months. In addition, the project would provide overseas and in-
service GIS training for selected FD staff.
2.11      Silvicultural Treatment (Base Cost: USSl.l million).  Maintenance
of the silvicultural health of existing plantations is essential for vigorous
tree growth and good plantation stocKing. Due to delay in preparing FMPs
(para. 1.27), many existing plantations have not been tended according to
their silvicultural treatment needs. As a result, some stands are deformed,
thinning yields have been foregone, and future harvesting volumes and wood
values will be reduced. In particular, climber cutting and thinning
operations have been inadequate. The project would finance the cost of
(a) climber cutting for about 37,600 ha of existing mangrove plantations, and
other silvicultural treatments for some 22,500 ha of these plantations, and
(b) thinning of about 29,000 ha of existing industrial plantations. Thinning
operations in industrial plantations would comprise first thinning (5,000 ha),
second thinning (17,900 ha), and third thinning (6,100 ha). Only the cost of
the first thinning would be fully financed under the project; for the second
and third thinnings, which are considered self-financing, the project would
fund only tree marking and supervision activities. The silvicultural
treatment program would be as follows:
Table 2.1: POJXECT TAGTS MMD DMeLIEUT*XION PRDG0H (ha)
Project Years:      1     2     3     4     5     6     7    Total
Manxrove Plantations
Climber cutting          8,094  8,195  3,806  4,168  2,885  4,067  6,400  37,615
Other treoatmnt          3,080  3,080  4,100  4,100  4,120  1.940  2,085  22,505
Industrial Plantations
First thinning             500   500                   2,000  2,000  5,000
Second thinning          1,500  2,000  3,000  3,500  3,000  2.500  2,400  17,900
Third thinning           1,200  1,500   600   600   900   700   600  6,100



- 13 -
2.12      To ensure effective planning and silvicultural treatment for
existing plantations, it would also be necessary to demarcate sub-block
boundaries which are presently lacking. In addition, access to and within the
existing plantations would need to be enhanced so that the plantations can be
better serviced. The project would finance the construction of 90 km of
roads, and the labor and materials required for survey and demarcation work.
2.13      ParticiRatorv Forest Develogment (Base Cost: USS1.7 million).  Over
tha past five years in Bangladesh, as in other countries in the region, there
has been an increasing awareness of the need to involve local populations in
forestry development and management activities, particularly in areas of dense
and growing population. Under initiatives supported by non-governmental
organizations (NGOs), limited experience has been gained with involving local
people in rthabilitation of degraded forest lands.  However, no initiatives
have been made in the project area. The project would, therefore, include a
pilot scheme for participatory forest development tc be implemented initially
in two forest divisions with hilly forest tracts in the project area. Based
on its experience, the component would be evaluated during the first
implementation review (para. 3.17), to determine a program (including
additional investment and financing needs) for expanding participatory
activities to other areas. To implement the component, FD would set up a
small pilot project unit under its Extension Wing, which is responsible for
social forestry programs. The unit would engage the services of a national or
international advisory NGO with expertise in participatory forestry. The NGO
would help FD to (a) formulate pilot strategies and options, (b) supervise
pilot activities by local-level NGOs who would be engaged for field
implementation, and (c) monitor and evaluate pilot operations. The advisory
NGO would also undertake a socio-economic survey in the pilot area and
organize training workshops. The unit would liaise with FD staff involved in
the Upazila Afforestation and Nursery Development Project (para. 1.30), which
is experimenting with participatory forestry outside the state forest, and
developing technical models for plantation/contract reforestation, forest
management, and agroforestry.
2.14      The pilot scheme would be undertaken in two or three forest blocks
in Chittagong and Cox's Bazar forest divisions. Areas would be identified
which represent the range of pressure on forest lands (different types of
settlers, different ethnic groups, different ecological conditions, different
range of forest-based economic activities being carried out) and groups of
settlers and villagers involved in forest management. Special measures would
be included in the scheme to ensure that participating women would function
not only as laborers, but also as active managers in pilot activities.
Optional models would include agroforestry, intensified taungya, contract
afforestation, and joint management of forest plots with local groups and FD.
A variety of legal and sharing arrangements would be tested. Upon completion
of the pilot phase in FY96, FD would develop model agreements and sharing
arrangements to be entered into with participatory groups on a larger scale.
2.15      During the design of the pilot scheme, information was collected on
tribal groups that reside in the project area or are dependent upon forest
products. While these groups have a strong tribal identity, they have been
relatively accultured to the dominant society. The socio-economic survey
(para. 2.13) would further expand the information base on the tribal
population and provide a basis for formulating management arrangements for
specific forest areas. If successful, the pilot activities would increase the



- 14 .
income of tribal households and strengthen those characteristics of their
society and culture which are based on traditional relationships to forest
resources. The results of the pilot scheme would also generate optional
models for participatory forest management in other areas of Bangladesh with
significant tribal populations. It was therefore considered unnecessary to
prepare a separate tribal development plan for the project.
2.16      The project would finance the establishment and operation of the
pilot project unit. Funds would be provided to finance the staff and
operating costs, computer and other equipment, and transport facilities
required for implementing this pilot operation. Also covered would be the
costs of services to be provided by the advisory NGO, and the implementation
assistance provided by local NG0s. To help FD review the NGO proposals and
monitor the effectiveness of their implementation, the project would provide
FD six months of technical assistance each in the areas of agroforestry and
agronomy, where FD lacks expertise. The World Food Program's (WFP)
Food-for-Work Program would reimburse the labor inputs by participating groups
(para. 2.44). Details on the pilot scheme are in Annex 2.
Forest Resources ExDansion (Base Cost: USS24.9 million)
2.17      General.  The project would support the establishment and
maintenance of 59,780 ha of new plantations comprising 32,900 ha of mangrove
and 26,880 ha of industrial plantations. Mangrove afforestation would be
carried out on newly accreted land in the Bay of Bengal (23,800 ha), and on
existing plantations which were severely damaged by the April 1991 cyclone
(9,100 ha). Industrial plantations would be established to revitalize denuded
and degraded forest lands and to regenerate harvested areas.g/ They would
include about 13,350 ha of long-rotation and 13,530 ha of short-rotation
species. For young plantations established under the Second Forestry Project,
the project would support maintenance operations required during the initial
years after planting. The program is summarized below:
Table 2. : ROJET TARGETS D ANDDHLUETATlON PROGSUM (ba)
Project Years:     1     2     3     4     5     6     7    Total
Plantation Establishment
Mangrove Plantations    6,400  6,500  4,000  4,000  4,000  4,000  4,000  32,900
Industrial Plantations
Long Rotation       1,795  1,980  2,095  1,975  1,985  1,745  1,775  13,350
Short Rotation      1,920  1,860  2,050  1,960  2,020  1,885  1,835  13,530
Total                 10,115 10,340  8,145  7,935  8,005  7,630  7,610  59,780
Plantation Maintenance g/
Mangrove Plantations   11,120  6,952  4,067  -     -     -      - 22,139
Industrial Plantations  12,517  8,096  4,120   913  -    -     - 25,646
Total                 23,637 15,048  8,187   913  -     -     - 47,785
a/ For young plantations established under the Second Forestry Project.
A/ The project plantation areas have no tribal populations. Tribal groups
would therefore not be affected by this component.



- 15 -
2.18      Mangrove Afforestation (Base Cost: USS7.8 million).  During the
first two project years, emphasis would be given to rehabilitating cyclone
damaged plantation areas since these areas may become unsuitable for mangrove
afforestation if not planted within that time. Sites selected for plantation
establishment on newly accreted lands would be mapped beforehand and formal
allocation of these sites to FD would be obtained from the Ministry of Land
(MOL) (para. 3.11). All siter would be surveyed and the boundaries marked.
The present system for plantation establishment would be continued although
changes may be introduced as results from applied mangrove research become
available (para. 2.39). The principal species planted would be Keora
(Sonneratia apetala); Baen (Avicennia _fficinalis) would be limited to
locations with high salinity. The plantations would generally be managed
under a 10-year or a 17-year rotation cycle. However, because of the dynamic
character'of the coastal areas, actual rotation periods may be significantly
different.
2.19      The project would finance the cost of plantation establishment,
including nursery development and plantation maintenance for the first four
years after planting. It would also fund the additional professional and
techrical staff required by FD for implementing the program, and provide
necessary office and transport facilities, equipment, tools and materials.
Project financing would cover the construction of residential quarters for
staff working in remote areas where rental accommodation is unavailable.
2.20      Industrial Plantations (Base Cost: USS16.0 million).  Establishment
of industrial plantations requires advance planning in conformity with the
respective FMP. This would be achieved by surveying plantation areas at least
one year before work commences in order to prepare operational maps which
would detail plantation layout, sub-block boundary demarcation and road
construction. Plantations would be established under two management systems:
(a)  long rotation (about 40 years) primarily for the production of
sawlogs and poles; and
(b)  short rotation (12 and 18 years) for the production of poles,
peeler logs, fuelwood and pulpwood.
2.21      The long-rotation plantings would largely comprise Garjan
(Dipterocarpus UR), Dhakijam (Syzygium grande), Chapalis (ArtocarRus
chaplasha), Mahogany (Swietenia macorQhyDlaj), and Teak (Tectona grandis).
Teak would be confined to the better sites. Denuded, degraded sites would be
assigned to short-rotation species, in particular, the fast-growing Acacias:
A. mangium and A. auriculiforms, and Eucalyptus varieties. Short-rotation
species would produce round timber for transmission and general utility poles.
Some sawlogs would be produced from A. mangium. Experience under the Second
Forestry Project has shown that Eucalyptus is sensitive to site conditions and
requires intensive maintenance. Its share in the plantation program would
therefore be kept low. Melokana (Albizia falcataria) would be grown on good
alluvial soils in Sylhet for producing peeler logs and pulpwood on a 12-year
rotation.
2.22      Seedling production would be in accordance with conventional
nursery techniques, and planting would follow proven practices and established
tree spacing parameters. Young plantations would be weeded and fertilized,
and vacancies would be filled according to the requirements at individual



- 16 -
sites. In Europe and North America, improved seedling production techniques
have been developed using new seedling containers ("root-trainers"). To test
this technology under Bangladesh conditions and to develop improved rooting
material, a small experimental nursery, with capacity for 200,000
containerized seedlings, would be established in Chittagong forest division.
The nursery would also be used to train FD staff in nursery techniques.
2.23      Static fire protection would be provided involving the construction
and maintenance of firelines and breaks. The planned intensity of firebreaks
would be about 50 m per ha of plantation. The location of firebreaks would be
determined taking into account sub-block demarcation and road construction
needs. Guards would be employed in areas susceptible to fires.
2.24      Under the Second Forestry Project, FD developed a socio-economic
survey manual designed to achieve the maximum useful information from local
community contacts and to provide a means for analyzing people's attitudes
toward afforestation/reforestation and its objectives. However, the process
was used mainly for determining and avoiding sites which were potentially
problematic. Under the proposed project, a more positive approach to site
selection would be taken to increasingly facilitate people's participation in
the management, use and protection of forest resources. In addition, the
existing socio-economic survey manual would be expanded to make it more useful
in identifying poteatial resource expansion and management opportunities that
are dependent on the cooperation of local communities.
2.25      The project would finance the cost of industrial plantation
establishment and maintenance during the initial years after planting. It
would also fund the cost of vehicles, equipment, materials and incremental FD
staff required to carry out the program. In addition, it would provide office
facilities and housing for some of the incremental staff. The project would
furthermore finance the technical assistance services of (a) a rural
sociologist to help FD revise its socio-economic survey manual and its
approach to selecting plantation sites, and establish better relations with
local communities (9 months); (b) a soil conservationist to assist FD in
addressing soil erosion issues and to provide staff training in soil
conservation (6 months); and (c) a silviculturist to help FD develop improved
rooting material and nursery techniques (6 months).
2.26      Maintenance of Existing Plantations (Base Cost: USSl.l million).
Young plantations already established under the Second Forestry Project need
to be maintained under a system similar to that applied to plantations
established under the proposed project. Maintenance operations would be
required during the initial years after establishment and would include
activities such as filling vacancies, weeding and applying fertilizer. About
20.3 million seedlings would be required for infilling the existing young
mangrove plantations; for the existing industrial plantations, seedling
requirements would be about 2 million. The project would finance the labor
and material required for maintenance operations.
Nature Conservation (Base Cost: USS2.3 million)
2.27      The project would make a major contribution to a deeper and broader
integration of environmental considerations into the management of the state
forest. It would achieve this through (a) an institution-building activity,
to help establish in FD an effective environmental management capacity



- 17 -
(paras. 2.32-2.34); and (b) a nature conservation program, to support the
development and expansion of protected areas. Conservation activities would
focus mainly on intensified management and expansion of the existing wildlife
sanctuaries in Sundarbans, which have important natural values and which are
located where protection from encroachment and resource degradation is
feasible. The three sanctuaries, established in 1977, are Sundarbans West
(9,069 ha), Sundarbans South (17,878 ha) and Sundarbans East (5,439 ha).
Their importance for wildlife protection has increased over the last decades
as several species of reptiles have been heavily persecuted for their meat,
skins and eggs, and as the fish catches in Sundarbans have been dwindling.
The sanctuaries do not adequately protect the habitat types present in the
Sundarbans mangrove forest block, and they are also being encroached upon by
seasenal fishing camps. Their management suffers from (a) inadequate staffing
and poor infrastructure, (b) lack of trained personnel, (c) outdated
management plans, (d) unscientific management of the tiger and deer
populations, and (e) lack of fresh water supplies. To address these problems,
the project would expand the protected areas, improve the sanctuarie-'
infrastructure, and strengthen the management and protection capabilities of
FD's nature conservation staff. In particular, in Sundarbans East, the
sanctuary would be enlarged, the forest station at Katka would be upgraded to
sanctuary headquarters, and new stations would be established at the
sanctuary's northeast and northwest extremities. In the Sundarbans South
sanctuary, Hiron Point would be remodeled to a headquarters, and new stations
would be set up at the south end of Asraf Island and at the northern tip of
the sanctuary. Sundarbans West would be extended westward to the Indian
border to link up with India's Su-idarbans National Park and thus create the
potential for a cross-border reserve. The sanctuary, which has no permanent
facility, would be provided a headquarters and three stations. All
sanctuaries would be headed by Assistant Conservators of Forests (ACFs).
2.28      New management plans for the three sanctuaries would be prepared by
FD's Environmental Management Wing (para. 2.32), which would work in close
cooperation with specialists financed under the UNDP/FAO-supported Integrated
Resource Development of Sundarbans Reserve Forest Project (para. 1.31). The
Wing would also undertake surveys and prepare management plans for the
national parks, where natural values would warrant conservation efforts. The
project would finance additional staff for the Sundarbans sanctuaries together
with office accommodations, housing, cyclone shelters, drinking water
facilities, vehicles, office and equipment and incremental operating costs.
It would also provide US$500,000 to help finance investments in the other
natural parks, where such investments can be justified.
Institutional SuDport (Base Cost: USS15.6 million)
2.29      General SuDRort to Forest DeRartment (Base Cost: USS5.4 million).
FD's existing headquarters' organization needs to be expanded and streamlined
according to its key functions (para. 3.2). To achieve this, the structure
would be reorganized under five Wings with responsibilities for (a) planning
and monitoring, (b) forest management and operations, (c) extension,
(d) environmental management (paras. 2.32 and 2.33), and (e) administration
and finance. Details on this organization are in Annex 3 and in Chart II.
2.30      FD's field offices require strengthening to more effectively carry
out routine responsibilities, such as forest protection and maintenance.
Additional field-level staff are also needed for program development and



- 18 -
monitoring. Especially in FD's four coastal afforestation divisions, which
are presently integrated in the Sundarbans operations, the existing workload
and the work to be carried out under the project require the establishment of
a separate office headed by a CF to be responsible exclusively for the coastal
plantations. Also, to ensure effective project implementation, all
territorial CFs would need to be supported by a Deputy Conservator of Forests
responsible for supervision of program implementation.
2.31      The project would finance the incremental staff, office facilities,
equipment and transportation requirements, staff quarters to - ;ise project
staff, and incremental operating costs. The project would also finance
(a) six months of technical assistance to help FD improve its monitoring and
evaluation capabilities, and (b) consultancy needs for the project's two in-
depth implementation reviews (para. 3.17), which would require specialist
assistance in resource economics, forest management, sociology/anthropology,
nature conservation, and education and training (80 months).
2.32      Environmental Management (Base Cost: USS1.7 million).  FD has only
one research officer working full time on environmental issues. To strengthen
its environmental capability, FD would set up an Environmental Management Wing
and elevate it within the organization to the level of its other key
functions. The new Wing would aim at ensuring the long-term productivity of
forest lands through maintenance of biodiversity, soil quality and modulated
water flows. Within protected areas, the Wing would be directly responsible
for the planning and implementation of nature conservation activities. With
regard to FD's other operations, it would influence them through
(a) establishing environmental standards and criteria, which would be
incorporated into the RIMS's module for formulating alternative forest
management systems; (b) collecting environmental data, arranging periodic
environmental surveys, and conducting environmental assessments through
contractual arrangements; and (c) monitoring the environmental effects of FD's
forest operations.
2.33      The new Wing would include the following branches:
(a) an information and planning branch, which would (i) assist FD in
preparing strategic plans and integrating conservation aspects into
divisional FMPs; (ii) prepare management plans for natural parks
and sanctuaries; (iii) carry out natural resource surveys;
(iv) develop conservation education programs; (v) examine
legislation and policies affecting nature conservation; (vi)
provide technical support to national conservation centers such as
the National Botanical Gardens and the National Zoo; and (vii)
coordinate the introduction of environmental parameters into GIS,
which would take into account the relationship of tribal groups and
other populations residing in or adjacent to forests for which FMPs
are being prepared (para. 2.9);
(b)  a conservation oRerations branch, which would implement
conservation activities in sanctuaries and nature parks; and
(c) an environmental management branch, which would (i) develop
criteria and institute environmental standards that forestry
operations must achieve; (ii) develop procedures for achieving
environmental standards and monitor compliance; (iii) prepare a



- 19 -
field manual on best environmental practices for field operations;
and (iv) develop procedures for environmental screening and
environmental assessments of FD operations and carry them out, as
required.
2.34      The project would finance the salaries of the incremental staff
required for establishing and operating the Environmental Management Wing and
implementing the component. It would also provide the office and transport
facilities, and the furniture, equipment and incremental operating costs
needed for the proper functioning of the Wing. In addition, the project would
finance the cost of resource surveys and studies and provide residential
quarters for some of FD's environmental staff. It would also provide funds
for tours to other countries in the region to study environmental management
in production forests and management of protected areas. The new Wing would
require considerable technical assistance and training, especially during its
establishment and early operation. The project would finance the services of
specialists in strategic planning (5 months), conservation management planning
(10 months), environmental standards for forestry operations '3 months),
natural resource surveys (5 months), conservation education (4 months),
captive fauna management (2 months), and botanical garden management
(2 months). The project would further provide technical assistance for
reviewing and making recommendations to improve existing legislation and
policies on nature conservation (3 months). It would also finance the
services of a nature expert to help FD evaluate the natural values of various
protected areas, and prepare protection programs where these could be
justified (10 months).
2.35      Professional Foresters' Education (Base Cost: USS2.7 million).  To
meet FD's expanding need for professional foresters and assist in the proposed
broadening of IFCU's education programs (para. 1.18), the project would
continue the support extended to IFCU under the Second Forestry Project. In
particular, it would fiinance the expansion of facilities to include a civil
works program for two new floors to the academic block, a third floor to the
student hostel, and a residential apartment block. It would also finance site
development, access roads, a water supply system and a field station.
Technical assistance would be engaged for revising the B.Sc. curriculum
(1 month) and for preparing M.Sc. program guidelines (2 months). In addition,
the project would provide local scholarships for M.Sc. candidates and ten
overseas fellowships for Ph.D. degree education of university staff in the
areas of social forestry, social science, wood science, forest economics, land
use management, forest mensuration/inventory, environmental science, forest
engineering, and forest soils. The proiect would also finance teaching
materials, book publications, laboratory materials, vehicles, visiting
lecturers, study tours, and incremental operating costs.
2.36      In-service Training (Baoc Cost: USS1.6 million).  There is an
urgent need for more in-service training than is now provided by FD. To meet
this need, facilities and teaching staff of the Forest College in Chittagong
would be upgraded so that the College could provide a series of in-service
training programs including (a) orientation courses for newly appointed
professional officers, (b) promotion courses, and (c) short courses covering a
range of technical and administrative topics. A consultant would be engaged
for two months to assess the adequacy of the present in-service courses, and
prepare curricula for the orientation, promotion, and short courses.
Laboratories would be refurbished and additional laboratory facilities would



- 20 -
be constructed. Student dormitories and catering service areas would be
enlarged, and staff housing would be increased for a projected new staff of
13 teachers and 16 junior personnel. Fifty-seven months of fellowship
training would be designated for the teaching staff, emphasizing fields such
as rural sociology, extension, management planning, and remote sensing. To
improve practical training both in the field and laboratory, the project would
provide transport facilities and equipment.
2.37      Foresters' Training (Base Cost: USS2.7 million).  FD's decision to
change its entry level and training requirements for foresters (pat-a. 3.6)
considerably increases the need for forester training facilities and teaching
staff. FD has also decided to change the location of foresters' training from
Sylhet to Chittagong to bring the school closer to most of its field
operations. The project would finance a new forest school in Chittagong,
which would provide a three-year technical course and have capacity to admit
50 students annually. The civil works program would include the construction
of (a) a main building where classrooms, offices, dining and recreation
facilities would be located; and (b) staff quarters, site development, and
power and water supply systems. In addition, teaching and field equipment,
vehicles, books and periodicals would be provided under the project. The
project would also finance technical assistance services (2 months) to help FD
develop a new, three-year curriculum, since the existing one is based on a
two-year diploma course. The project would finance the salaries of the
additional teachers required by the school, and incremental operating costs.
2.38      Forest Guard Training (Base Cost: USSO.2 million).  Forest guard
training has been inadequate largely due to insufficient training facilities.
With FD's decision to shift foresters' training from Sylhet to Chittagong, the
Sylhet school would become available to meet FD's forest guard training needs.
The facilities would require upgrading, however. The project would finance
the renovation of the school and an additional vehicle. It would also provide
for consultancy services (1 month) to examine the curriculum for forest guard
training, which has recently been extended from three to four months.
2.39      Mangrove Research (Base Cost: USS1.3 million).  Initiated under the
Second Forestry Project, the project would continue to support BFRI's research
program on silviculture and management of mangrove plantations. Under the
proposed project, BFRI would further strengthen its coastal plantation
research station in harisal and revitalize its Sundarbans mangrove
silviculture division in Khulna, which would also serve as the institutional
base and main counterpart entity for the mangrove research carried out under
the UNDP/FAO-supported Integrated Resource Development of Sundarbans Reserve
Forest Project (para. 1.31). With assistance from UNDP/FAO project staff and
a consultant financed under the proposed project, BFRI would also examine the
effectiveness of its current mangrove research program and revise the program,
as appropriate, to meet users' needs. The project would finance the civil
works program to establish research substations, which would include offices
and residences for staff at four locations along the coastal areas; office and
field equipment; vehicles and boats; labor and materials; and inc:emental
staff and operating costs. In addition, the project would finance the
technical assistance services of (a) a mangrove research scientist (7 months)
who would assist BFRI in the examination and revision of its mangrove research
program, and (b) an entomologist (6 months) to help BFRI with the design and
execution of an effective program to control insect infestations in mangroves.



- 21 -
E. Status of Project Preparation
2.40      FD has prepared and GOB has approved the Forest Management Plans
(FMPs) for the Sylhet, Chittagong and Cox's Bazar forest divisions. GOB has
also approved FD's manual for the management of coastal plantations and the
Forest Management Manual, of which the latter regulates the procedures for
preparing, approving, implementing and revising FMPs. The project's forest
resource expansion and maintenance activities have been designed to dovetail
with the operational program being completed in June 1992 under the Second
Forestry Project. The redesign of FD's organizational structure has been
completed, but the new organization has yet to be formally adopted. Staffing
plans for implementing the project have been prepared. For the project's
pilot scheme on people's participation in forestry development and management,
the design of an operational framework has been completed. Draft terms of
reference for the consultancy services required under the project have been
prepared. Designs for FD offices and staff quarters would be according to FD
standards. They have been tested under the Second Forestry Project and have
proved satisfactory. Preliminary designs for FD's new forest school
(para. 2.37) have been completed. GOB has included the project in its FY93
Annual Development Program. Approval by GOB of the Proiect Proforma would be
a condition of Credit effectiveness.
F. Environmental Aspects
2.41      An environmental analysis concluded that it would be unlikely for
the project to have a negative environmental impact. Improvement of the
environment would be a main project objective. In particular, the project
would (a) establish within FD the capacity to develop appropriate
environmental standards for forestry operations -- taking into account any
effect on indigenous peoples -- and to undertake environmental assessments and
formulate preventative and mitigating measures where adverse impacts arise
from such operations (paras. 2.32-2.34); (b) finance a nature conservation
component designed to expand and improve the management of wildlife
sanctuaries and other protected areas (paras. 2.27 and 2.28); and (c) support
people's participation in forest development to counter forest degradation
(paras. 2.13-2.16). The project's mangrove plantation program for accreted
lands would assist in establishing shelterbelts along the coast which would
help protect against cyclones and storm surges (para. 2.18). For industrial
plantations, the project would address soil erosion issues, and train FD's
staff in soil conservation techniques (para. 2.25).
2.42      The project would not support logging in natural forests.  Since
such logging is presently banned (para. 1.23), it is not included in the FMPs
approved by GOB. If GOB changes its policy to re-introduce logging in natural
forests, an environmental assessment would be prepared under terms of
reference, satisfactory to IDA, prior to commencing such logging pursuant to
any FMP. Also, where the assessment concludes that logging would have a
negative environmental impact, steps to be taken (including mitigating
measures) would be agreed with IDA. Agreement with GOB to this effect was
reached during negotiations.



- 22 -
G. Cost Estimates
2.43         The total project cost is estimated at Tk 2.5 billion
(US$58.7 million), including a foreign exchange component of Tk 677.4 million
(US$16.2 million) or 28.0% of the total cost. Cost estimates are based on
December 1991 prices. For plantations, costs have been estimated on the basis
of existing nursery, planting and protection tenhniques. Cost estimates for
civil works are based on contractors' quotations. The costs of vehicles,
equipment and materials are based on prices quoted by suppliers. Physical
contingencies of Tk 77.2 million (US$2.0 million) have been included at the
rate of 5% of civil works, equipment, plantation labor and materials. Price
contingencies and foreign exchange rates have been estimated on the basis of
foreign and local inflation rates as follows: (a) foreign inflation at 3.9%
per annum, and (b) local inflation at 8% for FY92, 7% for FY93, and 6%
thereafter. Table 2.3 summarizes the project cost estimates by component.
Details are in Annex 4.
Table 2.3: PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
Tk million------  -----USS million-----  X Foreign
Local  Foreign Total  LocaL Foreign Total   Exchanae
A. Forest Resources management
Forest Management Plans              53.5   88.7  142.2   1.4    2.3    3.7          62
Resources Information Mgmt. System    11.4   30.9   42.2   0.3    0.8    1.1         73
Silvicultural Treatment              41.5    2.5   44.0   1.1    0.1    1.1           6
Participatory Forest Development     52.7   14.7   67.4   1.4    0.4    1.7          22
Sub-total                       159.1  136.8  295.9   4.1    3.5    7.6          46
B. Forest Resources Expansion
Mangrove Afforestation              249.9   50.9  300.8   6.4    1.3    7.8          17
Industrial Plantations              538.7   81.5  620.2  13.9    2.1   16.0          13
Maintenance of Existing Plantations   44.1    0.4   44.5   1.1    0.0    1.1          1
Sub-total                       832.7  132.8  965.4  21.5    3.4   24.9           14
C. Nature Conservation                    63.8   26.6   90.4   1.6    0.7    2.3           30
D. Institutional Support
Generat Support to Forest Department 126.7   83.8  210.5   3.3    2.2    5.4         40
Environmental Management             32.3   35.0   67.3   0.8    0.9    1.7          52
Professional Foresters' Education    43.3   61.0  104.4   1.1    1.6    2.7          59
In-service Training                 35.6   25.5   61.1   0.9    0.7    1.6           42
Foresters' Training                  71.3   34.4  105.8   1.8    0.9    2.7          33
Forest Guard Training                4.1    2.4    6.5   0.1    0.1    0.2           37
Mangrove Research                    27.6   22.3   49.9   0.7    0.6    1.3          45
Sub-total                       341.0  264.4  605.4    .8   6.8   15.6          44
Base Cost                          1396.5  560.6  1957.1  36.0   14.4   50.4         29
Physical Contingencies               54.5   12.8   77.2   1.7    0.3    2.0          17
Price Contingencies                 340.1  104.0  44.1   4.8    1.4    6.2           23
Total Project Cost a)                    1801.1  677.4  2478.5  42.4   16.2   58.7         28
======  ===== =======   ===       =   ====        ==
A/ Including duties and taxes of USS3.3 million.
Note: Figures may not fully add up due to rounding.
H. Project Financing
2.44         The project would be financed by IDA and GOB.   The IDA Credit of
SDR 36.4 million (US$49.6 million equivalent) would cover about 90% of total
project costs, net of duties and taxes. It would be channelled by GOB to MOEF
in the form of budget grants, and MOEF would pass on the funds to FD, BFRI and



- 23 -
IFCU through its regular budget process. The Credit would finance civil
works, transport and other equipment, materials and labor, technical
assistance, surveys, services, training, and incremental staff salaries and
operating costs. GOB would finance the remaining project costs, including
US$3.3 million in duties and taxes. GOB's contribution would be used mainly
to fund incremental staff and operating costs, and the labor input of groups
involved in the project's pilot scheme for participatory forest development
(paras. 2.13-2.16). The latter would be covered under WFP's Food-for-Work
Program with Bangladesh. Suitable arrangements with WFP, along the lines
established under an afforestation scheme supported by the ADB/UNDP-financed
Upazila Afforestation and Nursery Development Project (para. 1.30), would be
completed by September 30, 1992. Table 2.4 summarizes the project's financing
plan:
Table 2.4: FINANCING PLAN
----- --(US$ million)--------
IDA    Government    Total
A.  Forest Resources Management             7.0         1.6         8.6
B.  Forest Resources Expansion             27.0         2.8       29.8
C.  Nature Conservation                     2.1         0.6        2.7
D.  Institutional Support                  13.5         4.1       17.6
Total Cost                         4996        91         58.7
2.-45     Of 1,602 incremental staff recruited under the Second Forestry
Project, 800 are estimated to be required on a continuous basis to ensure the
sustainability of that project and the effective functioning of FD.  Funding
for these staff has to be transferred from GOB's Development Budget to the
Revenue Budget to secure their continued employment. An understanding was
reached during negotiations that GOB would carry out a detailed review by
December 31, 1992 to determine the exact number of staff to be transferred to
the Revenue Budget, and discuss the findings with IDA by January 31, 1993.
2.46      Implementation of both the first and second IDA-assisted forestry
projects has been hampered by frequent delays in the release of budgetary
funds. As forestry operations are seasonal and therefore extremely sensitive
to delays, it is essential that such delays do not recur. Agreement was
reached during negotiations that FD adogt aRpropriate Drocedures for RreRarina
and aRoroving the annual program and budget and for the release cf funds.
Suitable procedures were discussed and agreed during negotiations.
I. Procurement
2.47      Procurement arrangements would be in accordance with IDA's
guidelines. Most of the civil works would be small, labor intensive,
geographically scattered (many in areas with difficult access), and spread
over six years. The largest civil works contract to be let under the project
would be for about US$1.5 million and would not be attractive for
international bidders. Civil works contracts would therefore be awarded
generally under locally advertised competitive bidding (LCB) procedures
satisfactory to IDA. In cases where worki are very small and dispersed, or



- 24 -
where no contractors can be found, construction would be done by force
account.  Such works would be limited to an aggregate of US$1 million.
2.48      Goods to be procured under the project would consist of vehicles
and boats; office, communication and laboratory equipment; furniture; tools
and field equipment; and plantation, office and educational materials.
Vehicles, speedboats, trawlers, and computer, laboratory and communication
equipment would be bulked, where possible, and procured in accordance with
international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures. Contracts for bicycles
and wooden boats would be small, with local designs most suitable to meet
local conditions. Contracts would also be small for tools, furniture and
materials, and bulking would not be practical. The size of such contracts
would not individually exceed US$150,000. Contracts for items estimated to
cost less than US$150,000 per contract may be procured under LCB procedures,
satisfactory to IDA; and goods costing less than US$20,000 per contract may be
procured after soliciting quotations from at least three independent
suppliers, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.0 million. Specialized items,
such as books, software and seeds, may be procured using direct contracting
from qualified suppliers, up to an aggregate amount of US$100,000. In bid
evaluations under ICB procedures, eligible domestic manufacturers would
receive a preference of 15X or the import duty, whichever is lower.
2.49      Service contracts for aerial photography would be let under ICB
procedures (US$1.0 million) in line with IDA's Procurement Guidelines.
Technical assistance services and arrangements for overseas training would be
on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, in accordance with IDA's
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. For the project's pilot scheme on
participatory forest development, FD would enter into service contracts with
NGOs with extensive experience in this area. The services of a national or
international NGO would be contracted to provide advisory assistance and carry
out a socio-economic survey in the project area (US$0.4 million). Local-level
NGOs would be engaged for organizing and supervising pilot operations
(US$0.2 million). The other technical assistance services -- comprising a
team of natural resource experts and various other specialists recruited
internationally (173 months) and locally (155 months) -- would be combined as
much as practical, and contracts would be awarded to qualified consultancy
firms.  Annex 5 provides details on the specialties required and the areas in
which available local expertise is adequate. Total cost of these services
would be US$3.9 million. Agreement was reached during negotiations that a
technical assistance team with membershiR and terms of reference satisfactory
to IDA be established by December 31. 1992.
2.50      Labor would be required for plantation establishment, forest
management, nature conservation and environmental management. Labor would be
hired by force account or using farmers under contract in accordance with FD's
normal procedures. Similarly, engagement of incremental staff and procurement
involved in covering incremental operating expenditures would be carried out
under FD's, BFRI's, and IFCU's normal procedures, which are satisfactory.
2.51      Procurement would be the responsibility of FD, BFRI, and IFCU.
Experience under the first two IDA-assisted forestry projects has shown that
these agencies are generally capable of carrying out procurement in a
satisfactory manner. However, FD has little experience with the engagement of
NGOs. Guidelines for contractual arrangements with participating NGOs were
therefore discussed and agreed during negotiations.



- 25 -
2.52       For all items procured under ICB procedures (1OX of the IDA Credit)
and for all other contracts for civil works, goods and services estimated to
cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more, bid documents would be submitted to
IDA for prior review, and IDA's concurrence would be sought before awarding
contracts.  This procedure would apply to some 20 contracts which would
involve about 60X of the civil works, goods and services financed by IDA. The
remaining contracts would be subject to selective ex-post review by IDA. One
in about 30 contracts would be so reviewed. For technical assistance .
contracts and overseas training, terms of reference, short lists and draft
contracts would be furnished to IDA for concurrence; and IDA's concurrence
would be sought prior to contract award. Methods of procurement are
summarized in Table 2.5 (details by year are in Annex 6):
Table 2.5: SIuGRY OF PROPOSED PROCMBENT ARMGBWIETS
CUSS million)
Proect Element                                     Procurement Method             Total
ICB      LCB        Other  N.B.F.   Cost
1.    Works
1.1    Bultdings                                     8.5      1.0             9.5
(7.3)   (0.8)            (8.1)
1.2   Plantation Development g/                              21.8    0.5 I   22.3
(21.8)  (0.0)   (21.8)
2.    Goods
2.1    Vehicles and Boats                   3.8      0.7                      4.5
(3.2)    (0.6)                    (3.8)
2.2   Equipment and Furniture               0.6      0.5      0.2             1.3
(0.5)    (0.4)   (0.2)            01.1)
2.3    Materials                                     3.1      0.9             4.0
(2.2)   (0.6)           (2.8)
3.     Service Contracts
3.1    Aerial Photography                   1.0                               1.0
(1.0)                             (1.0)
4.     Cnultancies
4.1    NGO Services                                           0.6             0.6
(0.6)           (0.6)
4.2    Technical Assistance                                   3.9             3.9
(3.9)           (3.9)
4.3    Fellowships                                            1.5             1.5
(1.5)           (1.5)
5.    Miscellaneous
5.1    Staff Salaries                                         5.4             5.4
(2.7)           (2.7)
5.2    Incremental Operating Costs                            4.7             4.7
(2.3)           (2.3)
Total                                              5.4      12.8    40.0    0.5      58.7
(4.7)   (10.5)  (34.4)  (0.0)   (49.6)
N.B.F. = Not Bank Financed.
M/ Labor cost.
h/ Financed by GOB under UFP's Food-for-Work Program.
Note : Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
J. Disbursement
2.53       Disbursement of the IDA Credit would cover:
(a)  85% of the expenditures for civil works, including construction
materials, architects' fees and supervision;



- 26 -
(b) 100% of the expenditures for plantation works (except labor inputs
by beneficiary groups participating in the pilot scheme for
participatory forest development) .5/;
(c) 100% of the foreign expenditures for directly imported goods; 100%
of the ex-factory price of goods manufactured in Bangladesh; and
70% of the local expenditures for goods procured locally;
(d) 100% of the expenditures for service contracts, consultant
services, fellowships and training; and
(e)  60% of the incremental recurrent costs -- including incremental
staff salaries, and operating and maintenance costs -- through June
30, 1996; and 40% thereafter.
2.54      Full documentation would be sent to IDA in support of withdrawal
applications, except for the following: items (b) and (e) above; civil works
executed under force account; and small local contracts under (a) and (c)
above, costing less than the equivalent of US$100,000. For these items,
withdrawal applications would be supported by statements of expenditures, with
documentation retained by FD, BFRI and IFCU, and made available for review by
IDA on request. This documentation would also be subject to independent
audit. All documents sent to IDA in support of withdrawal applications woulc
be certified by the CCF.
2.55      GOB would open and thereafter maintain a Special Account in Taka
with a bank, acceptable to IDA, to facilitate the payment of expenditures.
The authorized allocation for the Special Account would be US$2.2 million,
which represents an estimated four months of IDA-financed expenditures. The
Account would be administered under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA,
and would be used only for IDA's share of project financing. It would be
replenished periodically, either monthly or whenever the balance of the
authorized allocation falls below 401, whichever occurs first. The Credit
would close on December 31, 2000. An estimated Schedule of Disbursements is
in Annex 7.
K. Accounts and Audits
2.56      Under the first two IDA-assisted forestry projects in Bangladesh,
the three implementing agencies (FD, BFRI and IFCU) have demonstrated their
ability to keep adequate records. For the proposed project, they would
establish and maintain separate project accounts to record the project's
physical progress and financial transactions. Individually identifiable
accounts would also be kept for (a) all expenditures for which Credit
withdrawals are made on the basis of statements of expenditures, and (b) the
flow of funds from the Special Account. Project accounts, including the
Special Account and the statements of expenditures would be audited annually
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Audited accounts, together with
auditors' comments, would be sent to IDA within nine months of the close of a
financial year. At present, the accounts of the three project agencies are
1/ Participating groups would receive coupons for their labor input, which
would be redeemed for commodities provided under WFP's Food-for-Work Program.



- 27 -
audited by the Comptroller and Auditor-General of Bangladesh. This
arrangement, which is satisfactory to IDA, would apply to this project.
Agreement on the above was reached during negotiations.
III. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Prolect Organization
3.1       Ministra of Environment and Forests.  MOEF would have overall
responsibility for project implementation (an implementation schedule is in
Annex 8).  To assist MOEF in this task, a Project Steering Committee would be
set up under the chairmanship of the Secretary, MOEF, with representatives
from FD, BFRI and IFCU. The Committee would (a) ensure timely availability of
funds; (b) examine implementation problems and get them resolved; (c) ensure
the adequacy of annual work programs; and (d) monitor project progress and
performance, for which it would be provided with required reports, including
semi-annual progress reports. The Committee would meet semi-annually and at
other times, as necessary, throughout the year. MOEF's Planning and
Monitoring Cell would provide the secretariat to the Committee. The Cell was
established in 1991 with seven professional posts sanctioned. Appointment of
staff to the Cell has been slow, however, with the result that little progress
has been made in overcoming MOEF's weaknesses in providing overall guidance
and coordination to the sector, and in addressing inter-sectoral issues
(para. 1.11). Full staffing of the Cell would be essential for addressing
these problems and for meeting the monitoring and coordination needs of the
proposed project. Agreement was reached during negotiations that the Cell be
fully staffed by October 31. 1992. Establishment of the Project Steering
Committee would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
3.2        Forest Department.  Day-to-day project implementation would be the
responsibility of FD, BFRI and IFCU. FD would (a) prepare, update, revise (as
appropriate) and implement FMPs; (b) expand RIMS; (c) undertake the project's
plantation and nature conservation activities; (d) carry out the pilot scheme
on participatory forest development; (e) restructure its organization and
establish an Environmental Management Wing; and (f) strengthen its forest
education and training activities. Within FD, the CCF would have the overall
responsibility for the implementation of FD's project activities (para. 1.12).
In the field, implementation of FMPs, including the establishment and
maintenance of project plantations, adherence to environmental standards,
construction of service roads and firebreaks, and demarcation of forest
blocks/subblocks, would be the responsibility of the territorial CFs who would
discharge this responsibility through the respective DFOs and the concerned
range and beat officers (para. 1.13). Each CF would monitor and evaluate the
implementation of the FMPs for which he is responsible. CFs would receive
monthly reports from DFOs, verify information and prepare a consolidated
report for the CCF.
3.3       The organization of FD's headquarters would be restructured in
order to (a) improve planning and monitoring, (b) strengthen accountability,
(c) provide support to new and enhanced responsibilities, and (d) reduce the
Department's excessive reliance on the CCF for control and decision-making.
Under the new structure, the CCF would be assisted by four DCCFs, respectively
responsible for (i) planning, monitoring and evaluation; (ii) forest
management and operations; (iii) extension; and (iv) environmental management.



- 28 -
In addition, a CF responsible for administration and finance would report to
the CCF. The new structure is presented in Chart II. Annex 3 provides a
summary of the various responsibilities under the new organization.  Aggeement
was rached durlng negotiations that the revised organization be adoRted by
October 31. 1992. and staff to fill the key positions in the new structure be
selected by December 31. 1992.
3.4       FD's Extension Wing would be in charge of implementing the pilot
scheme for participatory forest development. It would set up a small pilot
project unit to be headed by an ACF. The unit would contract the services of
an advisory NGO (para. 2.13) and organize implementation of the scheme through
the CF and regular field staff responsible for forestry operations in the
Chittagong and Cox's Bazar forest divisions. The field staff would work in
close collaborationi with local NGOs who would be engaged to assist in field
implementation. Agreement was reached during negotiations that FD enter into
contracts with NGOs. satisfactory to IDA. by October 31. 1992.
3.5       To carry out the project's nature conservation arcivities, FD would
establish the new Environmental Management Wing (para. 2.32) and engage the
consultants financed under the project to ensure effective operation of this
Wing. FD's Forest Management Operations Wing would carry out the project's
development program for technical training, including in-service training and
training of foresters and guards. This would require that FD establish at its
Chittagong Forest College and its forest schools a core teaching staff
consisting of appropriately trained teachers with suitable minimum tenure.
Agreement was reached during-negotiations that this be achieved by
December_31. 1992.
3.6       FD's operational effectiveness will depend to a large extent on its
ability to upgrade the professional and technical skill level of its
operations. MOEF has therefore decided to change the recruitment and staffing
policy for FD's professional and technical personnel, and establish the
following two-tier forestry staff structure: (a) professional foresters to be
be recruited at the level of ACF; and (b) forest technicians with ten years of
basic education (followed by a three-year training at FD's forest schools), to
be recruited at the level of forester. Professional foresters would be
selected on the basis of criteria which would give adequate weight to
knowledge in forestry subjects. MOEF has also decided to discontinue the
recruitment of rangers for filling range officer positions. Range officers
would henceforth be recruited as professional foresters at the level of ACF.
Staffing of range offices with rangers would be gradually eliminated through
attrition. Agreement was reached during negotiations that the new recruitment
and staffing Rolicy be Rut into effect by October 31. 1992.
3.7       In the future, FD's forest operations would be regulated by and
carried out strictly in accordance with appropriate FMPs (para. 2.6).
Agreement on this was reached during negotiations. Agreement was also reached
that FMPs be preyared. implemented and revised in accordance with a Forest
Management Manual. satisfactory to IDA.  FD has recently prepared auch a
Manual (para. 2.6).
3.8       Institute of Forestry of the Chittaeong University.  The Director
of IFCU would be responsible for implementing the project's provisions for
professional foresters' education. While IFCU, as part of the University of
Chittagong, would re-i-a   nder      conttrcl of the university's governing board



- 29 -
within the Ministry of Education, project funds would be channelled through
MOEF which would approve annual budgets, ensure adequate allocation of funds
to IFCU, and monitor the implementation of this project activity. MOEF would
earmark funds for this project element under a separate budget allocation.
The Director, IFCU, would report quarterly to the Secretary, MOEF, on
implementation progress.
3.9       Bangladesh Forest Research Institute.  The Director of BFRI would
be responsible for implementing the project's mangrove research program. Day-
to-day management of the program would be the responsibility of the DFOs in
charge of the coastal plantation research station in Barisal and of the
mangrove silviculture division in Khulna. They would prepare quarterly
progress reports and submit them to the Secretary, MOEF, through the Director,
BFRI. MOEF would channel project funds to BFRI under a separate budget
heading.
3.10      BFRI would closely coordinate its project activities with the
implementation of the mangrove research program being supported under the
UNDP/FAO-supported Integrated Resource Development of the Sundarbans Reserve
Forest Project (para. 1.31). A program for cooperation between BFRI and the
UNDP/FAO Project staff would be worked out with the Chief Technical Officer
recently appointed under the UNDP/FAO Project. To ensure effective
implementation of the mangrove research provisions made under both the
proposed project and the UNDP/FAO-assisted operation, the mangrove
silviculture division in Khulna needs to be fully staffed early on during
project implementation. Agreement was reached during negotiations that such
staffing would be completed by December 31. 1992.
B. Control Over Newly Accreted Land and Land Use Coordination
3.11      The project would support mangrove afforestation on about 23,800 ha
of newly accreted land (para. 2.17). To secure the viability of investments
in such afforestation, the Ministry of Land (MOL) would need to formally
allocate to FD all land subject to plantation establishment. The allocation
of the land to FD should be for a period until plantation maturity, or through
the establishment of a reserved forest area. A Government order to this
effect needs to be issued. (A similar order, providing for the allocation of
100,000 acres of newly accreted coastal areas to FD was issued in connection
with the Second Forestry Project.) To ensure that accreted land allocated to
FD until plantation maturity is used optimally in the longer term as well, the
order would also specify that FD would return the land to MOL for reallocation
when the plantations are harvested or the land is no longer suitable for
mangroves.
3.12      To assist MOL in defining priorities for its program of surveying
newly accreted land and to address problems in allocating such land, an
allocation committee comprising representatives of MOL, MOEF and other
concerned Ministries would be established. The composition, functions and
authority of the committee would be specified in the above-mentioned
Government order (para. 3.11). A draft order was discussed and agreed upon
during negotiations. Issuance of an order. satisfactory to IDA. and
establishment of the allocation committee would be conditions of Credit
effectiveness.



- 30 -
C. Forestry Sector Master Plan
3.13      Preparation of the Forestry Sector Master Plan has begun under the
ADB/UNDP/FAO-financed Forestry Sector Master Plan Project (para. 1.32). The
Plan is expected to be completed by 1993. While IDA is closely associated
with the preparation of the Plan, and while it is not anticipated that the
Plan would make recommendations contrary to the policies and activities
supported by the proposed project, agreement was reached during negotiations
that GOB would not adogt any Plan recommendation that might have a material
and adverse impact on the imRlementation of the proposed proiect.
D. Monitoring. Evaluation and Supervision
3.14      Monitoring and Evaluation.  M&E of FD operations would be the
responsibility of the DCCF, Planning. An improved M&E system specifying the
responsibilities and performance criteria for DCCFs, CFs, and DFOs would be
designed with the assistance of an M&E consultant (para. 2.31). The system
would establish a calendar of operations and include program development
procedures, responsibilities of staff at various levels, categories of
information required, formats of reports, and the timing of information flow.
It would also be designed to trigger management action at critical points.
Detailed procedures would be prepared for recording costs and assessment of
performance, both quantitative and qualitative.
3.15        At the start of plantation operations, a plantation registry
would be opened detailing the date, material inputs and cost of each separate
activity. All nurseries would maintain a nursery register to record the
timing, the labor and the material costs. Registers would also include
records on the dispatch of planting stock and the number of seedlings
available in the nursery. By the end of each operational year, the beat
officer, supervised by the range officer, would survey all operational
results, including areas planted and treated and the survival rate and vigor
of the plantations. This information would be endorsed by the DFO and
submitted to the CF who, In turn, would endorse and convey it to the CCF.
Information submitted to the CCF pertaining to annual plantation achievement
would be checked and confirmed by the respective management plan office before
it is entered into RIMS to update the plantation register and other records.
The DCCF, Planning, would also monitor and compare to project targets the
progress in (a) preparing inventories and FMPs, (b) FD staffing, (c) technical
training, (d) implementing the pilot scheme on participatory forest
development, and (e) establishing and operating FD's Environmental Management
Wing.
3.16      Monitoring the progress in the project components implemented by
BFRI and IFCU would be the responsibility of the Planning and Monitoring Cell
in MOEF (para. 3.1). The Cell would also collate and analyze the semi-annual
project progress reports prepared by FD, BFRI and IFCU.   These reports would
be endorsed by MOEF and submitted to IDA. The reports, together with the
Monitoring and Planning Cell's analyses, would provide the basis for the
discussions at the semi-annual Project Steering Committee meetings.
3.17      To examine project progress, GOB would carry out two detailed
implementation reviews at the end of the third and fifth project years. MOEF
would organize the reviews and prepare terms of reference in consultation with
IDA. The reviews would focus on the following areas: forest land use and



- 31 -
allocation; people's participation in the management, use and protection of
forest resources; progress in the conservation of forest resources and
biodiversity, and in wildlife management; effectiveness of the training and
education programs; progress in plantation establishment and institutional
development; effectiveness of the M&E system; and progress in mangrove
research. The reviews would provide a detailed examination of problems, and
make recommendations for improving project implementation and for modifying
the project, as appropriate. The project would finance consultancy services
required to ensure the effectiveness of these reviews (para. 2.31). Agreement
was reached during negotiations that GOB undertake these reviews. discuss the
findings with IDA. and revise the Project Proforma. as necessary, to promptly
reflect project revisions agreed with IDA.
3.18      Supervision.  Supervision of project implementation by IDA would
require staff resources in line with IDA's normal supervision coefficient,
except during the first year if project implementation and in FY95 and FY97,
when the two in-depth project reviews would be carried out (para. 3.17). In
the first project year, additional resources would be required for a project
launch workshop to get implementation off to a good start. The workshop would
concentrate particularly on environmental management and people's
participation in forest development, two areas in which FD has little
experience and know-how. A supervision plan is in Annex 9.
IV. PRODUCTION. MARKETING AND PRICES
A. Yields and Production
Yield Estimates
4.1       Yields have been estimated on the basis of (a) provisional yield
tables, which have been prepared taking into consideration recent inventories
and yield data from other countries in the region; (b) field observations made
under the Second Forestry Project; and (c) literature review. Details on
estimated growth and yields for the different types of plantations are in
Annex 10, Table 1. Based on these estimates, expected thinning and final
harvest yields from different types of plantations are summarized in
Table 4.1. The estimated mean annual increment would be 13 m3/ha for all
mangrove plantations, and 25 m3/ha, 18 m3/ha, and 9 m3/ha for industrial
plantations managed under 12-, 18- and 40-year rotation, respectively. For
mangrove afforestation, it has been assumed that 40% of the plantations would
be under 10-year rotation and the balance under 17-year rotation. For
industrial plantations, 10% of the plantations would be managed on a 12-year
rotation, 40% on an 18-year rotation, and 50% on a 40-year rotation. Keora
would be the principal tree species for mangrove planting, with Baen
accounting for about only 5X of total planting stock. For long-rotation
industrial plantations, Garjan would be the principal tree species supported
by limited planting of Dhakijam, Chapalis, Mahogany, Kadam, and Teak. The
tree species for the short-rotation industrial plantations would be Acacias
and Eucalyptus.



- 32 -
Tobte 4.1: ESTINATED YIELD OF PROJECT PLUNTATIONS (nm/ha)
Years:      7     8     9      10  .iZ    17         18   24   40   Totat
Manarove Plantations
10-year rotation                     130                                  130
17-year rotation   45/                          181                       226
Industrfal Plantations
12-year rotation   50/                    244                            294
18-year rotation         21a1               77ff       226                324
40-year rotation          6A/                     38s/        68ff  232   344
I/ From thinning operations.
Production
4.2       A total of 32,900 ha of new mangrove and 13,350 ha of long-rotation
and 13,530 ha of short-rotation industrial plantations would be established
under the project. Harvesting these plantations would take place over
46 years, with smallwood (firewood and pulpwooe) production starting in 1998,
pole production in 2000, and peeler production in 2005. The output of sawlogs
would peak in 2032. Annual production projected from the plantations is shown
in Annex 10, Table 2. The total production from new plantations over the life
of the project is estimated at 3.9 million m3 of sawlogs, 0.5 million m3 of
peeler logs, 4.9 million m3 of poles, and 5.8 million m3 of smallwood.
4.3       Thinning and other silvicultural treatment of existing plantations
(para. 2.11) would be expected to increase the yields of treated plantations.
However, incremental production from these activities has not been considered.
The additional production from maintenance provided for young plantations
established under the Second Forestry Project has also not been estimated.
B. Markets
4.4       General.  Given the shortage of wood and wood products in
Bangladesh (para. 1.6), there would be adequate demand for the project's
output, which would be expected to be consumed entirely within Bangladesh.
4.5       Fuelwood.  Fuelwood is a source of energy for both rural and low
income urban areas. It is also used by industries, especially by brickmakers,
despite an existing prohibition against the use of fuelwood for brick burning.
In urban areas it is sold through private wood sellers, while in rural areas
it is mainly obtained from homesteads, roadside plantations and adjacent
forests -- in many cases illegally. Project plantations would help ease the
shortage of fuelwood throughout the country. Part of the project's fuelwood
would go to local communities when benefit-sharing systems are developed and
adopted. The rest would be sold in the market. Fuelwood from mangrove
plantations would be sold locally and also transported to urban areas to be
sold through private contractors. Fuelwood from industrial plantations would
be felled by private contractors and sold in urban markets.
4.6       Poles.  The pole crop would be used mainly for house construction
and as transmission/telecommunication poles. The crop would also be used for
anchor poles and sleepers for railways. Project output would be sold as
standing timber by auction. Before the auction, FD would extract the poles
which are suitable for use by state agencies responsible for electrification,



- 33 -
communication and transport. These poles would be sold by FD to BFIDC, who
would treat and resell them to state agencies.
4.7       peeler Logs.  Peeler logs are used for the production of pulpwood,
matches and, more importantly, plywood. Bangladesh's plywood production is
about 1 million m3, of which some 85X goes into tea chest manufacturing.   The
current production of tea chests is not adequate to meet the needs of the
local tea industry, which imports tea chests from India. Most of the
project's peeler log production would therefore be expected to be sold to the
local tea industry, and the rest to match factories.
4.8       Sawlogs.  Sawlogs produced from project plantations would be sold
to sawmillers. The estimated combined annual capacity of the existing
1,600 sawmills is 5 million m3, while present total sawlog production is only
about 2 million m3 due to insufficient raw material. The project's entire
output of sawlogs would be purchased by private sawmills, as BFIDC's mills are
serviced from the forest areas in the Chittagong Hill Tracts.
C. Prices
4.9       Prices Charged to Private Sector.  FD sells most of its wood
production to the private sector through open auction. The wood is either
extracted by FD and then auctioned from its depot, or FD auctions tlhe standing
timber, in which case the buyer pays FD the stumpage value and extracts the
wood on his own account. Average auction prices at the end of 1991 and
stumpage prices are in Table 4.2:
Table 4.2: Wood Prices (Tk/ft3)
Auction Price
at FD DeRot       Stumpage Price
Fuelwood
Mangrove                   18                   7
Industrial                 24                  11
Poles
House poles               120                  70
Transmission poles        160                 110
Peeler logs                 190                 120
Sawlogs
Short-rotation            235                 155
Long-rotation             350                 260
Present market prices are well above comparable international prices due to
the overall shortage of wood in Bangladesh and the existing Government ban on
felling in natural forests (para. 1.23).
4.10      Prices Charged to Public Sector.  FD is selling wood and
concessions to state enterprises at prices which are in many cases
considerably below market. For instance, BCIC's Khulna Newsprint Mill pays
only Tk 2.2 per m3 stumpage for Gewa wood produced in Sundarbans and used for
newsprint -- less than 1X of the market price. As other examples, BFIDC has
paid Tk 3,500 per m3 for Sundri poles at its mill gate, while the same poles
would have fetched twice that amount in the market; and BCIC's Sylhet Pulp and
Paper Mill has paid Tk 230 per m3 for Melokana wood, about 30X of the
comparable FD auction price. GOB has now decided to eliminate these price



- 34 -
distortions. Agreement was reached during negotiations that prices charged to
state-owned enterpriges for forest products and concession arrangements be set
from now on at market level. except for sales tc BCIC-owned mills. For these
mills, prices would be set at 40X of market by July 1. 1992: 80% of market by
July 1. 1993: and 100Z of market by July 1. 1994. ImDlementation of this
Rricing schedule would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.  In addition,
an understanding was reached during negotiations that the prices would (a) be
set once a year and remain fixed for one year, and (b) be determined on the
basis of the average auction price obtained by FD during the previous year.
Where auction prices are not available, prices would be set on the basis of
market prices for similar products in the market, taking into consideration
transport, harvesting and other costs that need to be considered to make the
products sold by FD comparable to those available in the market.
V. BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
5.1       The main direct benefit from the project would be the production of
wood, which would help maintain the country's supply for industrial use and
fuel consumption. Total incremental production over the project's life is
estimated at about 15 million m3 (para. 4.2) with an economic value of about
US$652 million. The foreign exchange impact of the project's output is
difficult to quantify since Bangladesh's external trade in wood and wood
products is minimal. However, the increased availability o;Z fuelwood would
reduce the use of imported kerosene. Similarly, with an increased fuelwood
supply, agricultural waste Droducts; which are being used for fuel, would be
available for fodder, and dung could be used as fertilizer. The project would
also provide 1,150 permanent staff positions and create labor requiz'ements for
about 83,500 person years. It would further result in substantial
institutional improvements to help ensure sustainable and environmentally
sound forest development. Specifically, it would:
(a) increase FD's capability as a renewable resource management agency
by (i) improving and expanding training and education of staff at
both the technical and professional level, (ii) providing modern
forest management tools in the form of a GIS-based information
management system, and (iii) establishing an improved organization;
(b) improve FD's ability to manage forests in an ecologically sound way
by establishing an environmental management capability within the
Department, and by financing the investments, plans and studies
required to expand nature conservation activities;
(c) develop models for effective participation by local communities in
forest management planning, use and protection; and
(d) strengthen Bangladesh's forestry training and research capability.



- 35 -
B. Economic Analysis
Methodology
5.2       The economic analysis for the project has been carried out for the
project as a whole and separately for (a) mangrove afforestation,
(b) industrial plantation establishment, and (c) the silvicultural treatment
of existing plantations. (No economic analysis has been prepared for the
project components on nature conservation and institutional support.) The
analysis is based on the following main parameters:
(a) General. Prices have been expressed in December 1991 constant
Taka. International prices have been converted at an exchange rate
of US$1.00 - Tk 38.8.
(b) Valuation of Costs. For traded cost components, project costs have
been valued on the basis of border prices. Non-traded components,
including labor, have been adjusted by the standard conversion
factor of 0.8. Physical contingencies have been included.
(c) Valuation of Benefits. The project's incremental wood production
has been valued on the basis of economic prices. In the case of
sawlogs, peeler logs and poles, these have been calculated on the
basis of the Bank's price forecast for Malaysian Meranti round logs
for the year 2000, and a 33% price deduction to account for the
lower quality of Bangladesh logs. In the case of fuelwood, the
economic price has been calculated based on the assumption that 80%
of the project's fuelwood output would replace imported kerosene,
and 20% would replace other domestic energy sources. Details of
the calculations are in Annex 11, Tables 1 and 2.
(d) Proiect Period. For new plantations, an eleven-year investment
period has been included to reflect the four-year maintenance
required for plantations established in the seventh project year.
Benefits are taken for forty-six years to include the harvesting of
the long-rotation plantations established in year seven of the
project.
5.3       Economic benefits considered in the analyses consist of the value
of sewlogs, peeler logs, poles and smallwood, which would be produced from the
plantations to be established under the project (Annex 11, Table 3). In
addition, for the silvicultural treatments to be carried out at existing
plantations, it has been assumed that the project would advance by two years
rhese treatments and the wood production resulting from thinning operations.
Benefits would also be reaped from the project's investment in nature
conservation and institution building, including environmental management,
training and research. Though significant, they have not been quantified.
5.4       Economic costs (Annex 11, Table 4) included in the economic
analysis for the project as a whole comprise the investment costs and
recurrent expenditures of all project components including nature conservation
and institutional support. For the plantation components, only the cost of
the respective component has been considered.



- 36 -
Economic Rates of Return
5.5       Economic Rates of Return (ERRs) for the project as a whole and for
individual components (except nature conservation and institutional support)
are presented in Table 5.1.
Table 5.1: Economic Rates of Return
Component                         IRR
Total project                     16Z
Mangrove afforestation            24%
Industrial plantations           22X
Treatment of existing
plantations                   35X
The project's net present value discounted at the opportunity cost of capital,
estimated at 12%, would be Tk 815 million (US$21 million). Cost and benefit
streams are shown in Annex 11, Table 5.
Sensitivity
5.6       To test the sensitivity of the ERRs, plantation yields and prices
were reduced, and costs increased to a level which would yield an ERR
equivalent to the opportunity cost of capital, estimated at 12X (Annex 12).
The analysis shows that the ERR is robust. Yields or economic stumpage values
would have to fall by 401 before the project's ERR would decline to 121.
Costs would have to more than double in order to reduce the ERR to 121. If
costs were to increase by 50X and benefits to decline by 20X, the ERR would
still be 141. The ERR would also be 141 if all benefits were to be realized
one year later than expected.
C. Risks
5.7       The project may face three types of risks caused by natural events,
institutional shortcomings, and socio-economic conditions.
5.8       Natural Events.  For mangrove plantations, sedimentation in certain
parts of the Bay of Bengal can be excessive and result in burial of seedlings,
or erosion may wash away young and sometimes even established plantationr. FD
has developed considerable experience in site selection over the last 25 years
so that this risk can be kept at an acceptable level. Also, the cost of
establishing mangrove plantations includes a large contingency for replanting.
Anv loss of benefits due to erosion of established plantations can be reduced
by early harvesting. Cyclones and storm surges could also damage young and
established plantations. However, due to the large span of coastal
plantations, this damage is likely to be localized. As important, the
plantations would provide protection to inland properties which, without such
protection, might experience great losses during cyclones and storm surges.
5.9       For industrial plantations, any risk due to natural events would be
small. The plantations receive good and reliable rainfall and there is only a
limited risk of forest fire. Insect epidemics are of concern to mangrove, as
well as to Albizia species, used in industrial plantations. However,
experience indicates that insect attacks only reduce growth, and only to an



- 37 -
extent which would not threaten the economic viability of investments. As
indicated in the sensitivity analysis (para. 5.6), tree growth would have to
decline by an unlikely proportion for investments to become uneconomical.
5.10      Institutional Shortcomings.  Delays in releasing budgetary funds
and inadequate planning have hampered the efficiency and effectiveness of
field operations, especially maintenance of young plantations. To deal with
this risk, the project would streamline program preparation, budget approval
and funding processes (para. 2.46). The project would also address
shortcomings in FD's organization, and improve FD's planning, managing and
monitoring capabilities. Remaining institutional risks would be minimal.
5.11      Socio-economic Conditions.  Forests, in general, and plantations,
in particular, have been subject to pilferage, grazing damage and resistance
to forestry investments by people living in the vicinity of state forests.
The project would help FD to improve its approach to addressing socio-economic
issues so that appropriate systems with adequate incentives for local
populations could be established in each area. Also, through its pilot
operation for participatory forest development, FD would be able to formulate
a variety of incentives to realize local participation for protecting forests.
The project would thus help FD to deal effectively with socio-economic risks.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1       During negotiations, agreements were reached with GOB that:
(a) before undertaking logging in natural forests, (i) an environmental
assessment be prepared under terms of reference satisfactory to
IDA, and (ii) where required, mitigating measures be agreed with
IDA (para. 2.42);
(b) FD adopt appropriate procedures for program and budget preparation,
approval, and funds release (para. 2.46);
(c) a technical assistance team with membership and terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA be established by December 31, 1992
(para. 2.49);
(d) arrangements satisfactory to IDA be made with regard to project
accounting and auditing (para. 2.56);
(e) MOEF's Planning and Monitoring Cell be fully staffed by
October 31, 1992 (para. 3.1);
(f) the revised organization of FD be adopted by October 31, 1992, and
staff to fill the key positions under the new organizational
structure be selected by December 31, 1992 (para. 3.3);
(g) for participatory forest development, FD enter into contracts with
NGOs, satisfactory to IDA, by October 31, 1992 (para. 3.4);
(h) FD establish by December 31, 1992 at its Forest College and the
forest schools a core teach'ian staff consisting of appropriately
trained teachers with a suitable kinimum tenure (para. 3.5);



- 38 -
(M) NOEF's new recruitment and staffing policy be put into effect by
October 31, 1992 (para. 3.6);
(j) FD's future forest operations be regulated by and carried out
strictly in accordance with FMPs (para. 3.7);
(k) FMPs be prepared, implemented and revised in accordance with a
Forest Management Manual, satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.7);
(1) BFRI's silviculture division be fully staffed by December 31, 1992
(para. 3.10);
(m)  GOB would not adopt any Forestry Sector Master Plan recommendation
which may have a material and adverse impact on the project
(para. 3.13);
(n) GOB undertako two detailed implementation reviews, discuss the
findings with IDA, and revise the Project Proforma, as necessary,
to promptly reflect agreed project revisions (para. 3.17); and
(o) wood and concession prices charged to public sector institutions be
set and maintained at market prices in accordance with an agreed
timetable (para. 4.10).
6.2       Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Credit would be as
follows:
(a) approval by GOB of the Project Proforma (para. 2.40);
(b) establishment of the Project Steering Committee (para. 3.1):
(c) issuance of a GOB order, satisfactory to IDA, on land allocation
for mangrove plantations (para. 3.12);
(d) establishment of the land allocation committee (para. 3.12); and
(e) implementation of the agreed timetable for raising to market levels
the wood and concession prices charged to public sector entities
(para. 4.10).
6.3       With the above conditions and agreements, the proiect would be
suitable for an IDA Credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh of
SDR 36.4 million (US$49.6 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms with a
maturity of 40 years.



-39 -                          ANNEX I
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
The Project's Link to the Bank's Forest Sector Policy
1.        The project would be an instrument to attain the forest development
and conservation goals outlined in the World Bank's forest policy paper, dated
June 1991. In particular, it would (a) encourage sustainable resource use and
discourage deforestation; (b) expand forest resources; (c) develop models for
the participation of local people in forest management; and (d) foster nature
preservation. Under the project, all accessible forest resources would be
brought under scientific and sustainable management to maximize their
contribution to the economic, social and environmental goals of the country.
All forest management activities would be carried out according to forest
management plans, which would be continuously updated as new information
becomes available through resource inventories, socio-economic surveys and
environmental studies financed under the project. Sustainability would be the
main guiding criterion in allocating forest resources to various uses.
Institutional, technical and procedural systems, which are partly lacking or
ineffective today, would be established to apply this criterion to all
forestry decisions. Resource expansion programs supported by the project
would aim to rehabilitate degraded forest areas and lands unsuitable for other
uses. Management objectives of project plantations would be designed to
balance national and local needs. In this context, the project would support
a pilot scheme for people's participation in forest development and
maintenance. The project would also provide investments for improving the
management of proven wildlife sanctuaries, and support the identification of a
national protected area system and prepare management plans for its
development and maintenance. Institutional arrangements to be introduced by
the project would help secure preservation of nature and the environment
within the protected area system, and enhance forestry planning and operations
by inserting social and environmental aspects into the decision-making
process.
2.        For the type of activities supported under the proposed project,
the Bank's forestry policy requires that several prerequisites be met by the
concerned government in order to justify Bank/IDA involvement. These
conditions and the corresponding policies and activities supported by the
proposed project are summarized below (the Bank's conditions are underlined):
(a) adoption of Rolicies and an institutional framework to ensure
conservation and sustainable use of existing forests and to Rromote
active participation of peoRle and the private sector in the long-
term management of natural forests. The project has been designed
in accordance with a policy framework promoting planned utilization
and regeneration of forest resources; optimizing resource use by
balancing environmental, social and economic goals; developing
systems and methods to secure people's participation in planning,
managing and utilization of the forest resources; and strengthening
environmental management and nature conservation capabilities. A
major effort would be made under the project to address the current
institutional shortcomi.lgs of the Forest Department (FD), GOB's



- 40 -                       AMEX I
Page 2 of 2
main agency for managing forest resources. In addition, the
project would ensure appropriate pricing of wood and wood products;
(b) adoRtion of a comnrehensiv_ and environmentally sound forestry
conservation and development Rlan that contains a clear definition
of the roles and rigbts of the government. the private sector. and
local dwellers. A key objective of the project would be to ensure
that all of FD's forest operations are regulated by up-to-date and
scientifically prepared forest management plans. These plans would
be prepared in line with sound economic, environmental and social
goals. The project would also support the preparation and
implementation of protected area management plans. Moreover, GOB
has now commenced the preparation of a Forestry Sector Master Plan
to establish a framework for the long-term protection and
development of the forest resources. (The Plan is being prepared
under an ADB/UNDP/FAO-supported project which is being implemented
with IDA's participation as a " Party with Special Interest"). The
project's support for inventory and management planning would
assist in continuing the planning process to ensure that the Master
Plan can be updated and revised as and when required;
(c) undertaking social. economic. and environmental assessments of the
forests considered for commercial utilization. Project provisions
for inventories, surveys, data processing systems and arrangements
for decision-making would aim at optimizing the aggregated outcome
of forestry operations. The project would establish socio-economic
data as an integral part of the forest management data base and use
it in deciding on appropriate management systems which would
provide incentives to local people, where required.  The project
would support the development within FD of procedures, decision-
criteria, and technical capability for environmental assessment;
(d)  setting aside adeguate compensatory preservation forests to
maintain biodiversitv and safeguard the interest of forest
dwellers, specifically their rights to access to designated forest
areas. The project's environmental management and nature
conservation components would provide direct support for protected
areas in Sundarbans, where natural values are intact and effective
protection is feasible. It would also provide for nature surveys
and management planning to determine the technical, social and
financial feasibility of protected areas at other forest locations.
Because of security problems, the project would not include
interventions in the Chittagong Hill Tract areas; and
(e) establishing the institutional caRacity to imRlement and enforce
the above commitments. With its environment and institutional
development components, and its provisions for technological
improvements and training/education, the project would make a major
contribution to improving the institutional capacity of FD to help
ensure sustainable and conservation-oriented forestry.
3.        A key consideration in the Bank's forest sector policy is that
Bank/IDA support should not be provided for logging operations in primary
natural moist forests. The project would not support such operations.



- 41 -
ANNEX 2
Page lof 6
BANGLADESH
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Pilot Scheme on Participatory Forest Development
Proiect Context
1.        Over the past five years, in Bangladesh, as in other countries in
the region, there has been an increasing awareness of the need to involve
local populations in forestry development and management activities,
particularly in areas of dense and growing population. There is some limited
experience, initiated with support from national NGOs, with involving local
people in rehabilitation of degraded forest lands, but none in the area of the
proposed project.
2.        The Ministry of Environment and Forests (MOEF) wishes to include in
the project a pilot component for participatory forest management and
development, to be implemented initially in two forest divisions with hilly
forest tracts) Chittagong and Cox's Bazaar, to evaluate that pilot component
during the first mid-term review, and allocate funds to expand participatory
management activities to other areas, based on the experience gained. The
pilot component would be implemented by a small unit within the Forest
Department (FD), which would contract the services of an advisory NGO
(national or international) to assist in formulating pilot strategies,
supervise field implementation of pilot activities by field-based NGOs in the
two divisions, and monitor and evaluate pilot activities. The unit would
liaise with FD staff involved in the ADB-financed Upazila Afforestation and
Nursery Development Project, which is experimenting with participatory
forestry activities outside the state forest lands, in developing technical
models for plantation/contract reforestation, forest management, and
agroforestry.
Socio-Economic Issues Important for Particioatory Forest Management
3.        There is a diverse cultural and socio-economic situation in the two
forest divisions where activities would be carried out.   Due to the disaster-
prone nature of this part of Bangladesh, forest management strategies must be
quite responsive to specific needs of the local population for forest products
and land for alternative housing and livelihoods in the wake of the periodic
natural disasters. When major cyclones displace coastal populations and
damage housing, family assets, and infrastructure, pressure is put on the
forest estate to supply construction timber, to provide temporary or permanent
habitation, and to provide alternative sources of employment. Without a
strong stake in sustainable forestry from the surrounding population, it is
unlikely that forest resources can be developed and managed weathering such
periodic disasters.
4.        The population settled in and around the forest estate in the
inland parts of Chittagong and Cox's Bazaar is diverse. It includes villagers
of Bengali ethnic origin, indigenous peoples with distinct tribal ethnic



- 42 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2of 6
identities, and recent settlers who have been migrating into tne area in
search of employment, or fleeing natural disasters.  Some of the cultivators
settled in the area have formal land title to their agriculture and homestead
lands. Others have settled on state forest lands, cultivating rice in the
fertile forest land valleys or establishing homestead plots with houses and
fruit and vegetable homegardens. There are large proportions of landless
people, either long-term residents or recent settlers, who work as
agricultural laborers in the fields of landowners, migrate to nearby towns or
other rural areas for seasonal employment, and supplement wage income with
homegarden produce or illegal ginger, turmeric, or betel leaf cultivation on
forest lands. Some of the landless people have been encouraged to cultivate
forest land by influential landowners, who use their influence to keep
Government officials from preventing such encroachment. Landowners use this
either as a strategy to acquire new holdings or to extract rents through
informal arrangements from the landless cultivators. Timber merchants and
wealthy individuals also pay poor villagers to extract logs illegally for
commercial sale.
5.        The situation of the villagers of tribal ethnic identity is
substantially different from that of the Bengali ethnic groups. These
villagers are Buddhist or Christian and are the indigenous groups of the hilly
areas. Traditionally, these tribal ethnic groups resided in the forest areas
and practiced shifting cultivation, and extracted a variety of non-timber
forest products for their livelihood. Over the last century, as FD was given
increasing control over this land, the tribal farmers began to rely less on
shifting cultivation and became wage laborers, still collecting a variety of
non-timber forest products. The tribal groups have less political clout
within the overall society than those long-term and recent residents of
Bengali origin. They will need more support from Government and NGOs in
establishing viable forest management groups for blocks of forest under
different management systems.
6.        The current agricultural and agro-forestry practices in the forest
lands, apart from the paddy lands along the more fertile river valleys, are
generally unsustainable. Betel leaf cultivation, a popular cash crop in the
sloping lands in the southern forest division, is particularly demanding of
soil nutrients; and farmers mine surrounding lands for topsoil to add along
with purchased fertilizer to betel leaf growing sites. A forest slope cleared
for betel cultivation can be farmed, even with topsoil mining, for only two or
three years, and then is abandoned. Fertility is so depleted in these lands,
according to the FD, that when plantations are established, foresters wait a
year or two to plant seedlings in the former betel cultivation patches found
within the overall plantation area. Homestead areas usually include a variety
of fruit trees -- papaya, citrus, and banana -- and some vegetables. Some of
the forest areas are currently managed for sun grass, a thatch material with
good commercial value. FD auctions blocks of suitable forest land to private
entrepreneurs for sun grass extraction for 3-5 year periods, and these
entrepreneurs may invest inputs and labor to increase sun grass production in
these areas. The areas suitable for sun grass are limited in extent, and FD
policy is to keep such areas under this current form of management and perhaps
experiment with more long-term lease arrangements involving local
communities/groups.



* 43 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 6
7.        There are a number of experiments on-going in the country in public
and private wastelands and forest lands involving local people in forestry.
These include: (a) an experiment of Bangladesh Forest Research Institute
(BFRI) in Betagi and Pomora blocks of Chittagong division for allocating
degraded forest land to groups of landless people for establishment of
perennial agroforestry, including growing of timber 1; (b) allocation of
degraded forests in Tangail district near Dhaka to landless groups under a
NGO-managed program (Proshika); (c) a World Food Program-assisted scheme to
involve local groups in agroforestry on private and public wastelands
implemented by field-based NGOs, and; (d) afforestation activities in public
wastelands under the ADB-assisted Upazila Afforestation and Nursery
Development Project, which provide landless groups with 9-30 year lease
arrangements to develop degraded public lands for agroforestry.
8.        A variety of agroforestry models have been included in these
schemes, which range from those allowing annual agriculture cropping between
rows of traditional timber species in the initial years of plantation
establishment, to those involving intensive agroforestry with various
perennial cash crops, fruit, timber, and seasonal vegetable cultivation.
Experimentation has so far taken place on fairly limited amounts of forest
land, and the more successful experiments have been concentrated on areas with
comparatively better soils. The Betagi and Pomora technical models, for
example, are not applicable to most of the hilly lands included in the
proposed project area. In Northern Bangladesh, there has been some
experimentation with cane/timber and bamboo/timber plantation models, which
allow farmers to harvest cane or bamboo on short rotation and earn additional
income from processing industries using these raw materials. There is no
practical experience in areas of lower fertility to evaluate the economic or
social viability of introducing similar technical models in the proposed
project area. The pilot project would adapt some of the principles of the
more successful models tailored to the particular ecological conditions in the
hilly forest zone.
9.        Two NGOs in Chittagong division, Pouse and Pothrikrit, have begun
afforestation schemes with WFP food-for-work resources on private wastelands
under the Upazila Afforestation and Nursery Development Project model. They
are in the initial stages of project implementation, but seem to have
successfully identified lands for afforestation, organized and trained groups
of landless laborers (mainly women) to plant and protect afforested areas, and
provided technical support in choice of technical models, advice on related
income-generating activities (mulberry silk, livestock rearing, etc.) to
maximize income from the program.
Group Organization Model - Proshika
10.       One national NGO with considerable experience in afforestation
activities is a Dhaka-headquartered NGO named Proshika. Proshika (like some
.1/ A paper has been written on this experience, Ashraf Uddin Ahmed and Abul
Asad, "Social Forestry in Bangladesh: A Case Study of Betagi and Pomora
Experiments", University of Chittagong, January 1987.



- 44 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 6
other NGOs in Bangladesh who empower individuals for development initiatives
through group formation) has a strategy for group development with some
important principles relevant to the proposed pilot program. In principle,
Proshika recognizes that, in order for groups of landless or near landless to
be able to protect and manage forest resources sustainably, they must develop
their own power base and organizational capacity to keep control over the
resource vis-a-vis other members of the population and to engage in
agreements/contracts with the Government. The group formation and development
mechanisms built into Proshika's program are designed to further this aim. In
their on-going program, Proshika organizes or identifies groups a full year
prior to providing any development resources to them. The individual group
members meet weekly, and set up a small savings fund which is used to support
needs of the members and to undertake small development schemes. Oa,'e the
group proves itself to be motivated and sustainable, it is given access to
resources for various schemes.
DescriRtion of Component
11.       The pilot component would be undertaken in two or three forest
blocks in Chittagong and Cox's Bazar divisions. Areas would be identified
which represent the range of pressure on forest lands (different types of
settlers, different ethnic groups, different ecological conditions, different
range of forest-based economic activities being carried out) and groups of
settlers and local villagers involved in forest development and management.
Optional models would include: agroforestry, intensified taungya, contract
reafforestation, and joint management of forest plots with local groups and
FD. A variety of legal and sharing arrangements would be tested in the pilot
activities, some of which would be based on the experience in other NGO
schemes and the Upazila Afforestation and Nursery Development Project. Upon
completion of the pilot phase, FD would develop models for legal agreements,
including sharing arrangements to be entered into with participatory groups.
Institutional Arrangements
12.       The component would be managed by the Extension Wing of FD, and
implemented under a contractual arrangement with an advisory national or
international NGO with expertise in participatory forestry, which would
provide technical support to local-level NGOs with on-going activities in the
pilot districts for implementing the pilot work. The advisory NGO would also
undertake the socio-economic survey, and monitoring and evaluation work
required for the component.
13.       A small unit would be created within FD's Extension Wing for the
implementation of the pilot component. This pilot unit would also form the
core for expansion of participatory forestry activities after the
implementation of the pilot scheme. It would be staffed by an Assistant
Conservator of Forests (ACF) and junior officers, and provided with computer
equipment and transport facilities.



45 -
LNNEX
Page 5 of 6
Role of Advisory NGO
14.       The advisory NGO would be contracted by FD to:  (a) assist in
developing pilot models for testing various options, including technical
options for plantation and agroforestry; (b) identify appropriate local-level
NGOs to help implement the pilot schemes locally; (c) provide technical
support, including training and supervision to the local-level NGOs; (d)
monitor the progress of pilot activities; (e) carry out a socio-economic
survey of the conditions in the project area; and (f) organize and help FD in
preparations for periodic workshops on participatory forestry. Under
contract, FD would provide funds to the NGO for staff working on the project,
for costs of transportation and per diem for staff travelling to and from the
pilot areas, to cover training and workshop preparation costs, monitoring and
evaluation costs, and the costs to carry out the survey.
15.       The socio-economic survey would identify the range of socioeconomic
and ecological conditions in the forest areas covered by the forestry
management/data base survey. Multi-disciplinary teams of researchers would
undertake rapid appraisal work in the project area, supplemented by interviews
conducted by field enumerators to collect supplementary statistical
information on (a) the population resident in the forest estate area under
settlement, and (b) economic activities. Data generated by the study would be
analyzed and included in the data base maintained by the management plan
office of FD.
16.       To carry out its responsibilities under the project, the NGO would
need to engage suitable staff for planning, supervision and monitoring. For
the socio-economic survey it is tentatively estimated that the following staff
would be required: Principal Investigator (16 months); Social Scientists (2)
(24 months); Agronomists (2) (18 months); Forestry Specialists (2)
(18 months); Field Enumerators (4) (48 months); Data Processors (2)
(14 months); and Clerical Support Staff (12 months). For support to the
local-level NGOs, it is tentatively estimated that the following staff would
need to be engaged: Project Directors (2) (120 months); Assistants (2)
(120 months); Field Supervisors (10) (600 months); Group Organizers (5)
(500 months); Agronomists/Foresters (2) (60 months); Training Consultant
(30 months).
Role of Local-Level NGOs
17.       Local-level NGOs would be contracted by FD's pilot unit to organize
groups for pilot activities; assist these groups to engage in participatory
schemes, supervise the work of these groups, with the advisory NGO undertaking
training and technical backstopping; and participate in workshops to discuss
findings and adjust on-going pilot programs.
18.       Pilot activities would be undertaken in two or three blocks
representing a range of situations: different physical site capacity for
growing trees and agroforestry models, including new and less-recent settlers
and indigenous tribal groups resident in the forest estate, and including poor
villagers and communities resident outside the forest estate, but dependent on
forest resources for their local economy. In all probability, pilot



- 46 -
ANINEX 2
Page 6 of 6
activities would concentrate on degraded areas for new plantation, but pilot
or subsequent activities might include areas uider existing plantations for
local management and protection. Activities to be supervised by the NGOs
would include group formation and institution building, nursery development,
plantation maintenance, and assistance in marketing or harvesting of
intermediate or short-term produce. In some cases, it may prove useful to
experiment with income-generating or value-added processing activities related
to forest products being produced (sericulture, bamboo handicrafts, cane
products, agriculture, etc.). Funds hlAve been budgeted for such activities,
subject to their prior approval by the pilot unit in FD.
19.       Approximately 40 groups of 10-20 individuals would be involved in
project activities. Each individual would be assigned 4-5 acres per annum for
a two-year period for forest development, maintenance and protection. The
area covered under the pilot project would therefore be approximately
4,000-8,000 acres.
Proiect Financing
20.       The project would finance the establishment and operation of the
proposed pilot project unit in FD's Extension Wing. Funds would be provided
to finance additional staff and operating costs, and computer and other
equipment, and transport facilities required for implementation of this pilot
operation. Also covered would be the costs of the services to be provided by
the advisory NGO, and the costs of the implementation assistance provided by
local NGOs. To help FD review the NGO proposals and monitor the effectiveness
of their implementation, the project would provide FD with six months of
technical assistance each for the areas of agroforestry and agronomy, where FD
presently lacks expertise. Labor inputs by participating groups would be
reimbursed through the World Food Program's (WFP) Food-for-Work program, along
lines similar to the ones set up under an afforestation scheme supported by
the Upazila Afforestation and Nursery Development Project. Funds would be
channelled to NGOs in accordance with acceptable Government norms and
procedures.



- 47 -ANEX 3
Page 1 of 2
BANGLA DESH
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Responsibillit Distribution Under the Forest DeRartment's new Organization
1.        The Forest Department's (FD) headquarters organization would be
restructured under the project, along functional lines, in order to
(a) improve the Department's effectiveness in planning, monitoring and
evaluation; (b) strengthen accountability; (c) provide adequate support to new
and enhanced responsibilities; and (d) reduce the Department's excessive
reliance on the Chief Conservator of Forests (CCF) for control and decision
making. Under the new structure, the CCF would be assisted by four Deputy
Chief Conservators of Forests (DCCFs) responsible for (a) planning, monitoring
and evaluation; (b) forest management and operations; (c) extension; and
(d) environmental management, respectively; and by a Chief Conservator of
Forests (CF) responsible for administration and finance. The new structure is
presented in Chart II. Below is a summary of the distribution of
responsibilities under the new organization:
2.        The DCCF. Planning would be responsible for:
(a) preparing the aggregated annual work program of FD and the budget
estimates for all activities under the development budget; and
(b) monitoring and evaluating program implementation.
The DCCF, Planning would also prepare monthly progress reports for
the CCF to be discussed at monthly progress review meetings. In
addition, the DCCF, Planning would be responsible for preparing
consolidated six-monthly progress reports on the project.
3.        The DCCF. Forest Management and Operations would be responsible
for:
(a)  preparing and revising all forest management plans (FMPs), and the
technical review and supervision of FMP implementation;
(b) the technical review and supervision of the annual plantation
establishment and maintenance programs; and
(c) the supervision of education and training programs, and the
construction and maintenance of training facilities.
FD's RIMS cell, the two existing management plan offices, and the
proposed third one to be established in Khulna would work under the
direction and supervision of the DCCF, Forest Management and
Operations.
4.        The DCCF. Extension would be responsible for:
(a) developing and implementing social/community forestry programs;



- 48 -                         ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
(b) publications and public relations; and
(c) NGO relations and coordination.
5.        The DCCF. Environmental Management would be responsible for:
(a) developing and implementing management plans for wildlife
sanctuaries, nature parks and other protected areas;
(b) establishing environmental standards for the sector, which would be
integrated into FMPs and FD's Resource Information Management
System;
(c) developing conservation education programs; and
(d) developing procedures for, and carrying out environmental impact
assessments for sector programs and projects, and monitoring
compliance.
6.        The CF. Administration would be responsible for:
(a) personnel management;
(b) establishment management (e.g. assets);
(c) administrative and procedures development; and
(d) finance and accounting.



-49 -                                                                             AN)
Table I
BANOMADUES
Forest Resourcoes Maneasment Project
Table 1. Forest Managment Plans
Detailed Cost TabLe (Taek)
VnIt 93.1  95/9  90/99 95J99 99/  91'.9, Totot     I993*1        1093/0      1993/90      1099        1995/9       1906491,    197/`91      I069           oa
I. 161101190  CITS
A. CIOlL Uwora
Off8co 1i Wnig119           US      0  200  *0       0    0      0  400         6500           0.0   1300000.0   130000.0            0.5         0.0          0,0         0.0   2600000.0
Issidentlt luildlo  VITtoo U                    o    0a   z          6500          0.0    910000.0    910000.0           0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0   18030000.0
0991860nt1 Ot s100d1n       15?     0 1 0a 1*0  tO         0    02400           650            0.0         0.0    7100.0    710000.0             0.0          0.0         0.0   1%06000.0
6901061l0l0  601104ne       MT?     0     0 t100  100      a0    0  200         6500           0.0           .0    650000.0    650000.0          0.0          0.0         0.0   13000100.0
69i9*0st00  1u400in8        VT      0    0 s80   100 0 s         0  320         6500           0.0         '.0    120000.0   100000.0    520000.0             0.0         0.0   208000.!.
01 do    801  s                          0    00    0            0a so          9500      5*000.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.a          0.0         0.0    120000.0
SU11060s1                                                                                  5*0000.0   2310000.0   41600000.0   *07500.0    520000.0            0.0         0.0   600000.0
6. 0601c009
'1dl0I0D,I9                 N0o     2     a2   0    0      a0    0     40    1200000     2000000.0   240000.0           0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0   4000000.0
Piet-upf (1inl1-0bl         no      a2         2    0    0    0              1000000     20000100.0   2000000.0    00000             0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0   4000000.0
Ca.                         so      I1    0    0    0    0       0     I     110000       110000.0         0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0   110000.0
licnIs             Igo     2~~0    0    0    0          0     a2       4000        000.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0      80000.0
A0999610ti849 seatlIw       no      I     I    2    0    0       a0    4       1000000    8000000.0    8000100.0   1600000.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0   02000100.0
UOW lft hin Inin     No      I    I           0     0          4                                71O?0000.0   1500000.0        0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0   5000000.0
Trader  IC 0    a     0    0     0     a     a       OOOCKKI         0      ~~~~~~~~~600000   00           00           00           .            .     oOo.
0.*-fota1                                                                                 7100.    75000            100.0             0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0  197100.
C. I10Ipl0
CO"   Or41V                 No      a2    0    0    0    0    0        2      200000      400000.0         0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0   4000000.0
P,i4feef/Pltoott            10      a     a2 0    0 0      0     a0    2      110000      2200100.0        0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0    220000..0
90P/INFO 000m1rs.           No      a2    0    0    0      0    0      2       $0111      1000100.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0    100000.0
Ai 4t00 te010.e8 N                  2     0    00    0           0     a2      5000       l00N0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0    'ooo1oo.o
office 5eaIn'               LI.        .     .      .     .      .     .      ..          000000.         0.0 0o.01                 0.0         0.0 '        0.10        0.0:    I ooooo...o:0
Plaid ftfpw4                LI.              .      .            .     .         .       1000000.0         0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         o.o   :000000.0
Cwtegrosoy Wawa~            LS.        .            .     .      ...                     20000.0           0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0   *000000.0
0. Nah9148t1
,o,  I$ ~~~~~~~~~~~~000.                                                   00           00    0.0                0.    0.0   10.0  60000.
0. .001ng .     ta.o                                                                        40000Om                        :,         O             1
15111t1V0W9tg0         9 P     6    It2  la    6      0    0 36          6400000    3400000.0  7r00000.0   720000.0   34000050.0            0.0          0.0         0.0  214010000.0
f010npe09941We.          PU     2                                           019       1200000.0         0.0   3400000.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0   400000.0
Pbel.InOormeOw       06~~~O  5          0     0     0    068 0000                 300000.0   111000010.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0 40*00000.0
Catonuwr (Lmb               3       9 UI    12   2a        0     a0 45         4000       3600.         0000       400.000000.0                  0.0          0.0         0.0   18000000.0
imam1 Osce.tall.  (#.*010)    Z    6    *                                      000        20240000 40000.          240000.       0000N0.0    800000.0     80000.0     000.       1000.
cStOC.APUoaC./C8I?a JPd    Ls..                                                           000WNo            0.0:        0.0 '        0.:0        0.10        20.0         0.0:   "0000.
0.0100.lou                                                                               30000000O.0        0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0  380o10o1.o
I.MWUlY 060.               PT    40   40   40   40   40   40 M28               ISM0       600000.0    6000010.0    400000.0    6000.0       4000100.0    400000.0    600000.0   I200.
touttal 90011 Cm$                                                                               4o000.             "0 1000.                                                      .0.0.20000 40000 40000.0  11220100.0
It. 116611. C0m$0154
IC, COIIUOM                 PT     I     I                      I             00000        10,0000.0    100000.0     10000. O'     000.0000    000.0      00000.00   10,0000.0    7100 "0.0 '
6030PhIeO IAtOr./fiaWd)    PT      5        3    3 3            S 21           40000       10000.0    la0.*    1800000.0    180000.0    1000001.0    t50000.0    100000.0   1240000.0
Graftn                     OF      3     3     3                     21        2000        40000.0     8000         4000         0000        4000         4000        4000        400.
0008 09913 0061009          P1     2     2     2                     14        00000       9100000.0    80000.      6000. a,     W0     0000. 0 0000.0    0000.       000000       =40000.
003 (gInuvenot 0.ovhIO)    P1      1     1     1                              60000        601000.0     4    :0No   40000        0000.       60000.0      60000.0     6000:0.0    42110000.
016f(IwcIoIOtv CfoIOelO   PT                                   Is S 3      21  000         200010000   12120000.m0              12No.   2000      . 'm0  120000.0    120000.      04 000.
1910009/$499998t0.LGWO   P1        9     a    a 8   a8    a     a8   0        30000       24000.0    2400000.0    24000.0    240000.0    240000.0    2001000.0    2410001.0   1440000.0
391.6  0.00, 00,100        PT    1s   la   18   is   1o   19  129              is00       27000.0      V001011.0    27500.0    27500.0    2750001.0    275000.0    270000.0   1800000.0
A03 (15114064              PT      I1    II 1        1    1     1     ?       60000        40000.0     40000.0      40000.0      60000.0     40000.0   .  0000.0      60000.0    4*0000.0
09.n00 (151111.            ft      2     2     a    a     a*    2   14        400100       800000.0    010000.0     00000.0      00000.0    40000.0       0000       .0          110000001040.0
391mt19  (130tn16          PT      4    1     4    4    4       4   28        30000       IZMN.0    120000.0        si 100.0.    120000.0    120000.0    1200100.0    120000.0    80100000.0
AdP (CbbslaLl              PT      I                                          6           0000  40000.  60000.0     60000.0      600000.0    60000.0      400010.0    600400.0    020000.0
6WIOW (C@00910     P1    ~~~~~3    3                                               "    1 000 100. 000 00.0 120.0  0    220000.0  120000.0   0000             200.       000.0
PwatrsOw/rav91Ocont)    PT         6    9           6     6     6 9 0         3000         1010000.0    1800010.0    16000000.01000.  100.0 0I10.0 140                 0000.0    1240000.0
3o?0t 0.003                PT    14 it   14   1410 1    14 " 99                5000       210010o.0    210OOQ.O    210000.0    2100110.0    210000.0    210000.0    2100001.0   1470000.0
01011001 Staff8                    8           S    8                56       mm           1000 11000.0            140000.      11010010.0    140000.0    14000.0    140000.0   11200100.0
Comer1 0M,.Oa.             PT            2,    2    a2    2    2     14       40l   000       000 80000      .0 4,0000   .0      000.         00.0        0000 60000.0    140000.0 O
04890001t                                                                                 2280*.0   220000.    2200000.0   2280000.    220000.0   22800.0   22000.0  150400.0
5. bmitnO  g  04o Civ. 0000  8*'
Off 1. W111,1 109.                                                                              .            .       *000        6000        6000000         0.        65000.0    2020. 0
0.h   ui0al101010..0.0                                                                                0.0O        0.0      2Z 0. 0      150.0:       05S00.0,    30000.      50500.0
no 808  1489.                                                                          00          00           00          0.0          0. a      30000      00900.10    52000.
S00.                                                                                    00      100.          58.          30.0       1000         1000O00.                 00.
0.0  13000.0  43~~~0000   10700         250.       0720.0    254000.0    4800.
C. 18011001W. 60 .011.110 48~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:                                     '         O            0.            0       6
PlaOl                                              .             0.0    zooou.o      00000.o    oooooe.e    400000.o    40oon.0        4o00.o   soooooe.o~O.:0.0 00.0 130101.  VIQO.O "M.
091                                                                                             O 0.    130400.     1010100.0    11060.9    110GO. 1000 .0      1       300 00.0    11100.  00010.8
6109510                                                                          .              0.0       N0           80.          00.         80.          800         000 080.
08686.                                                                           .0.  0.0                    .0oo   150000.0    3100000.0    30000.0    3100000.0    3100000.0    4000
9,0049*.                                                                                       0.0          0.         No     00.0 140     00.0 140    00.0 1900.0    14000.0    4400.0
ACUM.09r    NU                                                                                 0.0      0000010.0    46000.0    4"0000.0      0000.0      4000.0       00000.0    I240000.0
OffIce 30064.06..                                                   0.0    100000.0    100000.0    100080.0    100000.0    100000.0    100000.0    000000.0..  !M:  16000  16im  16
Ofaf ek0 1't.                                                                                   0.0    10000.0   130000.0    10000             000.        000.         000.       400.
31119 5elt.00                                                                                          100.          000.         0008       100.          001000.0   100000.0    00000.
MP/IWo01.11   w                                                                                 0.0    57000.0    57 :000.       57200.       55000.    5700.0.    1000.0   3432000.0
90190051?11Si                                                                                 0uo.0   blosom.            GoIo .      O0u1o1o    494*0.    49500.          06100.0  oo0.oow.
00001                                                               63*7500~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.0  23906000.0  *55820.0  1215355.0   9104000.0  I5,7101.  1.01800.0  64010000.0
oI 01010080 M APON  040 11103 103=O                                                                                                   00oo       10l000 e010weo00N10                   00110.
008 010110 p800    1109 n 04 lB  ef 0.0. lewu.m                                                                                                                00l.
8/31/1692  12.0*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......  ......  ......!.....



-50-                                                                ANNEX 4
Table la
DZASADIU
Forest Reourezs Nonapsemt Project
Sebl 1a. Forest Non"amot PI
Detailed Cost Teble (Take)
totals IremOofOq CinWewboo
Wit       1902/13 1191096                                                                          *n49  1659  IO",  99/9  "99  tot
........................................................................................................
1.  m nPU   9019
Office 441f4dt                       0.0   158311.9   ldn'4"              0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0   31505.2
..ud_at.l  WIdwi,                    0.0   10imo.s    1137602.5           0.0         0.0          o.o         0.0 o.0    220.6
11,14dont UuI WiI                    0.0         0.0   971167.6   103O46.0            0.0         0.0          0.0   2013.6
bmidwal SAWns                        0.0         0.0    0125.2    86100.3             0.0          0.0         0.0   167o.o1LS
mooiat  WlOlig                      0.0         0.0    450014.6   13776I.3    750332.3           0.0          0.0   21580.2
344                            l      .5679.6    0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0    5670*0.6
64f8301O,4w                    29"102.5   24011010.1          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0  S177M.
Pick-Up (Kire-ca0              200096.7   28546.5   1512412.6             0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0  469484.9
Ca?                            114500.3          0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0   1145.3
Slio_a                               e.7         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0      623.7
Ate1  4*  not                     27.5       6931.0   1901942.9           0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0   3431697.4
bed lot Twn taglim              71054.5     IM55.3 1.44OO     1.4         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0   3406716.3
Iregaw.                              0.0   i7 70.0            0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0    16774.0
6i,010t                         734035.2 .    ,6431340.0   40711.9         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0  21610095.1
C. 4.99
Ctf~f  .0                       434092.9         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0    430912.9
Ptrnteripotter                  2410346.1        0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0    210346.1
PA19  60.21*0" 9                10911411.2       0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0    10w24.2
AiptonditiOW                    109241.2         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0    1024.2
Ofice 9wIit,t                  1090621.3         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0   10924.3
0Office 6sai.wt                1092412.3         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0   109241.3
figld etgjpa                   1941.3            0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0    1941.3
Cartegrapy tqjipi              2160906.          0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0   216404.7!
sW1etal t6                           2.           0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0   63547.2
0. VaIOCIOIs
A.iOt  431.t                    216644.3         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0    21644.3
tpine  ote?ims                  4349*0.6         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0    436908.6
048.1640                         65539^ C   211.9  0.0        0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0    655)21S.9
I. Technical 18401530
luwuWons  69011.0160           3745174.2   003943.6   617765.3   414067.              0.0         0.0          0.0  24903952.6
bot 3uemtr  t.                 124624.7          0.0   4      025.6       0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0     37450.4
Pa64e  ilsorl                  3121561.9    200".9            0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0   513142.6
C*o"        (s k)               374400.0    5346o.0    5713261.6    0606.4            0.0          0.0         0.0   2067611.0
010130 S    list41s (Lmoa)     249400.0    241272.0    286564.3    100934.7    10o0m.6    113410.3    120214.9   12401067.0
s.e.total                          6740040.6   10044.5   13234690.9    24710.8    106900.6    11340l.3    124216.9  30179.0
V1. Ootva                                                                                                                 312173.
Caltr-Wact Lrt Fft.Barou      31211713.9         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0  3211.
c30o;.es.9ooonICWiSAP90        624*042.8         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0   62402M.8
s1mfvision cwnrut              200020.3          0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0   2000.3
...............
nwtery .rEX                     05200.0    701214.0    749606.6 121161.0    60821.0    693105.6    9W92.1   5584496.4
total  IS     was                    0      3.0    2    .6   8       .0   9 .            177.7   10516.0   104607.0  UPS.25         .7
it. Kg aoa    is
6.nha?. sttof l alrioo
DCC  (Coag#4lnmtarirMmn)        10900.0    117169.0    1249701.1    132476.6    1"M404        1401151.0    15716.0    93,10111.4
0on 038.18)                     1020.0    117369.0    12497.1    132476.6    1048.4    1411151.0    15771.0    951062.4
LOFtPWot hiltimr./Plil4)        1968140.0    2112614.2    229060.7    656050.3    2527635.6    26793.7    284007.6   1679084.3
Oroftin,                ~~~~~~~~~65320.0  7002.4  7496.9      ?%41.1      6485.3      09310.6,    9446.2    558649.
Date lat  wobor                  67M0.0       9305.2      99902.1    10501.5    ln0.4    1190010.6    12422.6               5.9
69 tU vtein   COoo)              059n20.0     70021.4     74916.9     7,914416.1  641S.3 S      9O.6       94869.2   35549.4
ouorcw toey Cent)               131040.0    140021.      14997.6    192.2    14510.5    17021.2    1l 6.4   1117M.9
Fo Sto   Ifitwtc Law            20.           ' A        294.5    31790*.4    33121.1f   357242.3    37626.9    1657S.7
909891      (C?w)I              26040.      3146.3    337461.0    3S746.4    37914.7    40189.6    426011.5   3139*0.
AC, waAM)                        6520.0       7 0014      706 .9      79066.      6 .3         6310.4      944169.2    5566,9.6
nour WAns)                       67.o         93695.2     99:2.5      0 :.5    112500.6    190.          12422.6          5.9
90989  10038108)                151000.0    48041.8    149973.      1589.2    141010.5    179021.2    16965.4   111729.9
AUP (Ctoott)                     85520.0      70021.4     749.9       79016.1     64851.3      19310.6     94469.2    556449.4
4430  (C0ent0l)                 131000.0    1416041.8    14997.6    1589.2    140510.5    1741W.2    169336i.4   111729.9
fomtoi&wvoyocCmtO               1901540.0    211164.2    200.7,    66.           2527615.6    Z265.7    261007.6   16798.3
forgo: bN                         OI2.0    2 o476.9    241456.1    20.3    294893.4    312517.0            n134.2   19523.0
Clrlist Stae"                   174720.0     170.&    1109.0    211102.9 0        240.7    261.5    252451.2   1419731.6
conew  brtoP                     07140.0      9)9.2       99902.11   101591.5    112500.4    1190110.8    12622.6    ?446159
sib-fouta                       248976.0   26701.2   260101.    320471.7   320M6.0   339380.0   3597430.1  2M11107.6
S. 9A09tw8n30 of Ci,. iIuts oZo
office swi14192                      0.0         0.0      46017.0     86100.7     912119.3     96771.7    10861.5    41737.3
booldu,000  94.141n1                 0.0         0.0          0.0     30136.7     "90.$       67743.0      71607.0    233569.2
blOmoio 1441d193                     0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0      290U.?      61548.9     9058.6
*    MIo      ldfnU 1                                                                                      S 0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  24m. 5290.7 77 4.7
*004301t 01 1d114                    0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0      15.1         156.9      a     a.0
VW                                   0.0      152.6       180.6       17m .9       1257.9      1955.1      2016.3    1046.9
............ ............ ............ ....................................... o*ov* ..............ov*vs ............ ...................@*BBa@
nib-otal                              0.0      S253.0     567.9    131.4    173669.6    2563.7    3692M.3   100472.7
C. 000ntenon30 of 004i0189 03
&o*tm    m" bide                     0.0     1,1634.6    4O30.2    635622.       6742.3    71504.6    717916.9   3460W84.4
Pick,"9                              0.0    65452.0    10683.        7947.2       Mm94.&    693795.3    96719.1   4213645.5
ew                                   OM      1269.0    137115.0    141.6   1S545.1    1a62.1    173410.3    900.S.o
Bicyce o                             0.         M9816      1000.0      1059.6      1125.9       I19.7       1243.2      6577.1
AONOnomb  "o                         0 .o    "l.6:    200113.4    424.7           6154.1    471,49.7   O5277.9   2149302.6
lw  o.o                              0.0      6    .4    1676.3    39M7.6    421470.2    4640.6    473O.    20149n.2
Trbteg                               0.0         0.0          0.0    211920.n       22474.1    25656.9    2524.0   9m4.0
...... ....... ........ ....... .......                                   ........ ............ .......
IWPIotot                              0.0 o    75.9       0n2.0   2610m.0   276.M3   21482.9   SIluo.4  13691361.4
0. *114Ito,- of 6041999 400
Ca        t                          0.0     469.7        soo50.2     59.2         618.3       59560.0     63132.9    323M7.
,,0aterltter                         0.0     25811.3      27105.9      9182.4      3069.7    3S2.o 1       365.1    111016.5
mW/AuFo iotwt                        0.0       1m2.6      1258w1.      132a        1465.3  l 4910.0        1S7.3        12199.3
Off I.e 94844109                     0.0    117324.6     3017.9    13216.8    1404,53.1    1,41910.1    151652.3    02199.2
0ffic 1' 0                           0.0    11724.2  828017.9    13261.           183.1        J90.1    15152.3    621932
field  eOlMo                         0.0    117324.2    12501.9    13246.6    14053.    *1189010.1    15762.3    82199.2
Cottevp  490490                      0.0 8     06466    2150103.8    26491.1    20 3    297  .            315444.6    146U .
$10,404111,          ~.....................................................
700*1       .             60~~~~~~~460-066.   20777391  30997065.   I56146191.5  864279.8   VAA485.    9010901.6  14407061.3
i10 "AM  Pa. 0Go go. In 64 M6. co           "M..                                                                                  oo.
03, COleAMW    . Mt of 2.5  of Oo 04.009   a.
'3.  .0.6.6  ol #00.0 of 1K% 04040  4.t toot.
40* CJ43A0.4at a feate O  10 Of t. Ir I        CM.
46/ 9   17t.t  t * *n  of 31  t 0   I      t  OM.
1"2n         1:36



- 51-
ANtB 4
Table 2
BANGLADISH
Forest Resouroes Management Project
Tabl 2.  Resources Infozuatioi Managment System
Detailed Cost Table (Taka)
OAMIW         Unit Cal                                           Costs
unit  911/011 "fu Dow   9?-VP total  lova-vig  .         .....                      97    IW99.99      foita
tu"  93'9  93/9  941 00/9  949 97   t4tal        wt*o         14939      1939        1994/95    1991/9      9U0 10/9e
t. amnwr cosn                  - ---- -......................... ................ .................           .............Tn ...... ..............................
................
A. tejit
tgamillia K Co_.s_tAtW                     a    a O        O    O    O    e o   o  i            .0 0      0           0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0    3700
I611,t1311         14          1.0M   3                                                     4 0 00   0  00 9ao  _.0  0.0  0.0     0.0 000080.0.0               0 140000.0
OPw.Ct@frw ttM(30              MO    3           0                              3 5000o    00000.0          0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0       00.0
ta  Prt,                                         a  )   o  a    0  0 0    o0    a  Isoo    500000.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0       000111.0
Thapitul 0014   Ina)jpet       No    a    0      a    0    0    0    a          1800       80000.           0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0   1100001.0
Aue*Ir*-Jet attr               110    I    0    0    0    0    0    2          318000      358000.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0   358000.0
rber-t9*tiIlo                  00    1    0    0    0    0    0    1            33000      233000.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0   23000.0
009/1910 laftasre              00    0      1          0    0    0    1t    s31 8000            0.0     50.0           0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0   35.o00.
I     0= Cd                    0           O I    0    a    0    0    0    1               3330000.0       0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0   174000.0
tMOf00S MN * 0106                   .0 a    I                         * * * * *                 0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0   100 003S .0
nter Ue * 0                   LsI *            *     *     *     a *        *   V          2350000.0       0.0       0.0          0.0        0.0        0.0    840000.0
ugI R     WA   DIS             00     1    0                      0     I        390         0000.00        0.10       0.:0        0.:0       0.10       0.      =0000.0
Per Le OatNo 0                        I    0    0    0    0    0 o               9 I 0001   500.0           0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0    59400.0
LOW* ilCZE                     St *0  I    0    0    0    0    0    I                      *50  18e000.0   0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0    250001.0
11r40 fps-  Sweet             00    1    0    0    0    0    0    1             Is00        11000.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0     100.
idi. piejeetag                 00    a    0    0    a    I    0    3            9"0oo      140000.0        0.0        0.0         0.0    9000.0          0.0   37010001.0
"Ste Cooket                    00    I    0    0    0    0    0    1 o0000                  30000.0         0.0        0,0        0.0         0.0        0.0    10000.0
Ae. auttaw                     00    I    0    0    0    1    0    a                                                 o310  1100.0  0.0  0.0  0.0    10.o  0.0   300000.0
00o    a   *            a 0    0    0   .         U100      100000.0   1o0.0 00100000.0            0.0         0.0        0.0   300000.0
TN CC?                         LS..                      ..                    .m1000.    110000. a                ,110000.0   110000.0   110000.0  I1100001.0    700.0
no    s           r    o    o 0       I         1300         47000.0 9000.0 010.0                  0.0         0.0        0.0  24600.0
C4. TotaLm
C. IffIn                                                                                        757100.0  101400.0  1016500.0   110000.0   110000.0   110000.0  333050.0
to. tjsIuad  0  Ig0asn
loop Amwi.  mt ri t   t        LI..                                                          010000.        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0 o.o so':o.o
Lfi .    . .    . .    .    .                       .            0.0  17300030.0    0.0            0.0         0.0        0.0  7X3000.0
0. Ttaniral AsItuw                                                                              650000.0   moe3000.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0  3370000.
CIS Cmwisulm
C1m1ttal Traw  Cast            95    3    S            a 2    2    1   14      000000    1800000.0  18000.0   100000.0  1300000.0  1300000.0   000000.0  0400000.0
oraft                          00    I    I    I    I    t    I    r              _300     a000.0   300.0            m.       30.o           0.0 a    0000.0  1400000.0
N     I    I    I       I    I   I    7 r         0o3co       0000.0    10000.0    1ooU.0    1o000.0    10000.0    1000.0    70000.0
I. P01 tips,                                                                                   3010000.0  1010000.0  1410000.0  1410000.0  1410000.0   010000..0   070000.0
Ow     es DID Teigftg Sib
,.,t11c0 training              LS.              .     .     .      .     .         .       9     .0    90.0           0.0    o      .0         .0   900000.0   300000.0
00    0    0    0    1    I    I *              3100O0           0.0         0.0        0.0350000.035000.0    31000.0  14000.0
Sk - ert.                                                                                ..........: ........... !:! +    . ..............s^4  @w
P. valvste" a   eat$                                                                            000000.0 _000.0  13500.o  '250000.0  10000.0  7`700000.0
Jg                             No     0    I    0    0    a    0    I          1000.0  100000.0                        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0  1100000.0
Noteragute                     00    0liO                                        ~00 100000.0  1100000.0                          0.0         0.0        0.    200000 .0
0.011          600000.0    60000.0        0.0        0.0         0.    10000.0
10.40 1                        t0    0    I    0    0    0    0               71000            0.0    10000.0        0.0        0.0         0.         0 I.0   71000.0
T* iiler                      00                      0           0000.0    800000.0                                   0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0   noo.o
toota l INWIICOS TIF
It.          COSlI'r 00111
A. Itramit. Staff lalair
bet                            n          t            t            r       100000      1000001.0 e 0000.0   100000.0   100000.0   100000.0   100000.0   700000.0
LCD                            n7    2    t    2    3    2    2    4            40000     1310000.0   130000.0   120000.0   120001.0   203000.0   120000.0   04000.0
oraft_w                        n           3    3    3    3    3 2t             200P0      40000.0    40000.0    40000.0    4000.0    40000.0    40000.0    2000.0
tX   ftt Diter       n      3    2    2    2    3    2   14            40000       0000.0    00000.0    80000.0    80000.0    00000.0    8000.0   14000.0
ClellOat staff               Jn                        a    3          4         mm0000    4000.0    4000.0    40000.0    a000.m        0 0 o    4000.0   3S0000.0
Driver                        P7    3    X    a             *    * 2   4         00        4m00.       40000.0    40000.0    4M00.0    40000.0    40000.0    30000.0
n                             P? aT        a                2          4        15000      30000.0o  30000. 3o0.  o30.                      0 o s300. o300 00.
he.tl                                                                                       50000.0   450000ioeo o.0   450000.0   450000.0   450000.0   410000.0  515000.0
I. Olfic. O4wtlne cost             LS                                                           40000.0    44000.0    4=000.0    40000.0 40000.0          400.0   300000.0
C.  Nlat   o asOf V,lates a3
C.r                                                                                *            .0         00      100.0     0000    IOW00.    ,100001.0   55000.0
J4.                                                                                            0.:0        0.   '110o000:.   33000:0   230i00.0   3e30w000     99000.0
,,t,,w.O.                                                                          .           0.0         0.0     4000.0    1200.0      300.0    12100.0    54010.0
$and "at                                                                           *0.0                    0.0    710           0  *1000.0 710030         .0   37w100.0
0.0 oo                e0.0    8001.       80000.01A * 3 100.0    00000.0 1a 40000.0
total                                                                          _ M fg410000.0   490000.0                   1000.0  0M      .0   "T .    0m0o.3.0  *220000
.aw.  -      -               .a     ~       ww ~            *fea
Totl                                                                                         104510.0  1004410.0  5002500.0  371700.0  15330001.0  315700.0  4330510.0
sIb *.10. de    in aI  for ow _cuf.
,3s cala,atat  et a rate of In of the iIW w   cmi ".
4/2t1111 3.43



-52 -                                                        ANNEX 4
Table 2a
0ANGLADZ8H
Forent Romources Manaement Projeot
ZIklL&a.  Rcsouroes Inforution Meanaement System
Dotailed Cost Table (Taka)
Totele Itiiuini Conti nguclee
unit     1929        1993/94    19mt95    19           19M96/9     1997; 8    1996/99       Totel
CNTI           ~~~..........................................................................................
................
A. I OQm0n   r 7e e*m.5                          .0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0   408218.5
88/6/00011 PC cou.99Ccwter          0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0  129975.8          0.0         0.0  129975.8
3m/  C4atr                     933.1           0.0         0.0        0.0   8428.1           0.0         0.0  1826202.2
.lIn.front.0024'1024)          58990.5        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0 o  80.
Olgitizing TOWl                544241.2         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0   5'.641.2
Pu, Plotter (36 IIri)          606327.7        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0   60632?.?
Inu*_t Printer/pI.tt_         27120.6         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0   273120.6
TIwrmi Color Print/Platt       391106.7        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0   391106.7
Areisnfo  ot3aft               516796.6         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0  965792.6
AWm  Software                       0.0   4197810.2        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0   41978.2
lPIINFO aofttiar                31613.0        0.0   181362.4         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0   213044.4
surutwtan Cagte               10924.4.3        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0  1092482.3
Upgrade T                      707K 273120.6    0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0   273120.6
PrfnteitO 1.  1170              42606.8        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0    42816.8
Printer LO  2550   et899.0                     0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0    58994.0
Lee Printer - NP Seris         136860.3        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0   136860.3
D W.   SCai~ur                  16397.2         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0    16387.2
Streaine TO-U Syata            19646 .8        0.0         0.0        0.0   128665.2         0.0         0.0   323092.0
....................... .... .........    .... ... ......    ......    ..   ... .
Tetet                   9So~~~4614.1    0.0n2   n06.0  0sn.0  0666.0  0rn9t0   18S05.0  590461.1
Sl. d63..a4   0.0 6                               3         0.0        0.0   20742.0          0.0         0.0   3 7460.4
pbot  o                        1094.2   1125e7.0   125077.5           0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0   355s872.e
ga.otalrs                      o341.6   537037.3   306439.9            0.0  2495.2            0.0        0.0  9657420.9
wAPtre MeteClAt                12015.4   12902.6   13754.8   14570.8   1545118.8   163826.1   17302.4  1024429.1
TN CCT                         707278.2  1063273.4  1133527.3         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0  29478.9
....................................... ........... ........... .......................
S,hTotl                         8     .      2 7.2  1271076.1   145703.8    14518.8   163.1   172.4  3926506.0
C. aerscCS
Eq. Upuede  upieemit          6740U001.0      0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0   676000.0
omn  Aimlylis Contrac4t  0.0  1922616.0                    0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0  1922616.0
SbTott                            760.0  .19226-6 .0,  . .0            0.O 0...     .0        0.0         O07 .0  2596616.0
D. Teedmicsl hAalatan
......... .......!................ ........... ........... ....................... ...........
615fte CmrU   ce t               18793.1    s20966.9  142906.5  1513685.9  1657ls59.0      6537.0   903.932429711562.2
c,te.                           100.2    116.9    11913.4    125613.8    133819.3         1189.5    150409.4   8709.6
8*e-ootal                      209144.4  2244349.1  167979.0  17855.7  188666.9  1149352.2  1218274.6  120415025.0
E. F.tloWsiips
Oraeae 68S Training i13        93"64.6  1004932.4  1072206.4  1135241.9  1204319.3  12"M775.0  1333638.5  796386.1
Wmrvlce Training                    0.0        0.0         0.0   44141.0    68346.4   496633.7   526415.0  1932878.0
................................................................... ......................
Il*.Total                       93568.6  1004932.4  10722.4  1576724.9  1672665.7  173691.6  153.5  9916743.1
P.VabIcles NW acata
car                                 0.0  122640.2          0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0  1226407.2
Jeep                                0.0  1226407.2  1310335.7         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0  2538742.9
notorcycl.                          0.0    67904.0    71472.9         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0   138476.9
Speed soot                          0.0   85755.3          0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0   83750.3
*1. Incr. e.IStaIS Solrlt p
rar                              30.0    46947.6    49 9           52990.7    570.2    540.4    6         .8 3t723.0
ClerTcal S0.0   4694755.6    49918.3    590.7    560.2    50.                                         6    .8   3724
Toal  *gToEta                      491400.0 I528160.    5414021.6   509145.7   6319140.5   06869829.3271061.1  41769670.8
C. Iing .ice Otaf Valaices ''
leCp                            OM.0   0ln .0   137578.0   213917.2   3409078.41432772.2   34738.6  1431502.0
AeOCyc13100.0    40.02-                                 7549 .3   15894.1    168580.8     M175.9    18947.      77060.9
"toeed y gOat  0or8                  .0        0.      980.2    99087.9 10561 12367.6   1101102.2   11824.5   52868.3
Trawle                          4310.0    064.6   100056.7   1MM?0.    112392.1          11910.4   163192.5   53901.1
P*one32l60.0    320.0    34762.4                                      4.0 6529.  9235.6   741558.8   7475.8  335815.3
Total IEPEIEUT COSTS       535~~06?? 559.    082.   13 741.   13 43.4  1494.   15711.   79059.
C2. Calctulate  at a rate n of15o teiwimecs
4I8/99   17:3737.                                                    4".         559.       682.        T60.       13



BDANGLADES
Forest Resources Mbnag.ment Project
Table 3. Silvicultural Treatment
Detailed Cost Table (Take)
_ititeuit coot                                                          ...O. Costs
Ueit  19195  19914, 1994M           1911996  19949 199113 1n96199   11           192-99       W12195    I994           "MM         199S9       19r         mine         n9m         Tetal
........................................................................  .........  ......................................................................................................... ..... ....................................... ,,.,,,_,
A.  L.b.w   t|
=m  Cmtnewtim  1'           i a      to       Is       Is      is        Is      I*      1t        Is      nto..     lIoooue'  16530.s   Usw. e    5006.0                  n. .s s  I Uu      1000.8  "_        .
1-Maclk * mlrumm                   TWO         0  iw  a  a      e O           O            a     Is"           so       1560.0         0sc      o .e            s.c        e.          e.g     o     a          .eeOs
1gb-blk U   fe etill        a         0    216S0   194"    222C0    21118   m650    2nI0 15967                 sO           e.0   120          9.0        11scoo .6 11m55    0   1006l4e.9 o   5508.6  H330.0
Kmprw Cl Smi Cuttl    ng .2.ts   s66    sy111    26644    29180    2013    2410   4460   263316                S0     2M341006.   266015.8  1312006.4  1490.0   009510.0  1423506e   224              e0 1311SS0.0
Ikimlune A Olbi Ireet. 43.U    10100   11400    1160    21C10   2u208   34410   .30    11100                  S0       05000.c0 1. 1060.o e     02500.6  11656.    MSDOSU.l0   1122511.6   2 n900.   655_0
Sgb- leal                                                                                                              4151 0      6. 1   .   4U3900.6  S3       0N.    e  5MAMA    651S2.0  4.0          3046.6
sh-bleth   morc.tlm        afi              4008    3600     4100     30o      s2ce    30       2s5            is           0.o    SO120. o     66.6   sis..           5 I0.0         e 4e.6             323.
6.e.s       ClImber CgAUl   VA      09       10    3600    4110       209         e 1   640    31610           44      485400.6   491460.6   22600         2524.00.9 .3608.0  22566.6
IklmIeI                     K%      Soo     we         6        0        6    2a00      2000    SC            40   t 0O.            S6 o. 6* .                   .          .    1            12     0    36 .0
........... ...........! ....... ~!......... . .............. *o>.o.......... ....._w+^ ...... .......,,,
Sub-Ileta                                                                                                               5154,066    013400.    50660.    5 1000.6   47163.6   i60"08.    69400.1 5600.
total     tmol                                                                                                                506I3.6  e11      0            .0              50_0.   6          .         s rH243608.
it. m    ma misswco
ietst mamm  4313           -t                                                                                                     6.6    2MAMA        "no5.41   11006.6   151254.6        MM208.    2200.    118808.
.......... ......... .......... .......... ...... ...........  ........... ........
ToIta                                                                                                                      50646.  1o15e     9.0  5150.0  16646.0   S12350.6   "ISt .6              20.        rr
s*I s.evk  Om evaluation                                                                                                                                                                              2nw.
.. 1 *       0s t4lor per be.
.3. 6 dona so  *dia  per be.
4.V Catajeged at a      of 2.5  of            m       s
2*2611992  >2A



-54-                                                 ANNEX 4
Table 3a
BANGLADESH
Forest Resourres Managomnt Project
Tablo 3e.   ilvicultural Treatment
Detailed Cost Table (Teka)
Totals Including ContingecIes
uf t     IM2/93    199M/94    1994/95    1995/9f    1996/97    1997/96    199699            Total
1. INWIMENT COSTS
................
A. Labowr
Road Cmrtruction 413          1201200.0  193658.5  2062139.3  2186Y7.7  2317019.7  164530.6  1735602.2  13075773.1
sub-bloek Recomeissan          81900.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0    81900.0
Sfrblock  emrcation                0.0  12M59.4  1217912.0  147492.8  1482190.5  2095077.3  2135579.7  96711.7
Iguroe   Cltber Cutting 42   3093a6.0  3366729.8  1664706.8  1932t 6.9  14179.8  211893.5  3S34317.3  17128717.1
Tmimin   Other Teetu. 4'   551460.0   786372.3  1102932.1  1543355.1  197996.7  2545957.9  34315.4  11991391.4
SubTotat                      492a196.0   760210.0  6047692.2  7132552.4  71963.7  8415289.3  106614.6 51949S8.2
U. Moatriel
*  rblock Omrcation                0.0   365958.4   351124.6   423600.8   427314.6   604071.S   615676.7  2787746.7
Mangrove Climsr Cutting       530212.9   576384.5   285101.2   331410.0   243577.8   363693.9   60634.8  2936s85.0
Thiming                        32769.6    35186.3         0.0         0.0        0.0   178719.4   1639.0   436116.3
Sub-Total                      562962.5   977531.2   434225.8   755010.8   670892.a  114684.7  1411320.5  616044.0
.............................................. ........... ........... ...........
Total INWIWNT COSTS                  5491785   8337741.2  64638.0  787s6.3  7e67696.1  9561774.0  12280135.1  56810006.2
11. MIEIIT cos
...............
A. Mointence of Roads c4'               0.0    32267.8   85941.8   145715.7   212423.1   286605.1   34719.6  1110152.3
Totelt AEMENT COSTS                        0.0    32267.6    85941.8   145715.7   212423.1   286405.1   347196.8  1110152.3
total                             549117.5  M3T0009.0  6769859.   8279.0  8080119.2  948379.1  12627333.9 59220158.6
t1  Service and Inspection Road.
4' 7 dan of labour per ha.
43 6 da" of labour per ha.
42 Caluelated at a rate of 2.5X of the investmnt eoots.
4//1992  17:37



- 55 -
-ANNEX 4
Table 4
BANGLADESH
Forest Resources Management Project
Table 4. Participatory Forest Development
Detailed Cost Table (Take)
Oi ntfty               unit Cost                                  6.5  Coatc
Unft  93j  93/94 94-9 9649-  tota       199-99         1993/93     1993/94     l99"5       1"99/96     19969         Tocat
..............................  .........  .......................................... ...... .......*s.*@**........................... *s^^****e*s.e**
I. INWsThIm COStS
................
A. Vehices
A.Veiles                                                                   3  000000.0  2000000.0        0.0         0.0         0.0  4CO00000.0
ilchk                iKO    2      2     0    0    4       tO000000     toooo 2QQ.                   oooooo uao.
notorcycles           NO      3     3     0     0    6        6000        180000.0    10 .0           0.0          0.0         0.0   360O0O.0
......................................;......... ........
s*etsL                                                                    3180000.0  2180000.0         0.0         0.0          0.0  z360000.o
S. Squlomunt
Surve  gquftt         4. -00000.0   3o0000.0   10000.O0                                                       60000.0          0.0   760000.0
Fletd   eiI t         CS    *                                            400000.0    200.0    1000.0    600.0                 0.0   760000.0
i-1ocat                                                                 .00000.0    00000.0   200000.0   130000.0               0.0  1520000 .
C. LWAMO
aour                  NA   100   300   300    0  900          20000     200000.0  4000000.0  6000000.0   6000000.0             0.0  18000000.0
0. Nato  rMst
Materiats             Ls    *      *.                 .      .      . 1000000.0  2000000.0  3000000.0  3000000.0               0.0  9000000.0
I. Technicat Assfstnce
Agr@foreatry (Inten.) PM     3      3     0    0    6        600000      1800000.0  1800000.0         0.0          0.0         0.0  3600000.0
A2roommst (Loutl)    pH      3      3     0    0    6         40000       120000.0   120000.0         0.0         0.0          0.0   240000.0
*s**9 ..... P *se........  ..................... ...... ........... ........... ........... ...................... *es
SeM-ret,                                                                  1930000.0  1102000.0         0.0         0.0         0.0  36.000.0
F.Services
MO PManamnt Centrats.       -                                            2351000.0  2810000.0  2810000.0  2310000.0           0.0  11240000.0
Socoeaed. S     Ur*e  Isartooo  sovy  L..00000.   10so000.0                                                 1500000.0          0.0  6000000.0
Locat no Ccentnc:    LS    *        .1870000.0  1870000.0   17a00o .0   1170000.0                                              o.0  7400O0.0
Training               S    *370o0.0   257000.0   237000.0    2117000.0                                                        0.0   141000.0
Workshope             LS                                                      0.0         0.0         0 .     200000.0         0.0  230000.0
.**** ........................... .. ........  ................................................ :.@s@
Sub-otat                                                                  6467000.0  6447000.0  ;64470.0    6OO.0               0.0 20     .0
6 +v*...........   ...........   ...........   ...........   ...........   . ............................. e@*.*. .*.
Touta  NVITMT CessS                                                             1436700.0  169700.0  1567000.0  15717000.0             0.0  6278000.0
i1. RECUOiRNT COSTS
ACF                   PT      I     I     1    1    7         60000        6 .0    60000.0        60000.0    60000.0    60000.0   430000.
Range                 PT     2      a     a    2    14        40000       80000.0    80000.0    60000.0    80000.0    8000.0   560000.0
Forster               PT     4     4      4     4   28        30000       120000.0   120000.0   120000.0    130000.0    130000.0   84000.0
... i;;;;    ....... ............ .......................... ...ii......
SubToTaL                                                                   360000.0    300000    260000.0    260000.0   360000.0   1630000.0
3. Maintenane of Vohicles2600.
Pick                                                                      300000.0   40000.0   400000.0    400000. 0000.0  264 0.0
Motgorcycle                  -     -     *    *      **                    018000.0    36000.0    36000.0     36000.0    36000.0   234000.0
mocarcycte                                                                                                             . :?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.................................................................................... s* ...oo
subroca                                                                    21800.0   436000.0    36000.0   43600.0    46000.0   2834000 0
Total RSaUSmt  CuOStS                                                            47.000.0    600.        696000.     696000.0   696000.    4654000.
sew .OO.h  s t7eu000 0 .u t30 .0 ltOOO O    696000.0  eu.u00 
total                                                                        14145000.0  17663000.0  16363000.0  16413000.0   696000.0  671.4000.0



- 56 -                                                    AMEX 4
Table 4a
BANGLADISH
Forest Resources Management Project
Abfi.L* Perticipatory Forest Development
Detailed Coat Table (Take)
Totale Including Contingncies
unit      19929       1919        1e9f/5      1995/96     1996/9?    1997/96    19P/99         total
................................................................................................
1. IUWSIHENT tC S
................
A. Vehictle
PiciLp                    2061.?  223347.5              0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0  43143.3
Mteorcyle                  1722.?   201012.1            0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0   386294.8
.......................................... ......... .............;........K. ..........
-Total                    22201.4   279.6               0.0          0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0  470281.1
O. Iqlpinnt
Sur Ey qu1tmnt            43692.9   234514.1   1250?7.5    79469.2             0.0         0.0         0.0   876053.7
Field eq.l -nt            43692.9   234514.1   125077.5    7949.2              0.0         0.0         0.0   876053.7
.............................          ............ ..........  ............ ........
-Tetal                      7395.9    4026.2           250155.0   58936.4      0.0         0.0         0.0    12107.4
C. Lour
Labor                     2164000.0  46760.0  749686.4  7948609.7              0.0         0.0         0.0  22326058.1
0. materlals
Materalso                 109Z231.6  2345867.3  3751331.4  3975741.3            0.0        0.0         0.0  1116321.5
E. Tacdmical Acalatmue
Agreoforetry (intern.)   187M9.1  2009064.9             0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0   302.0
Ag_R.tt (Locat)            124162.5   133191.0          0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0    258 .5
........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ...........
5ub-total                  1997799.6  2143855.9          0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0  4141655.5
F. Srvicee
NW  nagement Contract  2922400.0  3141018.0  334653.1  3545332.3               0.0         0.0         0.0  12953403.3
Sod.o Ecoomc survey       1560000.0  1676700.0  178502.0  1892526.1            0.0         0.0         0.0  6914626.1
Local MO Contract         194400.0  2090oo6.0  2225801.2  2359349.2            0.0         0.0         0.0  8620236.4
Training                  2980.0   320606.6   341606.9   362103.3              0.0         0.0         0.0  13229968
workaop                         0.0         0.0         0.0   252336.8         0.0          0.0        0.0   252336.8
........ .. ........... ....................... ........... ........... ........... ...........
5mb-Total                 6725600.0  722612.6  7697463.2  8411647.8             0.0         0.0         0.0  3043 .5
,....;;;;............... ....................... ........... ........... ........... ...........
Total IUSEnTW  UT?              15141966.4  19M      .6  19197638.0 20492937.1         0.0         0.0         0.0  74149387.1
1I. REaUMT COS0S
...............
A. Incr. Staff Salaries
ACF                         65520.0   T741.4    74966.9    7946.1    64255.3    69310.6    94469.2   55869.4
_87360.0    93695.2    97992.5   105981.5   112340.4   119080.8   126225.6   744865.9
Forester                   131040.0   140642.8   14.973.8   158972.2   168510.5   178621.2   18938.4  1117296.9
........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ...........
Sub-Total                   263920.0   305159.4   324943.2   344439.8   365106.1   387012.5   410233.3  2420614.2
B. Maintennc of Vahicles
Pickup                     218490.0   469058.0   500 A265    52902.1   561960.3   595862.2   631597.4  3507053.5
Notorcycle                  19664.1    42215.2    45025.5    47682.2    50576.4    53427.6    56843.8   315634.8
..................................... ........... ........... ........... ...........
-Total                     I2315 .1    5112.3   545309.0   57484.3   612536.7   649489.8   66U61.2  3822e86.4
........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ...........
Totot RECURRENT COsTS             522074.1    816432.7   670252.2   921924.1   977642.8  1036502.3  1O09674.4  6243502.6
Tout                          15664082.6  20133256.2  20067690.1  21414861.2   97642.8  1036502.3  109674.4  6039M9.7
49728         1?:3?



_ 57 _
ANNEX 4
Table 5
BANGADESH
Foregt Reasource Management Project
TZable.1 Mangrove Atforestation
Det%iled Cost Table (Taka)
0tv                                   oil 01tt                                                04it  C"_-.
Ul011   10910   19010   11/0   169010   100/0  1007.09    00100          103.         1103         100110       1094,00      109/0       100010       1000,0       100t           oqgo
0. Cilli llotU
_^^tt1~~~~~~~~~~~~..... ...................                                                                              ...........  ......... ..............!!........................................
OR00                    16        a0      a6        0       100        "00            0.     S100.         0600        0100.          00.             0,10         0.     0000.
..    0                                                                                                                   0.0 a110  M0a d0 a  lee  100 0. rit.0 0oee44 .0  ra0.e0                      0.0   04 000.4
-ot  erW4 O. Ml                                                          do                                                          "I"" tR                     Wm e  ree846eee t                                  0=eB Ae  @ 5re
.0                                                                         4      lam~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'000  0.0   20100060  00000            0           00           0            0 44000000
0*uM00                                                                                                                0.0                                                                  00 0e0 40iie0
rf,Mtf                                                                             A        a  is                              e to  ie;0i0i00  am   Wm:u@  W00 00m00.                  0.0   @0           0 4    i0
000610             00              00~~~~~~~~~~~~1  00  0 000                   0       I"0         0000      000 400       001460      00000        010000.4     001.            0.0          03      40W0000
S"W  ~       ~       000                        4                         0        0       to,                10000um1000                ooooo00                        0.0          0.4          00 11000
00 ?         I.       0        0        0       04        40        "0111O       0 0010       000000                         0.0          @0           0011000
0. ~~~~~~~~                                                                                                         770000004  0  .  11mm 3 1    )0600  0    00000    0000.0  000.                        33100 
............... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~  ~  ~   ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ .......                   .    ......       ......         ......   ....         ....
4~~~00.0 9640600  4  .     .       .        .        .        .                     .      1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"010000   0un"0  10109    4104100.0  0.0    1300    100 0.    04160M00
9600 o00000.100       LS                                                                                        Wm . . .   30 000.  4*1000.  0*1000.   03000.0    04000         11)0           400         146
0670400                                                                                    304600.0      4*116.0      041000.0    004000.0    001000.0   1001000 0       044400 0   1300000 0"MA  41001.0 1413M.
q0100100,6 oM                 0   sets      0000    0000    0000    40004    000        0610    n?         4390  01    110416.    100*11.    Iloo., 1I000 1       1:1114000.   1100 0lff.    400000 0   0 090400 
009 '0.t.400 11606000          0    006      0100   ~~~~~~ ~~~400  416  000     0060           0            00     4100.    004)00.0   000000.0   00000.0   004i000 0    000000  0                10000
~~&  P110 400 01606000.  -  0  0    006  0000    0000    4000    00000           000           0.0          0.0    390160.0   4000000.0   100660.0M11.0    "Cm.:    1000 111  0    1000000 0   113 9MG01100
wft "I-.3m  VW                                 "a0    650        0000,   400     40000    Wm             400          00           00           00     00000        00000        0000          0060 066
0.  , A.10o                                                       "M       ON       404 0   00000000.0o                                              "W 10000.    01400.0   0040i0i0.0   000706    03016 0  010110
0644 0        t6400t..4.0    10900 M"44                                                                                     0                 100100    U1011100.0   100004.0   t0000.    14moo1.0   03014.
10004 1001010000 1670                                                                          0003460.0   01100010.0  40604107.0  40440010.0  00003010.0AMA    01013700.0  00004100.0.0    "UM.0    8  40000161.00 19141375.
It. 40x000 60010  d
r,_ z--|t o'V               Ie'e sale     M        47r  w       e   44Nwe.e   r iaewo  VaIo                                                                                  4    e      M1.e        WMo
06000000                                                                           ..               .                                            ... .  .  .0 .3.100.0 .. 000.0...  01000.0...  00400.0...  00000.0...  03413.0...
few 00 osoot... C .oors,..                                                                                                                          T  V , o,o  0.0.0   0o   ... !000.0  o ,tO..    ..604? 0   .0 . 00000
boosty 0600? 007/000000                         .        .        .        . .                      *            *            0.0          0.0e     00ew0.0      coxe6.0 e    00000.0     10000.0 o    60000.0     000000.0
*01ot a  *6706                                                                                 0.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S:a   0.06  080.0  150000.0  46016.0  "M:,' 3  010000  736
0604101                                                                                       0.0          0.0     000300.0    393300.0    0)04)0.0    000010 0    000110 0    000160 0~~~~~~~~.0  tym  19  M IG
stf1                                                                                   *-       si.si    i7Wii.zi*  ii.si    irisi            i o         iiirZi.o    siiraoCio  iiii.*iXo~~~~~~N  VW  is= ifri:  iM  $M
0. 001140000 40 00000100 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                  ,u~~~~~ 00I
e.  id)4                                                                                                               ........... ..o      0.0  0...0               0006.    0     .        000
"Wo-wo0of11 oft oo,                                                                  .        .                                 0.0       000.0    0110000.0      310000.0      004000.0    040000.      0000.0    100000.0
4ASo                                            .        .       . e               . s                                         0.0       006.0 4 4    000.        0 0 wo       30 0  0.0   00.          000000    16001w000.0
410 ofol-0    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ 00               00.0        46.          000.0        0600        00000.0      00000.    400000.0
40=O, 6                                                                                                                        0.0,     40000.      6600.0    110000.0,    61060.          17060. I     700.0   lawn0.
s    rb   rr    le      le       so       r4       "        e       1*1        V we       sPrO e        se  e       nxoe:e    *eXc lre.e    Zeo.e    letewe.o   lQ2"re so"  amool  e    uWo e o
06000.0                                                                                      0.0     10006.0    6000000.0    40600.0    416000.0    4010000.0    3010000.0   11030400.0~~~~~~0  400M.0 40M .    100000:
C. 100700111. 01090 0.00.0..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                        .  *::IM:I                                   Irft0I' 0   M
0.0.360906,0. of                                                                                                           i ;.001   ~   1  4  0  30  W0   aM.0  r06.  000.0    ii .0  0016.0    01600.0    41000.    3 3
951151 10.40.                  01                6       0        4        0 r  t                    9o        00000       0600.0      i .osi40     tam000.0    *    .0      2i0o0.0      1S0000       I           i300am 0
00607 0600e/Iwos0o,~~~~~  01        '~      N        00       0        04       04                Soo00        000.         000.         600         00.          04000      106           000 6 0     13m000 
001   ~~)  01          10       00      00       00       00       00      36         1006       600000.0    300000.0    000000.0    400000.0    00006.0    4400000           0000000 n000006 0
.1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                                                          lamIFt                                                   :  '='G  """ rA          l0~ 
00.000 0006                    01              tO       00       00       40       40               400        60000      110000.0    400000.0      710000.0   1030000.0 s000000.MAo .* GUM  r.                    340000 0_ ...0
WO                                                                               ....                         OSM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0060  00000 0730.0   493F17100    11000000    M000010.0   000110.0   3s90.
41600004.0  003001.0   0930037.0  484161J   07104090000   33.000.0  30310.0  300004171.0
ol. 40)46o100C.  og of 0  01   03  40 600 Ioo.0. 10010.
Val11,100 fl,45



-58 -                                                       AX 4
Table 5a
BANGLESH
Forest Resources Management Project
Table 5s. Mangrove Afforestation
Detailed Cost Table (Tska)
Tota* Icltuding Cdonti   -biS
Unit      1992/93     199t/91 194/95           1995/96     19 7          W9S       1ssJJs         tote,
.     ...........................................                 .. ................................ ^s........... 
1. ZIVIhUSlT C0ITS
A. Civil Works
am"   Office (4 M.)                 0.0   12908.1    68561.9   7r270.9                0.0         0.0         0.0   2706781.3
mang Officer iuter (4)              0.0   129064.1   13nIZ5.9    Sa .?                0.0         0.0         0.0   3248oo9.1
D.Iuwr Officae/   (12)              0.0  3221.3   3409.6   3205nl.9                   0.0         0.0         0.0   9870142.8
oreter  arter (7)                   0.0   1290648.5   13615.9    145714.2             0.0         0.0         0.0   2811486.5
Forst  ard otr.(20)                 0.0   2461.3   26t23.5  m2S16.1   2949418.9                   0.0         0.0  1020436.8
................................... ............. ...... **@X+.v ..w*^6@
bTeot                                0      956832.1   9oo055.8    7       9.9   294918.9          0.0         0.0  2941746.6
40 icle                             0.0   260161.1   25I14.              0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0   1539076.3
4Me Pick-u                     20601.7   25346T.S            0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0   4314386.3
Neoterlc   to                   64276.6    676040.3    7147.6    7109.4               0.0         0.0         0.0   27615 .9
Bicycle                         832.7        83.7        99.1    100913.3    107043.6             0.0         0.0    47389.4
Trler                          33270.0   5322.1   S717172.6              0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0  14407620.7
Spe1d Seot                     1560819.1   3310201.3   1788821.4         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0   669M1.8
Countery at                     41610.7    8 7.0    66760.0              0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0   19/6650.8
.* .***o.o............ ............ ............ ........... *. *@.= ....... .... ......  ...... ............
ubTott                         807.9  15276918.0  11840670.0    8s5"6.7    10703.6                 0.0         0.0  361M68.2
C. Equipmnt
VW-r sq.aipnt                   422790.7         0.0         0.0      18542.8         0.0    2055s3.7     22107.1    669024.3
NUeNer" & Plant. Tools         3339718.5    493652.2    526st6.3    701977.8    591482.6   2104998.8    83611.0   65931r.1
Sub-Tetct                       S3   9.2    493682.2    S26876.3    r20520.r    591402.6    310182.S    59O18.1   9264341.4
0. Labour
NW Plntetion Nurse             47962.7   634278.1   S40966.3   6091M35.3   6126452.9   629206.4  6"95.   41390191.4
NeW Plantlin                  193991.0  2117043.4  1387873.5  14704928.0  15187M2.6  16522457.0  17513804.5  118675340.0
feptenting                     620910.0   686086.5   44923.0   4769145.8   5051315.8   53184.7   5015IS2.8  365181r88.7
NW PIntA.&  veer Point.             0.0   42550.4   S280326.4   34447.s   361061.4   3870125.1   410232.6  25230M3.4
NW PIant.3rd Veer Heit.             0.0         0.0   359937.4   3874947.2   25276s7.9   2679V31.4   28476.4  15521369.3
Mew Pient.4th Yeer eint.            0.0         0.0          0.0   3815332.7   410744.1   2679317.4   2840076.4  1344*170.5
i. Z.....* ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............
STote34t 80113.7  39259348.3  32661119.7  367S06.5  3705SISS.7  37239057.9  39473401.4 2528685.2
I. ateriel
NW Ptlntation Nrsrer            37874.7    100230.0    427302.9    48 .6    4M26.3    484150.8    513190.2   326829.1
Me Planting                    125.4   137234.1    900319.S    953s69.9   101139.5   107216.2   1136634.0   7710561.6
.......................... ..........Z .......;i~................ .........................
BfrTotel                        16n19.1   18757.0    127622.4   14 s28.5   14121.9   1SS6467.0   16492.2  1097357.2
T@tl IUW8I1UIT cKTS                  439415.8       02.6   5864.2   471563.2  4*19MU22.7  41106107.4  4198223.7 338740696.6
it. uaulM cotus
A. Nintesoneof Cfv. Mache 41),
Suige Off ice                       0.0          0.0     34376.7      S443.4      72".4       81887.2     8679.7    33451.8
bus Office 4arter                   0.0         0.0      34376.7     7217.9       92695.7    9s264.6    104159.6    402352.6
_psty Nenetr te/Office              0.0          0.0     85941.8    162144.7    278081.2    294M7.8    312478.9   115s3.
Fateeer Qaner                       0.0         0.0      34376.7     72857.9      81107.0     8598.s      91139.7    36462.8
firest Guerd sumner                 0.0          0.0     65628.3    139092.3    221201.0    312660.1    331417.0   1069998.7
............ ............  +v^o. ........... ........ ....*e* ............ ............ ....... **e..... ............
5a*-Totat                            0.0          0.0    254M0.3    121596.1          27.7?   8S .1    92591.0   33262.2
S. Nfintmmnes of Vehiclie E2
41 vehicle                          t.0          0.0         0.0    317881.3    6743S2.3    715034.6    757916.9   2465185.1
410 Pick-u                          0.0    234529.0    50028.5    5:29802.1    561960.3   519862.2    63159?.4   3040.S
motorcyte                           0.0      70358.7    150085.1    238411.0    337176.2    3571r.3    378918.4   153256.6
slcycle                             0.0       9381.2     20011.3     31718.1      44956.8     19186.2     63159.7    2283 .4
Trawer                              0.0    37246.4   1000567.    1696.8   17982.9   1906759.0   2021111.7   879723.7
sped Net                            0.0    1718.8e   162818.9    794703.2    84u29.4    89379.3    947.1   42171.6
Coutry lost                         0.0      46905.8    15005.1    233112.9    2472.s    24179.4    2n7e2.9   121744.5
............ ............ ............ ............ .. . ........ ............ ............ ......................................_^Zs
5*-Totat                             0.0    912317.9   Z15O.9    3841065.3   45069.4   4790.9   SO760.1  21512930.4
C. Incrantt. Staff Slteries
*st.CINIerwtop of Foret          65520.0    14062.8    209994.5    6351.8    674042.1    71444.6          13M3.    3288079.6
Fare_t   gr                     430.0        9f185.2    19968.0    4 25.9    449361.4    4763.1    504902.5   2192053.0
Deputy Roome/Forester           131060.0    352107.0   112480.3   152m.9   2274892.1   241138.6   25s .8  0l0o1a7
Plrntation Mali                 131040.0    42528.4    7n63.6    825.4    8S765.7    9280.0    984159.8   4949732.0
Fo oat Bard                     163800.0    525160.     9536.0   1351243.6   143539.5   1518M2.8   160976.6   714s56.1
............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ .........................
SubTotet                         5310.0   1537.9   3341915.5   48274.6   57668.8   60693.2   6412261.4  2841049.4
.....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........... .................... 
Tetel aIICn    ITS                     5350o0.0   244951.8    5846t.7   9190117.0  1094413.9  173822.2  1246299.5  53249576.0
Totat                             40s19.8  68914876.4  618M10.9   4M75.2  53162461.5  5281979.6  S43954.1  39199272.
%Iw Celua ted at a rate of 2.5n of the  uW    ent css.
42 Calcuietad at a rat of IOX of the i vett cots.
4//1992 r13I



-59-                                                                                                      ANNEX 4o
Tabl.e 6
9ANILADLZ8H
Forest Resources Mtanaa.coent Project
Table 4. Industrial Plantations
Detailed Cost Table (Take)
A. 0,040 09mt
IN"  offie   awle             lot      340     340      01                 0       0        0      0          00       403.                        "OM0.  10000      0004                        00             .      .00.
66.96V 09000  '7166           67      0400    4000       U                 S       0        0     000         130    30 0.0         100.0         4000               0.0.00                                    0.     3400.
3is   ow.v                  ItoOOg  00  40  0       30       30         0                       0          0l040   *00000.0    00,"400.       '1010000.4   I101000.              .            .             .       000.
,most06. ow    .a             lfno             to0      la 0               0       0              7            00 30000    5100.                   71103       04000               0.0           0.0           0.2 I " 1000
0990006.4 INS00                                  0        0        0a          0            0                 3000      00000.            0.0        0 .0oo           3.0j          0.0          0.0           02      4    00. 0
0.0I4160                                                                                11*40000.0    0030000.0    740*100.4    4000300.0              0.0          o 3           0 0   S3~~~~~~~~~~98M   .3080.0 
400 0900010  00   0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0'no.,                                                                      0a             .             . SS0.
40  WOOOIS                                                                                     t4om-~~~~~~~~0 ~   8000 100000    2000000.0    *40000.  ,      .             000                0000
00109h1e,                     00        00      *         0        0       0       0        0      10        000       000.I000.                   000.               0.00          0.3          00           '0*      300000
00061(6  00  44      00       10       0        0       0       0      004         0000    100000.0      00800.0       000000.0           0.0           2.0           00            00      16000000.0    No
60leoeI                                                                      3000000.0  0000000,0  000800.0                  0.0           4.0           0 0          0 0  :0700000 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0,1  o:0  00  I :3
6*90? 19906000  40                                                                 .     4SOooO.o            0.0          0.0       osooo.o       44000.o       40000 0          0 0      040000 0.4  oo".  0.06.0  .0  04    t66m.
0.616000                                                                          ov,obo.o       og00o.0       *ooooo.o     331000 0      35080 0    1001000.0        *00000.0    4091000.3"101.0  33011116  .0 15500.  ZOM0    47=.
9.  0i600  40000666                                                           0       0       0ni      9        4W0m      30000              00            0.                           .            .            04      300.
0.0  C6sol itso01(40)         0                                                       pH                     4000    00400.               0.0           0.0           0.            0.0          0.0    00       '      0440000.0
IIl06443009                   00         6        9       0        0            0           0        .       000       0000.               0.           00            00            000000                             30000
L61oov                                                                                                                  4000.                .0.0                       .00.0                0       0  00    .00m000.
*0 6001                                       NA 04 lI  00  00 00     0*        8       ao 010               00    496000.0    4AWoO.0    03m".               00M=0.         3080000.01   401101000.0    4171000.3   31170000.0
S"       1       114"           in                                                             WI      a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0100.  10000410.0  0020.0   6000:400.0
000*uoYll.fOIIIq   00        0~~~                                                                             ~~~ 0  06w 0 10  0*0*  .  00000.  00100.  000000.0            1 1743130.0   1143*00.0   0419100.0
500  0001306. 916.0104  10  1900  919    1000    808~~n  0      an 0     000    116                                                                                                      007030.0       193 .0
Sift 0.0.0.6 790.0060.    44  0~ ~ 099       10      000      00      00       18       09          3*1             .0    00*0.    97400.0 107600. 40*"law.    10040 0 4sm                                 29201
607  00.0   9004.             6                  0        0     0*       00      00      10 M"                  700         0.       ..    0              0      040.0    1390000.0    03317000.0    t47000.0    00430.0
400*10?   m           no      110    3009       090 I.          080    040    t         0300           *0 4070.                010.0    0130.0    I000.                430.          00000       44700 3310.
40 0*96.? 160041100  00      0    0101    0690 0I9          1070    700      07.00    070n         700i          0.0     34000.       110000.0    1070&00,0   1461210.0   14001.             107.32        *010.
0.. 0004706. P16.3004  00   1701Y                                                        is0*9  90 i  70 17  10  no*    907.0   oo,34 o.o   loS,o1o11.0   109110*0.0   1000710.0    0011.      00000.        US7070.
C.000t110  4AM  low006 poit              0   0            091 l"  0am   0000    *09      090      00          030             .0   I "0.0   017W.0   4014300.0    461000.0    4703700.0    464370.0   17010.
4.0994(16.05 060 00061~   a0               0      0              M"10    IU      000     00              0           0.0    0&"     .0    6 00.0         0Un.0    1346*0.0   0400000.0    070.04 0*0.
0.006(01,                                                              .       M                                  3:oo.    suo'o.               70~3.3:   0,00*04.0    411371413.0   071 .314.        600.   433*200.
00 6*647? 16001(004  04   0    0930    1000    0000    100 0      00I?0000low0 M"                             0.0      107030        1.00          14000        :90.           100          000004.0     4*45030.0
In K  M*o. P604.               0        0     09        8       00      33       40      04      1*             0             .        0300        300.           0100         300           4009*0.0     3*349.0    *33103.0
460600096uo                    0      00      00       00       900,0           04        73     3*             0     ouOOo.o        30I00.0164000.0            1*a"    0     000000        03V10.0    1*400.0   0340000.0
4.040 . 0.000001        1               91190    am0    fos    00*        000    1744   03100           033            0.0    J0313.0    *33400.0    *04330.0    3606700.0              0000.       3 00000   139404.
8..764maine;lw 1,                                                                                                      U70M1.0   1*0      .*00    33900*0.0   1001406.0    01409* 00.a0        1 41*030300. 0470733.4  Z0430100.
7a" .0590   000701                                                                                                  00003030.0   0000100.0   93070000.0   9a00000.0    Sig074.0    0340190.4   0061130".0  3110301115.0
A. 00Mm, o9 Clv. 6003.16~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m                                                                                                                 0TU                  410
96.06(6 6090.0.0                                                                                34300.3       04000.0      *4*00.0       04340.0       04000.0       *4300.3     147000.0~~~~~~~~~0  041140.0 $14105.
0. 001616606 o 9C6061  6*4R.1
4G6 6400.46.                                                                                                                0.0  *0.0       .0 O .0  mm          400000.0     4103000.0      t00(.* 0      400000      30I0000
001040014.. or0.0                                                                                                                      400M00.  '0     m 100000.3 1 300000     30301.0       *00000 0      300000 3    34400000
4100049..                                                                                     0.0      10000.0       30000.0       34000.0       10000.0       34000 0      140003       *70000 0~~a 0a    U14T.  "WS0  M "  ag"  3
65.10040                                                                                    0.0      11.o        :094000.0    1070000.0    3070000.0    0070000 0    0074000 4    03000(00~~4sm 14s  400.0  0000  23011.1  WI:  A  :0
013.0096671of069700t           97         *       4        0        7      1        3       0        7          00       3000          000.          300000.0    41`0001.0      70000.0       not00  0      700003    *4a00r00
me6.                                                                                                                                  M116 0 4  0 10 10 00  0  *  50  0000  0000 000.  0000.0    0000.  03000  0  300  3    71 00000
6109(443096610  67  00  00  40    00      00      00       40     300         37000     030000.0      040000.0      400000.0     730003.0      310000.0M7300000            7*00000 00001310
Ami.come"atop of  t    Pt            1      101     101      101     11          I        11:~9000000  14000000.    *SO00.*    41000.0    0*3000.             0*000000    0*00  0 "       0400000
.1. 0105.46000.1. 1606 60 0.0060 160 0006919611 491(0. ~ ~ ~ ~      ~       ~      ~      10111    30000         6M.0          om .                      141,1                               3     OOOD
s3,06 w0i(0t0  7466   10060   Pr 1 10                to060030to                                       310In0am0(0.:                                                                  
01*11099*  03,40. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~........   .........



-60 -                                                        ANN
Table 6a
BANGADESH
Forest Resources Management Project
Table 60. Industrial Plantations
Detailed Coat Table (Taka)
Totals Includirw Continnc Ies
unit      1992/9       1993/4      1994/5       1999/96     1996/9?     199rn8       199/99        Totl
1. INEmNT COSTS
................
A. Civil Works
lorg  Offiee                    1802065.3   1915972.8   1375123.9         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0   5113161.9
Range Offloer cuarter           1441652.2  1f4r778.2    550049.5          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0   3540480.0
Deputy Rwer otr/Off feo        2402753.r   2581297.0   2268954.4   2404284.0           0.0         0.0          0.0   9657289.0
Forest Quarter                 2162478.3   1935972.8   1650148.6          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0   5748599.7
Forest Guard Quarter           3440306.5   3693948.0   34346t4.4   3639542.8           0.0         0.0         0.0  14210481.6
Vehicle Shed                   1070317.6          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0   1010317.6
...i...i:............................. ............ ............ ............ .........................
sub-Total                       12319573.6  1169768.?   9278960.8   6043826.?           0.0         0.0          0.0  39340329.8
8. Vehiles
41D Vehicle                    2497102.5   2680161.1   2858914.3           0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0   8036177.8
411 Pick-up                    208O918.7   ..43467.5   2382428.6           0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0   6696614.9
Notorycete                      624275.6   1340080.5   1429457.1          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0   3393813.3
Bicycle                         166473.5    223346.8    238242.9           0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0    628063.1
...............     ................. ... .......... .........................
bTotal                          336677.3   6477055.9   6909042.9           0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0  18754869.1
C.  qutipnt
Nursery Equilpnt                471952.4          0.0         0.0      86091.6    118015.5     96132.9          0.0    M892.4
Nsery & Plsntation Tool        1950081.0    288432.3    307690.6    357611.4    345516.9   1m787.4    42392.7   5445432.3
Sub-Totsl                       2422033.3    288452.3    307690.6    443703.0    463632.5   1869620.3    423192.?   6218324.8
D. Tachnical suistanec
ural Sociologist (LoOst)        374400.0          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0    374400.0
Soil Conservation (Local)       249600.0          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0    249600.0
Silviculturist                 3744000.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0   3744000.0
........................  ................... ............ ............ .......... . ..........:............. ... ii;W
Sb-Totl                         4368000.0          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0   4368000.0
E. Ldour
SR Nursery New                 5451264.0   5673964.8   6661334.9   671019.2   737344.    72958S.    732778.3  46737692.9
SR Nursery lnffIling                 0.0   1171812.1   1208788.6   1412203.0   1431216.1   1563S30.5   3S46579.4    3346129.6
Short fotation Planting        13062067.2  13600485.0  1S961583.2  16176480.6  17671979.7  17480387.4  18037719.7  111990702.7
Short Rot.2d Veer iisint.            0.0  11810513.8  12183194.0  1423336.7  14425006.5  1375858.7  1558773.7  83996410.4
Short Rot.3rd Year Naint.            0.0          0.0   5399053.6   5544t13.3   6477123.3   6564327.5   7ttt192.9  313SS854.7
Short Rot.4th Year laint.            0.0          0.0         0.0   1907666.3   1958934.9   2288583.6   2319395.7   8474580.3
LI Nursare fNe                 4802343.0   569337.2   6414815.5   6410222.r   682940.1   6363750.9   6861545.7  4337548.9
LI Nurery Infilting                  0.0   1580080.2   1855925.4   2081542.k   2080051.8   2216018.7   2064972.2  11878590.5
L. Rotation Planting          1O8293.5  12839581.8  1466063.5   4455sm.9  13400633.3  14350W07.5  1543485.7  978161S1.2
L.Rotation 2nd Veer raint            0.0   8953787.6  10516910.3  11795405.6  11786960.2  1255739.5  11701509.2  67312012.6
L.Rotation 3rd Vsar hint             0.0          0.0   5047534.6   5901842.7   6619304.1   661434.7   7046939.6  31230205.7
L.Rototion 4th Y"r Haint             0.0          0.0         0.0   5350407.9   6253953.3   7016462.3   7011438.6  25634262.1
L.Rotation Sth Y"r Point             0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0   1890177.5   2210436.8   2479150.0   6580064.3
............................... ............ ............ ............ ............ ............
Sub-Total                      34145447.7  61325793.4  79715225.7  92020027.8  100202024.8 102280179.0  104829444.7 574518145.1
F. aterial
St Nursery NeW                  587232.1    610869.0    717734.7    726929.7    794507.4    786067.4    811114.6   5034475.0
U kury Infflting                     0.0    126114.9    130246.2    152061.8    154181.6    168472.8    166643.2    897720.5
Short Rotation Planting        3135399.8   3261604.4   3832297.6   3881283.6   4242101.9   4197038.2   4330M.7  26880500.2
$.Rotation 2nd t"r Naint             0.0   6733634.9   6954218.1   8119015.7   8232197.8   8995243.6   8897354.8  47M318'5.0
L Nurshry New                   1980324.4   2345652.7   2645876.6   2642206.8   2816244.9   2624866.2   2830139.6  17885311.2
L Numrry InftIling                   0.0    425297.6    500127.5    560549.2    S60411.5    397173.9    536461.3   3200022.9
Lan Rotation Planting          1372502.0   162569.9    m33m.8   1831232.4   1951852.9   1819214.2   1961482.9  12395760.2
L.Rotation 2nd Y"r Naint             0.0   2800227.0   3292918.7   3690744.7   368907.8   3931900.6   3663829.1  21069457.8
................... ......................... ............ ............ ............ ............
sTottt                          70754583   17929100.4  19907215.3  21604026.0  2241333.8  2311978.9  23217998.2  13529512.8
Totat ISSTN   COSTS                   6569283.3  978372.8  11611813S.3 120111583.5  12310693.0  127269778.2  128470635.3  778494781.6
It. tEUENT COSTS
...............
A. Naintuummo of Civ. Verks 41)
naw  Office                          0.0      48401.6    103130.2    1457s .7    154489.6    163774.3    173599.4       89110.8
Raw  Offfc r Quarter                 0.0      38721.3     82504.2    102001.0    108142.7    114642.0    121519.6    567530.8
Deputy Row  Otr/Office               0.0      64535       137306.9    205823.5    281943.5    296 88.1    316918.9   13S0516.4
Foret Quarter                        0.0      58082.0    113443.2    163930.2    173800.8    164246.1    19929.3    a8880.6
Forest buad Quarter                  0.0      92403.1    19M66.9    29928.0    414137.4    4390Z8.8    465364.8   190745.0
VhicLe Shd                           0.0      28747.6     30626.5      32454.9     34409.0     36477.0      38668.3    201380.4
............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............
Smh.Total                             0.0    330891.1    664095.9    949553.2   1166922.9   1237054.5   1311267.3   5659784.9
S. Nainteace of Vehicle 42
4WD vOehice                          0.0    281434.8    60040.2    953643.8   1011528.5   107255.9   113887.3   505674.
41 Piciktp,                         0.0    234529.0    500283.5    794703.2   842940.4    87935 .3    94796. 1    4213645.S
lotore   lo                          0.0      7038.7    225127.6    397351.6    421470.2    U6896.6    475398.0   2034902.7
iecycls                              0.0      18762.3     43025.5      74172.3     7W4.4       13420.7    88423.6    38t478.9
............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............
Sub.Total                             0.0    605081.9   1370776.8   2219670.9   2354613.5   2496662.5   2646393.1  11693401.7
C. Incrowntl. Staff Salarie
Ast.Cwwwvator of forest         131040.0    281685.6    374934.4    556402.7   10953t8.4   1161037.5   123069.8   4831118.4
Forest Rsr                       87360.0    140842.8    249956.3    423925.9    561701.8    595403.9    431128.1   2690316.6
Deputy Ronsr/Forester           327600.0    704214.0   1124803.3   138972.9   2527657.9   2679317.4   2840076.4  11793390.8
Forest Quard                    327600.0    704214.0   1124803.3   1965812.4   2100631.6    232764.5   2366730.3  10649546.1
Plantation Pall                  131040.0    281685.6    599895. 1    953833.2   1011063.2   1071726.9   1136030.6   5185274.5
........... .........;~............................ ............ ............ ............ ............
Sub-Total                       1004640.0   2112642.0   3474392.3   5511036.1   7302122.8   7740250.1   820665.2  35349748.4
............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............
Toet  MCUREiT COSTS                    1004640.0   304618.0   5509265.0   8680460.2  10623659.2  11475967.1  1216235.6  52782935.0
Total                              66703923.3  100766990.8  121627400.3  128792043.7 133930652.2  13874745.3  140632961.1  5119M6.6
41.. Cslcultted at a rats of 2.51 of the IrNntent costs.
v Calculated at a rate of 10S of the Inve tmnt costs.
4/21992  17:40



BANLDESII
Forest Resources Imaeu_rnt Project
Table 7. Haintmnanco of Existing Plantations
Detailed Cce-t Table (Take)
Quantity                       unit Cost                              Base Costs
USSS.38n8 ~..Um. =an===            mC SSUSS3    SfUSSSSSfZfl5SS23==23StS
UnIt 1992/93 193/94 1994/95 1995/96 1996-99   Total    1992-99       1992/93     193/94      1994/95     1995/96     1996-9        Totat
........................................... ................................---------   ----------------.----.....----------...-----..--.........-----------------......------------..---...--...  . .....
1. ImSTENT CoSTS
A. Labor - Nuirove Plent.
Nursery                  000 Sdigs   10796   5979   3498         0       0  20273          114   1230744.0   681606.0   398m.0            0.0         0.0  2311122.0
2nd Year NaIntenwnce    HA            4067       0       0       0       0   4067         650   2643550.0          0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0  2643S50.0
3rd Year Iaintenance    HA            2885    4067       0       0       0   6952         450   129850.0  1830150.0            0.0        0.0         0.0  3128400.0
4th Year Naintenance    HA            4168    2885   4067        0       0   11120        450   1875600.0  1298Z50.0  1830150.0           0.0         0.0  5004000.0
Sub-Total                                                                                         7048144.0  3810006.0  222892?.0          0.0          0.0  13067072.0
O. Naterlilt-angrove Plant.
Plantation lursery      o000 Sdigs   10796   5979   3498         0       0  20273           9      97164.0    53811.0    31482.0           0.0         0.0   182457.0
C. Labour-Industrial Pltnt.
Short Rotation Nrsery   000 Sdigs    1620        0       0       0       0    1620        598    968760.0          0.0         0.0        0.0          0.0   968760.0         C5
S.Rotation 2nd Year NaintRA           2130       0       0       0       0   2130        2950   628500.0           0.0         .0          0.0         0.0  6283500.0
S.Rotatlon 3rd Year HaintlA           2513   2130        0       0       0   4643        1750   4397750.0  3727500.0           0.0        0.0          0.0  8125250.0
S.Rotation 4th Year NEIntHA           3413    2513   2130        0       0   8056          300   1023900.0   753900.0   639000.0          0.0         0.0  2416800.0
Long Rotation Nursery    oo0  Sdigs    366       0       0       0       0    366         1094    400404.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0   400404.0
L.Rotstion 2nd Tear NaintlA            913       0       0       0       0    913        2700   2465100.0          0.0         0.0        0.0          0.0  2465100.0
L.Rotatlon 3rd Year NlantHA           1077    913        0       0       0    1990        1750   188750.0  1597750.0           0.0        0.0         0.0  342500.0
L.Rotation 4th  eaW NaintHA           1463    1077    913        0       0   3453         1500   2194500.0  1615500.0  1369500.0          0.0          0.0  5179500.0
L.Rotation 5th Year .aintlA           1008   1463    1077    913         0   4461         300    302400.0   438900.0   323100.0   273900.0            0.0  133300.0
................ ........... ................ .... ... ......... .............  . ... .......... ..
Sla-Total                                                                                        1921064.0  0133550.0  2331600.0   273900.0            0.0  30660114.0
D. Naterilt-i ndt. Plant.
S.Rotatlon 2nd Towr KaIntlA           2130       0       0       0       0   2130          75    159750.0          0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0   159750.0
Len Rotatlie  Nursery    000 Mdigs    366        0       0       0       0    366         802    293532.0          0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0   293532.0
L.Notatfan 2nd Year AintNA             913       0       0       0       0    913          75      66475.0         0.0         0.0        C.0         0.0    66475.0
6ub-Total                                                                                          521757.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0   521757.0
. , .................... ~~~~~~~~~........... ................ .................... ................. .. ..  .............. ...........
Total IISTIII T COSTS                                                                                   27588129.0  1199767.0  4592004.0   273900.0          .0.0  44451400.0
sm.m= . =.sflus U""&m   _sn  _sWnsms a                            .._
Total                                                                                                27588129.0  11997367.0  4592004.0   273900.0          0.0  44451400.0
2/21/1992 12:47
I,.
_ IZ



-62  -                                          A!EX  4
Table 7a
BUMGLADESH
Forest Resources Manasamnt Project
Table 7a. Maintei nce of Existing Plantations
Detailed Cost Table (Taka)
Totals Including Contingo cies
.
Unit      1992/93     1993/94     1994/95     1995196    1996-99       Total
................................. ......................................................... ...................
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. Labor - Mangrove Plant.
Nursery                     1343972.4   799994.1   496377.C          0.0         0.0  2642344.4
2nd Year Maintanance       2886756.6          0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0  2886756.6
3rd Year Maintenance        1417689.0  2148028.8         0.0         0.0         0.0  3565717.8
4th Year Maintenance       2048155.2   1523743.0  2287287.4          0.0         0.0   5859185.7
........ ...............   ........................ ....................... ,,.......,,,.......,_ ................ ......
Sub-Total                    7696573.2   4471765.9  2785665.3         0.0         0.0  14954004.4
0. Material- angrove Plant.
Ptlntation Nursery          106134.3    63117.3    39566.5           0.0         0.0   208618.1
C. Labour-Industrial Plant.
Short Rotation Nursery      1057885.9        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0   1057885.9
S.Rotation 2nd YeTr Naint  6861582.0          0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0  6861582.0
S.Rotation 3rd YTar Naint  4802343.0   4374929.5         0.0,        0.0         0.0  91M727.5
S.Rotation 4th YoTr Maint   1118098.8   884844.9   796610.3          0.0         0.0  2801554.0
Long Rotation Nursry        437241.2         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0   43n41.2
L.Rotation 2nd YeTr Maint  2691889.2         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0  2691889.2
L.Rotation 3rd YTar Naint   2058147.0   1875263.2        0.0         0.0         0.0  3933410.2
L.Rotation 4th Year Maint   2396394.0   1896096.2  1711575.6         0.0         0.0  6004065.8
L.Rotation 5th Year Naint    330220.8    515132.5   403804.4   362854.0          0.0   1612011.7
Sub-Total                  21753801.9  9546266.3  2913990.3   362854.0            0.0 34576912.5
D. Naterial-indust. Plant.
S.Rotation 2nd Year Maint    174498.4        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0   174498.4
Long Rotation Mursery       320631.3         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0   320631.3
L.Rotation 2nd Year Maint    74796.7         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0    74796.7
Sub-Total                    569926.4         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0   569926.4
Total INVESTMENT COSTS            30126435.9  14081149.5   5 79022.0    362854.0         0.0 50309461.5
Total                          30126435.9  14081149.5  5739022.0   362854.0           0.0 50309461.5
4/28/1992 17:40



- 63-
ANNEX 4
Table 8
BANLADES
Forest Resourcas Manaisment Project
Tble 8. Nature Conservation
Detailed Cost Table (Taka)
tb UIttJtv Ul-eCunt Cotst
uit 9      9M           /9 11 S      797/9111 911/99 Tot7.  1992*99  19929l     I3/9%    1994/9      1995/1    I 994/9      10e97      19l9          Total
...................................................................... .......... ........... ................................................................................................
t. IUOOlSTlIIET COS010
A. Clalt Wefts
sattay  a office           la     3    1    o    0    0    0    0    C           50000     030000. Osowo.0             0.0         . 0      oo           O           01.0000eo0.0
Sttilt Office              0      a    I    a    2    I    0    0    S           SOO 1          0      3000.       0       e000.          0              0.0         0.0 1O000o0.o
AC; Actgiet                No    s    t    0    0    0    0    0    4            7*0000     16000o..0   rzowo0.0       0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         O.0  z2o00.0
Itempars 0t414.            e      1    2 .       .     .     .     o    *        60900        0.                                   0                     0.0         0.0  4000000.0
07. ask"w  toolde          00    1 -2    2  2a           I    0    o    a         =   6      00 1000.   12000000   100000.0  12,owml00    6,000000.0     0.0         0.0  40000
Psooeto  Aee W I94S*       0           a     a    a    I    0            S          0           00.0     6000.0      400.0       4901.0     30.0         0.0         0.0     0400.0
S01.9 Q & BsrgAs           00    3    6    4    4             0    0   24 O00000            400000.0  12000000   1100oo.o0   1200.000.0   600000.0       0.0         0.0  400000.0
.ot Slos. l     .       0e    s    2    2    2    i    o         o,scocoa    0    10  40   oo 13300.  0OO.0 0"0O0.0  9ewo.0 o          1soo0o.0       0.0         0.0  '30000.0
t_           k.            la     2                     a 4    *    2    0    0    200000   4000o.0 a   000000.0   00oW000    x010 .0   410.0            0.0         0.0   3=00
5n.  80.Vint               e0                                 0    0   22        20000     Ioo.o   lo o.0 0        ooxo.oC  00.0 0oMA     00000.0        0.0         0.0I O 40000.0
jetty                     Il      t              2    2    2    1 0    0 o        l00 s0w.0   1000010.0   100000.0   100000.0    50000.0                 0.0         0.0   400100.0
Pto lt   Kit tto           No    I    I    2    2 a           0    0-   a        1SOO       10000.0   tO000.0   300000.0   10so00o0      I0000.0         0.0         0.0  1200000.0
a1t4e                       t0   I    2    2    2    I    0o            I        000 4o00.0    00.0    60000.0    60o00                  40000x.0       0.0         0.0   120000.0
WtTtT0 T"                        a      a         t0    7    0    0    7            m       400000.0   40.0   4          .0   200000.0   140000o.0       0.0         0.0  1500.0
Cyst   tlt.                No    a    I    0    I    0    I    0    3           10               0.0  11000.           0.0  13000.0           0.0  15000000          0.0 o      *.se.0
Poo 0tN    Os.  t   .19 U 8.          *          .*.               *.                      noxo.o  POOoooo   bw'oo.o   "00.0                 0.0        0.0        0.0 o 9400000.0
IM totel        o2730100.0  172o0000.0  14510400.0  103060.   4100.0 100000                                                                               0           0.0 o01414000 
Tb 1-yotr                                                                                                                                                            ;:O tl           2 o o U tS   ox.  i"o.  o000        Z.   o.oooo e OXO
0. 900t400
615Pick-"9                 so    I    0    0    0    0    0    0    I           100000     1000000.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0 100000.0
sped son                   0      0 0             0 .         0          4       73000 ..02230000.0    aw00.0                   0x.0    0xx.0            0.0         0.0  3000 .0
Trouts                     So    I    2    2    I    0    0    0    4            OW0        00000    1400000.   1400m000.    009000.          0.0        0.:0        0.0 4000000.0
aoly Seouat                a      2    4 1        4    a    0    0    a           40m        SO0.    160000.0   140000.0   140000.0    00000.0           0.0         0.0.0
t itm*Tota                                                                                  1600000.0  41100000o   -1000o0.0   940000.0    00000.0        0.0         0.0  9440000.0
tt. Oqnalsot
VIg            re            LS.        .      .      .     .      .      .      .     .      . 0.0        0000.0   200000.0   1210.0    30000.0           0.0        0.0   623000.0
"die9                      00   02    4    0            0     0         16        11090      u 1  a00.  S200.          0.I.I.                             .0         00    260.
lira  aSou..               0      a   02    9     6     6     3    0   44          19         00.        0000       4000       100.        00.        10.             0.0 200.
S, ginsputom                                44         SW      4~~~~~~~~~140400. 6CK0 1600.  50030.C    31'0400    800000    13000.0 00   O   1033000
Total IEVSIO98ET 0011440.   170001250.   19400 40300 11.0                                                                                                                   0.0 710314,00.0
II.  Ir r     061_
ACO                        PT    3    4    4    4    4    4    4   2              40000      8OC0.0   200000.0   200.0   240000.0   240.0   240000.0   240010.0  1600O0.0
out|                       99 1i  I         s     s     8          8 43           400t0       0000.0    200000.0  1280P000 .0   #50X  0 8 32000.0   320.  0   320000.0   100000.0
Oy bgt 4sr.           Pt       I        I    7                     "O S 4   3100        31000.    10000.    173000.0   24000.0   2000000   2800000.0   2000000   14'00000.0
Psoogs.             97~~~~p  1    3    5    7    a    S    a   40          1009       30000.0    I0000.0   11000.0   210000.0   240000.0   24000.0   24000.0  1200000.0
%rest 0111                99               ST 2    2    24   24   24  l29        ism0       430010.0   13000.0   313000.0   160000.0   340000.0   36000.0   360000.0  193150001.0
st.acgt  A,es.             t7    4    .4    4    4    4    4    4 280 am                      sX8  8    uooo 8   saoooo:o   =s0o.o 8    aoooo    80 0.           oooo 8O8o8
TruEs. Orivt               PT    0    I    1    *    a    a             2         MM             0.     20000.0    40000.0   1000.        20000 *WXO0.    1200000    340000.0
aooml                      99    2    *6  90    4   14   16   14 so               12gb       24000 7. 200.0   1o00.o0  1Ct0O.0   192000.0   192000.0   19000.0   960000.0
"Lat                       99    *   10a  14           W 20   t        lO2 17      XO        6000.0   IW000.    I t00.    214000.0   240000.0   24000.0   240000.0  120I00.0
000.4                                                                                        494000.0  1062000.0  11O1000.0  19390I2O  .01   wr202.   20W72000. o  2072000.0  1 129.ooo
o.  olnt.ww   O  iv. Wioi 
44 ntuo    s.                                                                                   0. 0. ..20. o                  720O.0    71090.0    7200.0    7200.0   4:t0oo0.0
sttion  O4I6u'.                                                    *0.                                  10.         43000.0   '73000.    101000.0o  1SS2010    12000:0.  80000.0
07.t lOue  90164 0u .0    11000.0    41000.                                                                                    73000.    lo0 10 o0.    120000.0  WO  1200.    400000.08
A99osgeit bton40i.                                                                              0.0           o       20.5 o     7.1       12.10.0                 40.3       040.0
bAr 0_t 0- trms0                                                                                        10000       4      10.  70 00.0   10.    120 0000    120o0o        46000.0
iTont       ne'le .                                                                              O' .'   . .0O   s8.   8o       ct.          s.       ooo         ox          o88
Cy.tiw s t                                                                                       0.0 .    .0 00       00       5     0000  c0000.o      0044.9      o0.0   100000.0
P.01 Sotate"  n                                                                                 0.0    28000.0    10 0000    7000.0    0i00000    1 0           10         4110000o
JOOOY                                                                   0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                 ~~~~~~~~0 13.0  1730.  00.0  873.0    0000.0    0060.0    24000.0
0.0     37           m 0.0o   o010.  18730.0     26210.0    3000.  350000.0   120000.0
T._ltir   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .              .           O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 O'  o0 O : tXO'    " I  " Io.     " :.  _: O' xoo.   IiO'
0.0     1000.0      30o0.0    "000.0    70001.0      6000.o     0X000.0    30oo.0
Vote, TarS                                                              0.0~ ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~ 00000.0    2CGO  0000.0 140000.0 3100.0 38 00.0 30000 172000.0
450404 SOttat.                                                          ~~~~       ~~~~        ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~ ~~0.00  0.  0.1 0    3":O.   1730.  7300.  73000.:0   0200.
C. Molntswwe                                                                                      o.o    ItOiO oo 0.0  20.5    431312.1   61070 4 S 105  4o30.0   9904. oi    13240.0
Pl0k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                 0.0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00.0    31000.0   1000.    1000.0    10000.0   100O0.0   300000.0
090  O top.                                                                                           00          0. 20.0     .030.0     .0   3000.        101000.   11000.
o.ow ad                                                                                          0.0        0.      2o8                    " :o 24000.O    400000. 0 0    160000.0
C                                *    *                      *    *    *            *            0.0     8000.0    axeooo    USCO.O    unoo.o    64000.o          Cooo.O   214000.0
C. tainler15c1 OF Whiste                                                                          si 0.       0;000.    ii;20;00   4009.    416000.0  946000.0  944000.0  1141000.
0.ee P ls.                                                                                       0.0        0.0         0.0    2300. 45:O' 0000.0    7300.       623 ' , O,I00.   I199000.0
36                                                                                               0.0    15400.0    20400.0    20800.0    00009.0    20800.0     2060.0   6109900.0
84  tyam30.0                                                                                              40030.0    1000.0    1100.0a   17309.0    20100.0    0200.0   6"010.0
41. FrtCintvw    of e tipU     eb T_:  t_t *
I C ttSll *C:0    "i                                                                                                               I=t SS lltt: ltm. Tth IStN9t 
Ssh-T.gel                                                                ~~~~    ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~0.0  04000.0    30000.0    610S0.0    8130.0    980041.0    10300.0,  1"40.
1.004                                                               nansos~~~~~~~~~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... ............... ...........  .s....... . .n................. .........
Totat                                                                   IlUQ=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1000.0  Z&80140.5  1908947.3  14730167.3  8136902.1  1613340.0  4012160.0  900461740.0
ole Prolols. for pork, t011  ISIs 04000.0 0.
41. cOSatoltdate a0 rote Of a0 44 toe ftweo1s,t aman.
41. o4altt 00t 0 rate of in0 of tC" ift"o M tot.
2l/2/92  12:4t



-64 -                                                       ANNEX 4
Table 8a
BANGLADESH
Forest Rosources Management Project
Table S. Nature Conservation
Detailed Cost Tablo (Take)
Totalc Inctudirg Contingencies
Umit      199V93      199S/4       1994/95     199/6       1996/97     1997/9      1996/99       Total
........................................................................................................
1. INWSTIUWT COSTS
................
A. CIVi I orks
seCl tuary No  Offie           1638241.2    586658.4         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0   22248.6
Station Office                      0.0    351995.0    750067.6    7s4o4.6    421345.6           0.0         0.0   2318212.8
ACF Acosadetimn                2359067.3   8&476.1           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0   3203855.4
RFers Rteidec                   655296.5   1407960.2   1500135.1   1589609.2    842691.1         0.0         0.0   5995712.1
Dy.  1ws Reside                 655296.5   1407960.2   1500135.1   15896.2    842691.1           0.0          0.0   5995712.1
Foresters Resd                    s327.6      704.0        750.1       794.8       421.3         0.0         0.0       2997.9
Foret Curds Barraa             655296.5   1407980.2   1500135.1   15s8st0.2    842691.1          0.0         0.0   5995712.1
mot Orivur ReItden             1474417.1   1055965.1   1125101.3   1192206.9    632018.3         0.0         0.0   5479728.8
Sotan  arreks                  436864.3    9365s3.5   1o0o000   1   1059739.5    561794.1        0.0         0.0   3997141.4
Sn   rrcs *                      109210.8   11M16.8   1000090 1   1059739.5   1123508.2          0.0          0.0   s44185.3
Jetty                           54408.0    117331.7    125011.3    132467.4      70224.3         0.0         0.0    499642.7
Pad wIth Kflit                  163824.1    351995.0    375033.8    397402.3    210672.8         0.0         0.0   1496928.0
wmterhole                       43686.4      93865.3    100009.0    105973.9     56179.4         0.0         0.0    39974.1
Wetr Tu*k                       4368t4.3    469326.7    500045.0    264934.9    196627.9         0.0         0.0  l167798.9
Cyclnen Shetter                     0.0   175975.2           0.0   1967011.5         0.0   2233378.3         0.0   5980365.0
Infrastructure for Perks tU   4259427.0   8213217.7   8750788.2   196701.5           0.0         0.0         0.0  23210444.5
.........    .............. .......                 .....................   .......      . .....
SlbTotat                       13925377.6  201817M3.3   822391.8  13750914.6  s5oo945.2   2233378.3           0.0  74119760.8
D. Vehicles
41 Pick-up                     1040459.4        0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0   1040459.4
Sped at                             0.0   2512651.0    89341O.7          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0   3406061.7
Trawler                        832367.5   1786774.0   1905942.9   1O00132.6          0.0         0.0         0.0   5534217.0
Country cat                     8236.7    178677.4    190594.3    201826.5    107043.6           0.0         0.0    761378.5
............................................ ............ ............ ............ ............
b-Totat                         1606.6   4478102.4   2969947.9   1210959.1    107043.6            0.0         0.0  10742116.6
C. Equipment
Office Furniture                    0.0    293142.6    250155.0    165560.8      70247.3         0.0         0.0    779105.8
Redio                           170427.2     609.7           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0    231400.9
Cows  einoculars               4369.3       7034.2      56284.9     39734.6     42148.4     22346.1         0.0    274567.5
............  ............... ............  ................ ............  ................ ................ ...................... _.......................... ......
Sub-Totst                       214126.5    42470.5    306439.9    205295.4    112395.7       22346.1         0.0   1283074.1
..i            ..    .... ;i ; ..   ..... ; ; ..       -  i _;i..............:.   ..i..... ..............................................  
Total IZWIlfT COSTS                  16095567.7  226.2  21523779.5  1516716.1   6           .5   225574.3            0.0  86146951.5
II. PEmmur COSTS
...............
A. Incr. Staff Salaries
AcF                             196560.0    281685.6    299947.S    31794.4    337021.1    3s5242.3    378676.9   216907r.?
Ranger                          43680.0    23473.0    349938.8    423925.9   649361.4    476323.1    504902.5   248296.6
By. Foret Ruigr                 38220.0    123237.4    218711.7    324568.2    393191.2    416782.7    441789.7   1956501.0
Forester                        32760.0    1056.2.1    18767.2    2721.3    337021.1    357242.3    378676.9   1677000.9
Forest Smrd                     49140.0    158448.1    393681.1    476916.6    505531.6    535863.5    568015.3   2687596.2
Speedeot Driwr                  87360.0      93895.2     9992.5    105981.5    112340.4    119080.6    12625.6    74465.9
Trawler Driver                      0.0      23473.8     74906.9    132476.8    168510.5    17861.2    189338.4    767407.6
-a-J                            26208.0      84505.7    14993.8    222561.1    269616.8    285793.9    302941.5   1341600.7
:L                             65520.0    140842.8    209963.3    286149.9   337021.1    35742.3    378676.9   1775416.2
............ .....................................................
4b-Tot                          s393448.0   1246458.8   1964652.9   256875.7   2909615.1   3084192.0   3269243.s  15602335.9
B. Naint_e  of CiV. Works 2b
Sactuary NO Offlee                  0.0      44001.5     6?503.1     6U34.4      70222.5     74442.9      78908.8    396313.3
station Office                      0.0         0.0          0.0      9935.2     31600.1     55832.2      71017.9    1685.4
ACF Accsodation                     0.0      6362.1      90004.5     95377.6    101120.4    107197.7    11368.       570691.1
Ragrs Readncs                       0.0      17600.6     56252.8     99351.6    147467.3    178662.9    189581.2    618716.4
Dy. Rage  Realdent                  0.0      17600.6     56252.8     9351.6    147467.3    178662.9    189381.2    688716.4
Foresters Resident                  0.0         8.8         28.1        49.7        73.7        89.3        94.7        344.4
Foret gd Resifdents                 0.0      17600.6     56252.8     99351.6    147467.3    17866.9    189381.2    688716.4
8et Drive  Resident                 0.0      39601.3     70316.0    104319,2    142200.6    167496.5    177544.8    701475.5
eteen Rerac                         0.0      11733.7     37501.9     6623.4      98311.5     19108.6    126254.1    459144.3
mm   urenec                         0.0      29334.3     6253.91    927.2    126400.6    163"74.3    173599.4    64839.9
Jetty                               0.0       1446.7      4687.7      87.3       12288.9     14888.6      15781.8     S7393.0
fend                                0.0       4400.1     14063.2     24837.9     36866.8     4665.7       4745.3    172179.1
ibterltue                           0.0       1173.4      3750.2      6623.4      9831.2      11910.9     12625.4     45914.4
ater Tnk                            0.0      11733.7     25001.3     39740.7    49155.8      57321.0      60759.8    243712.2
Cclne Smelter                       0.0         0.0          0.0     49675.6     52666.9    111664.3    118361.2    337.3
.......... .....................................................
b-Toutl                              0.0    259617.5    539s176      82.8 00.7   11741.1   1464380.7   156067.5   5862415.2
C. Nainitemeule of Vehicle 433
Pick-U o                            0.0         0.0    125070.9    132450.5    140490.1    14896.5    157699.3    7046.4
Sped St                             0.0         0.0          0.0    298013.7    421470.2    446896.6    473698.0   1640076.6
trawler                             0.0         0.0    100056.7    317661.3    561960.3    7104.6    757916.9   24524s9.7
Ceuntry ost                         0.0       9381.2     30017.0     52980.2     78674.4     95337.9    101055.6    367446.4
............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............
mfrToutl                             0.0      9381.2    255144.6    801325.7   1202595.0   1406234.7   1490569.9   5165251.0
D. Nailttownce of Equipmet 44
0. Fureniture                       0.0          0.0         0.0     33116.4     63203.9     88617.S      98645.2    2805.0
Radio                               0.0      18302.6     26003.7     2552.8      29214.3     30971.2      32829.1    16487.7
Sc                                 0.0       4693.0     12501.8     19207.5     24579.3     30524.5      3472.1    126129.2
............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............
SubTotal                             0.0      22995.5     38W05.5     79W6.7    116997.5    147113.3    166197.4    571685.9
...... ................ ............ ......................... ............ ............ ............
Tettl  OIRRET  COSTS                   53944.0   158453.0   21817420.7   4312018.8   5402348.6   6101920.6   6490078.3  27201688.1
Total                             16635015.7  26622r7s.3  24341200.2  19479187.9  11422733.1   835745.0   6490078.3  113348639.5
1si Prwision for perks other than 5uabrbh .
a2 Caolclat  at a rate of 2.53 ofthe Invet _nt eot.
4O Celculated at a rate of 10 of the ln_tm_t eet.
s4  Colculated at a rate of 10 Of the ir t_nt co t.
4/3 M92  17:42



- 65 -
ANNEX 4
Table 9
BAN3LADESH
Forest Resources Manaoeoent Project
Table9. General Support to Forest Department
Detailed Cost Table (Taka)
ourtlfty                       unit Cst                                          of" Costs
s-.e . a    6                 o .-    . ..............   ... M!!  ...... M    ....nf .... ..       ......f......                h .................
.............
Ik. CWLTN Work0
Ron" 0fStf. CS)             VT       0   280    250      0      0      0   Soo          0500          0.0    37S000.0   1371000.0           0.0          0.0         0.0   27n0000.0
0w.g.of 00.er 0uUtffclo)   orT       0   500   900        0      0     0   5000         550           0.0   2710000.0   2710000.0            0.0          0.0         0.0   5500000.0
0hng.f Oatr.Iofflc. 1t0)   ST        O   300   300   600         0      0   1200        n30           0.0   165OO.o   161o01000.0 o         o.o           .0           0.0   6600000.o
10001099 omitS  (20)  g IT           0   600   600        0     0      0   1200         5500          0.    330000.    3               0     .     0      00                 6400000.0
feint S_de  aetcZO)   ST             0   600   600        0     o      o tzoo           D 0   0 120    00   Zi0oto.0   2tootioooo          0.0          0.0          o.o   *.ZO0t00.0
V.6501. 50.6 (73 o                   60 0 20    60 0    0          0    25         30             00     71000             000.0                     0.           0:.0    73500.
""O        "                Wi       0   400   200        0     g0      0    00         3000          0.0   320000.:0    1000000.0           0.          0.           0.0   40O000.
...0 Stff u   f (IrT                 0   6o    380        0     0       0   700         700           0.0   2GGOO0.0   2640000.0             0.0          0.0         0.0   540000.0
0 f0     ce,     M19(6      S        oT  0   "0    30     0      0      0   60          a6            0.0   930000.0   2200000               0.0          0.0          0.0   16 0000.0
tst                                                                                                0.0 10660000.0 S     6 6100    3300000.0           0.0         0o.   400000I0.0
S. V*ehIle
6lgvgm.1.                   0O       3      3      3      0      0     0      9      52000ito  3600000O.0   36400040.0   3600000.0           0.0          0.0         0.0  10000000.0
Of  Agek      nSIS          M0         300    340         0      0      0    1 0       50000    3100000.o    000000.    3OOO0.O              0            00. O1A00000.
t      1                    09 83    20    10    to              0     0      n3       600O      10000.0   5200000.0     400000.0       000000.0          0.0          0.0   430OOO.0
640et mgN r0                         5      3      0      0      0     0      3         0       3800000.0    600000.0       00.0             0.0          0.0          0.0    0000000.0
Tt'                                                                                              11100000.0  144000.OO    7200000.0   101CO0.0            0.o0         o. 3N1500000.0
C. 6Si5%
Cots?wgit6 Abe0eI 00                 3      0            00         00        In"     200000       460000.0        0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0    60000.9
Wa6teranker                 No       I             S          0        0      3       2000 500000      .0 600000    .0 .0 0OO.0              0.0a'          O         0.0   9600000.0
Calailat.?  00  55  0     0      0      0      0     11         1000     ~~~~~~~~         ~~~~        ~~~~         ~~~~         ~~~~150000.0  14000.0  0n.0   10100.0  0.0  0.0   313000C.0
C"     fwt h      0r         o       6     *      0       0     0      0     I         20000     1200100.0    100000.0         0.0           0.0          0.0         0.0    220000.0
Pham                         00       6     0      0S     0             0a 00                      100.              .          0.0          000000                            400.
*t-Tt                                                                                             5500.  o  o  o  o  o100 *   c00.0  0.0    0 .0    o     00          0.0     9 10.Woo0
S. troniat AMlet$Mo .1a
AId-MTWCaeNlato   tM.)   PR          0      0    24       0    24      0     1          00O           0.0          0.0  I"400000.0           0.0  10G00000.0           0.0  20000000.0
aid.TOMCr0t.CI..all   PM             0      0     16      0     56     0     3         40000          0.0          0.0    640OO.O            0.0    66OOOO.O           0.0   12800000.0
PonitC.9 C-(L. (L,00a1)     PM       6      0      0      0      0     0      6        4000       2400010.0        0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0    260000.0
600-foata...l  240000.0                                                                                             .0.              ..0.00 .0  .0.:   1 00.0 ..       0.0.  303C  00.
te.tt IIASSTMnT D0m I6SS1G0.0  353600.0  304503000.0    3113)0000.0  15040 .                                                                                                  0.0  MU08M220000.0
it. rsososf CM1
6. lose. 00.0 r Olue.s
Cf                   90~~~~~~~~~p  S  I     S      I     I      I      7        5000      1100.        5500.0000       000'I.0.    1500 0.0   .5000.0     10000.    505000.
SC,                                  S      S      1      I      I      I     7       l000      5U0000.0    500000.0   1000.           500000.o    500000.0    500000.0    5.OOOOQ.
600                         F        3      7     it    16    it    21    OS           60i   00000 IM.0    42000.0a   460000.0    960000.0   11401000.0   1200000 .0   30W0.0
0.eIe  16.e.Olfcoe          pi       a     2      a      2      a      a     14       10000      200000.0    2000.0    20000.0    200000.0    200000.0    200000.0   56400000.0
JIn.65.0001W                pt       4     4.    1.      4  i       r        20        600       2600100.0    240000.0    240000.0    240000.0    240000.0    260.0   5680.0
Poe..:.?                    fT    130   510   ISO    IS0    150   IS0  1010            30000    4500  000.      om0 430000.  100020    1.5010000.    45000000.0   1.500000.0  31500000.0
Plel O l                   Pt    15iO  lt50      3       0    50 so  s0   350         550        710000.0    750000.0       0'no    o 71000.    710 .         710000.    S2OOO
Sco.ts Offle r              n        I      3     3      3      3      C     19        20000      20000.0      60000.0    640000.0      60000.0      40000.0      60000.0     30000.0
Srwt staff                  PT    is?   Is 18?   t ar tv                    309        55000    010.    08050 00.    20 o00 0 0.0tar  200000    2000 0          280ot000.0   16 351000 
00talt                                                                                           691.5000.o   928000.0   9wO.O6   .    976000.O   9945000.0s   10W06000.O  67471000.0
6. maintenane of Cfv. Vale .2.
g.o"e Office..                                                                                         .            .0          0.0      343s.0      67o.0        66750.0    24068.0
Imen  Off Sce Swort..0.    0                                                                                        .0,  N      10.0    48750.      537100.0,    13700.0   1405200.
0.11049 O      rw.                         ..f                         .     .            .           0.0          0.0          0.0     45200.0      62100.0    165000.0    451750.0
PoCU.. sat       e.                                                                                   0t .O        0.0          0.0     800 .0    656000.0    565000.0   5S7750.O
Pori"Se  mkle SUetw.r                                                                                 0.0    g    0.0           0.0     530         500i0.       15o 000.0    36t750 .
109110 5.0.                                                                                           0.0          0.0          0.0      50131.0     56371.06    I Un 6350,    73500.0
gins Off I...    .   .    . .000000.0 12 00 0 0.0 120000.0 4400000.0
time Staff 66art. 0r.                                                                                         o                 ,o 0.0  00  710000.0   136000.    1361O00.0   479o000.0
office 6o40utsm gte..                                                                                 0.0          0.0          0. 0    6471000    1600 o M0.0    W 5040000  30700.
oa-tm                                                                                                 0.0          0.0          0.0   228080.0   4561218s.0   1.264625.0  51.09625.0
C. IIltS.t  af 060554  .3
C t  Sof V                                                                                              o    sXDOOD0.0    360000.0 720.0   100000.0   10t= .0    51000       500000.0 S 
m600erei                                                                                              0.0    55000.0    27e00.0    330000.0    .30000            4 0.0    2060.0
let. Ptt-Lip                                                                                     3000.0    9010000.0         WW 000000.0 900000.0        I 90000.  900000.0   710000.0
ral                                                                       iixoi i   iiiiisi o    2iewei i   ii;iioi i   i;iiiioi i    is;iKai o   ii;c xi i~~3 :0  "M  0  o'  0
0.                                                                                               300000.0 1f10000... . . **oo itOXO.0  t0.0  433000.0   341X000.0   3418000.0   1166000.0
0.  atuioeo of 0Qfpso                                                                                        g P
ihotemier.                                                                                            00       600000       40000.0     60000.0 6o0000.0          60000.0    360 0 00.
CfLot  foplr..                                                                                        0.0      110000.0    560000.0    500000.0    16000.0    140000.0    000000.0
(11501.,0?.I0.0                                                                                                 500.0        5500.0      am0.0        1500.0       5100.0    92000.0
Tt95tenaf.i 0.0    insw.o    ii;sw.o                                                                                                     22000.0     22000.0      m2000.0    52W00 .0
faa                                                        .           0.0      1.0000.0     1.8000.0    46000.0      41000.0      46000.0    261000.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tn  .  . ....!!n.... ..
6.**T.oei                                                                                              0.0    221500.0   S295000O.0    29500w  .0    2900.o0      o 291500.0   5679000.0
*......afl   ...l**fn... .a. nt                         .        asaa.Sal
rtOtal2800.   %1.45500,0  5235500.0  20035110.10  5217415.0  5603925230  110054625.0
:VP fir7t t" rc'"tIM ntIWt rVW7zn Bidr141-t rWli.
4  e lrAste.  at a rate o4 2.51 et the lt.w _u   voate.
o3s Cs lmuaet4    ta rote of lotS a  the lWgtt awts.
46 calculaed2 at atet of 106 .ti  ld wIw t 0n.ce:
2,21500252,5



-66 -                                                         ANNEX 4
Table 9a
DANOLADEU
Forest Resouroes   anwageet Projeet
Table 9a. General Support to Forest Department
Detailed Coat Table (Take)
Totals Ineludlng Contifr4Fncai
tmit       1992/93     1993/4       19T4/95      1995/6      196/9?       1997/r8     198n/99        Total
........................................................................................................
1. INSTIENT COSTS
................
A. CiVil Worke
R0a Office (5)                        0.0   1613310.6   1719040.8           0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0   3332215.5
NW" Offie r OurtWr(10)                0.0   3226621.3   3437809.6           0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0   666t40.9
o.1aweer Otr./Off ice (10)            0.0   1935972.8   20268.    4371425.4             0.0          0.0          0.0   8370063.9
foreetwO Quarter (20)                 0.0   3871945.5   412351.6            0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0   799m1.1
Foet  arda Quarter(20)                0.0   2463965.3   2625236.5           0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0   5069201.8
Vehlcle Ud (7)                        0.0    86287.9           0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0    862387.9
RINS Office                           0.0   3754613.8   2000160.2           0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0   5754794.0
SINS staff Quarter                    0.0   3285287.1   332S9.5             0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0   6610586.6
OffIce Assistant Qtr.(8)              0.0   228796T.8   2761748.8           0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0   5050716.6
...............................................w.......... ..............W.......i .                ..
Su,Totet                               0.0   202072.1  2205826.8   4748.4                 0.0         0.0          0.0  4973734.2
O. Vehiclee
4W Vehiclt                      345653.7   4020241.6   48371.4              0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0  1205S4266.7
4W Pick-lip                     3121376.1   4466935.1   357342.9            0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0  !1161956.1
Notorcycle                      1560689.1   1340080.5    714728.6   1362329.0           0.0          0.0          0.0   497727.1
Water Tanker                    3121378.1   6700402.6          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0   9821760.7
............................... ......................... ............ ............ ............
Sub-Totel                       11549099.0  16527659.8   8576742.9   1362329.0           0.0          0.0          0.0  38015M8.?
C. Equipaft
Ccq!ater with Aceeories          655489.4          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0    655489.4
Photocopier                     1092482.3    703542.3          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0   1796024.6
Cateulator                        16387.2          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0     16357.2
Typwriter                        131097.9    117257.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0    248354.9
Fox                              524391.5         0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0    524391.5
i.................;;;................ ....................... ............ .............. ........
SibTaotal                        2419648.4    620799.3          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0   3240647.7
0. Tedwlcel Assistarce, 1U
Nid-Terv/Convuttt.(Intt.)             0.0          0.0  17155302.6          0.0  19269108.6          0.0          0.0  36424411.1
Mid-TerwConautts.(Locet)              0.0          0.0    761M.5            0.0    655926.5          0.0          0.0   1617696.0
Nanit. & fvI. (Locat)            249600.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0    249600.0
S.Totel                           249600.0          0.0  17917074 1          0.0  2012505.1           0.0          0.0  3829709.1
Totat INSINEIT COSTS                   14218547.4  40650531.2  48552053.8   5733754.3  20125035.1            0.0          0.0  129279921.8
11. ItE3UlIT COSTS
...............
A. Incr. Staff Salaries
Cf                               163800.0    176053.5    187467.2    19o65.2    210636.2    223276.4    236673.0   1396623.6
DCF                              109200.0    117369.0    124978.1    132476.8    140425.4    14851.0    15772.0    931082.4
ACF                              196560.0    492949.8    624855.7   1271M.6   1600850.0   1875522.2   1968053.5   6250568.7
Senior Ree.Officer               218400.0    234738.0    249956.3    264963.7    280850.9    297701.9    315564.0   1862164.8
JM.Ses.Off icer                  262080.0    281685.6    299947.5    317944.4    337021.1    35742.3    376676.9   2234597.7
Forester                        4914000.0   5281605.0   5624016.3   5961457.3   6319144.   6698293.4   7100191.0  4189807.7
Foret ard                        81900.0   8e0267.5    937336.0    993576.2   1053190.8   1116382.2   110865.2   6983117.9
AocAavts Offie r                  21640.0      70421.4     749s6.9      7946.1       8485.3      89310.6      94669.2    514969.4
sNSport staff                   3063060.0   329220.4   3505636.8   371S575.0   39333.S   4173269.6   4425M5.-  26116861.1
*~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~;; . ... ................ ............ ......................... ............ ............ ............
Sh-Totat                         9767940.0  106229.2  1189181.0  12936362.3  13965309.6  1461849.6  15880760.5  90188693.4
S. Naintsnmce of Civ. Works <2'
Raw Office                            0.0         0.0          0.0      45536.2     98556.0    102359.0    108499.6    352950.7
Sug Officer Qarter                    0.0         0.0          0.0      91on0.      193112.0    204717.9    216999.3    705901.4
O.Swer 0=mter/Office                  0.0         0.0          0.0      54643.4    115867.2    245661.5    260399.1    676571.2
Freater   uarter                      0.0         0.0          0.0    10o2m6.6   25174.3    245661.5    260399.1    8471.7
Foret uarda Quarter                   0.0         0.0          0.0      69546.1    147467.3    156330.0    165708.5    539052.0
Vehfceto Shd                          0.0         0.0          0.0      24341.2      25806.8     2735.8       28999.0    10o654.7
SINS Office                           0.0         0.0          0.0   1059750.8   168340.7   1768629.0   1893S11.7   6425532.1
RIM Staff  arter                      0.0         0.0          0.0    927261.9 * 191775.0   2032290.5   2154210.8    730850.2
Office Assistants Qtr.                G.o         0.0          0.0    645765.6   1460628.6   158411.8   1641303.4   5296129.4
............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............
Sib-Total                              0.0         0.0          0.0   3027244.3   5873s8.9   649418.8   6730330.5  21980581.4
C. Naiftewic of Vehidces 4
480 Jeep                              0.0    42152.2    900510.3   1430465.7   1517292.7   1608827.9   17053IS.0          W56461.8
4W  Pifupo 0.0    35793.5    675496.1   1324505.3   1404900.7   141155.4   157694.5   702344.5
Notercyeel                            0.0    175.8    W691.4    437M6.7    615346.5   6529.1                 6599.2   2910069.6
Water Tanker                     327735.1   1055380.6   1125637.9   1192054.6   1264410.6   1340669.9   1421094.1   7727002.9
p-Tatat                           32775.1   200525.1   3239 35.7   436112.5   480190.    5091642.3   539699.8  25246996.9
D. NotPnsuce of  quipoent 4
Copter                                0.0      70394.5     7510.7       79479.3     64 .9        89340.0      94699.4    49311.9
IMetoerpier                           0.0    117274.2    200026.6    211944.9    22475.0    23U40.1    252531.7   1244794.5
Calculator                            0.0       1759.9      1675.3       1967.0      2106.6       2233.5       2367.5     123299
T*pe fittr                            0.0      14078.9     27503.9      29142.4     30899.7      3275.0       3473.1    169106.1
Fax                                   0.0     S6315.6      60006.6      6358.5      67417.s      7472.0      75r9.5    394556.7
............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............
mb-total                               0.0    2596n.1    36427.1    36613.1    4090.9    434043.7    460061.2              13M98.1
............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............
Tota NANSIT COSTS                      10095675.1  1309236.5  15432943.8  20733856.1  25050269.1  26656954.3   NW46172.0  13973026.9
Total                               24314222.4  53742917.7  63s84997.5  26467610.5  45175304.1   25495.3  Z28681n.0 26o91176.6
gil First two conauttnt requireumos for aid-term revj,-.te
b CtalulAted at * rate of 2.5X of the immtnt ecte
Os Calculated at a rate of 10Q of the Inweatet coats.
4  Calceulted at o rate of 10X of the inmeetent coste.
4//1992 17t4



- 67 -
ANNEX 4.
Table 10
DANGLADZSU
Forest Resources Mana5inent, Project
Takls. L2. Inviroimental Mtanagement
Detailed Cost Table (Taka)
0iv4.iwL Officio  Ut    0~~~~~~i 40 a   60    0    0    0  120            *50        0.0   I19100.0         0.0   3900.0           0.         0.0         0.0   7300.0
NO  5    a    I    I    I        ? ~~~120006000no000.         0         1s0W000    0.         1200000.0        0           0.0  0600000.0
m  a    0    0    a    a    a    0    2       ~~~~~15000000    0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0  13000000.0
Tro.ter (Do. *"IC*)  f  I    a    0    0    0    0    1    moooo 010000.0           0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0   6000100.0
C. 690mi~
Office 6Wrnit1ite  &Rit.   I         .           .      ...                                 000.            .      os..LS0.0                 00         00          00    soo.
Ctvoo  PtIao.              No     I    0C   '               I o '  a '            1000 060.                 .0   200.             .           .0        0.0        0.0  1200000.0
C.asftoLSinaOulvIs.    00                                                        ; 0    4I 0    0  MM00 :00.0  0.0 100.      0.0'       0.0         0.0        0.0   117300~.0
60*41. 60655        00~~~~~N  6    0    4    0     '             14         1000    80000.0         0.-90.w. .0                                  00          00    000.
4001trsllg.   00      0    0    0    0    0~~~ ~~~ ~~~~                                                      ~~~ 0  0    oo  9000 0.I.  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   I0oN.0
c*toow"Al n ts0                               40 3                                  41*9600                0.0   41400.           0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0  215100.0
0. TocivrI~~~~~L Agglit.11 (SM.)lo
Seoogi Iwis                LS     I     2     I    1     0     0    0     1       000 600.0  1000.0    600000.0   0000.0                     0.0        0.0        0.0  3400000.0
Pora to todliIfl.OtiUI      Do     1    2                      0    0     3       000   00000 1600.                    .          .0         00         00         0.    000.
Sut Trooaior    el         0      2     0    0    0    0    0    0                 m 4      on012M0m.0Co   0.0        0.0 0       .0         0.:0       0.0        0.0:  1200000.0a
AFor wwIftir0mwliIW         0     0     2     2    2     2     2    0    O       600           0.   120600 120060.0  1200000.0   1000.0   2000.0                   0.0  *0001001.0
M*iwaIOaawmaov,ys    91   2~~~~           ~~ a    0 O    0    O    0o  0,  40000   12600000.0:0  1600000.    0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0  30000.0
804ruto 40.WUAti           I"     0    2            a    0    0    0    4        00000    2000.0   2000.0   2000.0               0.6         0.0        0.0        0.0  2400000. 0
Airfote  00   5    5    3    2    I    I    0   IT           100000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0000 000.0 500.0  0    00.0   0.    200. 100.0  0  000.0  0.0  M1730000.0
o~~.?9!M                                                         uooooo.o  ,iooooo.o  5300c00..  zoooooo.o  oloowo..  ol000oo.o            0.0  zooooooo.o" .....  mg..
Ofte.LmIPaLIcyIspStt  PU  2    0    1    0    0    0    0    3  40000    00000.0~~~~~t   0.0     00.0          0.0M      100.0        00         00     100.
0mfliOCOIiW.hpa,t   DO~PPM       I    a             0         0a0           0002000 0*00000.                   0.0         0.         00         0.0         0.00   4100000.0
t.Antst.i                                                                   20000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  a 40.0   20000.  4 0000.0  0.0  0.0  0.0    0.0  124000011.0
8909107 SISgy  90o10                                                              IO.... ..  160600.   2090000.0  30960010.0  154900.   11001010.0  1100000.0    5900.0  11900.
.  tif.  km?4.S    gp
t.irs..qatwco~             91     2    0,    0    0''0                    2        730    14000.           0.      40.:0          0.0       30.0        0.0         0.0   1000300.10
lisrfat I.                        ...                                    .           .      700.0 0.. .0..   0.. .0....0                                 00         00.0.
TOist 0a 60919?  0Ls9                                                                     00873001.0  011546000.0  3000*000.0  141200.0  404900.0  204900.0  15490000.0 511230000.0
6006                91~~~~~~~~P  a     a    0    1    1    1    a          200000   200100.0   2000.0   0000.0   2000.0   2000.0   2000.0   2000.0   140011.0
*06tw                      91      1    I     I     I    1     1                    00       00001.0    000.0    400.0         000.0    oN0.0    400.0    600.0   4200001.0
VW                  py~~~9  I    I    I    I    4    I    &   2            2000    60000.0   *00000.0  8100000.0   N000.0    00000 .0    800.0    8000.    1000.
001.  lty0.90              P       I    I    I    I    2    I    I   14            100m     4000.      60000.00     '0000.    600"mw S    6100.0 *.  00.0   600000.0   4200001.0
50.060764-50               PT     I    I            1 11                 S 1 35     00180    mm.       O000.    1000000    M000.0   0110000  00.0 0m   10000.0   440000.
IAc ASitg                  PT     4    4         4       4     *    4   *8         am00     aoooo      6oooo.      ooow.      jos..    oooo.o    0osoo.         dooo.0   510000.0
4a01 "v  wt                PT      a    2    2    2a        2 a     2   14         2000     4000.      40000.0    40000.0    40000.0    4000.0    600110.0    40000.0    2800.3
340RN01.4,St               66           2    2    2    2    2    2   14            2000     14~0.0      000.0    00000.0   40000.0   410000.0    4000.0   40600.0   2400000.0
9o6?ti                                                                                     1160000PT.0  1140000.0 isO  G 110100.0 120000    300010.0    13200100.0   6120600.0  0020000.0
OsiSon~                           I                                      14        mm co110.0          4001.0    400.0    10500.0    1900.0    29000.0    29200.0:    97500.0J
Bu44   i  42 1                                                                     am9"-0.0   400000.0   600000.0   730000.0   7300.0   840000.0   510000.0  4320000.0
saoww                                                                                           0.      500.       100.       100.    100.            gm00.0   I1000.0   9100.00,
01-41anal tftldonc"                                                     0~~~~ ~~~~~~~0.0    000.  0000.0   00000.  6'0000.    0000.0    8000.1   480000.
094.. P9141                                                                                     0.0    250000.0    25080.0    300.         00.        0000      3000       130.
1910.040*                                                              ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~      ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.0    10000  0000    100.0    1000.0  "M00.0  100.0   1640001.0
Cp.oitawc fl  0WMM4                                                                                 .0    60000;.0 . 0500.    120000;.0   02           "Wo0000.0 0200.  200.  00000.0
Offic                                                                                           0.0      oN0.0      900.       117000.0   10701.0    117301.0    110001.0    *4*0=0.
1'.spu440 0Qi0.00                                                                                       2000       2000.0    24600.0   124000.0    2460.0    244000.0   142004.0
00*40 064.0.0                                                                                            4000.0     800.0    1200.0    1200.0    1200.0    12060.0    *400.0
T2426.15001    w                                                                                 0.0   a6m0.    10000.         0   214000    15000    215300.0   114100.0  1201400.0
tOal00*31 traito                                                                               1000.0   215900.0        "W900.   2151.0   200450.0  *01106000145. 1 59700.
........ .    ........  .....a.... !........ .......... .ae..a..... c..
2004,7300.0  11?27300.0  101110010.0  4*0500.0  *6353.0  15"05.0  6003050.0 *7300000.0
4.' calcelotoO ot a r"o, of I-S of "W0 Imwe n cown..
.3. CacteoOoOi 500 a90 on f 102 of 04. iiWio.t eats5.



- 68 -                                                        ANNEX 4
Table lOa
BANGLADESH
Forest Resourcoe  Managmnt Projoct
Tabl   10a         Envirommntal Manasament
Detailed Cost Table (Take)
Totatl InCtuding COntiniONe
unit     1992/9      199/4       1994/95    199/96    1996/97       199/9       1996/9       Total
t. INVESTNUNT COSTS
................
A. Civil Works
oA. lsint Offieo                     0.0   4575M.6          0.0   516623.0         0.0         0.0         0.0   974216.6
DiviemL  Reaidm                      0.0   915187.1         0.0   516623.0         0.0         0.0         0.0  1431810.1
........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ........ ......  ......
Sub.Totel                             0.0  1372780.?         0.   103326.0          0.0         0.0         0.0  2406026.7
I. Vdicla$
4D   Jeep                      624z7s6.2        .0  1429457.1           0.0  160553.5          0.0         0.0  9266.
qe      t (Div. Office)        150689.1         0.0o        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         o.0  1560689.1
Traler (Div. Offfie)            62367.5         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0   832367.5
........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ...........
su-Totat                       s6312.8           0.0  14294S5.1          0.0  1605653.5         0.0         0.0  1167092.4
C. 1wyiist
Office Fumiture a Et.           273120.6        0.0    62538.7          0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0   335659.3
Tweuaf ter                      109248.2        0.0    2501s.s          0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0   134263.7
Coeputer. Printer Etc.          983234.1         0.0   375232.5         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0  135846.6
Cowe   I Binoculara             106155.8        0.0    22513.9          0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0   130669.7
Tedfmicel Equ1_Nm               240346.1        0.0    32520.1          0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0   2728r6.3
Ifbite Radio                     87396.6        0.0    50031.0          0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0   137429.6
Seat Trailer                     5424.1         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0    54624.1
........... ........... .............. ........... ........... ........... ........... ..................  
SurTotol                        1856127.5        0.0   56785.8           0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0   N45979.3
0. Technical Asalat. (Int.)
Strategic Pluming               624312.4  13399.9   714804.3   756825.0            0.0         0.0         0.0  3434585
featry Env ir.Standrda          624312.4  1339909.9         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0  19634222
mot. Sardan & ftrbarim         1248624.7        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0  1248624.7
captive fam  N      89-t       1248624.7        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0  1248624.7
Nm_igtm  PLasing                     0.0  133990.9  142908.5  1513655.9  1605759.0  170274.0               0.0  7591677.4
Naturat Raaource lmrvay        1248624.7  2009664.9         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0  3258489.6
EmlrmentaL Education                 0.0  133999.9  14290.5             0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0  2769518.5
Airfwe                          52060.3   558295.8   357402.1   252276.0   133813.3   141095.3             0.0  1963S42.8
......        ........    ...........   .........   ...........   ...........   ......    ......
SrubTotel                       5514759.3  7927800.4  3931423.5  2522 59.9  1739572.3  1S639.3             0.0  23480954.7
E. Technical lasrat. (LOcal)
Env. Lm Policy Expert            63200.0        0.0    47610.7          0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0   130810.7
Seior Mature Expert             208000.0 0                  0 .0        0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0   431560.0
mub-Totl                         291200.0   22360.0    47610.7           0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0   54230.7
F. aervfess
acw     Surve S Studie         3221920.0  346294.4  3687450.3  1954348.6  2071609.6  2195906.1  2327660.5  18921839.5
0. Study Teur
TraeL Al     _                 u1665.6         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0   145665.6
Airfars                          72s32.8        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0    72832.8
........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ..............w*e... vvv
Sub-Totat                        218196.4        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0   218498.4
..................................... ........... ........... .......................
Tookl IllffN T COSTS                  197383t1.9  1296708.5  9663793.5  550354.5  5416835.4    0545.4  2327660.S 59681592.T
it. ECEBItENT COSTS
...............
A. tncr. Staff Sataries
DPM                             218100.0   234738.0   249956.3   2649s3.7   280.9   297701.9   315564.0  1862164.8
OcF                             438800.0   4694y6.0   62489.7   66238.1   702127.2   744254.8   78890.1   2454283.0
ACF                              65520.0    70421.4    74966.9    79486.1    84s2.3    89310.6    94469.2   558619.4
Senior Ranger                    8736.0    9389.2    9998.5   105961.5   112340.4   119080.8   126225.6   144865.9
Accouatunt                       65520.0    70421.4    999.5   105961.5   112340.4   119080.8   126225.6   6995. 1
Data Intly Operator              65520.0    7021.4    749686.9    7948.1    84255.3    89310.6    94669.2   55869.4
........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ........  .....
Sutoesl                           n67360.O  936895.2   1264978.1   137476.8   14e365.8  194652.r  20e1772.0   885768.2
Drvfiver                         8738e0.0    939.2   1297.1   1329`16.8   1404.4   14885.0   15778.0   885768.6
Divetami                         4368om0.0    464.6      9913       590. 7 53.  56176.2    59540.4      6112.8   372433.0
Sea Oivere                       438.        46947.6:       $ 49991.  5290.    5670.3      ss2 5950.   63112.8      u 3723.
........... ........... ............. ......  ...... ............
sub-Total                             0.0        0.0         0.0  31748.1   41038.2  1963.7   2622.71   2777.2
C. maintenunce of CGiv. srk (lb
D i         fi                       0.0     08.1           0.0    1291U.7   11523.5  1251420.6  130634.5   98641.7
Diviaot                              0.e c  0.   0.08   0r606    25631.4    2o78.8    4354.1    Z54619.0    42929.0
TmTetlr                             0.0      0&11.6    1000o6.0   305874.1   4n102.2       172581.8    7693.1  62m29 .
........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ........  .....
C. NainttWance of V*icls 2*3
C t der                              0.0  7l387.    112516.1   9564.    1011652.5   172531.6  13395.5   913689.2
c_ad                                 0.0    15685.8   182376.3    15965.   210735.    2234.3   1368.0   91t11t.3
TracitlEr  o -nt                     0.0    25811.6  2170006.79    05960.    11529.1  316172.4    38169-.    69512.7
8ob-TostaLi                          0.0   973295.    1038068.3  12528.0  13345.6  15993.6           1892.0      7887773OW.7
........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ........... .... ...  .....
Ofbfeu:t                             0 0.0    1933.8   212105.41  3 M1.    302339.. 43.     9 47.30731.0  162348.o
Tett owutT  0I672O.0   1055o1.8   1O1D25.1  5M95.6 7                                   168543.2 8  1976.          1811939.8  2170682.1
Total tn                                   .0  15 61195.2  1256376       127541 96..6    7 42n.1  158655.4  81389216.8
*1> Calatei at l  rat ot 2.0.0                     2    .      2 inve5t18t c.  1.
42- Calculated et a rateo d     lOf ot  thc n_tm    eettt.
43s- CtcutotA *      tat T raie             0.0      5886.2       25.          2.3      '02?         45.       79.6       40
4/920i l7l^6



-69 -
ANNEX 4
Table 11
DANGLADMSE
Foreat Reaourae Manasamant Projeat
ZAkJ..L1.  Professional Forestera  Education
Detailed Cost Tablo (Take)
_I6'                              100149                                                 elM  10016t
................a. . . . ..........                                                                                                                    ...
A. 69001 VW0
0. 1146    Ols.934101          m    n
o,.'0 9     4i44 D           6   lOl       0      0      *     : a:          :    1 .  .6711.11.e                       0.e          o.e          e.o         o.o          0.v         0.0    *oxoo0.0
1-00161  am. 66999  . S : :                0      6         0                a:                          60.                                                                           0.0  r196000.0
6669 OM&=~                  H019m.                                                                                       .           0.            .          0.           0,           0.0   100000.0
vlow./Ar  t fvi             Lo      .m .                                                                                                                                   H: sxeo   :                   ooo
,M        S                     ...                                  ..                                                  Oa000S.                   lo          .o          00 e.0 o.               US00.0
07604. 994 V   .19 DM061 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . . . . .     .      .      .~~~~~~~aa~601010      0.0          0.0          0.0         0.a.                       .0    119.
9*194  rm "1..                                                                                     e *  4000*0.0         0 e        e                          _.0  0 e   o.0  0.0  0.o  0.0  0.0    00001.0
*     2" 1000.    0.0                0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0 o   0000.0
1910100" 094,609            LI.001. .0                                                                                               9.0          0.0 -M  O   '0.0          0.0        0. '    000000.
*. 4194969                                                                                               01150..300. .    ..  o .6    1 0.0  0.0      0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0  9401000.0
14409111W                    0 *6                 0      0      0     0      0      0      11900      500060.            0.0         0.0t         0.0          0.0         0.0      *0.0    300000.
t rfot                                               _r u. . ..                                                 ......    .....           ......... :. ........ .......:!!!! ...... '... : !
C.  0timore                   19       0             0     0             0      0                M        106.             6.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0,0         0.0;     *0000;.0
0.             "NwU. 660
rl.06U0 00049ew             LI.         .      .      .e.o          .       .e.e          .      ._     oe.o          e.e..          e.o          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0   l00oox.o
6990" .W. 091....69         U                                               .. ... . . .*              190619.0     0. .6666.        6.           0. .         0  .0         . .        0..0 o.o...0.
69I1A140.0W6C1V                                                                                          l01660.0   is".g.o             0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0    Ioeo.
6. 1919190  0066091
4WIOA~Mg9--IW-  (619.0919          1                                                       066        060..0                        00           96          00           00           00     ooo.
k4plem.                                   .      .      .      .     .                                  | ei        t            1-          rtt.e       tOS           ..0..  ..0.... ....         x 
P       .i...... m                                                                                                   ii          i     ; 0; 0; 0..0                          0.0         0.0  ti000000.
0.                                                                                                   14am 6600.0       6.0m.  0  0aw            6.            .0          0.0         0.0   612101001.0
*.   al."S; O a_r_t trn        4                   aIoniat                            Z          Ze                     e:            .      a,    i  e       lm. 0Sff     ao.o         o. 0x
"Mg W "I6P ly9              9        1     9      1     0                 is4000I4000.6    130.0                                136.0        130.0             6.0         00           0.    0019.
0o66 W" v.6                          6     1      0     I?     3      J            4         1900           0.      0ooI.          51*6.     0199,W.6     000.             0.06=        0.    360011.000
00O"LvlsouS1                                                                      06        NM06           6.6           0     0.6W.        $AiM.:        M=00.       416001.     110.0   310019.
99600                      In"     lo             I     31 I    0 ;10       11 0"0406                       0.0          0.0     640.0        MM60.6    4011900.0    0640.0             0.0    30000.
9068I0rV195094           PR      0      0      0     10     1      0     10     4                        0.0          0.0         0.                                            vd am. 100.  1000  *40.
P.199? i,t r06t6q           19       0     6      6    10    10    Ii    60    40                           0.0          0.0          0.9    000060.6    004019.0    010019.0    014000.0   3041000.0
00' jtW.9t1'* .   6.nose. ..  0666.0  uo..* *--. no..... . twos.".f.te.. 00000.0 4r0000.0 .. ..   !                                                              ..........
01     6                                                                                                51600.0   3140606.0 0n 00 . h taa,e.     n_ooos".    lboooos.e  u11o19.0    *ow'oo.o   smo.co, 
F. 9.0g. 6.glwIoU.olo   Ls      .      .4   0.     .1    .1    .1        .     1.         19.0    10660                       lom0o"                   30.0 11066 1660 60005 1019.01    1000.0    710000.. 0
68. dOag rr O lO
mm401060  90            0          .....                                                            eo .....ob.... ..o...... o. os..... !.......... ...               o......  b......... ...   o......
19906 69990105? 00610                                                         osnosas..   4040600.0   4010006.0   9200606.0    DM0000.0   000""0.060.0   40"NM0 76"M0000.0  01.30300.000.
4. 9969606941. 00400 409=                                                                                                                           1          gg         I            srt:        t ,et 
A.   gl.t   of105 cf..0 0                                                                                             4100.        46500.0    41600.        4100.6    4650.0    16100.0   24019101.0
AIdW    IId   Of                                                                                                    itti i0.     tSid6           ii       ii  wStiii wao                  't     rtin;
6.g601011at. 6AMC.                                                                                          0.0  1419010.0  106.   400.011966 =                    11000.0 61919.  09700.
9.9W   04.64, C.AugO.                                                                                       0.0    10006.    10060           6001.0    10000.6    10300.0   1SU190.             M190.
Off  DM190.                                                         0.0      10000.0      16060.~~~~~             ~~~~~~~~    ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~0 .0  110:  0060 6000.01  90000.0
vow ran  1e0.                                                                                                     16000I.     10s0060        M                      100006.      10.         00.
6.    tt                                                                                              *--------;-6   ~  .0 *- i IO.cc oe*--iici*--iioe  *-u--ieieio.;    gioioie:;     io.oi '*0ioito.e
610196                                                                                                      0.6       0000.0       0000.0      *060.0       6000.6      0000.0       0000.1 "'s.0100.
4.61001119                                                                                                    O.: jl.u9*6
411490476                           .          . .           . .           . ..                             0.      1I'0M.0    66000.        000660.6      M01s.    200000.        00066.0      SI0MI0.
t0091 61014600? r 0616                                                                                             0.0 '  e o    1u7toS,'t   1010610.0    14300100  ol o      0 ;*000u.    1010600   1911671 1
Mt  1ma     pn                                                                                              0Wt.0    *tM117  8.11   Ioni.$    let1ttl2.9    r1t6tt1.5    U1111.9    tatsl.$ .. nnn&.O
Igloo                                                                                                    131400.0   613aplj            U0.0 00001.6 10601.6   921000.      000610.    19010100  1031113075710
11 .0t4. (51111.51  I916t 1 amt t     006rn          .
$.S0. 'a Fj      I4  we f00ir_l 00606.
93. 994 a giovE.
4r rdrnwlrCtl aft rrage of 2.1% d4 a" nIrw sonr.
.40      0 r... d rA a lae of lg o0. *f rw owns""   Jt$.
w 040   96I      9 r     /         0  1900 dgOSo-
0/01/960 1,04X.



- 70 -                                                          NEX 4
Table lla
BANGLADESH
Forest Resources Menegment Project
Table Ila. Professional Foresters' Education
Detailed Cost Table (Take)
Totats Includirg Contingeniesl
Unit       199- /3     19/94        19/5         I9/96       1996/97      19996        19969         Total
........................................................................................................
1. IUVSIIUIET COSTS
A. Civil Works
Acadmic 5dg.2nd3rd Ft.         18130f1.1           0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0  18130961.1
Studnt Nostel(Ird Ftlor)        7M34.6            0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0   7177134.6
tesidential Appt. Sltck         651121.5           0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0   6531121.5
oite oeDtepmnt                  1092160.8         0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0   1092160.8
Enre./Aret. Sres                16821.2           0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0   1638241.2
toads Drairn, Cutv              5406093.9         0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0   546060.9
infr. for Tng. in Forest         655296.5         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0    655296.5
Water Tenk - 0TW                436863.1           0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0   436864.1
Utlifties Servces               1638241.2   17595.2            0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0   3398216.4
.... ....... .............. ............... .......... ............ ....................
SubTotat                        4    3.7    175 .2              0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0  4842578.9
a. Vehicles
Truck                           1456643.1          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0   1456643.1
4WD Lnd Cruiser                 374563.7          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0   3745653.7
"'V"le                            2060.2          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0     20809.2
.....       .        ..... ............... ............ ............ ............ ............ ........................
SubeTotet                        5223106.0         0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0   5223106.0
C L E=atory Equipmen                 1092482.3   1172570.5          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0   2265052.8
okes end Periodicoal             546241.2    586285.2          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0   1132526.4
............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............
St-Total                         1638723.5   1T58855.7          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0   3397579.2
0. Tochnical Aistance
Curriculum Pltwr tint.) 912    624312.4            0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0    624312.4
Postured. Edactor (Int.) ob    124C624.7          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0   1248624.7
........... .......... ............ ......................... ............ ............ ..............
Sb-Total                         187293.1           0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0   187297.1
E. Fellowships
Agro/Seflt Forestry 4a.        1696129.6   18227.5    1944267.6   205872.0              0.0         0.0          0.0   7523246.8
social Senee                          0.0    911138.8    972133.8   1029266.0   1091916.2            0.0         0.0   4004474.7
Wood Scence                           0.0          0.0    972133.8   1029286.0   1091916.2   1157865.9            0.0   4251201.9
Foret Economics                       0.0         0.0    972133.8   1029266.0   1091916.2   1157865.9            0.0   4251201.9
LOW Us Husginnt                       0.0         0.0    9M133.    1029286.0   1091916.2   1157865.9             0.0   4251201.9
rnsuration/vmn-enmory                 0.0          0.0         0.0   1029286.0   1091916.2   1157865.9   1227296.9   4506367.0
Envirornental efunen                  0.0          0.0         0.0   1029286.0   1091916.2   115865.9   1227298.9   4506367.0
Forest Engineering                    0.0         0.0          0.0   1029286.0   1091916.2   11s5765.9   122729.9   4506367.0
Fort Siols                            0.0         0.0          0.0   1029286.0   1091916.2   1157865.9   1227298.9   4506367.0
Study TworeConfrenc              7236.4    781614.1   8a339.3    882966.0    936692.8    993267.3   10S229.9   620672.9
Sb-Total                         2 9.1   3515030.4   6666741.2  11175826.2   9672022.0   9096328.5   5962025.5  48516467.9
F. N.Sc. Scholrhipm(Loal)                 0.0    13391.0    142960.9    151365.6    160575.9    170274.4    180485.1    939652.9
C. Services
Pbltications of dooks            312000.0    535340.0    3570.4    3715so.2    401215.5    425268.5    450605.8   2660235.4
................... ......................... ............ ............ ............ ............
Totat ITIET  tcsn                     58165864.5   7503192.3   7166782.4  117o5697.0  10233813.4   9693891.4   659336.5  111062557.5
II.  CU[ERRT COSTS
...............
A. Naintenmnce of Civ. Wowke 44,
Academic  uildtdng                    0.0    486979.0    516807.4    54978.6        82882.1    617913.1    654962.7   3411343.1
Student HosteL                        0.0    192770.5    205369.7    217629.8    230733.7    244600.7    259274.7   1350378.9
Residentialt Appt. ltock              0.0    175419.2    186884.4    19800.9    209965.4    222584.2    23S937.4   122831.S
loads, Drains, Culverts               0.0    146671.6    156257.9    163586.1    175556.3    186107.2    197272.0   1027451.1
Infrec. for Trg.n Foest              0.0      17600.6      18750.9      19870.3     21066.8      22332.9     23672.6    123294. 
Water Trnk * DTW                      0.0    117537.3    125006.3    132468.8    1445.1    14865.            157817.6    821960.9
...........;............ ......................... ............ ............ ............ ............
Sub-Teotal                             0.    113677.2   1211076.6   12n74.7   1360649.3   1442423.7   1528957.0   7963s2.6
S. Nainteime of Vehcles 4<5 
Truck                                0.0    164170.3    175099.2    165430.7    196686.1    208551.8    221059.1   1150997.2
460 Lend Cruiser                      0.0    422152.2    450255.2    478621.9    505764.2    536276.0    5687.7   2959M0.1
Bicycle                               0.0      2345.3       2501.4       2649.0      2609.8       2979.3       3158.0     16442.8
ubTotta 0.0                                   56.8         6255.8    664901.a7    70260.1    7470.0    79284.7   412717.2
C. Neintuwwce of EqupImt 861
Laboratory Equi nt                    0.0    117524.2    250035.8    264931.1    280906.3    297800.1    31566.6   1526662.1
Total IEAIT   COSTS                          0.0     184270.3   2089.1   2213207.5   2346815.7   248 0.9   263726.4  13617068.9
Tetel                              58165864.5   9345962.6   9255750.6  1391804.5  12580629.1  12161922.3   9230592.8  124679626.3
*t> O.Sc. (HNa.) in Forestry nd Envof.intalt Scine.
2 N.So. In Foestry aid Erwioamntal Science.
q3ep for 2 person.
do Calculated at a rate of 2.5X of the Invetmit costs.
d*  Catlulated at a rate of 10 of the invntme  costs.
6W Calculated at a rate of 10  of the inetit costs.
4/28199   17:47



- 74 -
ANNEX 4
Table 12
BANGLADESH
Forest Resources Management Project
Zble1L2.  In-service Training
Detailed Cost Table (Taka)
Quantity             Unit Cost                       Sass Coats
*_UUsuaessnsu.~sauusu~.    _usanus   u~fls  ------_s.-ws
Unit  92/93  93/94 94 99  Total       1992-99        1992/93     1993/94     1994-99      totaL
.............. ................................... .......... ..............  ................................................
1. INVESTMEMT COSTS
................
A. Civil Works
Acadmic lufidings           SlT   300       0      0   300          6500     1950000.0         0.0         0.0  1950000.0
Student Dormitory           SNt   860       0      0   8o           6500     5590000.0         0.0         0.0  5590000.0
staff Hoscing               SNT  3370       0      0   3370         6500    21905000.0         0.0         0.0  21905000.0
Site Works                  LS      -                                        5000000.0         0.0         0.0  5000000.0
Ensr./Arct. Services        LS                                               2000000.0         0.0         0.0  2000000.0
Sub -TotAL                                                                   36445000.0         0.0         0.0  36445000.0
. Vehicles
30 - Seater Sue             No       2      0      0      2      1400000     2800000.0         0.0         0.0  2800000.0
15 * Seater Mini Bus        No       2      0      0      2      1100000     2200000.0         0.0         0.0  2200000.0
Joe                         NO       2      0      0      2      1200000     2400000.0         0.0         0.0  2400000.0
Motorcycle                  No       4      0      0      4        60000      240000.0         0.0         0.0   240000.0
Bicycle                     No      10      0      0     10         4000       40000.0         0.0         0.0    40000.0
Sub-Total                                                                     h60000.0          0.0         0.0  7680000.0
C. Equipmnt *>                   LS                    -      -1000W.0  tsoo500000.0                            0.0  2500000.0
0. Technical Asfistance
Curricultu  PluvneriLocal)    PM     2      0      0      2        40000       80000.0         0.0         0.0    80000.0
E. Fellowshipe
Mng./Plng.of M. Resourcos    PM      6      3      0      9        70000      420000.0   210000.0          0.0   630000.0
R.SocioLogy/F. Fxctensin    PU       6      6      0     12        70000      420000.0   420000.0          0.0   840000.0
P. Managinnt/Extension      PM       6      6      0     12        70000      420000.0   420000.0          0.0   840000.0
Mensur./Survey/R. Sensing    pH      6      6      0     12        70W0       420000.0   420000.0          0.0   840000.0
Si Ivfcutture               PU       6      6      0     12        70000      420000.0   420000.0          0.0   840000.0
, ..... ........... ........... ...........
Sub-Totat                                                                     2100000.0  1890000.0          0.0  3990000.0
Totot INVESTMENT COSTS                                                              47305000.0  3390000.0          0.0  50695000.0
It. RECURRENT COSTS
...............
A. Mainteance of Civ. Works <2>
Acadmic Suildings                       -         -                                0.0    48750.0    48750.0   292500.0
Student Dormitory                   *      *                                       0.0   139750.0   139750.0   838500.0
Staff Noaing                        -      -      *      -            *            0.0   547625.0   547625.0  3285750.0
.... ...................... ...............
Sib-Total                                                                           0.0   736125.0   736125.0  4416750.0
B. Naintenance of Vehicles 4>
30   S eater dw                      . -      *      -                             0.0   280000.0   280000.0  1680000.0
15 - Seater                         -             -      -            -            0.0   220000.0   220000.0  1320000.0
Jp                                  .      .      .      .            .            0.0   240000.0   240000.0  1440000.0
Motorcycte                          .      .                                       0.0    24000.0  - 24000.0   144000.0
Bicyclt                                 -      -      -               -            0.0      4000.0      4000.0    24000.0
........... .......................
Sub-Total                                                                           0.0    768000.0   76800.0  4608000.0
C. Maintennce of Equiprent 4*                                                           0.0   100000.0   250000.0  1350000.0
........... ........... ........... ...........
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                      0.0  1604125.0  1754125.0  10374750.0
Total                                                                            47505000.0  4994125.0  173125.0  61069750.0
413 Mensuration,draifng,Engr.,iology,Si lvfculturo .F.ighting,V.Aid,Offfco.
'2 Calculated at a rate of 2.5X of the investment coats.
43. Catlulated at a rate of 1O of the investment coats.
4< Catculated at a rate of 0l of the fnvestment costs.
2/21/1992  12:55
.



- 72 -                                                     ANNEX 4
Table 12a
DANMLADESI
Forest Resources Managemnt Project
Tcblo IA. In-service Training
Detailed Cost Table (Taka)
Totale Including Contingewies
Unit     199_/93     19/94       1994/9_     195/9        9/         I"?/9      1998/99       Totat
................................................................................................
1. I *  NVSNT CVSTS
................
A. Civil Works
Aca_ fc Suildine               2129713.5         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0  2129713.5
Student Domltory               6105178.8         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0  6105178.6
Staff Neoing                  23923781.9         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0  23923781.9
Site Works                     546003.9          0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0  54600.9
Ensr./Arct. Series             214U21.6          0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0  216321.6
......i...............;..................... ...........:.............;...............
Sub-Total                      3sec.6             0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0  3 99.6
B. Vehicles
30 - s"er am                   2913286.2         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0   29132.2
15 - Seter Nini               2289010.6         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0  2289010.6
Jep                            2497102.S         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0  2497102.5
Notorclae                       249710.2         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0   249710.2
sicyte                           41618.4         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0    41618.4
................. ..................-....... ---------..  -----------... -----------..................................
SubTotat                        790726.0          0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0  799072.0
C. Euipmmnt <ca                     109242.3  1758655.7           0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0  2651336.0
0. Technical Assistnec
Curriculum Pltuwr(Locat)         832.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0    83200.0
E. Fctleowhips
Nng./Plne.Of N. Reources        43718.7   234.2              0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0   671502.9
R.Soeiolcgy/F. Exteelon         43716.7   46968.5            0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0   902967.1
F. Mansaoemutlftenafon         437018.7   4689.5            0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0   905967.1
Nwur./Survy/U. Sensing          437018.7   4868.5            0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0   905967.1
Silviculture                    437018.7   449f8.5           0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0   905967.1
........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ........... .......................
Ub-Totot                        21650.3  2110358.1            0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0  4295451.4
........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ...........
Total INWEIINT COSTS                  511553.2  3869213.8            0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0  55024517.0
I1. ItEtREIT COSTS
...............
A. Mintenance of Civ. Works 42D
Acadmic Suildings                    0.0    5M1.9    6090.6    64578.6    65467.0    72581.8    76936.1   40m7.9
Student Domaito.r                    0.0   16398.8   174696.3   165125.2   196272.0   206067.8   220550.2  1148690.3
Staff *ourng                         0.0   642568.3   684565.7   72542.5   769112.2   81535.6   664248.8  4501263.2
......... ...................... ................. ........... ........... ...........
SubTotal                              0.0   863749.1   920202.6   975136.3  1033851.2  1095965.2  1161M.1  6050659.4
S. Naintenance of Vehicles '43
30 - Seater Sm                       0.0   326340.6   350196.5   370661.5   393372.2   417103.5   442118.2  2301994.4
15 - Seater Sum                      0.0   257961.9   275I55.9   291591.2   3007S.l   3274.2   347378.6  1806709.9
Jep                                  0.0 o 21434.8   300170.1   317881.3   337176.2   357517.3   3789.4  1973138.1
NotorcycLe                           0.0    28143.5    30017.0    3178.1    3371.6    35751.7   S3795.8   197m3.
Bicycle                              0.0      4690.6      5002.8      5296.0      5619.6     5958.6      6316.0    38.6
................................... ......ii:.....;;...........................
SiTta09t o0.0   90059.4    94.3   1017220.1  101893.7  1144055.4  1212667.0  631401.9
C. Maintance of   ipnt 4                  0.0   117M24.2   51254.7   331163.9   351132.8   37M2 .2   395.8  18789.966
......................................  .   ...    ,;     .   ...........   ...........   ...........   ...........   ...........   .......................................... 
Totale ISMtEMT CoST$                         0.0   1       T81664.7  2195291.6  23230.2  2434.7  2612290.8  27682.9  14243697.9
Total                              51155303.2  5750678.5  2193291.6  23520.2   2463.7  2612290.8  2768962.9 69268214.9
412. Nwnuratin,dr*wing.Engr..SitogwySitviculture,F.Fightine,V.Atd,Office.
42> Calculated at a rate of 2.5S of the 1nvestmt coats.
4a Cslculcated at a rate of 10S oX  the nvestent coets.
44 Calculated at a rate of 10X of the invstemt coats.
4/28/1992 1M4O



- 73 -
ANNEX 4
Table 13
BANGLADE8H
Forest Resources Management Project
Table 13. Foresters Training
Detailed Cost Tablo (Take)
Qusnt1ty         Unit cost                        Base Costs
uu_    _um-_ _-~        *----_uu    *au.----------        *suuu,umu2uuuuuau
Unit  92/93 93-99 Total        1992.99        1992/93      1993/94     1994-99        Total
.................................... .......... ..............  ....................................................
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. Clvlt Works
Academic Buildings          SMT  2500      0  2500          6500      16250000.0         0.0          0.0  16250000.0
Student Dormitory           SNa  3250      0  3250          6500      21125000.0         0.0          0.0  21125000.0
Staff Housing               SNT   4260     0  4260          6500      27690000.0         0.0          0.0  27690000.0
Site Development            S-T                                         500000.0    500000.0          0.0   1000000.0
Engr./Arct. Services        S1T                                         725000.0    250000.0          0.0    975000.0
Sub-Total                                                              66290000.0    750000.0          0.0  67040000.0
B. Vehicees
52 - Seater Bus             NO      2      0      2      2600000       5200000.0         0.0          0.0   5200000.0
30 - Seater Bus             No      2      0      2      2000000       4000000.0         0.0          0.0   4000000.0
15 - Seater Mini Bus        NO      1      0      1      1100000       1100000.0         0.0         0.0   1100000.0
jee                         NO      1      0      1      1200000       1200000.0         0.0          0.0   1200000.0
Motorcycle                  NO      4      0      4        60000        240000.0         0.0          0.0    240000.0
Bicycle                     NO      10     0     10         4000         40000 .0        0.0          0.0     40000.0
Sub-Totat                                                              1178000.0          0.0         0.0  11780000.0
C. Equlpment -1c                 LS            -                            1000000.0    590000.0         0.0   1590000.0
0. TechnieaL Assistance
Foresters CurricuLu(Loe)   PR       2      0      2        40000         80000.0         0.0         0.0      80000.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                        79150000.0   1340000.0         0.0  80490000.0
It. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Maintenance of Cfv. Works 42
Academic Buitdings                        -      -                           0.0    406250.0    406250.0   2437500.0
Student Dormitory                   -               -                        0.0    528125.0    528125.0   3168750.0
Staff Housing                                                                0.0    692250.0    692250.0   4153500.0
Sub-Totat                                                                     0.0   1626625.0   1626625.0   9759750.0
B. Maintenance of Vehictes 43)
52 - Seater Bus m                                                            0.0    52000W4.0    520000.0   3120000.0
30 - Seater Bus                                                              0.0    400000.0    400000.0   2400000.0
i5 - Seater Mini Bus                                                         0.0    110000.0    110000.0    660000.0
Jeep                                      -                                  0 0.0    120000.0    120000.0    720000.0
MotoreyLe                                 -                   -              0.0     24000.0      24000.0    144000.0
BeyeLe                                -      -               -              0.0      4000 .0      4000.0      24000.0
Sub-Total                                                                     0.0   11780J0.0   1178000.0   7068000.0
C. Maintenance of Equipment 44)             -.        -                           0.0    100000.0    159000.0    895000.0
0. Incr. Staff Sataries
Teachers t                  PT      8      8     56       100000        800000.0    800000.0    800000.0   5600000.0
Teachers It                 Pr      2      2     14        80000        160000.0    160000.0    160000.0   1120000.0
Teachers III                Pr      2      2      14       60000        120000.0    120000.0    1W0000.0    840000.0
Sub-Totat                                                               I08000.0   1080000.0   1080000.0    760000.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                          1080000.0   3984625.0   4     .0    25282750.0
Total                                                                      80230000.0   5324625.0   4043625.0  105772750.0
41) F.Mensuration, Offiee, F.Engr., F.Biology, silviculture, Fire Fighting.
t2' Caeculated at a rate of 2.5X of the investment coats.
c3) Calculated at a rate of 101 of the Invetment coats.
4o Calculated at a rate of 10X of the investment costs.
2/21/1992 12:55



-74 -                                                      ANNEX 4
Table 13a
BANMADESH
Forest Resouroes ManaSgmnt Project
Table 13a. Foresterc Training
Detailed Cost Table (Taka)
Totela Including Contingmcles
Unit       19v          1993/94     14/95        1995/96      1MN/97       1997/96     1996/99        Total
........................................................................................................
1. INUIENT Ceos
................
A. Civil Works
Acadmic Suildina               17747612.7          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0  17747612.7
Studsnt Dormitory              23071896.5          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0  23071696.5
Staff gtt ling                 30241932.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0  30241932.0
Site Selpnt                      546080.4     566.4             0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0   1132738.8
Ive./Arct.  arvice               791816.6    293329.            0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0   1085145.8
............................. ...........  ............  ............  ............... .......
$etotI                          7938.1         87W97.60 0.0                    0           0           0.0          0.0   72795.7
B. Vehfctle
52 * Sueter Su                  54138118.7         0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0   5410388.7
30 - Seater Mm                  416137.5           0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0   4161837.5
15 - Seater MinI Sw             1144505.3          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0   1144505.3
Jeep                            1248551.2          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0   1248551.2
otorcyeto                        2497o.2           0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0    249710.2
Bicycle                           41618.4          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0      41618.4
......;.................;..........:......................... ..............;..................
6frTeta                         12256611.4          0.0          0 0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0  12256611.4
C.   ipment 41>                      1092482.3    691816.6           0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0   1784296.9
0. Tehnical Assistance
Frestw  Curricutua.LOc)           83200.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0       3200.0
.................. ............ ......................... ............ ............ ............
Totat INWSENIIT COSTS T5$31431.8   1571804.2                            0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0  87403436.0
it. euIRT COSTS
...............
A. Maintenanc of Civ. Wowks Q2,
Acedmic Suildfing                     0.0    476682.7    5078.1    538154.7    570558.0    604848.3    "41134.2   3339216.0
Student Doitory                       0.0    619687.5    640189.5    69fo1.1    741725.5    786302.9           3474.4   43409.8
Staff t    ine                        0.0    812267.3    868356.1    917015.6    9720.9   1030661.6   1092492.6   5690024.1
.....                               ....;;i;** ..   ............   ........  . .....      ......
SubrTotat                              0.0   19067.s    2033.6    21547.3   2284514.4   2421812.6   2567101.2  13370220.8
S. Maintenane of Vehicles 4&
52- Seuter ksW                        0.0    609775.5    680368.6    688742.7    73054.4    774620.8    821076.6   4275132.5
30 - Seter k                          0.0    469058.0    500283.5    529602.1    561960.3    595862.2    631597.4   3288 .5
15 - Seter  ini SWc                   0.0    1289.0    137578.0    145695.6    154539.1    163862.1    17369.3    90355.0
Jep                                   0.0-  140717.4    15M65.1    158940.6    160818.1    178758.7    189479.2    986569.0
MotorCycle                            0.0      28143.5      30017.0      317M8.1      33717.6     35751.7      37895.8    197313.8
sfcycte                               0.0       4690.6       5002.8       5296.0      5619.6       5958.6       6316.0      32885.6
Sb-Totat                               0.0   138135.9   1473334.9   1560267.2   1654973.0   1754814.1   1860054.3   9684819.5
C. Hain--c       t oft EquPipmnt 43        0.0    11724.2    196778.4    21620.2           20.5    236751.1    250953.4   1237747.9
0. Incr. Staff Salaries
Teacher  1                       873600.0    938952.0    99962.1   1059614.6   1123403.5   1190807.7   12625.2   7448659.1
Teacer I1I                       17472.0    18779.4    1996.0    211962.9    22448.7    238161.5    252451.2   148973.8
Teacher III                      131040.0    140842.8    149973.6    158972.2    168510.5    178621.2    189338.4   1117296.9
................................................................................................--
STotet                           1179540.0   1267565.2   1349763.9   1430749.7   1516594.7   1607590.4   170045.8  100559.8
... .;; ; ; . .Z i i ..   ...........   ..................... .......................      ........ *v*Z^. *v*....
Totat  RhT COSTS                        11790.0   474922.9   5055260.9   5336408.5   5679402.6   602098.4    62154.7  34348478.0
w    -S
Total                               87010991.8   62462.1   5055260.9   53560.5   567902.6   602096.4   6382154.7  121751914.0
41<  _Menauation, Office, F.Engr.. F.0iology, Stlviculture  Ffire Fihting.
.as Caleulated at a rate of 2.51 of the innestmnt ceats.
443 Caleulated at a rate of 10X eO the iwet.ant eeots.
'44 Celculated at a rate of 10S of thoe inetnt cesta.
4/2/1992 17:48



Forest Resources I_a_eCllt Projoct
,Tabhl 14. Guard Training
Detailed Cost Table (Take)
Quantity        Unit Cost              Base Costs
Unit 92/93 93-99 Total     1992-9      1992/93   1993-99      Total
...... .......... ..  ------    -----------------
1. IIVESTNENT COSTS
A. Civil Works
Rep./Ext.of Sch./Ac.Bltd.   NO    2    0    2       1250000    2500000.0       0.0 2500000.0
Repair of hotet Building   NO    1    0    1         750000     750000.0       0.0  750000.0
Garage and Workshop        No    1    0    1         500000     500000.0       0.0  500000.0
Site Devplopmnt            LS   -    -    -              -      500000.0       0.0  500000.0
Sub-Total                                                       4250000.0       0.0 4250000.0
B. Vehicles
Pick-UP Truck              No    1    0    1        1000000    1000000.0       0.0  1000000.0
C. Technical Assistance
Curriculum Pltmr(Locsl)   PH    1    0    1           40000      40000.0       0.0   40000.0
Total INESTMENT COSTS                                                  5290000.0       0.0  5290000.0
II. RCRRENT COSTS
...............
A. aintenace of Civ. Works clx
School/Acadmic suilding          -    -    -             -           0.0   62500.0  375000.0
Hostel Buiding                        -    -            -           0.0   18750.0  112500.0
Garage  d Workshop               -    -    -             -           0.0   12500.0   75000.0
Stb-Total                                                             0.0   93750.0  562500.0
B. Naintanance of Vehicles 42>
Pick-Up Truck                    -    -                              0.0  100000.0  600000.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                       0.0  193750.0 1162500.0
Total                                                               5290000.0  193750.0 U52500.0
41; Calculated at a rate of 2.5X of the imvestmnt costs.
'2  Calculated at a rate of 10X of the investment costs.
2/21/1992 12:56



- 76-                                                 ANNEX 4
Table 14a
BANGLADESH
Forest Rescourcos Maagement Project
Tablo l14. Guard Trainins
Detailed Cost Tabla (Taka)
Totals Including Conting nciss
Uift    1992/93    1993/94    1994/95    1995/96   1996/97    1997/98   1996/99        Total
......................... ............................................................................................. s
1. 1mS nUT COSTS
................
A. Cfvil Works
lop./Ext.of Sch./AeJtld.      2730401.9        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0  2730401.9
kopaIr of Nostet Suftdig      619120.6        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0  619120.6
C      r waoeond Workehop      546060.4        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0  546080.4
Sitt oavsopant                 546080.4        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0  546060.4
Sub-Total                      4641 6.3         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0 46416t3.3
D. Vehicles
Piek-UP Truck                 1040459.4        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0  1040459.4
C. Tecnical AseIstence
CurricutLm Planmnr(Local)       41600.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0   41600.0
..... ................................. ..........  .............. ..........  .............. ..........  ............. .................... ..
Total INVESTENT COSTS                 5723742.7        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0 57M  742.7
It. RECUIET COSTS
A. Nainteoan  of Civ. Uwrks c1i
Schoot/Acadsic ultdln4              0.0   7M335.8   78128.9   8Z7.0   6777t.2   93053.6   9M36.0  513725.5
Nostot Bultding                     0.0   22000.7   23438.7   24837.9   26333.4   27916.1   29590.8  154117.7
brags e uvooel,op                   0.0   14667.2   15625.8   16556.6   17555.6   18610.7   19727.2  102745.1
Su-Total                             0.0  110003.7  117193.4  124169.5  131667.2  1395O6.4   17f54.0  77068.3
-. Naintennc  of VehicLes Q2>
Pick-Up Truck                       0.0   11726.5  125070.9  132450.5  140490.1  14865.5  157899.3  822140.9
..........  .. ii.i.;....... ..                     ....................................
Total REtREENT COSTS                        0.0  227268.2  242264.3  56640.1   27157.3  268545.9  305853.4  15929.2
_-____c__3 __ -           -         -          ---                   -          -_
ott                                sm5723742.7  227266.2  242264.3  256640.1  272157.3  288545.9  30553.4  731647.9
c. Catlculatod at a rate of 2.5 of toe investeont costs.
4r Calculated at a rate of 0l of the investent c ats.
4/261V 2  17:48



- 77-
ANNEX 4
Table 15
BNGLADESP
Forest Resources Management Project
Table 15. Mangrove Research
Detailed Cost Table (Taka)
ft                          unit, cost                                     $e. case
.....................................  ...   .       ........................... . ! ......... ....... ... .  ....... T    .....  .......T    ........ ........
t. IN64001060  COtTS
A. clvii wusS
leseorti Statifn (4O        UT w    200  400   a 0 0                 10oa       6000      1300000.0  3900000.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0  1200000.0
......i.t....ion                                                                            MM.0 .    80000      0      .01        0.         0.0         0.0   "000
S1le Otiw                  I. *.      .      .      .     .      .      .     . -          100000.0   1o0000.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0   s00000.0
lotof 01*947          0.        .     .      .      .     ..Ls0.    200000.    200000.                                      0.00        00         00     '00.
or~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ o                                                                   2oo  00000 O                 a o   0        O      2t oo
U.OSiito;.CL no. OlutneO    SI?  120  240  120    0    0    0  00               6100       7800t00.0 IS00 o00.                     00         0.0         0.0 3o. 120O.0
Site  eeei  SII                         .             .. .      .        .      .      . 1001000.0         0.0          .0          .0         .0.0               0000
Lelteact's F                LF.        .     ..                  ..                        1000 .          0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0   100000.0
lend Acqieitlsn             Ls    *00*000.0                                                                0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0  1000000.0o
sTr v.u                                                             WOOoO~~~~~~~~~~~~~600.0   7840000.0   960000.0  0.0  0.0        0.0  12720000.0
pecitanised 000             No      1    2    0      1    0r    0    4         0000        1000.00000     00.0         00    600000.0         0.0
SW" "It Twin . 6f                    2    0    0    0    0    0    2             00       1100000.0        0.0         0.0         0.0o        0. '0 ' 'a  1500000.0
Couttry iet ino                     2    2    0    0    0    0    4             0000        60000.0    60000.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0   10000.0
nto"t                               2 2    0            0        0 8            40000     12011000.0   ' :'0          0 800        00 0:.0               0.0:    200000.
Bicycle                     0       4     0    00          0    0    4           0000       14000 .0       0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0    16000.0
4, 4.t Ofi' 0*1..           s0o     I    I    0    0    0    0    2           1200000     120-000.0  1200100.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0  2400000.0
0    _000d 5t1ti No                I    I    0    0    0    0    2            20w010      200000.0   20c000.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0   400000.0
teoat                                                                                      3914000.   3200000.0         0.0    6                0.0        0.0         0
Ce ,   fthlAte cw     co            1    0    0    0    0    0         1       20000       200000.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0   0000.0
eLoasfa0wy  iqjist          I ..             s..            ..                         . 100          o 00.  0                     0:0        0:0         0.0   s100o00
L~atd   y                   1.C_  iJ  *                                           ,HOO                     OO          O,O         O.         O.O         O.O     SOO.
Office Etitt                li.        .      .      .      .      .     .      .      . 10000.0           0.0         0.0         0          0           0       10000.0 LSO
P.5 . @it                   LS.        ..                  ..                   .          10000.0         o.o         o.o         o.o        0.0         0.0   15000.0
= Radio                     No      I    0    0    0    0    0 o               lOom00     100000.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0    100000.0
$ e truu,oiwfL              NO      4    0     0    0 o    0    0                _00      -2000w00      a00          0.0           0          0.0         0.0   000000.0
S6econd. T       waiver   60        9     0    0    0    0    0    9            0          t,00000.0 1W000.0           0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0    9    0.0
05016 015lertor             so      2    0    0    0    0    0    2            200000     40001000.0       0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        o.0       .000o
SLtA   t                                                                                   2110000.0      0.0           0.0       0.0          0.0         0.0  2110000.0
0. t9cm.nis AoeISCWwe
alAeov Resea  trc           p       2   1      10 1(    100   100    7        400000   1   000.    400000.0   0000000    600000   400000.0              0.0 20 0000.0
Ino$5Iooiec 1090.0          PM1     2    2    2a     0     0     0    6        RO0M       120.0        12 000    1200000.0   0no .0            0.0       00.o0  36oOooo.0
*t. LOiti
...............~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                                              .   .......
$Lb-TotalttI  O                                                                                                                            ;;;1 *             1W0;;oo    OiO        10tOO *OW      0W.O  OO.O    ;OOW.O
Otantlue  obee                      2          2     22100  100  too   100  100  100  700  00  30  0.0   300000.0   100000.0   300000.0   001000.0   .0000.0   2100000.0
pi.teOlu a bAlm             MA   100  00  100  100  100  too  700              1SO0        1010.0    190100.0   r10000.0       0000.0    19000.0    9000.0   33000.0
Total IMIIIOTIE51 00606                                                                          3041J00.0  1879000.0 C0990.0   I9.0   91t000.0   019tWO.O  320Wo90.o
II. 0l*0060 CmSTS
A. intr. e " ietM Sateri
SW sOclnuov  1 Oft OS         py      I    I    I    I    I    I    7            100000      100000.0   100000.0   1010000.0   100100.0   10011000.0    Ii0.0    00o0o.0
oWl.m: 60411 00m              PV      2    a    a    2       a    a    14        lcoomo      Iooooo.o   200000.0   2000.    2000000    200110010.0   200000.0   1010000.0
Jun. AWtoiiOtt         pOt4    4    4    4    4    4   28 .a.                               240000.0   140100.0   240000.0   240000.0   240000.0   240000.0  1600000.0
Oi tPT                                a    a    a      2    2           14         00        MM..o.o      ooto.o     moo.o        OO.O       OWO.0    O00.0   U4Wo0o
aCew                          PT      4    a    a    a    i   5.2                 300 .20000. .20 0000.0    2w.00000.0   240000.0   24000.    24 .    1160000.0
AtoegaltatP                           3    3    3    3    3    3   a1               m        40000.      60000.0      010000.0    60000.0    60000.0    40000.0   420000.0
CTleeit Staff0                PT      6    6    6    6    6    6   42             m          1. -0.0   120000.0   120.O O        0000.0   120000.0   120000.0    t0w010.0
sobt4                         FT    24   24   24   24   24   24   10                01011    3601000.0   340000.0   04000    341000.0   360100.0   360010.0  2321000.0
Orwe 'PT                              4    4    a    4    4    4    2s am00                   SOC10.o       0        6oo88oe    sg888 8   5ooo8o
St&-Total                                                                                                 .    :  ..!      :   ..!n?.. n !..
6. 5hifltwwo10     of Civ. useks %Ip                                                             -30000.   ;1;000.0  14100.0  146000.0  4600.0  46000.  02000.0
Oasooecl, Otatial.                                                       0~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~.0I    323000    13000.    13 :000.    130000:.0   130000.0   068:00.
P     t o Sent y                                                                                 0.ter  0    26..o   mmo.o       owe.o    320.0    O1W0.0 2a 00.O
Itldwtie  OuIe                                                                                    0.    ,ioloo 0   isisoi. i    iooio.      iivo ioo.   iasoiooo    sooooi.o
'5*.TotaI                                                                ~~~~    ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~0.0    192100.0   240001.0   2601000.0   260100.0   2010100.0  1390000.0
0. 4aiflt.Of 0411dmt  a Scott '2'.;;;--i;
mgcha,isd "oat                                                                                    0.      00.        0000       200.         2000      320000.0  1200010.0
speed "Sot ?.In* 0ii9oooi 0.0   1100I. 1oSO00o00                                                                                 10NO0.0  10000.0   10000.0 9o 00000
Tastil "0at                                                                                       2,      60.0    40.0          140.        000       1000        6000
0?tofvtyoI                                                                                        0.0      180011    24000       240000      240.0      200.120.
Bicycle                                                                    ~~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.0  400.0  1400. 0 4010.0  600.0 400   90.
nitt 6  Ojt                                                                                       0. 0dWt  a a a  sooo  4001oeo  ooooo.o  Se000.0        0o. O       oooo.o
S. Naitlteneltes .0 Eeul~~to 43)                                           0.0   391400.0   711400.0   711400.0   791400.0   791400.0  4189400.0=1
CinpsO. 61111                                                                                    C13aeie  .  200000    000.:0   240000.    240000.    240000.0     00.
0.floUswesofy SquismS                                                                               0.0      ;;;0.0      5000.0      1000.0   71000.0    71000.0    3200.0
00,149r SQJipuul                                                                                  0.      100.0       (1000.0     1001M.0    11000.0    20000.0    30000.0
Oflft4 0qjipl0 tN                                                                                            10.0 ooo.o 10001.0   51000.0     1000.0     1000.0    300010.0
SO  Sol  a=i                                                                                      0.0     000.       I000.      0000.0    0000.0    10000.0    80000.0
SU                                                                                                ,:O*ciwLalil  .  400000.  00000.  40000.0  6(0000.    40000.0      0000.
Olesel OgMestrr0.0    oooum.0    oo.o                                                                                            40000.0    40.0  0      "0000.01   20000.0
01*-totaL                                                               0.0   211000~~~~~~~~;;;.O 81.0 21100 .0   211000.0   211000.0 100.    290000.0
Total 200*665? 40050I210.0IM                                                                                                                                                    0.
total                                                                                                                                ta-a lftfflSStStaSSve -    .-  in*5
1662100.0  14143610.0  17066000.0  4364100.0  34166100.0  3016100.0  4969S140.0
*1 Cletwitod t *    readt.S  *T.2  st 0110 t nse t 4660.
.2w CaicuIsted at a raete of 03 o tilet i0,     cot4 .
*S C.Lcutad at  o rot 00 1020   40. ii      .   0c00.



- 78-                                                        ANNEX 4
T.ble 15a
BANGLADESI
Forest Resources Management Project
Table l.  HManrove Research
Detailed Cost Table (Taka)
Totate lnetuding Contingnies
unit     19s2n3      199/94    199/9n       1995/6      1996/97    1997/98    tssens        Totat
................................................................................................
1. INVESiUU  COSTS
................
A. Cit Works
aeseweh nStation (4 no)       141909.0  4sn5793.6          0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0  59ss744.6
Pmrent mwery Vwd(6)            114668.8  1231962.7         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0  2378131.S
Ofice Extenion                 273060.2   293329.2         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0   s66369.4
Sits Dtqlnt                    109216.1   117331.7         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0   226847.8
Voter Sspty                         0.0   236.4   25022.5              0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0   484685.9
*ee.suitdo.(  no. KIhunI)      as18S5.4   10374.2   97s.8              0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0  365734r7.s
site hvltqrant (KIwtI)         109216.1         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0   109216.1
Architect's Fee                 102M16.1        0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0   109216.1
Lend  apisitfin               1092160.8         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0  1092160.8
......... . ....................... ........... ....................... ........... ...........
SubTotat                       5111312.4  328616.8  1225110.3           0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0  14620039.5
B. Vehices & otta(Coestet)
_shniSed eat                   832367.5  1786776.0          0.0  100932.6          0.0        0.0         0.0  3628276.1
Speed Bort Twin Eninr         1560889.1         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0  1S60689.1
Cusitry  oat                    83236.7    89338.7         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0   172s73.s
Notorcycle                     126855.1   136008.1          0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0   25863.2
Biewle                          16617.3         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0    1667.3
4 Heet Drive Vehfcte           124551.2  1340080.5          0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0  23 1.8
Outbortd Engine                206091.9                    0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0   431638.6
...      !... !     :. ......... .... ;... .. ........... ........... ........... ........... ^ 
BulbTotet                        76.9  373548.1              0.0  1009132.6        0.0         0.0        0.0  e667119.5
C. S9J-1nt
Cester With Accessrie          218496.5         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0   218496.5
Labatory tpwnt                  5624.1          0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0    56624.1
Office BquiIt                   5624.1          0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0    54626.1
Field EWupnt                    542.1           0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0    5S4624.1
-0 Base Radio                   1098.2          0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0   10924.2
-U T.wureeeiver(Laewh)         43692.9          0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0   43692.9
-0 t1     Tru.reciver          963234.1         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0   983234.1
Dislt Generator                436992.9         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0   43699.9
STotat                         2337.0            0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0  23688.0
0. Tacdiet Assitatnce
Research (tint.)      12414.7   6ss.0   714104.3    768.0   802879.5   851372.0                  0.0  506463.4
Entnomeiest (Int.)             124U62.7  1339909.9  1429608.5          0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0  4018143.2
Sub-Totat~~~~~~~~~ ...................    ............................  *e@ . ........ 0 .......Z,,06......
b*-Totel                       2497249.5  2009864.9   21441.8    7s682.0   802879.5   es1372.0            0.0  9062606.7
B. Lebow
rlantatio   a Maury            327600.0   352107.0   374934.4   5430.S   421276.3   646552.9   473346.1  2793247.2
F. NAterists
Platetions & Nsry               20754.1    2225.9    23758.4    25167.0    26689.6    28297.2    299.5   176946.8
.................. ....................... ....................... ........... ...........
Totat IWVEMIT COSTS                  1430192.0  14241422.7  3768216.0  218855.0  12506S5.4  1326222.1   503340.6 37658796.8
It. TUoU.  COSTS
...............
A. Ir=r Staff Waeries
sea. Scientific Officer        109200.0   117369.0   124978.1   132676.8   14025.4   148831.0   15782.0   931062.4
sm. Reerch Officer             218400.0   2313S.0   2499S6.3   2649S3.7   280850.9   29M71.9   3S15564.0  1862164.8
Jun. aeerdh Officer            26208.0   281615.6   29947r.s   317964.4   337021.1   35n42.3   378676.9  2234597.7
I                               orsso7360.0    99.2    99982.s   105981.5   112340.4   119080.8   126225.6   764865.9
Floedn                         131040.0   281685.6   299947.5   317944.4   33721.1    37242.3    m676.9  213s57.7
Acmatnt                         65520.0    70421.4    74^66.9    79416.1       "235.3    M9310.6    9U69.2   558649.4
Ctlricat Staff                 131040.0   140842.8   14993.8   158972.2   168510.5   178621.2   18938.4  111729.9
ot                             393120.0   422328.4   49921.3   476916.6   505531.6   53586.5   58015.3  3351896.6
Driver                          87360.0    93895.2    9992.5   105901.5   11240.4   119080.8   126225.6   744165.9
................... ....................... ....................... ........... ...........
rToUta                          145120.0  1737061.2  1849676.5  1960657.1'  078296.5  220299.3  233517.9  13649 .4
S. ftintenume of Civ. Mocks 41
Beteech Stetion                     0.0    38134.6   162508.2   172209.5   182578.6   193551.5   205162.9   95145.3
Permm,nt   ery                      0.0    30001.0    65628.3    69546.1  rn 3.7    78165.0    38.3   6(0728.4
Reidmtiat Buitdinp                  0.0    220.8    73120.7   103323.7   105M47.1   116130.9   12309.8   58110.9
........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ...........
ubTotat                              0.0    91516.4   301268.2   3S5061.3   36M5.4   384.4   411115.0  190296.6
C. Naint.of Vehictes * lkats v
n Oe    d Mt                        0.0    9811.6   300170.1    3781.3   46956.2   676689.7   105277.9  2143396.9
Speed ot  Ti. &n*Ins                0.0   175896.8   18706.3   198675.8   21735.    224"4.3   2369.0   1252114.3
Country lSat                        0.0      9581.2    20011.3    21192.1    22478.4    M383.5    23263.9   122161.4
Not rayteo                          0.0    14071.7    3M0.0    3178.1    33717.6    3731.             3795.8   183262.1
Scycla                              0.0      16.2       200M.1      2119.2      2247.8     235.4      2526.4    13154.3
ri  VOeice                          0.0   140,71.4   300170.1   31713   33176.2   3575173   37895.4  1860.7
machoard Ugh.                       0.0    23452.9    50102.4    52980.2    56196.0    59S86.2    65159.7   305485.6
... ..................................................... ........... ...........
lkb.Totl,                            0.0   659207.8   890004.4   9458.0  1112119.4  1179211.2  124991.2  58329.0
D. Neint c  of at WI t -4
CVAt*r with A_ewrin                 0.0    2348.8    25003.6    26493.1    28090.6    29780.0    31566.5   1643.6
Ldhertory IuPen                     0.0      5866.2     6250.9      6623.3      7022.7     7645.0     7891.6    41099.7
Offife qupipint                     0.0    S86.2       o250.9      6623.3      722.7      7645.0      7091.6    41099.7
Field    poMnt                      0.0      5866.2     6250.9      6623.3      7022.7     765.0      789.6    41099.7
onme Redo                           0.0    11732.4    12501.8    13246.6    14045.3    14890.0    1578.2    32199.3
50 TrmereceiverL.et_h)              0.0    46929.7    50007.2    52986.2    56181.3    59560.0    63132.9   32897.3
ON secon. Trmreeiver                0.0   10591.8   112516.1   119219.0   12407.8   136010.1  1U049.1    39793.9
Dieel sawetor                       0.0    Fe.?         50007.2    52966.2    56181.3    59560.0    63132.9   328797.3
........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ...........
S.fTotol                             0.0   25#24.1    2878.5   2t6800.9   301976.2   320135.1   3399.5  1767285.3
........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ...........
eout EumB_ COSTS                      141t120.0  254m2.5  3307.4  33357.3  3829.5    090181.0  433559.6  3152241.1
ftal                              158512.0  16781755.2  70950.5  5721615.3  5109094.9  5416410.1  483900.2 6011038.1
ala. Catmutetad at o rate of 2.5S of the hatuw coat.
ob CeoutAted at a rate of 105 of the Inwaint cost.
4Ob CelutAted at a ate of 10 of the in tmnt cet.
43/1991 l7s43



5ANGLADESU
Forest Resources Hmnagmnt PFoiject
Table 16. Sutnry Account by Project Component
Taka (million)
aereet F1l _  Resere.                  Det Ib. [NlIn                                     Inaottwt*leL   _.e.                              ?hre1             Fri
For,et  R. Ind. 513.1-    agt.e            S.   M,              r      .    e                                  Fea.1".  Fret*  CteuS
t c                                      t. *tt.  ce ltal  Fr.a: Sh. .e.   -I t  .  B_.1- "Eat. ,j  1s Fn-ereat Rve. Fr,.    ramero..
Place    System   treat.   Dec.    Ul-rea. llama.. pat. vt5  n    Dept.   I%t. Ra..   Tratsoag tetal.    tralalna Research Total             3 1A.           a IAt
A. Clvii Ser                     9.9     6.9      0.6      g.e    23.5       .     g.e    40.5   12.1    46.*    1.9 4I.*   326.4    6.6               4.2    234.6    5.0       36.1   11.0    36.9
6. Vehblse t _   eoacl          391.     5.0      6.6      4.4     2.2    26.6    *.6       9.4    *.9    34.2   so.?1    3.6 *       .*    11.6       1.      165.?    0.0       0.6     0 ,      .0
C. R96_eu                       3.6      9.2      *.6      2.5     1.3      4.9    6.6      1.1    2.3       2.9    2.2      3.0     2.5      1.6      0.6      43.2    5.6       2.2   33.3       5.2
C. he11                            -       -        -     -         .     @.                         .      *.      *.       *.      *        .                 2.        .           .1 *.3    IFA
L. Hatrl.                                 .        .                 a.4   16.2.    .1.t    6.6    6.       6.      6.      0.       6.       0.       9.*    22          .       6.*  1         36.6
5. Tragiale                      4.      06      361       36     936 42.          O2.1            .3"    6.6       9.       .        .        .6      666               3.       61     2.      201.9
1. t.rh.elr.I                    4.6                                                                                                           6.1     6.6      33.9    6.0       0.0      . 2    9.1 21
c. Va31.eahlp.                  6.0      2.1    9.6       0.6      0.6      6.9    6.0      6.      6.6    .9.6    0.2    26.3       4.6      5.6      6.6      20.2    6.0       6.6   21.4    33.O
*   rvic                        36.0     2 4      0.6    26.1      6.0      6.6    6.       6.6    6.6      6.    15.       a 2.3    6.        .6      6.0      64.0    6.0       6.    11.6      9.6
ltega  IUST7t COSTS            113.a    36.4    42.2    62.8   262.6   362.6   44.5    13.6   32.6   366.2   31.3    9W.s    3.2    6.5                5.2   1639.0    3.2       61.3   26.6   346.2
It.  .int COSTS
A.ts 931   1Sae4e              16.       3 .1     6.6      3.6    20.5    23.3    0.6    33.3   36.2    62.5    6.9         *.0    6.6        2.       6. 2*12.6    2.            6.6@     36.3    32.'                    v
. 0t- Vaha                      6.9      2.6      6.      2.      35.2     6.2    0.6       3.6    4.2    16.3    .1         3.0    4.6       2.3      6.6      62.5    2.6        .3    4.3    29.
C. OH-5Eq.9 Off. HlouS.         2.4      6.2      6.6     6.6      6.6      0.6    *.0      0.4    1.3    13.       3.2     3.1    3.2        *.9      6.0      1.6    3:.       0.6    2.W9      3.
D. 068- Civil Mach              0.1      6.*      6.6     0.6      2.2     4*.    6.6       4.3    1.4    15.6    6.2       5.0    4.4        9.6      0.6      49.6    5.0       2.4   36.6   13.6
gt-al        1 am *o.          3.0       5.6      0.6     0.1    3F.6    32.6    6.6    19.4    1.    362.5  13.6           9.9   16.4       23.3      1.2    331.1    3.0       35.9   32.6   103.6
T%l SAS          t            142.2    42.2    44.6      61.4  326.6   62.2   44.5         6.4    4.    236.                                                                        It.3   304.4   63.3  63.6  6.2   193.3  *.  1.2   22.2   444.1
ihieleal C_iase,aC            2.5      6.6 s    2.S      a.2    13.4    36.6    2.2       4.6     I        .      3.0     2       2                    S 0.2  22.2
Cesma C ltSassee            22.       6.:    133.     it'.    11:1   2613.      3.6   136.9    9.2       1.2   133.     21.3    S.,       113.      6.6   . G44.1    4.1      I5.)
IatEi t6JC7 C05               1266.1    51.1    59.      GO .4   393.6   631.3    30.2  II3.3   66.6   2W1.0   61.4   324.1   69.3    323.6            1.23   241.5    3.9       93.3   31.9   444.3
tes                           9.       2.4      0.6     2.2     1.       33:.1 6.       3.6      5.0    1.6      .9      9.4      6.6    34.2       3.6      33.9     3.0       .
FoacIws -Ears. '            166.3    21.0   .--    3-.2   -2.    363.6            6.4   32.6  2.3        36-.2   40.9    13.3    29.9    29.4        2.1    621.4     2.2      3    -.5
___. ___ ..... __....  _... _.___ _  ........_ _ . __________._____ _ ...........................___ ...___ ..._________ ______._. ...........................__. ______________________________________ _____ 
r 
oP Z



BANGLADESH
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance Needs
NTTIOI UL
Prol ct CosDonant               | Subtect                                             Months   Subtict                                           Months
FOREST NANANT PLANS               Inventory                                              36      Cartography                                       45
Forest Managme nt                                      8      Cbmputer Systems                                   Z6
Photo Interpretation                                   8      Drafting                                            7
GIS                                                   14      Agronomy                                            6
Agro-Forestry                                         6
FRESOURCES EIPANSIOR              Silviculture                                            6      Rural Sociolog 9y
Soil Conservation                                  6
INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
Forest Departmnt               Implementation Reviews                                48      Implaemntation Reviews                             32
Monitoring & Evaluation                            6
Ervironmental Management       Strategic Environmental Planning                        5     Environmental Law                                   3
Envirommental Standards                                3      Nature Valuation                                   10
Botanical Garden Management                            2
Captive Fauna Management                               2
Environmental Management Planning                     10
Natural Resources Surveying                            5
Envirorwutal Education                                 4
Education and Training         Curriculum  Planning (Professional Foresters)           1     Curriculum Planning (In-service Training)           2
Post-Graduate Education                                2      Curriculum Planning (Foresters Training)           2
Curriculum Planning (tuard Training)               1
Mangrove Research              Entomology                                              6
Mangrove Research                                      7 =
TOTAL                                           173           TOTAL                                       155



- 81 -
ANNEX 6
BAN,GLADESH
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Procurement Schedule
Estimated Annual Contractual and Other Payments
(US$ million equivalent)
Proiect Year               Total
Project Element           1    2    3    4    5   _6 i          PaLent  Remarks
Credit TIming
Signing         06/1992
Effectiveness   09/1992
Closing         12/2000
Works
Buildings              4.9   1.9  1.6  0.8  0.2  0.1  0.0       9.5    LCB a
Plantation Develop.    2.6   3.1  3.2  3.4  3.3  3.3  3.4    22.3    Labor b
Goods
Vehicles and Boats      1.9   1.5  0.9  0.2                     4.5    ICB c
Equip. & Furniture     0.8   0.2  0.1        0.1  0.1           1.3  ICB/LCB d
Materials              0.3   0.6  0.6  0.7  0.6  0.6  0.6       4.0    LCB d
Service Contracts
Aerial Photography      1.0                                     1.0    ICB
Consultancies
NGO Services           0.1   0.2  0.2  0.1                      0.6
Technical Assist.      0.9   0.7  1.0  0.3  0.7  0.2  0.1       3.9
Fellowships            0.1   0.2  0.2  0.3  0.3  0.2  0.2       1.5
Miscellaneous
Staff Salaries         0.5   0.6  0.7  0.8  0.9  0.9  1.0       5.4
Incre. Oper. Cost            0.3  0.6  0.8  0.9  1.1  1.0       4.7
Total              13.1   9.3  9.1  7.4  7.0  6.5  6.3    58.7
IDA-financed       11.0   7.9  7.7  6.3  5.9  5.5  5.3    49.6
a Up to US$1.0 million by force account.
b Force account.
c Except for bicycles and small vooden boats.
d A limited amount of equipment, furniture and materials may be purchased by
prudent shopping and direct procurement.



- 82 -
ANNEX 7
BANGJ.ADES
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements 1I
Cumulative
IDA Fiscal Year         Semester           Disbursements      Disbursements
-US$ million---------
1993                  I                    2.7              2.7
II                   3.5              6.2
1994                  I                    3.2              9.4
II                   4.7             14.1
1995                  I                    5.3             19.4
II                   4.4             23.8
1996                  I                    3.5             27.3
II                   3.4             30.7
1997                  I                    3.5             34.2
II                   3.3             37.5
1998                  I                    3.0             40.5
II                   2.8             43.3
1999                  I                    2.7             46.0
II                   2.6             48.6
2000                  I                    1.0             49.6
The Credit would be expected to be declared effective in September
1992 when IDA would release the allocation to the Special Account.
The project would be anticipated to be completed by June 1999 and
the Credit closed by December 2000.
2/    Includes Special Account allocation of US$2.2 million.



-83 -ANNEX 8
" _  |             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........
_ ... ................
_  1| 
_  __w
! "   .   i'''gggS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..'.......
_ B Wi_ g e _ g g e W1~~~~~~~~~~~~-------



-84 -                          ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan,
Tentative Dates  MJayin2Lyi1y                         Staff/Consultant    Person-weeks
July 1992        Project-Launch Workshop;             Task Manager             3.0
Project Objectives; Components;    Forester                  2.5
Reporting Procedures & Systems;    Sociologist               2.5
Procurement; Annual                 Procurement Officer
Implementation Calendar              (Resident Mission)      1.0
November 1992    Supervision Mission                 Task Manager              2.0
April 1993       Supervision Mission                 Task Manager              2.5
Review Annual Work Program          Forester                 2.0
Sociologist              2.0
October 1993     Supervision Mission                 Task Manager              2.0
April 1994       Supervision Mission                 Task Manager              2.5
Review Annual Work Program          Forester                 2.0
October 1994     Supervision Mission                 Task Manager             2.0
May 1995         Detailed Implementation
Review Mission                     Task Manager             3.0
Review Annual Work Program          Forester                 2.5
Review Mid-Term Report and          Sociologist              2.5
Findings                           Environmentalist         2.5
Ocbr 1
October 1995     Supervision Mission                 Task Manager             2.0
April 1996       Supervision Mission                 Task Manager              2.5
Review Annual Work Program          Fo,ester                 2.0
October 1996     Supervision Mission                 Task Manager             2.0
May 1997         Detailed Implementation
Review Mission                     Task Manager             3.0
Review Annual Work Program          Forester                 2.5
Review Mid-Term Report and          Sociologist              2.5
Findings                           Environmentalist         2.5
1 IDA Supervision Input into Key Activities



- 85 -                          ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
Tentative Dates  Main Act.ivyL                       Staff/Consultant    Person-weeks
October 1997     Supervision Mission                 Task Manager             2.0
April 1998       Supervision Mission                 Task Manager             2.5
Review Annual Work Program         Forester                 2.0
FM22
October 1998     Supervision Mission                 Task Manager             2.0
April 1999       Supervision Mission                 Task Manager             2.5
Start Project Completion           Forester                 2.5
Report Preparation



ANNEX  10
- 86  -                                         Table  1
BANGLADESH
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Yields
Year    Mean Annual
Output      after     Increment                                          Output
(m3/ha)  Planting      (m3/ha)                                           Cm/ha)
NEW PLANTATIONS                                                          EXISTING PLANTATIONS
...............                                                          ..........................  . _
Mangrove Plantations                                                     Mangrove Ptantations
10-Year Rotation                                                                            Fuelwood      65
Fuelwood     100        10
Poles      30        10
Total         130                     13                Irdustrial Plantations
17-Year Rotation                                                         1st Thinning
Fuelwood      45         9                                               Fuetwood       6
Fuelwood      61        17
Poles     120        17                             2nd ThInning
Total         226                     13                                  Fuelwood       18
Poles      17
Industrial Plantations                                                   3rd Thinning
Fuelwood      23
12-Year Rotation                                                                               Poles      24
Fuelwood      50         7                                                Sawlogs      20
Fuelwood      74        12
Peelers     170        12
Total         294                     25
18-Year Rotation
Fuelwood      21         8
Fuetwood      46        12
Fuelwood      45        18
Poles      23        12
Poles      68        18
Sawlogs       8        12
SawLogs     113        18
Total         324                     18
40-Year Rotation
Fuelwood       6         8
Fuelwood      18        17
Fuelwood      14        24
Fuelwood      23        40
Poles      20        17
Poles      34        24
Poles      35        40
Sawlogs      20        24
Sawlogs     174        40
Total         344                      9



BANGLADESH
FOREST RESURtCES NMAGENEIT PROJECT
Wood Production from Project Pltntations ('000 m3) 1/
---------------------- -------------Project Years------------------------------------
Total     1       2       3       4       5       6       7       8       9       10      11
.....   ..... .. .....  ..... ... .....  ..... ... .....  ..... ... .....  ..... ... .....  ....... ................ ................ ...........
Fuelwod - Nanroves    3,438         0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0     171    430      367
Fuslwood - Ind. Plant.  2.417       0       0       0       0       0       0      19      63      66      68      66
Total Fuelwood        5,813       0       0       0       0       0       0      19      63    236    496       433
PoLes                   4.927,     0        0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      77      78
Sawlogs                 3,915       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
Pelers                    457       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
12     13       14      15      16      17      18      19      20      21      22      23
Fuelwood -  ngrows        267     267     267     267    160    234       238     146     146    146      1       1
Fuslwood - Ind. PLant.   161      160     150     102    104    128       196     108    111      108     106      99
Total Fuslwood          428    427      416     369     264    362    434       254     257    254    252       245                                   1
Poles                      82      83      86      84      85    530    639       433     439    434    432       422                                  OD
Sawlogs                    11      12      13      12      12      11    179      174     188    178    181       164                                  "
PeeLers                    63      65      70      67      68      62      61       0       0       0       0       0                                   I
24      25      26      27      28      29      30      31      32      33      34      35
..... -----.. .....     -----.. .....   ..... .. -----  ..... .. -----          ..... .. ..... ....................... ....... .....  
FueLvood - Nasroves         0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
FueLwood - Ind. Plant.   102       38      41      39      40      36      36       0       0       0       0       0
Total Futoluod          102      38   - 41       39      40      36      36       0       0       0       0       0
Poles                     161      65      70      67      68      62      61       0       0       0       0       0
SawLogs                   201      39      42      40      41      37      37       0       0       0       0       0
Peelers                     0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
36      37      38      39      40      41      42      43      44      A5      46
..... -----.. -----     -----.. .....   ..... .. .....  -----. . .....  -----. . -----... ........... .... ........... .... ..
Fuelwood -  ngroves         0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      42
FueLwood - Ind. Plant.      0       0       0       0      43      45      48      U               42       0
TotaL Fuelwood            0       0       0       0      43      45      48      46      46      42       0
Poles                       0       0       0       0      65      67      72      68      70      63      63
Sawlogs                     0       0       0       0    324    335       361     343     349    316    315
Peelers                     0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0                                         m X
1/ Calculated on the basis of the project's planting program and yield estimates from Annex 10, Table 1.



- 88-                                                ANNEX  11
^ble 1
ANGLADESH
FOREST RESOURCES AMANGEMENT PROJECT
. .......................
Economic Price of Logs and Conversion Factor
USS per A3        Tk per ft3
Economic StLtpag9 Value                             .
......... .... .... .
Projected FOB price for Walaysian Meranti
rouid logs for the yeao 2000 in constant
1991 prices 1/                               224.00               246
Less: Bangltdesh quality adjustment (332) 2/    73.92                S1
Plus: Insuranee and freght to Chittagong        21.00                23
Projected price for averg  quality
Bangladesh swlog, CIF Chittegong             171.06               188
Plus: Port handling nd transport
cost to wholesale market 3/                                     9
Less: Cost of extractfon nd transport from
extraction area to wholesale market 3/                         72
Economie stLw;ao  value                                             125
Stuwpeg Value at Market Pricec
holesale market price of averge quality log 2/                      350
Less: Cost of extraction and transport from
extractfon area to wholesele mnrket                            90
StuLage value at m_rket prices                                      260
Log Price Conversion Factor (125 divided by 260)                   0.48
Economic StuLagp Value of Other Mood Products
.                                      ....................................................................    .. .
Peelers: Stuspae value at m_rket prices                             120
Economie stupage value                                     58
Poles:  Stupage value at m_rket prfees 4/                            74
Economic stuwpage value                                      36
Short rotatfon awulogs:  Stumpag  value at m_rket prices            155
Economic stusp g  value                     74
1/ Source: IRD3 International Trod Divisr'.
2/ For round log from long rotation industrial plantatfon. The So%lowas
species nmx hs been msLed: 25X Crjan, 25X Chapeifs, 15X Dahki jm,
151 Mahagony, 6X Teak, 3X Jarul, 3X Kdm, nd 86  other species.
3/ Adjusted by StandWrd Conversion Factor of 0.6.
4/ The follotwng mix has ben ass4umd: 101 transmission poles,
90X house poles.



- 89-                                                   ANNEX  11
Table 2
BANGLADESH
FOREST RESOURCES KMAGEMENT PROJECT
...................................
Economic Price of FueuIood
Tk per It
Price of kerosen, CIF Chittagong (US$30.4 per barrel)                 7.4
Plus: local handling, storage and transport cost
to reatafl mrket 1/                                             3.2
Economic value of keroswe  In retail market (per liter)              10.6
Retail market price                                                  13.0
Conversion factor for kerosen  (10.6 divIded by 14)                  0.82
Fuelwood is asstued to substitute for 8tX kerosen and
20X for other mterials
Weighted fuetwood conversion factor: 80X * 0.82 + 20X * 0.8 1/       0.82
Tk per ft3
Mngrove Fueluood                                                 ..........
.................
Retait mrket price                                                   22.0
Deduct: cost of extraction, transport and mrketing                   15.0
StuLWge value at mrket prices                                         7.0
Economic stwpage value: 7.0 * 0.82                                    5.7
Industrial Plantation Fuetwood
..............................
Retalt mrket price                                                   29.0
Deduct: cost of extraction, trasport nd mrketing                     18.0
StuWage value at mrket prices                                        11 .0
Economic stupage value: 11 * 0.82                                     9.0
1/ AdJusted by standard Conversion Factor of 0.8.



BANGLADESH
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Economic Benefits from Project Plantations (Tk million) 1/
------------------------------------Project Years------------------------------------
Total     1      2       3       4       5       6       7       8       9       10      11
.......... .. ...............  -----  . ......  .....   .......  -----  -----. . .....  .......  ---   ..---...
Fuetwood - Mangroves     683       0       0        0      0       0       0       0       0      34      86      74
Fuelwood - Ind. Plant.    781      0       0        0      0       0       0       6      20      21      22      21
Poles                   5,759       0       0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0       0       0
PeeLers                   936       0       0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0       0       0
Sawlogs                17,127       0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0       0       0       0
12     13      14      15      16      17      18      19      20      21      22      23
Fuelwood - Mangroves      54      54      54       54     32      47      48      29      29      29      29      29
Fuelwood - Ind. Plant.    51      51      48      32      33      41      62      34      35      34      34      31
Poles                      44     45       49      46      47    674    812    550    558    552    549    536
Peelers                   129    134      144     137    139    126    126         0       0       0       0       0                                  I
Sawlogs                   30      31      33       32     32      29    771      767    828    786    800    725                                      0
24     25      26       27      28     29      30      31      32      33      34      35
Fuelwood - Mangroves       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
Fuelwood - Ind. Plant.    33       12     13       12     13      11      11       0       0       0       0       0
Poles                     205     83      89       85     86      78      78       0       0       0       0       0
PeeLers                     0      0        0       0       0      0       0       0       0       0       0       0
Sawlogs                  888      172     186     176    179    163    162         0       0       0       0       0
36     37      38       39      40     41      42      43      44      45      46
.....       -----.  -----   -----   -----.  -----  -----   . ----   ----   -----. ... .
Fuelwood - Mangroves       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
FuePwood - Ind. PLant.     0       0       a       0       14     14      15      15      15      13      13
Poles                       0      0       0        0     82      85      92      87      89      80      80
Peelers                    0       0       0        0      0       0       0       0       0       0       0
Sawlogs                    0       0       0        0   1,429   1,476  1,594   1,513   1,540   1.396   1,388
1/ Calculated on, the basis of the incremental wood production detailed in Annex 10, TabLe 2,
and the economic prices presented in Amnex 11, TabLes I and 2.
(D x



BANGLADESH
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Economic Project Cost (Tk million)
- ..-------------------------------Project Years------------------------------------
1       2       3       4        5       6       7       8        9       10      11
Forest Management Plans                   61.7    20.9    22.9    10.6      4.9      4.6     4.6
Resources Information Ngmt. System         9.2      9.2     5.0     3.7      5.0     3.0     3.0
Silvicultural Treatment                    4.2      5.9     4.5     5.0      4.8     5.5     6.6
Particpatory Forest Development            12.3    14.6    13.2    13.3      0.6     0.6     0.6
Subtotal                               87.4    50.5    45.6    32.6    15.3    13.6    14.8
Mangrove Afforestation                    39.3    50.5    41.6    34.7    31.2    29.3    28.5        6.2     4.4     1.8     C.0
Industrial Plantations                    49.7    68.2    78.9    79.5    78.4    76.6    73.3   32.0    15.0         7.5     1.5
Maintenance of Existing Plant.            21.3    10.3      2.4      0.3
..--   ----    ----    ----    ----    .-----    .....   .  .   .. .....    .......  ---  -----  ----.
Subtotal                              110.3   129.0   123.0   114.4   109.6   105.9   101.8    38.2    19.4        9.3     1.5
Nature Conservation                        8.4    11.8      9.4     9.9      6.2     4.4     3.3
Inst. Support to Forest Department        17.8    35.1    44.6    15.8    30.5    14.4    14.4
Other Institutional Support              167.9    40.3    26.6    25.6    22.8    21.1    16.4
Subtotal                              185.7    75.4    71.2    41.4    53.3    35.5    30.8
TOTAL EIodCONOIC OOST                    391.8   266.7      249.2   198.3   184.4   159.4   150.7   38.2    19.4      9.3     1.5
I-.t
TOTAL ECONOMIC COST  7M. 7   249.2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~( 
lb



BANGLADESH
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Economic Cost and Senefit Streams (Tk million) l/
................................... Project Years---------------------------
1       2       3       4        5       6       7       8       9        10
Project                                                   -----    .....   -----   .....    -----   .....   -----   -----    .....   -----
Not Benefits from Existing Plantations                  -127     -75       85     123     131     106      111      28      29       0
Econormic Benefits from New Plantations                    0       0        0       0       0       0        6      20      55     206
Economic Project Cost                                    392     267      249     198     184      159     151      38      19       9
Net Project Benefits                                  -518    -342    -164      -76     -53     -53      -34      10      65     196
New Plantations
Reveues from Nangrove Plantations                          0       0        0       0       0       0        0       0      34     184
Cost of Mangrove Plant. Establishment and Naint.          39      51      42       35      31      29       29       6       4       2
Net Benefits from qMrove Plantations                   -39     -51      -42     -35     -31     -29      -29      -6      30     182
Revemues from IndustriaL PLantations                       0       0        0       0       0       0        6      20      21      22
Cost of Industrial Plant. Establishment and Naint.        50      68       79      79      78      77       73      32      15       8
Net Senefits from Industrial Plantations               -50     -68      -79     -79     -78     -77      -67     -12       6      14
Existing Plantations
Revenues with Project                                     71      91      122     167     206     252     252      252     252
Inwestment and Maintenance Cost with Project             127      96      93       49      46      28      29        0       0
Benefits with Project                                  -56      -5      29      118     160     224     271      252     252
Revenues without Project                                  71      71      71       91     122     167     206      252     252
Investment and Maint. Cost without Project                 0       0     127      96       93      49      46      28       29
Benefits without Project                                71      71     -56       -5      29     118     160     224      223                          oo 
Met Benefits with Project                               -127     -75      85      123     131     106     111       28      29
0-4
1J Details on economic costs and benefits are in Annex 11, Tables 3 and 4; for existing plantations benefitting from project                                iW Ue a-
investments, it has been assuned that the project would advance benefits and related cost components by two years.



-- --------------------------------Project Yeart ----------------------------
11      12      13      14       15      16      17      18       19      20
Project
Economic Benefits from New PLantations                   194     369     375      389     362     345      917    1819    1381    1451
Economic Project Cost                                      1       0        0       0       0       0        0       0       0        0
Net Project Benefits                                   192     369     375      389     362     345     917    1819    1381    1451
New Plantations
Revenues from Nangrove Plantations                       173     115      115     115     115      93      631     641     394     394
Cost of Nngrove Plant. Establishment and Naint.            0       0        0       0       0       0        0       0       0        0
Net Benefits from Nangrove Plantations                 173     115     115      115     115      93     631      641     394     394
Revenues from Industrial Plantations                      21     254     260      274     247     252      286    1178     986    1057
Cost of Industrial Plant. Establishment and  aint.         1       0        0       0       0       0        0       0       0        0
..... ..... .. .....    ..... .. .....   ..... .. .....   -----.. .....   ----- .. ............. .. ............. .. .... 
Net Benefits from Industrial Plantations                19     254     260      274     247     252     286    1178      986    1057
-----------------------------------Pr^ject years-----------------------------
21      21      23      24       25      26      27      28       29      30
Project
Economic Benefits from New Plantations                  1402    1412    1322    1125      267     288     273      276     252     251
Economic Project Cost
Net Project Benefits                                  1402    1412    1322    1125      267     288     273      278     252     251
New Pltntations
Revenues from Narrove Plantations                        394     394     394        0       0       0        0       0       0       0
Cost of Manrorve Plant. EstabLishment and Naint.           0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0       0       0
Net Benefits from Mangrove Plantations                 394     394     394        0       0       0       0        0       0       0
00
Revenues from Industrial Plantations                    1007    1018     928    1125      267     288     273      278     252     251
Cost of Industrial Plant. EstabLishment and Naint.         0       0       0        0       0       0       0        0       0       0                    0 cr "
.....   -----   .....   .....    -----   .....   -  _----   _     -----   ..    .. -----.__ ______ hf 
I8-
Net Benfits from Ind&ntriaL PLantations               1007    1018     928    1125      267     288     273     278      252     251                    w' VI I-



..................................-Project Years-----------------------------
31      32      33       34      35      36      37       38      39      40
Project
Economic Benefits from New Plantations                     0       0        0       0       0       0        0       0       0    1524
Economic Project Cost                                      0       0        0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0
Net Project Benefits                                     0       0        0       0       0       0        0       0       C    1524
New Plantations
Revenues from Mangrove Plantations                         0       0        0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0
Cost of Mangrove Plant. Establishment and Maint.           0       0        0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0
Net Benefits from Mangrove Plantations                   0       0        0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0
Revenues from Industrial Plantations                       0       0        0       0       0       0        0       0       0    1524
Cost of Industrial Plant. Establishment and Maint.         0       0        0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0
~~.... -- -  ... ..  - -- .. ...   -  --   .  ..   -- -   I  - -     - -
Net Benefits from Industrial PLantations                 0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0       0    1524
----------------Project Years----------------
41      42      43      44       45      46
Project
Economic Benefits from New Plantat'ons                  1575    1701    1615    1643    1490    1481
Economic Project Cost                                      0       0        0       0       0       0
Net Project Benefits                                  1575    1701    1615    1643    1490    1481
New Plantations
Revenues from Mangrove Plantations                         0       0       0        0       0       0
Cost of Mangrove Plant. Establishment and Maint.           0       0       0        0       0       0
Met Benefits from Mangrove Plantations                   0       0       0        0       0       0
Revenues from Industrial Plantations                    1575    1701    1615    1643    1490    1481                                                         1 t
Cost of Industrial Plant. Establishment and Maint.         0       0       0        0       0       0                                                        cr X
Net Benefits from Industrial Plantations              1575    1701    1615    1643    1490    1481                                                      to Ln _



SENSrTVrrYANALYSIS
0.165
0.1650 
0.145
ERR,   .
0.140 -A
0.135                INCREASED 50%
0.130
0.125          t          INCREASED 100%
0.120-
v~~~~~~~~~~~~.12.*^.fi...............
0.1 15
* 1.0      0.X0         0.80        0.70         0.o0
CHANGE IN YIELD OR PRICE AS % OF BASE VALUE
CHANGE IN COST
%                                  CHANGING VALUES OF ERR
-~~~~~~~- -------
1.00      ..........          ..                  .             . .........
, 1 S : .: - : ,B, 1S :: :: :h,1" - : ,,~~~~~~ .                       . . . .   . . . . . . .................,1Z. :,,,,  ;,.
_ 2.0 . ........................ . ......                                                       ................... ........ .-
21.00 I0.90                                0.80            0.70                  0.60 
CHANGE IN YIELD/PRICEx
.  ~         ~~~ ...... .                                         ...



- 96 -
ANNEX 13
AANGLADESH
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Proiect File
1.   Plantation Establishment, Working Paper; September 1991
2.   Forest Resources Management Project, Preparation Mission Report;
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme; May 29, 1991
3.   Environment Consultant's Report; Chemonics International;
October 14, 1991
4.   Forestry Sector Master Plan, Project Document; UNDP; June 1990
5.   Integrated Resource Development of the Sunc        i Reserved Forest,
Project Document; UNDP; June 1988
6.   Working Paper on the Requirement for a GIS-Based Resource Information
System within the Forest Department; Spectranalysis Inc.; Aug. 22, 1991
7.   Report on the Forest Education and Training Component; Nordin
International Ltd.; August 1991
8.   Forest Inventory and Mapping - Preappraisal Report; Reid, Collins and
Associates; August 1991



1                                         g, I
L   p
5-    1
X                                 51       .5
."*                                     i .i....i
I l1.1UD



BANGLADESH
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Forest Department - Chart of
Revised Organization
HEADQUARTERS                                                            FIELD
Orgarnizagon                           Chief                      Organization
Conservator of-
Forests
Forests
_  oManagement      F    Officer
andOpeatlons         Management__L                                        I               X
=                                      _ _           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DMsional
ACF                                         __Forest
DCCF               P"ptr    _fi
_ Environmental _        Disba      l_                                 ll
l Management           Forest Ofoer  1       
CF
>1Adminh1rtion                                                    1,I
L4   Forest Of ficer 
b~~~~~~~



;  \    iLn  i JESSORE   /1  IX I-Q                                                   - ,'s,.  -0LUX   FU        t  ,IOR BR!RD 2asi
* t tt.: ; Khulfta                                                                       O  2Bh A   Noakhail
fJv 8 \ < O n () g S < I>OAKHALI 0 > \- >$ \ - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~RANsGAMATJ                                                        INDIA
|  \ .  >51N.               ,;                               UHO A                                          e                  f  iF A \~~~~NOKHAL
AfK3HiRX-                PRPSDIDF#ANTAYEXESON I UDRAN   
N~~~~~~~                                                                                             sa d . A   (I.-_!MNRV LNAIN    
IND(Ar~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~IL P4ukof                                                                                                 ao G2yeIe_         1eUAIAONAIS\2B
Khuir*,, \z  8,r<\   f;  s!XW\,211'-  ''''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ DiSTRICT30UNDARIESanarba
5,    -    X         ?    s   /;J<  {  161ll;  *in,;m } lSb = 81miqPRWiBIr~ ~~'-119tERATIONAIBOUNDAIEST.A
AREA OFMAP~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~M
_=  _                noe   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANLDSHN                                                              Bf
fORST R~~~~E :RUEY                   FOES  RSOUCE



