                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No.: 36295




               PROJECT PERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT


                                  BANGLADESH

                FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                               (CREDIT 23970-BD)

                     SILKDEVELOPMENT PILOT PROJECT
                               (CREDIT 30040-BD)

       AGRICULTURAL SERVICESINNOVATION & REFORM PROJECT
                               (CREDIT 32840-BD)


                                    June 7,2006




Sector, Thematic and GlobalEvaluation Division
~nde~endentEvaluation Group

  CurrencyEquivalents(annual averages)
  Currency Unit =Bangladesh Taka (R)




 Abbreviations andAcronyms

 ASIRP             AgriculturalServicesInnovationand Reform Project
 ASSP              AgriculturalSupport ServicesProject
 BSB               Bangladesh SericultureBoard
 BIDS              BangladeshInstituteof Development Studies
 BRAC              BangladeshRural Advancement Committee (an NGO)
 BSRTI             Bangladesh SericultureResearch and TrainingInstitute
 CAS               CountryAssistance Strategy
 CDD               Community driven development
 DAE               Department of AgriculturalExtension
 DRC               DomesticResourceCoefficient
 FA0               Food and AgricultureOrganization
 FD                ForestryDepartment
 FRMP              Forest ResourcesManagement Project
 HORTEX            HorticultureExport Development Foundation
 ICR               ImplementationCompletion Report
 IEG              IndependentEvaluation Group
 lFESCU           Institute of Forestry and Environmental Science
 LIL              Learning and Innovation Loan
 PAD              Project Appraisal Document
 PPAR             Project PerformanceAssessment Report
 NAEP             New AgriculturalExtensionPolicy
 PRSP             Poverty Reduction StrategyPaper
 SDPP             Silk Development Pilot Project
 SF               Silk Foundation
 TSMU             Textile Strategic Management Unit


 Fiscal Year

 Government:               January 1-December31




Director-General Evaluation                               : Mr.Vinod Thomas
Director, Independent EvaluationGroup                     : Mr. AjayChhibber
Manager, Sector, Thematic and GlobalEvaluation            :  Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                              : Mr. ChrisGerrard
Consultant                                                : Mr. KeithOblitas

      IEG Mission:Enhancing development effectivenessthrough excellenceand independencein evaluation.


About this Report
     The IndependentEvaluationGroupassesses the programsand activities of theWorld Bankfor two purposes:first, to
ensurethe integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocess and to verifythat the Bank'swork is producingthe expected
 results, and second,to helpdevelopimproveddirections, policies, and proceduresthrough the disseminationof lessons
drawnfrom experience.As partof this work, IEGannuallyassessesabout 25 percentof the Bank's lendingoperations. In
selecting operations for assessment, preferenceis given to thosethat are innovative, large, or complex;thosethat are
relevantto upcomingstudies or countryevaluations;those for which ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank managementhave
requestedassessments;andthose that are likelyto generate important lessons. The projects, topics, and analytical
approachesselectedfor assessmentsupportlarger evaluationstudies.
     A Project PerformanceAssessment Report(PPAR) is basedon a review of the ImplementationCompletionReport
(aself-evaluation bythe responsibleBank department) and fieldwork conducted by IEG. To prepare PPARs, IEGstaff
examine project files and other documents, interviewoperationalstaff, and in most cases visit the borrowingcountryfor
onsite discussionswith projectstaff and beneficiaries.The PPARthereby seeks to validate and augment the
informationprovided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interestto broader IEGstudies.
     Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and IEG managementapproval. Once cleared internally, the PPAR
is reviewed by the responsibleBank department and amendedas necessary.The completed PPAR is then sent to the
borrower for review;the borrowers' comments are attachedto the document that is sent to the Bank's Boardof
ExecutiveDirectors.After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosedto the public.


About the IEG Rating System
     The time-tested evaluationmethods used by IEGare suited to the broad rangeof the World Bank'swork. The
methodsoffer both rigorand a necessarylevelof flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or sectoral
approach. IEGevaluators all applythe sanie basic methodto arriveat their project ratings. Followingis the definition
and rating scale usedfor each evaluationcriterion (more informationis available on the IEGwebsite:
http:llworldbank.org/oedleta-mainpage.htm1).
     Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectivesare consistentwith the country's current
developmentpriorities and with current Bank countryand sectoralassistancestrategies and corporategoals
(expressedin Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers, CountryAssistanceStrategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational
Policies).Possibleratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
     Efficacy: The extent to whichthe project's objectiveswere achieved, or expectedto be achieved, taking into
accounttheir relativeimportance. Possibleratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
     Efficiency: The extent to which the projectachieved, or is expectedto achieve, a return higherthan the
opportunitycost of capitaland benefitsat leastcost compared to alternatives. Possibleratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible.This rating is not generallyappliedto adjustment operations.
     Sustainability:The resilienceto risk of net benefitsflows over time. Possibleratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
     InstitutionalDevelopment Impact: The extent to which a project improvesthe abilityof a countryor regionto
makemore efficient, equitableand sustainableuse of its human, financial, and naturalresourcesthrough: (a) better
definition,stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictabilityof institutionalarrangementsand/or (b) better
alignment of the missionand capacityof an organizationwith its mandate,which derives from these institutional
arrangements. Institutional Development Impactincludes both intended and unintendedeffects of a project. Possible
ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
     Outcome: The extent to whichthe project's major relevant objectiveswere achieved, or are expectedto be
achieved, efficiently. Possible.ratings: HighlySatisfactory, Satisfactory, ModeratelySatisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Bank Performance: The extent to whichservices provided bythe Bank ensured quality at entry and supported
implementationthrough appropriatesupervision (includingensuring adequatetransitionarrangementsfor regular
operationof the project). Possibleratings: HighlySatisfactory,Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     BorrowerPerformance: The extent to which the borrowerassumed ownership and responsibilityto ensure
quality of preparationand implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the achievementof
developmentobjectives and sustainability. Possibleratings: HighlySatisfactory,Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.


Contents

Principal Ratings       ................................................................................................................v

Key StaffResponsible            ......................................................................................................vi

Preface  ..............................................................................................................................vll
                                                                                                                                        ..

Summary     ...........................................................................................................................ix

1 Bangladesh's Rural Challenge
 .                                                  ....................................................................................1
        ThePriority Placed OnRural Development............................................................1
        TheKey Challenge...................................................................................................             1
        Contributions ToPro-Poor Rural Development......................................................2

        The ThreeProjects...................................................................................................           2

2 The Forest Resources ManagementProject (FRMP)
 .                                                                                      ...............................................3
        Relevance.................................................................................................................      3

        Eficacy ....................................................................................................................   4
        Eficiency..................................................................................................................     5
        OverallProject Outcome........................................................................................                6
        InstitutionalDevelopment Impact.............................................................................6
        Sustainabtlzty.......................................................................................................... 7
                       . .

        Bank And Borrower Peformance ...........................................................................7

3 The Silk DevelopmentPilot Project (SDPP)
 .                                                                       ..............................................................8
        Relevance.................................................................................................................     8
        Efficacy ..................................;................................................................................  -9
        Eficiency................................................................................................................I I
        OverallProject Outcome......................................................................................1 2
        Institutional Development Impact..........................................................................12
        Sustainabzlzty..........................................................................................................12
                      . .

        Bank And Borrower Peformance ..........................................................................13

4 The Agricultural ServicesInnovation and Reform Project (ASIRP)
.                                                                                                                 ...................13
        Relevance...............................................................................................................     14
        Eficacy .................................................................................................................-15

This report was preparedby Keith Oblitas(consultant)who assessedthe projects inOctober 2005.Chris
Gerrardwas the task manager and Rose Gachinaprovided administrativesupport.

      Efficiency................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                             19

      Overall Project Outcome.......................................................................................20

      Institutional Development Impact..........................................................................             20

      Sustainabzlzty..........................................................................................................
                . .
                                                                                                                             21

      Bank and Borrower Performance..........................................................................                22

5 Monitoring & Evaluation & Fiduciary Issues for the Three Projects
 .                                                                                                         ..................23
      M M Design. Implementation And Utilization......................................................                      23

      OtherIssues (Safeguards.Fiduciary. UnintendedImpacts -Positive
         and Negative ...................................................................................................   -24

6 Lessons and Considerationsfor Future Development
.                                                                               ............................................25

Annex A.Basic   Data Sheet      ..............................................................................................33

Annex B.Projec'tComponentsAnd                 Costs    .....................................................................39

Annex C Past Bank Lending to Bangladesh from 1980 to 2005
       .                                                                                   .................................40

 Principal Ratings


                                          ICR*                      ICR Review*                          PPAR

Outcome                               Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory               Satisfactory

Sustainability                            Likely                    Non-evaluable                        Likely

InstitutionalDevelopment                Modest                          Modest                       Substantial
lmpact

Bank Performance                      Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                    Satisfactory

Borrower Performance                  Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                    Satisfactory




                                          ICR*                      ICR Review*                          PPAR

Outcome                               Satisfactory                   Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory

Sustainability                           Likely                         Unlikely                         Likely

InstitutionalDevelopment                Modest                          Modest                       Substantial
lmpact

Bank Performance                      Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                    Satisfactory

Borrower Performance                  Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                    Satisfactory



AGRICULTURAL          SERVICES     INNOVATION AND REFORM PROJECT                    (CREDIT       32840-BD)

                                          ICR*                      ICR Review*                          PPAR

Outcome                               satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory

Sustainability                          Unlikely                   Non-evaluable                        Unlikely

InstitutionalDevelopment                Modest                          Modest                       Substantial
lmpact

Bank Performance                    Unsatisfactory                  Unsatisfactory                   Satisfactory

Borrower Performance                  Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                    Satisfactory


* The ImplementationCompletionReport (ICR) is a self-evaluationby the responsibleoperational divisionof the Bank.The ICR
Review is an intermediate Independent EvaluationGroup (IEG) productthatseeks to independentlyverify the findings of the
ICR.

Key Staff Responsible


Project          TaskManager/Leader     Division Chief/    CountryDirector
                                        SectorDirector

Appraisal         Walter Schwermer      Tae-HeeYoon       ChristopherWilloughby

Completion           Tajul Islam       ConstanceBernard    FrederickTemple




Project          TaskManager/Leader     Division Chief/    CountryDirector
                                        SectorDirector

Appraisal           Wahida Huq            RidwanAli        P. Landel-Mills

Completion          Wahida Huq         ConstanceBernard     ChristineWallich



AGRICULTURALSERVICESINNQVATION REFORMPROJECT(CREDIT32840)
                                  AND

Project          TaskManagerReader      Division Chief/    CountryDirector
                                       SectorDirector

Appraisal        H. GassnerlT. Islam      RidwanAli        FrederickTemple

Completion          Wahida Huq         G. Pathmanathan      ChristineWallich

Preface

This is the Project Performance AssessmentReport (PPAR) of threeprojects in the Peoples
Republicof Bangladesh:the Forest ResourcesManagement Project,the Silk Development
Pilot Project and the AgriculturalServicesand InnovationReform Project.

The ForestResourcesManagementProjectwas approved in June 1992for an IDA Credit of
US$49.6 million (CR 23970). At project closure, 98 percent of the Credit had been
disbursed. The project was closed in December 2001, one year behind schedule.

The Silk Development Pilot Project was approved in November 1997for an IDA Credit of
US$ 11.4million (CR 30040).Due to slow progress and scaling down of some components,
there were two partial cancellationsof the Credit amountingto SDR 2.8 million. At project
closure, 83percent of the reduced Credit had been disbursed.The projectwas closed in June
2003, six months behind schedule.

The Agricultural ServicesInnovationand Reform Project was approved in September 1999
for an IDA Credit of US$5.0 million (CR 32840).At project closure, 82 percent of the
Credit had been disbursed.The project was closed on schedulein March 2003.

Thereport presents the findingsof (1) review of the projects' implementationcompletion
reports, appraisalreports, legal documents, sectorreports and other relevant material; and
(2) an IEGmission to Bangladesh in October 2005, includingvisits to project sitesand
discussionswith government officials and agencies, project directors and staff,beneficiaries,
key donors and academia.The collaborationof all persons met is gratefully acknowledged.

The threeprojects were selectedbecause each was in a different sub-sector and the varying
approaches adopted aniongthe different sub-sectorsprovided the opportunityto learn
through comparisonof their respective achievements and issues encountered.The timing of
the PPAR is opportune as Bangladesh's new PovertyReduction StrategyPaper was issued in
October 2005 and the latest CountryAssistance Strategywas approved in February2006;
and both canbe expected to generate discussionon future options. This PPAR can contribute
to discussionsonboth these strategies.

FollowingstandardIEGprocedures, copies of the draftPPAR were sent to government
officials and agencies for their review and comments.No commentswere received.


Summary

        This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for Bangladesh on the
Forest ResourcesManagementProject (FRMP);the Silk Development Pilot Project (SDPP);
and the Agricultural ServicesInnovationand Reform Project (ASIRP).

        The projects' common denominator is the rural sector aid the need to enhance
sustainablepro-poor rural growth. In otherrespects, the projects and their implementation
experiencesare distinctlydifferent. By comparing such differencesthe PPAR casts light on
the compatibilityof a strategywhich aims simultaneouslyfor a stronglygrowth-oriented
rural development program as well as onewhich is effectivelyoriented to poverty alleviation.

        The rural sectordominatesBangladesh's economyand social fabric. Rural areas
contain 75 percent of the population and 85percent of the poor. The rural economy
contributes21 percent of Bangladesh's GDP, two-thirds of its employment and a quarterof
export earnings.The country, with a per-capita income of onlyUS$440 per year, is one of
the poorest in the world, and its poverty is overwhelminglyconcentratedin rural areas, which
contain some 85percent of the Bangladesh's poor.

       Bangladesh's most recent PovertyReduction StrategyPaper (2005)has appropriately
highlightedpro-poor agriculturegrowth as the country's highest priority, commentingthat
agricultureis "the key driver of pro-poor growth strategy." The Bank's new Country
Assistance Strategy(2006) also emphasizes agriculturaldevelopment as "critical to pro-poor
growth." Bangladesh's substantialdependenceon agriculturefor employment and for
addressingpoverty is primarily reliant on rapid agricultural growththat includes the poor,
women and othermarginalized groups. Sincethe countryhas no unused land available for
increasingthe cropped area, pro-poor and sustainablerural growthmust necessarilybe based
on enhancingproductivity: through increased yields, diversifying to higher-value crops, and
addingvalue through qualityimprovement,processing andlor exporting.Rapid and
continuousenhancementof agriculturalproductivityis Bangladesh's major challenge.

       All three projects contributedto pro-poor growth, though to varying degrees. The
ASIRP had the highest relevance to large-scaleagricultural growth, as it tackled, head-on,
Bangladesh's productivitychallenge.The project used a new approachto agricultural
extensionbased onpartnerships withNGOs, and the project initiated and developeclan
export market for horticulturalproducts. Further, its agriculturalextension component had
widespread coverage, with potential for subsequent scaling-up to a national program. The
FRMP's relevancewas substantial sinceit enhanced forest and land conservation and
increasedcoastalprotection againsthurricanes, and its communityforestry had strong
poverty-alleviationbenefits. The SDPPwas also substantiallyrelevant. It aimed to foster the
major increase in productivitythat the silksectorneeded, and more than 80percent of the
beneficiarieswere poor women. But the SDPP's relevance is somewhat moderatedbecause
the limited size of the market for Bangladesh silk means that sericulture cannever be a
significantdriver of broad-based rural growth.

       The outcomeof the Forest Resources Management Project was satisfactory.It
achieved its objectivesin forestryplanting, conservation,and strengtheningthe capacityof
forestryinstitutions, and did so efficiently.Theproject's institutional developmentimpact

and sustainabilityare rated substantialand likelyrespectively.The FRMP was the only
project with a strong resource managementbase; it provided tree cover for Bangladesh's
fkagileupland soils, and the mangroveplantationson the coast reduced vulnerabilityto
hurricanes. Both the Bank and the Borrower designed and managed the project satisfactorily.
In relationto the pro-poor growth challenge,the FRMP's most significantaccomplishment
was its successhl piloting of comnlw~ity-basedforestry. The participantswere specifically
chosen amongthe poor and women-headedhouseholds.Tree survivalwas 20 percent better
than on governmentplantations. Furthermore, there are early indicationsthat tree survival
may be evenbetter on the plantationsof the particularlyimpoverished; for landless families
and women, the productivityof their plantations-their onlyresource - is vitally important.

        The outcome of the SilkDevelopmentPilot Project was moderatelysatisfactory.It
achieved its primary objectiveto hike-up the productivityof silk production, and, mainly due
to sericulture's nature as a highly labor-intensive and home-based activity, nearly all of the
participantswere poor women. However, the SDPP's efficiencywas modest as the number
of beneficiarieswas onlyhalf the appraisaltarget. This smallerscalewas, nevertheless,still
adequate to successhllypilot the improved technologies. Institutionaldevelopnlentwas
substantial:a new stakeholder-oriented SilkFoundationfor promoting sericultwe was
successhlly established,and the NGO sectordevelopedcapacityfor sericulture extension.
The Silk Foundation,the NGOs and the private sectorbecame complementarypartners, each
contributingin areaswhere it was strong. This achieved greater overall impact than if they
had acted alone. The SDPP's sustainabilityis rated likely, thoughwith some risks: a further
jump in productivitywould reduce vulnerabilityto world price fluctuations,and the Silk
Foundationwould be more self-reliantif it became financiallyindependentfrom the
government. The performance of both the Bank and the Borrower was satisfactory.

        The outcomeof the AgriculturalServices InnovationReformProject was also
moderately satisfactory.Oneof the two major components-the drive to break into the high
quality-high value export market for horticulturalproduce-had achievementswell in excess
of targets. The catalyzingFoundation -HORTEX -did well in facilitatingthe first market
entry and in subsequentlysupporting a growingprivate sector. The other component -
agriculturalextension - was an innovativeapproach based onpartnershipsbetween the
Department of AgriculturalExtensionand locallybased NGOs. The Department of
AgriculturalExtensionprovided technical capacityand the NGOs, through their wide-spread
network of field based staff,.addedtheir significantcomparative advantagein socially
inclusive extension.However, while informalfeedback suggeststhat productivity increased
and social inclusion was good, there is minimal datato c o d i such outcomes. Thus, overall
efficacyis rated conservativelyas modest. The ASIRP's institutionaldevelopmentis rated
substantialbecause the privatehorticulturalexport sector expanded, and the capacity of the
Department of AgriculturalExtensionand its N W partners improved.The ASIRP's
sustainabilityis unlikely. While HORTEX and the private exporters arewell established and
horticulhual exports areincreasing, the agriculturalextensioncomponentreceived minimal
government funding after the project. Hence, without follow-up,the gains made in
agriculturalextension are in danger of disappearing. Both the Bank and the Borrower
performed satisfactorily.

        Four specific lessonsregarding the pro-poor growth challenge, and a final lesson
related to the Bank's strategyfor Bangladesh's rural sectorhave emerged from this review.

The first four lessons are closelyinterlinked,and, together, provide two important
observations. First, the projects illustratepractical ways to emphasizegrowth and social
equityat the sametime, and eventhat improving equitycan also improveproductivity.
Second, actionsacrossthe four areascanbe mutuallyreinforcing.Pro-poor and gender-
iiiclusive agriculturalgrowth canbe further stimulatedwhen more than one action areais
tackled simultaneously.


        Dedicated focus on enhancingproductivitypays off. Breakthroughsin productivity
        canbe triggeredby making a quantum improvementin productivity a major goal and
        specificallyaddressingthis in project design. Without designingthe project to this
        effect, productivitybreakthroughs may not occur. Under the SDPP, the production
        and sale of high-yield eggs, training for improved rearing and reelingpractices and
        the introductionof improved technology caused the productivity of sericultureto
        increaseby 50percent. The project's emphasis onproductivitywas reflected in
        SDPP's monitorableindicators; all of them were to measure productivitychanges.
        The ASIRP's HORTEX componenthad abreakthroughby Bangladeshinto the much
        higher-valuehorticultural export market as its exclusiveobjective.The project's
        design-comprisingidentificationof internationalmarkets, product promotion, and
        technical assistancefor entrepreneurs inproduction, grading,packaging and quality
        control-hlly reflected this. The FRMP's design did not emphasizea hike in
        productivity, and no major gains occurred in the productivity of the forestry sector.

        Sociallyinclusiverural developmentneed not constrainrapid agricultural growth.
        Project features for targetingbenefits for the poor and women may even be designed to
        enhanceagriculturalgrowth. Over 80percent of the SDPPparticipantswere poor
        women, and they showed greater interest and care in rearing and reeling - hence in
        adoptingsericulture and achievinghigherproductivity - than wealthierhouseholds.
        Poor women were the primarytarget of the SDPP's NGO extension services.Under the
        FRMP's communityforestryprogram, higher productivity, sustainabilityand social
        inclusionwere found to be mutually complementary to each other. Tree survival and
        groundcover significantlyincreased, yields will be higher, and poor families and
        women arethe primary beneficiaries. The influencingfactor for the increased
        productivity and sustainabilitywas the switchto communitymanagement by the
        sociallydisadvantaged,who took greater care of the plantations than government or
        wealthier households.

(3)     Government-civil societypartnerships can enable gains in developmentcapacity,
        both for social inclusion andfor agricultural growth. Partnershipsplay to
        Bangladesh's strength-its NGO sector-among the most flourishingin the world.
        Suchpartnershipswere a major sourceof improved governance and increasedvitality
        in the SDPP and the ASIEW. For both projects, the NGO sector, with its extensive
        network of field staff, enabled includinga largernumber of beneficiariesthan
        government services couldprovide alone, brought in additional technical expertiseto
        boost agriculturalproductivity,and provided a greater capacity and greaterinclination
        to include women and the poor.

(4) To enhance benefits for women and the poor, project formulationneeds the
    systematicintegration of measures to achieve this. Actions were taken in all three
    projects to enhancebenefits for women and the poor. However, as is commonlyfound
    in developnlent projects, such effortswere more in the nature of "add-ons." More could
    likelyhave been achieved if these social objectiveshad been specifically featured and
    fully integratedin the projects' design, costing, institutionalarrangements,staffing,
    managementprocesses,the logical fiamework and monitoring.The inclusion of
    genderlsocialspecialistsin both Bank teams and implementationagencies would also
    be desirable.

(5) The Bank's rural projectportfolio in Bangladeshwould merit scaling-up,
    prioritizing, a longer-term program approach, and a better strategicframework.
    The Bank's rural lendingportfolio in Bangladesh has not reflected the priority accorded
    to rural development in the most recent PRSP and CAS. Only one of Bangladesh's 23
    projects approved in FY01-05 was rural, and the proposed FY06-09 lending program in
    the 2006 CAS has oi~lyone rural project out of the 24 projects listed. Rural lendinghas
    also lacked continuity(none of the three projectshad follow-on projects), and has
    sometimes had ~1xealisticallyshortproject time-fiames(the ASIRP had only a 3%year
    project period, which was not extended).Also, the rural project portfolio is not
    discerniblyorganized to supportprioritizedthrustswithin a coherent overall program.
    Rural sectorwork has recentlypicked up, but there is stillneed to develop a
    comprehensiveand focused rural strategy.




                                                                      Vinod Thomas
                                                                   Director-General
                                                                         Evaluation

1.        Bangladesh's Rural Challenge

1.           The rural sector dominatesBangladesh's economy and social fabric.Rural areas
contain about 75 percent of the country's 141millionpopulation and 85percent of the poor.
Agriculture contributes about 21 percent of Bangladesh's GDP, two-thirds of the country's
total employment and a quarter of total export earnings, and has enabled Bangladeshto be
substantiallyself-reliantin basic foodstuffs. AgriculturalGDP has grown in the last decade at
about 4 percent per annum and compareswith the country's overall GDP growth in the same
period of 5 to 6 percent per annum. The GDP growth rates are somewhathigher than the
overallpopulation growth in Bangladesh of 1.7percent per m u m . These figuresindicatethe
particularlyhigh significanceof Bangladesh's rural sector.Pro-poor growth in the rural
sectorwould appear to be an essential need in Bangladesh's development,especiallyfor
employment and, above all, for anypoverty alleviationstrategy.




2.           Both the Govemmentof Bangladesh and the World Bank concur that the
development of Bangladesh's rural sectoris essential. Bangladesh's recent Poverty
Reductioil StrategyPaper (PRSP), issued in October2005, gives clearpriority to rural
development, statingthat "agriculture and the rural economy are recognized as the key driver
of pro-poor growth strategy" and "the strategicimportance of agriculture and rural
development stand second to none."

3.           The Bank's 2001 CountryAssistance Strategy(CAS) also emphasizedpro-poor
rural growth, statingthat rural development is one of "the three most powerhl lines of attack
against poverty."' Similarly,the most recent CAS, issued in February 2006, includes
agriculturein its listing of four sectors "critical to pro-poor growth.'




4.           Theprimary driver of pro-poor agriculturalgrowth will need to be a rapid and
sustainedincreasein agriculturalproductivity. This is the major challenge that Bangladesh
must meet. Since it has no unused agricultural land for furtherdevelopment: the onlyways
to fosterincreasesin agriculturalproductivityarethrough: (1) yield increases;
(2) diversificationto higher value crops; and (3) enhancement of value through quality
improvement,processing and/or exporting.Agriculturalgrowth should also be socially
equitable. Hence, the overarchingneed is to significantlyenhanceBangladesh's cwrently
low agriculturalproductivitywhile at the sametime orientingagricultural growth to include
improvedwelfare for the poor and women3Given this important dual need -growthwith


1. The other two priorities forpro-poor growthwere identifiedas supportfor human development (education
and health) and acceleratedgrowth of the private sector.

2. In fact, the agriculturalarea is decliningby aboutonepercentper annumas more area is being used for
urbanizationand infrastructuredevelopment.(Source: WB Report No. 34543-BD; Bangladesh: Revitalizing the
Agricultural TechnologySystem in Bangladesh, November 30, 2005)

3. The rural non-farm sectoris also an importantpart of a rural development strategy;but this is beyond the
scope of the three projects reviewed in this assessment.

equity-the PPAR seeks in particular to address this issue: the compatibilityof a rural
strategywhich aims simultaneouslyfor a stronggrowth-oriented rural developmentprogram
while also being stronglyoriented to poverty reduction.




5.         The 2005 PRSP highlighted the contribution of a number of agricultural sub-sectors
to pro-poor rural growth, including field crops, forestry, fisheries, and livestock/poultry.Of
these, the PRSP saw the development of the forestrysector-the focus of the first project in
this ProjectPerformance Assessment Report (PPAR) -as a contributorboth to GDP growth
and environmentalprotection.To this list, the IEGmission would add two other sub-sectors,
sericultureand horticulture.These sub-sectorshave the potential for rapid growth and arethe
focus of the second and third projects reviewed in this PPAR. The PRSP also mentioned
broad-based support to rural development, includingthe centrallyimportant services of
agriculturalresearch and extension.Other actions to improve agriculturalproductivity
include supportingservicesand infrastructure such as rural finance, storage, marketing, rural
roads, and electrification.

6.         Cross-cutting issues. The 2005 PRSP focused on several cross-cuttingissues
which also emerged as importantfactors in this PPAR. First the PRSP supportsthe use of
partnershipsbetween the public sector and civil society, which have the potential to increase
the overall capacity of the governmentto implement development activities. Second,it
recognizes the evident need to includewomen and the poor in apro-poor growth strategyfor
rural development.The need to improve agriculturaltechnologyis also discussed in the
PRSP, althoughthis is not given as dominant a focus. The IEG mission would emphasizethat
this is a core need -to promote new technologies and institutionalcapabilities that can lift
the productivity of rural sub-sectors and the rural sectoroverall onto a much higher plane. To
significantlyenhancerural developmentin Bangladesh, marginal changes in productivity
will not be enough.




7.        The Forest Resources Management Project (FRMP), which was approved in
June 1992,was the largest of the threeprojectswith a cost of US$53 million at completion.
Thiswas the first of the threeprojects to be approved and had an unusually long project
implementatioilperiod of 9 ?4years, not closinguntil December2001. Its objectives included
institutional strengtheningof the ForestryDepartment and its supportingagencies, improving
the productivity of government-ownedforests, and protecting the environment.

8.        The Silk Development Pilot Project (SDPP), which was approved in November
1997and closed 5%years laterin December 2003, was a much smallerproject than FRMP,
with actualproject costs of US$6.5 million. Thiswas a pilot project that would set the stage
for a possible longer term program of revitalizingthe moribund silk sector. It was focused
less on physical targets (such as aggregate area and total production)than on hiking up the
productivity of the sector, which would improveproducers' incomes, especially women and
the poor, and make Bangladesh more competitivewith other silkproducing countries.Project
componentsincluded institutionalreform, productivityenhancement,dissemination of new

technology, and promotingthe silkmarket. The majorityof the project's monitorable
indicatorsrelated to productivity.

9.        The Agricultural ServicesInnovation and Reform Project (ASIRP), which was
approved in September 1999and closed in March 2003, had a very shortproject
implementationperiod of only 3%years. This was a Learning and InnovationLoan (LIL) of
US$5 million aid actual project costs of US $12.6 million. As with SDPP,ASIRP was
focused on steppingup productivity.ASIRP was in effecttwo projects: (1) an agricultural
extensionproject fosteringpartnershipsbetween the Departmentof AgriculturalExtension
(DM)and otherextensionproviders (bothNGOs andprivate entrepreneurs), and (2)a
program to supportthrough the HorticultureExport Development Foundation(HORTEX)
Bangladesh's entryinto the high qualityAligh value horticultural export market.

10.       Ratings for the threeprojects are discussed in three sectionsbelow, one for each
project, startingwith the first approvedproject (FRMP), followedby SDPP and then ASIRP.
Each section startswith a sunmarytable of the project's Development Objectives (DOs), an
assessment of the relevance, efficacyand efficiencyin achievingeach development
objective, and the overall outcomerating for eachproject based on these sub-ratings.Then
each sectioncontinuesby assessingthe project's InstitutionalDevelopment Impact and
Sustainability,and concludesby assessing the Bank's and the Borrower's performance in
preparing and implementingthe project.


2.     The Forest ResourcesManagement Project (FRMP)


11.      The relevance of the FRMP is rated substantial. Sound stewardshipof
Bangladesh's land and water resourcesis importantfor the sustainabilityof agriculture,and
the coastal (mangrove) forestryis an important mitigator againsthurricanetidal surges. The
protection of Bangladesh's reserves and parks is also iniportant.As statedin the discussion
on achievingthe Millenni~unDevelopment Goals in the 2006 CAS, "Reversing the trend of
deforestation. ...weighs heavily on the MDG agenda of ensuring environmental
sustainability." The smallpilot participatoryforestry component under the project's first
objectivealso represented a commitmentto involvelocal communitiesin forest development
and protection. The pilot program was expanded fiom two sitesto nine after the second mid-
tern1review in June 1999due to the increasingacceptance and successof this approach. Both
the 2005 PRSP and the 2006 CAS emphasize community-driven development.

Table 1. Assessment of DevelopmentObjectivesand Overall Outcome for FRMP

Develo~mentObiectives                             Relevance        Efficacv        Efficiencv

(1) Establish and maintaina forest management
    system that is fully responsiveto the           High             High          Substantial
    economic, environmentaland social goals of
    the country

(2) Improve the productivityof government-
    owned forests in order to meet,as much as
                                                 Substantial      Substantial      Substantial
    possible,the country'swood and energy
    needs

(3) Protectthe country's environment             Substantial      Substantial      Substan.tial

Overall Project                                  Substantial      Substantial      Substantial

Overall Project Outcome                                           Satisfactory




12.        Achievement of the project's first objective-establishinga forest management
system that is fullyresponsiveto the economic, environmental and social goals of the
country-and which comprisedinstitutionalstrengthening,planning, capacitybuilding and
conmunity participation activities,was high.A reorganization of the Forestry Department
(FD) resulted in the formationof a managementplanning division, an environmentalwing,
and somedecentralizationof staff and authorityto the field. Forest inventories were carried
out and eight IntegratedForest Management Plans (IFMPs)were prepared, as targeted at
appraisal.However, a commonproblem was that the resource data essential for plantation
managementwere not regularly updated. The ResourceInformationManagement System
established under the Second ForestryProjectwas somewhatstrengthenedthrough adding of
GIs data, but its usage in management decisionswas limited.Analyzed data fiom the
monitoringand evaluationsystemwas not effectivelyretransmittedto field managers.

13.       Probably the most strategicallysignificantoutcome of FRMP was the largely
successfulpiloting of participatory forest management. The pilot was extendedto 850ha
overnine sites (compared with the appraisaltarget of 400 ha over three sites) and involved
675 participants.But much more iniportant than thesenumbers is the positive experienceand
the lessons learned.The IEG missionvisited and had detailed discussionswith four
communitiesin both mangrove and dry-land forestry areas. Plantations were well established
with minimal tree losses, and the participatingcommunitieswere unanimously enthusiastic.
The paradigm shift in the view points of FD stafftowards participatory forestrywas also
remarkable.Initially,FD staff had been highly skepticalof participatory forestry. But, due to
its emergingsuccess,the mission found a sea-change in attitudestowardsparticipatory
forestry,both at the central and field levels. Clearly, a strongcommitmenthas replaced the
initial skepticismof communityforestry, a commitnient which was reported to have grown
furthersincethe project closed. One of the major factorsresponsible for the turnaroundwas
the observationby FD staff and othersthat community-managed forestsexperiencedminimal
tree losses compared to governmentplantations. Government-managed forestrytypically
experienced losses of 20 percent or more during the first few years, and rising evenhigher as
the plantationsmatured, especiallywhen they were located away from the roads. The

emergingsuccessof communityforestrystimulatedthe ForestryDepartment to prepare an
 amendmentto the Forestry Act in 2000 so as to provide the enablinglegislation for
implementationof community-based forestry.The Chief Conservator of Forests advised the
mission that participatory forestrywas now goingto be rolled out to cover most of the
plantations close to human settlements.In his words, "community involvementhas now
become a socially accepted concept for FD to develop its resources."

 14.        The comm~mityforestryprogram is a particularly good exampleof a situation
where both productivity enhancementand socialwelfare are complementaryto each other.
The participantswere specificallychosen amongthe poor and women-headedhouseholds.
Theseparticipantshave so farproven to be good stewardsof the plantations. Tree survival
has been 20 percent better than on governmentplantations. Furthermore,there are anecdotal
indicationsthat tree survivalmay be evenbetter on the plantations of the particularly
impoverished. For landless families and women, the productivity of their plantations-their
onlyresource-is vitally important.

 15.        The project's second objective-to increasethe productivity of government forests
-  and which included investmentin new forest plantations,rehabilitation of degraded forests,
and maintenanceof plantations establishedunder the Second Forestry Project, was
substantiallyachieved.Theplantation targets were achieved, with good seedlingsurvival
rates. Some 33,600ha of mangroveswere planted against an appraisaltarget of 32,900 ha.
About 36,500 ha of industrialplantations were established,including additionalrehabilitation
of degradedareas, against an appraisaltarget of 26,900 ha.

16.         The third objective-to protect the country's environment -was substantially
achieved.The environmentalmanagement capabilityin the FD was enhanced through the
reorganizationand subsequentcapacitybuilding. The main activityunder the objectivewas
to preparemanagement plans for the Sundarbanswetlands, a Ramsar site,4and this was
achieved. Conservationplans were also developed for 11of the country's other 13protected
areaparks, althoughmost plans are indicativerather than ready for implementation.The
mangroveinvestmentis expected to have significantprotectivevalue against cyclones, for
which Bangladeshis highlyvulnerable due to its low topography(over 140,000people died
from a hurricane induced tidal surge in 1991).A visit by the mission to a village on the coast,
found clear understandingof the protective value of its mangrove belt, and minimal signs of
anytree fellingby local or other people.




17.        FRMP costs at completionwere within the estimated project costs at appraisal
(90 percent), and the project closednot far fromthe originalclosure date (a one-year
extension).The ICR's re-estimated ERR for the project overall is 13percent -slightlylower
than the appraisalestimate of 16percent, duemainly to unrealistic growth rates assumedat
appraisal.While the revised ERR is onlyjust abovethe opportunitycost of capitalin


4. The Conventionon Wetlands, signed in Ramsar, Iran, in 1971,is an intergovernmentaltreaty whichprovides
the fiamework for national action and internationalcooperationforthe conservationand wise use of wetlands
and their resources. There are presently 1590wetland sites, totahg 134million hectares, designated for
inclusionin the Ramsar List of Wetlands of International Importance.

Bangladeshof 12percent, the environmentalbenefits were not quantified at either appraisal
or completion.Yet these are a substantialpart of re-forestation benefits, especiallyfor
mangroves with their mitigatingimpact against hurricanes. Taking into account such
environmentalbenefits, efficiencyis rated substantial.




18.        The overallproject outcome is rated satisfactory, compared to the moderately
satisfactoryratingby the ICR Review, for severalreasons. First, this PPAR assessesthe
relevance of the project in a wider perspective and views the forestryprogram as an
important contributorto Bangladesh's criticalneed for improved land and water
management. Second,the PPAR attaches greaterimportanceto the likely strategic
significanceof participatoryforestry. Somefour years afterthe ICR Review, participatory
forestryhas furtheradvanced and shownits potential for increasingthe sector's productivity
and sustainability.




19.        The reorganization of the ForestryDepartment, includingthe establishmentof
planning and environnlentalwings, and somedecentralizationof staff to the field, has had a
positive impact.The Forestry Departmenthas progressivelybecome a more effective agency
as a result of capacitybuilding through training and though experience gained in the project's
technical activities, includingits communityoutreachactivities.On the other hand, it would
be desirable forpromotions to be based on merit rather than on the present seniority-based
system. Also, the IEG mission observed some communications,but not as much as desirable,
between FD staff and the Bangladesh ForestryResearchInstitute (BFRI). Greater linkage
and more two-way flows of information would help make appliedresearch more demand-
driven.

20.        The intended strengtheningof the Institute of Forestry and Environmental Science,
ChittagongUniversity(IFESCU),was reported by FD staff to be highly successful, which
was confirmedin a mission visit to IFESCU. In particular,the capacity of the facultyhas
been increasedthrough Ph.D. programs involvingnearly all core staff, so that IFESCU is
now able to offer Ph.D. programs itself, compared to onlythe B.S. level previously. IFESCU
has also established a good working relationship with the FD, which is enabling a closer
alignment of courses to the country's needs. Nevertheless, there is a need to examinethe
capacity of all universities providing forestrydegrees and to rationalize programs. The FD
felt that, nationally, the number of graduates at the B.S. level might now be exceedingthe
demand.

21.        Overall, the institutionaldevelopment impact is rated substantial, compared to the
modest ratings in the ICR and ICR Review. Among the developmentssupportingan
upgraded assessment are the changingculturein the FD regarding community forestry,
which was less noticeableat project closure, and the furtherimprovementin IFESCU's
capacity.

22.        The FD has been strengthenedduring the project period and continued capability
canbe expected. A very positive developmenthas been the emergence of participatory
forestry.Communityinvolvementhas resulted in minimal tree losses compared to
exclusivelygovernment implementedplantationswhere illegal fellingcan reduce tree cover
by at least 20 percent, or well over this amount. Over time, FD's intended scalingup of
community forestry canbe expected to significantlyreduce tree losses.

23.        Sustainabilityis rated likely conipared with ratings of likely and non-evaluableat
the ICR and ICR review stages.The upgrading on the ICR review is primarily due to the
furtherstrengtheningof the FD four years after project closure and to the more evident
promise of participatory forestry.

24.        Nevertheless, onerisk areathat still needs attentionis inadequatefundingof
thinnings in government plantationsduring the earlier stages of tree growth.' As a
government department,the FD sends its revenues to the central exchequer, but has not in the
past been adequatelyprovided with subsequent governmentfunding forthinniiigs.By way of
illustration,FRMP itself funded continuingmaintenance of the Second ForestryProject's
plantations, although forestrymaintenancecould be self-financing.Encouragingly,and
another reason for the assessed likely sustainability,a government orderhas recentlybeen
issued for participatory socialforestryplantations,which allows the FD to keep 10percent of
its reveiiues as a "tree farming fund." Adequate fundingwill alsobe needed for future
plantation development and management.




25.        Theproject comprehensively addressedmost of the forestrysector's strategicneeds.
Within the fo~u-componentsthere were many sub-components, and the project designwas,
therefore, ambitiousin its targets, andpotentiallyrisky. However, implementationwas
largely successful and the project achieved its physical targets, in the eventjustifying the
comprehensiveapproachtaken. Factors contributingto successfulimplemeiitationincluded
strongcommitmentof the FD, regular and high quality supervisioiimissions, good synergy
between the Bank and theFD, guidance fi-oma highly detailed (almost overly designed)
appraisalreport, the experiencegained under the previous two Bank forestryprojects, and the
longproject duration.Both the Governmentof Bangladesh and the Bank usefully adopted a
flexible and learning approach during implementation.

26.        Key shortcomingson the governmentsidewere that minimal headwaywas made to
resolvethe h d i n g problem for thinnings and plantation maintenance, and that government
approvalprocedures were lengthy (a general problem in Bangladesh).On the Bank side,


5. The vulnerabilityofthe projectto poor maintenancecanbe gauged fi-omthe sensitivityofthe economicrate
of return(ERR). Thus, inthe appraisalreportanalysis(the ICR hadno sensitivityanalysis),a20percent
reductionin revenues was found to resultin atwo percent decreaseinthe ERR. Applying this two percent drop
to the ICR's recalculatedERR,the project ERR would fall from 12.9to 10.9percent.A similar effectwould
applyto reducedbenefitsresulting fromillegalwood cutting, thoughthis risk will be reducedas the
participatoryforestryprogramdevelops further.

there were some unrealisticassumptions in project design: four legal covenant actions were
dated to be completed within fourmonths of Board approval, and another four within six
months of approval.It would have been better if all or most of them had been completed
duringproject preparation, and then to provide a more realistic time period for completing
the remaining covenantsduring implementation.These weaknessesnotwithstanding,the
overallperformances of both the Bank and borrowerwere satisfactory-the samerating as
in the ICR and ICR Review.


3.      The Silk DevelopmentPilot Project (SDPP)


27.       Even more than the other two projects, SDPP's verypurpose was to foster the major
increase inproductivitythat the silk sectorneeded. The SDPP's pro-growth orientationwas
stronglymatched by sericulture's natural characteristicof being an activityfavoringthe poor
and women, usually combined. The vast majority of the beneficiaries-probablyover 80
percent6-were poor women. Sericulture, and its ancillary activities such as reeling, are
naturally suitablefor poor women since it is a home-based, labor-intensiveactivitythat can
be undertakenusing a smallplot of land, or, if the participantsare landless, based on buying
mulberryleaves. The returns fi-omsericultureare of less interestto better off families.Poor
women showed greaterinterest and care in rearing and reeling-hence in adopting sericulture
and achievinghigher productivity-than wealthier households. The naturally inclusive nature
of sericulturewas furtherreinforced in effectby the NGO extension services, which made
poor women their primary target. Thus, sericulture and the SDPP exemplifl, to an unusual
degree, a strong complementaritybetween high productivity and socialinclusion. SDPPwas
very relevant to pro-poor agriculturalgrowth, Bangladesh's primary developmentneed.

28.      As a pilot project, the size of the SDPPwas sufficient to develop and test, along
with NGOs and other actors, the project's productivity objectives. The project was also large
enough to set the stage for subsequent expansionof the silk sector. But, while some further
expansion of Bangladesh's silk sectorcan be anticipated, this is probably limitedby the
lower value of Bangladesh's silk on the internationalmarket. Due to the lower qualitymono-
voltine cocoons suited for Bangladesh's low altitudeconditions, Bangladesh may be ableto
develop a niche market for the weR yarn ill weaving and for particular types of garments. But
China and India have a comparativeadvantagearising fi-omthe upland conditions of most of
their production areas, though Bangladesh labor costs are increasinglycompetitive,
especiallywith China.

29.      In view of theseprobable market constraints,SDPPwas less likely to be a major
contributorto agriculturalgrowth compared to ASIRP which attemptedto tackle head-on the
broader agriculturalproductivitychallengefacing Bangladesh. Hence, while in other respects
the relevance of SDPP could be considered high, it is rated substantialrelative to
Bangladesh's primary need for a broad-basedaccelerationof rural growth.


6. Someestimatesare higher than 80percent. BSRTI's letter to the mission dated October2,2005 suggests.that,
for SDPPbeneficiaries,95 percent or more of the beneficiarieswerepoor, of which 85percent or more were
women.

                                                        9


Table 2. Assessment of Development Objectives and Overall Outcome for SDPP

Development Objectives                                          Relevance         Efficacy        Efficiency

As a pilotproject and as the first phaseof a long-term
program, to assist in increasing the incomesof small-scale
silk producers, most of whom are poorwomen, through
introducingimprovedtechnology and creating institutionaland     Substantial    Substantial         Modest
policy improvements designedto encouragesustainable
development of the silk sector. The projectaims to address
the institutional,economic andtechnical constraints that are
affecting silk development in Bangladesh.
-                 --    -                                                  - -


Overall ProiectOutcome                                                    Moderately Satisfactory




30.          The silk sector experienced two initial setbacks at the beginning of the project
which adversely affected Bangladesh's silk production. First, a major flood in 1998is
reported to have wiped out about half of the mulberrytree area. Second,the Government
removed a 30percent tariff on raw silk imports at about the sametime as the international
market began to be flooded by cheap exports of silk fiom China. As a result, the number of
silk worm rearers declinedby about 25 percent and domesticsilk production fell to about 50
percent of mid-1990s levels. While silk weaving and garment manufacture still thrived,
mostly using cheaper imported silk yarn, the incomes of producers (silk worm rearers and
silk reelers) were severelyreduced.

31.          However, the underlying objectivefor the pilot project was related more to
improvingthe sector's efficiency than to overallproductiontargets. (The project was actually
scaledback at mid-term review to abouthalf of its original quantitativetargets.) By fostering
increases in productivity, the projectwas intended to set the stage for a more competitive
domestic silk sector, thereby enabling its futureexpansionand leading to higher incomes for
the poor, especiallywomen. By thismeasure and based on the achievementsdiscussed
below, the efficacy of SDPPis rated substantial, because the pilot activities achieved
sufficient scope to demonstratetechnologicalinnovationsand to learn from such experience.

32.          The three key monitorable indicators specifiedin the appraisalreport -all relating
to productivity-were largelyachieved

          Rearingproductivitywent up fiom 22 kgs of cocoonsper 100dfls (disease-fiee
          layings)to 37 kgs per 100dfls-about the same as the appraisaltarget of 28 kgs.
          Reeling productivity ("renditta") improved fiom 18kgs of cocoonsper kg of raw silk
          to 12kgs of cocoonsof raw silk, the same as the appraisaltarget.
          Dailyincomes fiomrearing increased fiom Taka 18per 100dfls to Taka 62 for 100
          dfls, compared to the appraisal target of Taka70 (1997constantprices).'




7. Two sources ofdata onthese parametersare available:first, fiomthe Silk Foundation's individual recordsby
rearer, andsecond, from a sample surveybythe BangladeshInstitute ofDevelopmentStudies(BIDS). The data
are broadly similar. Those fiomBIDS are citedhere.

 33.        A number of the project's institutionalobjectivesinvolvedreducing the powers and
removing certain functionsfrom the Bangladesh SericultureBoard (BSB)-a government
parastatal-on the grounds that it had become substantiallydysfunctionaland was holdingup
rather than facilitating silk sectordevelopment. The BSB's monopolyof the production of
silk worm eggs and in settingcocoon prices was removed, as well as the BSB subsidieson its
eggs. A new entity, the SilkFoundation(SF), was created and registered under the
Companies Act at the beginning of the project in 1997.Thiswas set up as a non-profit entity
that would eventuallycover its own expenses.' It was charged with coordinatingthe project
and leadingthe silk sector into the future-includingmonitoringthe developmentof the
sector and steeringpolicies,promotingsilk industries and market development,training, and
being a resource in sericultureexpertise.As a foundation,it was also intended to become
progressivelyautonomous fi-omthe government (eight of the 12Board members are sector
stakeholders).

34.         The E G missionreviewed the suitabilityof establishingthe Silk Foundationrather
than tryingto strengthenthe existingBangladesh SericultureBoard, and concludedthat
establishingthe SFwas the better approach in the particular circumstancesof Bangladesh's
silk sector. In discussionswith various stakeholdersin the sector-includingNGOs,
industrialists,and academia-the mission was told that the BSB had been unableto
significantlybenefit the sector.The quality of BSB eggs, research, training, and extension
supportwas poor. It was a governmentparastatalwith a substantial staffinggand an unwieldy
management. Turningthis situationaround would have been difficult. A new start-creating
the SilkFoundation-was more likely to be successfulthan hying to revamp BSB. From the
outset, the SF could be a more stakeholder-oriented entity,with producers, NGOs, and the
private sectoron its Board. As a facilitatingagency, it couldbe small: excluding egg
production staff, the SF currentlyhas onlynine staff, of which six areprofessional. As things
have turned out, the decisionto createthe SF appears to have paid off, given its significant
achievementsin a projectperiod of only 5%years. These include supportingthe development
of research capability,improving SF Gennplasm MaintenanceCenters,training, technical
support for extension activities, demonstrations of new technologyand caterpillar-raising,
and somemarket promotion activitiesfor silk garments. Thereremains, however, the still
unresolved issue of what to do with BSB.1


8. Over time, the SF shouldaimto be financiallyindependent fiom government, drawing revenues fiom
contributionsof its stakeholders(for instance, a small levy couldbe applied on all sales of dfls, both from
government andnon-government grainages). This would provide greater securityof funding for the SFas well
as a built-in incentivefor the SFto be responsive and accountable to its contributingstakeholders.But, while
the objective for the SFto become financiallyindependent from government is sound, the period of time
assumed for the SFto become financiallyself-sufficient requiredmore realism. The Bank had establisheda
target of five years from project approvalfor the SFto become financiallyindependent.But the transfer of four
grainagesfrom BSB to the SF (which was expected to become a primary sourceof income for the SF)took
time. The new SFalso requiredtime to build its institutionalcapacity. The IEG mission agrees with
Government that the timing of-the financial independence objective(felt by Government to have been imposed
by the Bank)was unrealistic. Nevertheless, there has now been enoughtime to plan a transition to self-
sufficiency, which should be aimed for as expeditiously as possible.

9. BSB did not provide the mission with writtendata on staffing,althoughduring the mission's visit to BSB,
staffing was mentionedto be about 600 persons.

10.BSB is involvedwith extensionin some areas, trainingand some grainages. It also implementssome
projects; for instance, a government financedproject in the Chittagong foothills.

35.        Otherinstitutionalobjectivesof the project were also achieved. Import tariffs on
raw silk were removed at the beginningof the project. The Textile StrategicManagement
Unit (TSMU) in the Ministry of Textileswas strengthened.And, although the Bangladesh
SericultureResearch and TrainingInstitute(BSRTI)-a research agency-was not separated
fiom the BSB and its management until late in the project, the mission's visit to BSRTI
found it to be an increasinglyactive entity.

36.        One project activitythat was dropped, and shouldnot have been, was the sub-
component for research and development on bivoltine silk worms or bivoltine-polyvoltine
crosses. Bivoltinerearing can achieve significantlyhigher quality and prices than
polyvoltine,but requires more carefulrearing at Bangladesh's low altitude.The bivoltine
researchprogram was going slowly, but dropping it was a failureto appreciatethe
inlportanceof a potential technological breakthrough. The potential gains fi-omfinding a sure
way to rear bivoltine silk cocoonswere worth continuing the research, even when no
headway was apparent. Only some aspects of any researchprogram will bear fruit, and
results fiom the bivoltine program were, and still are, unpredictable.However,productivity
enhancementis Bangladesh's core agriculturalneed, and the center of the SDPP's objectives.
The Government and the Bank shouldnot have abandonedresearchpotentially contributing
to major productivityenhancement.This appearsto have been BSRTI's view also. It
continuedbivoltine research, though at minimal levelsdue to lack of project funds. Also
encouraging, the mission found that BSRTI's bivoltineresearchprogram had become
increasinglyproactive subsequentto the project.




37.        The efficiencyof the project is rated modest.No economicrate of return was
calculated in the ICR. However, aspart of a study on the impact of the SDPP, the Bangladesh
Institute of Development Studieshas calculated the improvementsin the economicefficiency
of silkproductionby the end of the project. The improvement in productivityhas been good.
The studyestimatedthe Domestic Resource Cost @RC) to have improved from a DRC for
rearing of 2.18 to a DRC of 0.5, a greater improvement than the appraisaltarget of 0.8." The
DRC for reeling went fi-om3.7 to 1.4,a substantial improvement, although less than the
appraisaltarget of 0.6. However, these DRCs are sensitiveto changes in world prices.'' The
project's achievements tended to occur later than targeted, though part of this is due to an
unrealistictime-fi-ameset at appraisal. And the actualphysical achievementsin terms of
numbers of beneficiarieswere about half of the appraisal targets. While, as discussed earlier,
the reduced project sizewas still sufficient for pilotingpurposes, the project's efficiencyin
achievingits piloting objectiveswas nonethelessreduced. The efficiencyrating is alsopulled




11.The Domestic Resource Cost is ameasureof a country's comparativeadvantageinthe productionof a
particularcommodityrelative to othercountries.The lower the DRC, the strongerthe comparativeadvantage.

12.Internationalprices will be crucialforBangladesh.A comprehensive market andprice studyis
recommendedaspart ofplanningfuture silkdevelopmentin Bangladesh.

down by the continuationof two agencies-the Silk Foundation and the Bangladesh
SericultureBoard -for substantiallythe samepurpose.13




38.        The overallproject outcome is rated moderately satisfactory, compared to the ICR
and ICR Review ratings of satisfactory. The SDPPwas substantiallyrelevant and                  .

substantiallyachieved its main objectiveof enhancingthe productivity of silkproduction,but
was onlymodestly efficientin doing so.




39.        The institutional development impact is rated substantial. Over a relatively short
period, the SFwas formed, the BSRTIwas separated fiom the BSB, and the capacity of both
the SF and the BSRTIwas improved. The feedbackwhich the IEG mission received fiom
NGOs, private firms, and the BangladeshInstituteof Development Studies all indicated a
positive assessment of the SF, in particular concerningthe improved quality of silkworm
eggs. Discussionswith privateweavers and two NGOs also indicatedthat the capacity of the
participatingNGOs and private entrepreneurshas improved. This rating represents an
upgrade fiom the modest rating at ICR and ICR Review stagedue to the continued
institutionalstrengtheningof the SF and BSRTI sincethe closing of the project.




40.        The achievement of the project's objectivesto improvethe welfare of beneficiaries,
especiallypoor women, through enhancing silk sectorproductivity can be expected to
continue. The SF, the BSRTI, NGOs and the private sectorhave developedthe capacityto
servetheir clients, and the demand for their servicesfiom the beneficiaries is strong.
Sustainabilityis rated likely, compared to unlikely at the ICR Review stage, because the
institutionsinvolvedhave maintained or M e r strengthenedtheir capacity sincethe project
closed 2 ?4years ago, and because the improvenieiitin silk sectorproductivity,which
appearsto have been maintained, has increasedBangladesh's abilityto competein
internationalmarkets.

41.       Nevertheless, the likelyrating is somewhatmarginal sincethe silk sector stillneeds
to developWher resilienceto severalrisks. Until the SFis a hlly stakeholder-ledentity and
financiallyindependentfiom the government, it couldbe vulnerable to adversefuture
political or budgetinginfluences. The continuedexistenceof the BSB also adds some
unpredictabilityto government decisionsrelating to the SF. And world silkprices and market
decisionsof major producers such as China aid Indiaremain uncertain. The first two risks
canbe mitigatedthrough government and SF actions, and vulnerability to declines in world
prices canbe reduced through further increasesin silk sectorproductivity.


                   - -


13. There are some differences.BSB doesmoreextension work withits own staffthan SF, which supports
NGOs for this purpose. The SF, working withBSRTI,the NGOs and the private sector,hasincreasingly
becomethe main actorinpromotinginnovations in the sector.

42.        The Bank and the Govenlmentof Bangladesh, working together, devised a strongly
reformistproject that tackled most of the elementsrequired for revamping the sericulture
sector.This required a perceptiveoverallvision for the sector, an innovativeproject design,
aid a willingnessto take risks. The deregulationof the sector and the shift to stakeholder
implementationwere appropriate given the past performance of the public sector. The
Government undertook a number of difficult actionsduringproject preparation and
implementation, such as removing the BSB's monopolyon eggproduction, cocoon
purchases and prices, as well as eliminatingimport tariffs. Extensive discussionswith
stakeholdershelped gain commitment for these changes. Both the Government and the Bank
were flexible during implementation and in adjustingthe project as experiencewas gained.
This was particularly important in an experimentalproject such as SDPP.

43.       The main shortfallson the governmentsidewere delays in some of the institutional
changes.The BSRTIwas only divested fromthe BSB in July 2003,just after the project
closed, so that much of BSRTI's institutionalimprovementhas occurred subsequentto the
project, and BSB continueswithout a clearpurpose. From the Bank side, the short time-
fiame for the SFto become financiallyself-sufficientwas unrealistic for a new entity,
especiallysincethis required the timelytransferof grainagesfrom BSB to provide a source
of income. The classificationof the project's overallrisk in the appraisalreport as
"low/moderate" reflects a general tendencyto assumean easier changeprocess than should
have been expected.Also, the Bank's decisionnot to grant an extension of the project of
more than six months differed from the Government's more realistic interest in a longer
project period. An eighteenmonth to two-year extensionwould have enabled more
institutional consolidationand greaterprospects for sustainability.Finally, there is the
questionof whether a follow-onproject, asvisualized at appraisal, would have been
beneficial.Notwithstandingthese shortfalls,the Bank and Borrowerperformanceswere
strongin most respects.Both arerated satisfactory, the same as at the ICR and ICR Review
stages.


4.      TheAgricultural ServicesInnovation and Reform Project
        (ASIRP)

44.       Thisproject tended to function astwo projects in one. There was a lack of linkage
between the HorticultureExport DevelopmentFoundation (HORTEX) and the Department
of AgriculturalExtension(DAE). Component 1(Export development under HORTEX) and
components2 and 3 under DAE (for strengtheningimplementationof the New Agricultural
ExtensionPolicy (NAEP) and small-scalepilot trials and demonstrations)were effectively
managed as two separateprojects.14Specificcomplementary actionsbetween HORTEX and
DAE would likelyhave increased the project's impact, althoughthe gains shouldnot be
overstated,given the relativelysmall size of horticultural exports compared with DAE's very


14.Neither the AppraisalReport nor the ICR, otherthanreferringto the Project Coordinating Committee,
discussedcomplementaryinteractions. The project steering committee, which includedboth DAE and
HORTEX and which might have provided somepossibilities for linkage,is reported to have rarely met. During
the IEGmission, linkagesbetween HORTEX and DAE were not raised with the mission.

largeprogram.15However, tlie greater gains that canbe expected as the marketing of
horticultural exports scalesup, would have merited seekingcomplementarity.The lack of
linkagesis particularlypuzzling given that the essence of Bangladesh's NAEP, and of the
project's second component, is the encouragement of partnershipsbetween DAE and other
entities.

45.        The discussionbelow reflects the two-project nature of ASIRP, dealingwith the
HORTEX andDAE components separatelyin each section.



46.        The relevance of ASIRP is rated high. The project attemptedto tacklehead-on the
agriculturalproductivity challenge facingBangladesh. Hence, it was central to the
fundamentalobjective in the 2006 CAS7sfirst "pillar": to acceleratethe growth of GDP, with
agricultural growth as the primary engine enablingenhanced productivity and rural incomes.
The rural sectoris the home of the majority of Bangladesh's poor.

47.        Fosteringpartnershipswith NGOs and the private sectorunder the New
AgriculturalExtensionPolicy was intended to make the extension system more demand-
driven and technology-focused than in the past. If successful, this would have a substantial
impact on agriculturalproductivity.The overall impact would potentiallybe strong sincethe
project covered a largepart of Bangladesh's cultivatedarea. The horticultural export
marketing component was also highlyrelevant, sincebreaking through the export barriers
would accessmarkets with much higher prices.16The overallrelevance of ASTRP was high
because of the strategic importance of the first two objectivesof the project, even though the
relevanceof the third objectivewas modest.




15. The HORTEXprogramwouldhave onlyrepresenteda smallpart ofDAE's broader basedprogram.
Nevertheless,the agriculturalproductionaspectsof the horticultural exportprogram, althoughusually assisted
by specializedtechnical staffofthe exporting entity, mighthavebeen able to benefit fiom amoreproactive
DAEprogram, and DAE staffmighthavebenefitedfiomworking onthe exacting technicalrequirements of
cropproductionfor .thehigh quality exportmarket.

16. In effect, ajump inproductivity,the change here being in the value ofproduction.

Table3. DevelopmentObjectivesand Outcomeof ASIRP

DevelopmentObjectives                                            Relevance           Efficacy       Efficiency

To test and refinevarious agriculturaltechnologytransfer
programsdesignedto foster more demand-driven and
locally responsiveextensiontechniques.

Specifically,the projectaimedto:

(1) Providesupportthroughthe HorticultureExport
    DevelopmentFoundation(HORTEX) to pioneer
    horticultural productionand export activities,with              High           Substantial     Substantial
    emphasison contractfarming through NGOs or
    private entrepreneurs

(2) Test and develop methodsfor improvingpartnership
    programsbetweenthe Departmentof Agricultural
    Extension(DAE) and other extensionservice
    providers (NGOs, privatesector, and other                       High              Modest        Modest
    governmentdepartments) in developingand
    conveying appropriateextension messages (as part of
    the NewAgricultural Extension Policy)

(3) Carry out small pilot and demonstrationprograms
    underthe FAO-sponsoredSpecial Programfor Food
    Security (SPFS), of possible measures, linkedto a             Modest              Modest        Modest
    demand-drivenextension service, for improving
    productionand food security.

Overall Project                                                    High              Modest        Substantial

Overall Project Outcome                                                     ModeratelySatisfactory




48.         The HORTEX component:The ASIRP's first objective-to promote quality
horticulturalproduction and exportsthrough HORTEX -was substantiallyachieved."
HORTEXwas to operate as a promoter and facilitator for horticultural exports to high-value
markets, includingidentificationof market opportunities,provision of technical assistancein
horticulturalproduction, grading, packaging and market promotion, and provision of some
common facilities such as cold storage. Until the late 1990sBangladeshhad not penetrated
high-valueexport markets such as in Europe, America and East Asia, sinceBangladesh
horticulturalists and businesseswere not gearedto this. Productionwas unpredictablewith
respect to time of harvesting and quantity,qualitywas variable and oftenpoor, and grading,
standardization,qualitypackaging, market research, brand promotion and linkageswith
importersin the major importingcountrieswere largelyabsent.

49.         The first export market breakthrough occurred at the end of ASIRP's predecessor
project, the Agricultural Support ServicesProject (ASSP).A consignmentof Frenchbeans
was successfullyexported to Europe through a largeNGO, the Bangladesh Rural
Advancement Committee (BRAC).HORTEXhad provided assistanceto BRAC which had


17.The ICR for ASIRP (in2003) evaluatedthe HORTEX componentas "satisfactory". The PPAR for ASSP
(also in 2003) providedpositive commentarybut consideredthat the achievementat that stage representedonly
"a modestkick-start." HORTEX hadbeenestablishedin1993yet, fromcommentsmadeto the IEG mission,
madelittle progress in the 1990's. Itappearsthat i t has only beeninthe last several years that HORTEX has
significantly developedas aninstitution.

no prior experience in horticulturalexportingand associatedhigh qualityproduction. From
this smallbeginning-from no exports in 1996197rising to 42 tons metric tons in 1998199,
when ASIRP began an increasingnumber of firms entered the freshproduce export market.
                           -
Exports during the project period were 169tons in 199912000,262tons in 2000101,461tons
in 2001102 and 616 tons in 2002103. Exportscontinued to increaseafter the project closed, to
837 toils in 2004105. Fresh produce exports of 1,200tons overthe project period more than
doubled the appraisal target of a total of 535 tons. Frozen produce exports also commenced
duringthe project period, startingin 2001102 and reaching 369 tons in 2004105 (data fiom
HORTEX).

50.          The IEG mission addresseda number of questionsrelatingto this export market
breakthrough to various actors in the sector. What would have happened without the
promotionaland facilitatingrole played by HORTEX? To what extent was HORTEX needed
to bring about this breakthrough? Could the Governmenthave played the promotional and
facilitatingrole? Could the market breakthroughhave been achievednaturallythrough
Bangladesh's private sector? Could Bangladesh have attracteda major international company
to invest in horticultural development? The first exporter-BRAC -commentedthat it had
now acquired the necessary expertiseto market horticultural exportswithout the support of
HORTEX. BRAC felt that the production andprocessing side for horticultural exportswere
HORTEX's strengths,but the marketing expertiseof HORTEX couldbe further
strengthened. However, BRAC acknowledgedthe initial supportingrole which HORTEX
played in export marketing. In fact, BRAC said that it would not have attemptedto enter the
export market if HORTEX had not urged it and helped it to do so.

51.          A rapidly growing private firmcalledEURASIA, which exports frozen produce
primarilyto the U.K., provided a more current assessment of HORTEX. After a first export
test run in January 2003, EURASIAhas sincedevelopedan array of frozen goodsunder its
own logo. Its exports are growing rapidly, reaching 77 tons in the last quarterof 2004, and 97
tons in the first quarter of 2005. EURASIA gave a stronglypositive assessmentof HORTEX,
which had provided technical advice, leased out a fieezervan, brought in an international
consultanton freezingtechniques,helped in trainingcontract farmers, and advised on brand
naming and packaging. The IEG mission concludesthat HORTEX was needed to help break
the considerablebarriers to entryin the high-qualityexport market, and that it is continuing
to play a usefil role in this still "infant ind~stry"'~

52.          The agricultural extensioncomponent.Supportingthe implementationof the
Government's New AgriculturalExtensionPolicy (NAEP)was the core of the project's
second objective and component. The Government saw the ASIRP as a continuation of the
Agricultural Support ServicesProject (ASSP), which had helped start implementingthe
NAEP towardsthe end of the project.lgThe ASIRP h d e d a scaling-upof NAEP, which the

18.Nevertheless,the degreeto which HORTEX has facilitatedthe recent spectaculargrowthof export
horticultureshouldnot be overstated.New exportersare enteringthe market andHORTEX's contributionto
this is difficult to ascertain.

19.ASSP's important contributionto strengtheningagriculturalextensionwas to move away fiomthe forme~
"training and visit system'' (an approachthat had been found to have only modest impactand with high
extensionstaffneeds)by introducinga demand-based system.ASIRP fi.utherdevelopedthe NAEP approach
including moving the community involvementprocess further, and introducingthe partnership program.A
detailedreview of ASSP was madeby IEG in a PPAR issuedinMay 2003.

Government and the Bank viewed as a paradigm shift from the old way of doingbusiness. In
contrast with traditional approaches, the NAEP emphasized agriculturalservicespartnerships
between DAE and other actors (NGOs, the private sector, other government departments,
academia, and others). The project also emphasized demand-led,bottom-up approaches,
stakeholder involvementand innovations. The partnership programs were to introduce and
promote agriculturaldevelopment activitiesand investmentsthrough grant financingat three
levels: upazila (local governments),district, and national.

53.        The unanimous view in the Governmentwas that the national and district
partnershipswere mostly unsuccessful. There were 19national level partnerships (all funded
by DFID, UK) and 87 district level partnerships, fundedby both DFID and the Bank. A
possible reason for their disappointingperformance was that they were too remote from the
field,though the short durationof the projecthardly gavemuch chance for successful
introdu~tion.~~By contrast,the mission found enthusiasticviews regarding the upazila
partnershipprogram. The mission also foundpositive feedback in its more limited encounters
with farmers and NGO field staff.Some6860upazila-level partnerships, spread over 460
upazilas, were establishedduring the projectperiod an impressiveachievementin only 3%
                                                             -
years (no physical target was provided at appraisal). ASIRP also supported otherDAE
extension activities: for instance, DAE reportsthat they organized nearly 300,000
demonstrationsand 110,000field days, and that some 780,000 fanners received training.

54.        However, the missionwas not ableto assess the quality and impact of the upazila
partnershipprogram and its supporting activities,because data on outconles is not available.
Data on the number of partnerships and the types of partnerships are available,but no
qualitativeassessment(yields, incomes, etc.). This is a surprisinggap, especially for a
pioneering project (and a LIL) where understanding the outcomeof pilot actions is essential.
Furthermore, the PPAR of ASSP had specificallycommented on exactlythe sameneed.21In
this situation, any conclusionson efficacyrepresents speculation, though the mission's
general sensefrom discussionsin the field is that the program has had a positive impact.

55.        In meetingswith DAE field staffin Bogra and Rajshahi districts, the staffwere all
enthusiasticabout the upazilaprogram. A farmer group that the missionmet felt that the
regularity of visits and the qualityof DAE's agriculturalextensionhad improved
considerablyin the last severalyears (though the group was less positive regarding a partner
NGO who "came and promised, and then never came again"). DAE field and HQ staff
advised that the more cornnlon situationwas that the partnershipshad improved outcomes
because they used the comparative advantage of eachparty: the DAE on technical matters
and NGOs on field outreach.22


20.Nationaland districtlevelpartnershipsare not discussedhere,though, basedonthe Government's frank
assessment, it is assumedthat they failed.Far more important are the localpartnerships,on whichthe NAEP
andASIRP primarilyconcentrated.

21. "Theextentto whichthe objectiveofincreasingproductivitywas metandis attributableto the project is
uncertaindue to limitedoutcome data."(ASSP PPAR para2.5)

22. DAE also feltthatpartnershipswithothergovernmentdepartmentshadbeenmuchweakerthanthe NGO
partnerships,thoughthere were several exceptionsmentioned.Theview was that the Governmentshould
provideclearinstructionsto othergovernmentdepartmentsthatthey shouldjoin andpromotepartnership
activities.

56.          A key objectiveof the project was to promote technological innovation.While the
horticulturalcomponent clearlydid, DAE activitiescannot be assessed with confidence,
given the lack of data. The ICR had observed that technological innovationwas not
substantialas the community-level sub-projects primarily supportedalready established
development activities.The IEG mission also gained this impression. On the otherhand,
innovationin agriculturalextensionprocesses, which is very important to the futureof
Bangladesh's agriculturalextension,appearsto have been substantial.For instance,DAE's
completionreport cites a number of approachesthat were experimented with: a farmergroup
approach, integrated extensionapproaches, and farmer-led extension.Suchtesting is
importantto developthe most cost-effectiveextensionsystem,but again, despite advice
provided during the PPAR evaluation of ASSP, data on the relative costs and effectiveness of
the different extension approacheswas not collected.

57.          In summary, while there is vibrant enthusiasm within DAE concerningthe upazila
partnerships and their outcomes, and feedbackto the mission from other sourceswas
generally                 the efficacyof the second objectivecannot be reliably assessed. Noting
the probability that the program's activitieshad only limited impact in supporting
technologicalinnovations,and the need for due cautionwhen outcomesare not reliably
known, the efficacyof the second objectivecannot be rated more than m ~ d e s t . ~

58.          The small-scalepilot trials component.Of the threepilot programs, the on-farm
water management pilot in six villages and the soil testingpilots in 27 upazilas demonstrated
positive results and were at a sufficient scaleto provide the intended demonstrationand
learning.No productivity indicatorswere presented to the mission, but positive impacts for
both programswas noted by an independent FA0 evaluation team and were corroboratedby
the FA0 Bangladeshrepresentative.The DAE is stronglycommittedto thesetwo programs;
the mission was informed that both the water management and the soiltesting programs have
been continued after the project, within DAE7sfinancialresources, and that the DAE had
requested further governmentfunding and possible external assistance.But, as with
component 2, data on outcomeswere not provided to the mission. The third pilot program                -
crop yield and weather forecastingto help farmers assess weather-relatedconsequences on




23. Feedbackwas generallyoral. Writtenqualitativedata is very scarce,but the followingcomment in DAE's
ASIRP Completion Report may be encouraging.On page 34, the Completion Reportmentions a studyby Helen
Keller International(September 1998)of the impactof homestead gardens, presumablyestablishedunder
ASIRP's predecessorproject,ASSP. Thebeneficiaries' daily intake of vegetablesincreased fiom
150gm/capita/dayto 243gm/capita/day. If similarimpacts were achieved under ASIRP this would be a
considerableenhancement in welfare.

24. It is unfortunatethat DAE and the Bank team did not consider commissioning an independentstudyof the
DAE extensioncomponent. The value of doing this is demonstratedby the SDPP,which commissionedthe
BangladeshInstitute of DevelopmentStudies (BIDS)to reviewthe project including substantialdata collection
and a samplesurvey. This has enableda muchmore reliable assessment of the SDPP's outcome. In the case of
DAE the need for sucha studywas even more important as the SF and NGO's alreadyhad substantialbasic
data fiomthe project participants.The omission of a studyfor the DAE component, and of an effectiveM&E
capacity,was despite strongrecommendations inthe ASSP's PPAR on the need for monitoringperformance of
project activities.

growing conditions and market prices -did not succeed and was aband~ned.~'The efficacy
of the third objectiveis rated modest.

59.          Components 1 (HORTEX) and 2 (DAE extension) were highlyrelevant as
complemei~tarypillars promotingBangladesh's strategicneed to increase agricultural
productivity, growth and incomes.Adding the smallthird component may not have been
judicious. While largely successful, the third component did not add much to the two core
thrusts under the first two components,which were alreadyhighly demanding. The third
component appears to have required a disproportionateamount of institutional resources to
design and implement, both for the Government and forthe BankRAO. The mission's
subjectiveimpressionfrom discussionswith DAE and FA0 is that this may have reduced the
attentionprovided to the first two component^.^^ It might have been better to have omitted the
third compoilent from the project, while suggestingthat its undoubtedlyworthy activitiesbe
candidates for financingby other agencies.

60.          The project's overall efficacyis based primarily on its two major components.
Horticultural exports developed substantially,but the outcome of the agricultural extension
component cannot be reliably evaluated due to the paucity of impact data. Based on feedback
provided to the mission fkom an arrayof stakeholders, the impact of the DAE componentis
also expectedto have been positive, but, without data, a rating of modest is assumed as there
is no basis for assuminga higher efficacy.Overall, the project's efficacy is rated modest.




61.          All three componentswere implemented within appraisal estimates of cost. The
HORTEX component exceeded the project's export objectives.HORTEX staffingis
commendablylean (six professionalstaff).The viability of quality-markethorticultwal
exports is evidencedby the private sector's expansionin this market. The physical
achievementof the DAE component (in terms of the number of upazila partnerships,
demonstrations,farmertraining, etc) was substantial,and the DAE did well to implement
such a largeprogram in only 3%years, even though the outcomes and impactscan onlybe
conjectured fkom the feedback provided to the mission. Likewise, the physical
implementationof the third componentwas good given the shortproject period. Overall
project efficiencyis rated substantial.

62.          The short, 3%year implementation period of the ASIRP, without any extensionof
the original closing date, reduced both efficacyand efficiency. This short period provided
littletime for the qualitativeaspectsof inlplementation, and still less for adjustmentsand
learning.Both HORTEX andDAE commented stronglyon this. HORTEX emphasized to the
IEG mission the length of time required, and the capacityenhancement and investment
needed by a fim for successfulentry into the export market, and for its own capacity


25. The third pilot encountereddifficultiesin obtainingcooperationof a number of ministries that needed to be
involved,was overlysophisticatedand had lipited post-project follow on activities.

26. It is interestingto note the space devotedto the third component in variousproject documents.Theproject
descriptionin the appraisalreport ( h e x 2) has over 7pages onthe third componentcomparedto less than
4 pages on the first and second componentscombined.In the sectiononthe achievementof project objectives in
DAE's CompletionReport, discussionof the third componentis twice as long as for the second component.

development. The DAE compared ASIRP with its preceding ASSP, which had a 9 ?4year
implementationperiod. The IEG mission agreeswith these views. Particularly for a project
which is experimentaland pioneeringin nature, there is need for enough time to developand
test the new approaches and to learn and adapt as experience is gained -in short, to enable
attainmentof the objectivesfor which Learning and InnovationLoans are intended. Although
the project has resulted in significantlearning and innovation,this would have been
commensuratelygreater with a longer time-fi-me, or, alternatively,with a follow-onproject.




63.         The projectwas highly relevant to steppingup agriculturalproductivity,
Bangladesh's paramount need. The project was implemented efficiently,within appraisal
estimated costs and at impressivespeed given the very short project period. However,
efficacywas modest. While the HORTEXcomponent surpassed its objectives, data on the
qualitativeachievements of the agriculturalextensioncomponent are not available and
indications arethat most of the upazila-level partnershipspromoted commonlyused
teclmologies rather than innovations.The national and districtpartnership programs
performed weakly and the crop and weather forecastingpilot in Component 3 was
abandoned. The outcome is rated moderately satisfactory compared with satisfactory at the
ICR stage and unsatisfactoryin the ICR Review. The higher rating in the PPAR than in the
ICR Review is because greaterweight has been placed on the relevance of the project to
Bangladesh's strategicpriorities, and because horticultural exports-one of the main
objectivesof the project -have grown substantiallysinceproject closure.




64.         HORTEXhas developedbroad practical experiencein production and marketing
for export and its services arebeing used by the export industry, indicating their utility. The
proliferation of exportingfirms and exports, fi-omvery little experienceor activityat the
beginningof the project, represents strongcapacitybuilding in the private sector, in which
HORTEXhas played a facilitatingrole. The review of HORTEX's most recent reports, and
the nlission's discussionswith HORTEX and a major exportingfirm, indicatethat
institutionaldevelopment has been p~sitive.~'Takinginto considerationboth HORTEX itself,
and, perhaps more importantly, the rapid development of private institutions (firms and the
marketingchains they have established), institutionaldevelopment for this componentwas
high.

65.        DAE's institutionalcapacityhas also increased. A new and radically different
extensionapproachhas been introduced under the second component, and the large sizeof
the program enabled learningby doing for many DAE staff and upazilas. SeniorDAE staff
commented to the mission that they felt an important institutional achievement was the


27. HORTEX's quarterlynewsletter for April-June2005 reports HORTEX services to four firms forproduction
plans; four firmsfor marketingplans; 15fm/NGOs in packaging developmentand for two firms with trial
shipments.Additionally, various general serviceswere mentionedto the missionby HORTEX, including
marketintelligenceand workshops. HORTEX's recentnewslettersindicate up-to-date relevance, suchas a
discussionof the new (2005)EU regulations on import requirements.Further development of marketing
expertise may be one area for additionalstrengthening.

beginning of a change in the cultureof DAE field staff. In place of the former top-down,
directiveapproach, a demand-driven, client-focused,and partnership modality had begun to
develop.This changewas considered a "new era" by seiliorDAE management.
Implementationof the second componentwas fullyintegratedwithin the existing structureof
DAE, thus developingthe capacitiesof staff and the institution as a whole. The Upazila
AgriculturalExtension Coordination Committees (UAECCs),which are the core decision
makers at local levels, and the more successful partnershipsbetween government and civil
society(mostlyNGOs) are also institutions.These developments arehighly positive,
especiallygiven the scale of the DAE component. However, the mission was advisedby
DAE that the main institutions- the DAE-NGO partnerships-risked declining without
firther project support,indicatingthat they were not as robust as desirable. Institutional
development for DAE and its partnershipsis thus rated as substantialrather than high as in
the case of the horticultural componentwhere the marketingchains are likely to be more self-
sustaining.

66.        Overall,the project's institutionaldevelopment impactwas substantial? compared
to the modest assessmentsat the ICR and ICR Review stages. The upgrade is due to the very
positive developmentsin horticulturalexports sincethe project closed, and because the
PPAR takes a broader view of institutionaldevelopment,goingbeyond the core agenciesto
the affected institutionsthemselves: that is, consideringthe establishmentand enhanced
capacityof private firms and their marketing chains in the horticultural component;the
qualitativeimprovementsin DAE field staff attitudes;" the strengthenedNGO capabilities;
and the establishmentof DAE-NGO partnershipsin the DAE component.




67.        The sustainabilityof the horticulturalexport component is rated likely.HORTEX's
capacityhas increased over the project period and its services are in demand.More
significantly,the rapid growth in horticultural exports during and after the project period, and
the entryof new exportingfirms shows that horticultural exports areprofitable. Even if
HORTEX were to fail, the private sectoris now sufficientlywell developedto continue on its
own.

68.        WhetherHORTEX couldbecome financially independent was a contentious issue.
The Bank's objective at appraisalwas that HORTEX shouldbecome self-financingover time
through charging for its services. The timing was to be "at leastby the second year." IEG
considersthe objectivedesirable, but agreeswith the Governmentthat the targeted timing
was unrealistic. Evenby the second year, there was hardly any exportedproduce on which to
charge fees.30However, with the passage of time, financialself-sufficiencythrough support


28. The institutionaldevelopmentachievementsof the third project objectiveare not rated as the pilot programs
                                                                                                                 i
were not intended to have particularinstitutionalimpact.

29. The significanceof an important shift in institutionalapproachwas also recognizedas substantialin the
PPAR for ASSP. In the case of ASSP, the traditionalTrainingand Visit extensionsystemwas changed to a
more demand-drivenapproach, providing the base for the W e r changes introducedunder ASIRP.

30. The ICR commentedonthe lack of realism and statedthat "it is not likelythat a strong exporter
organizationwill emerge soon since Bangladeshis stillat a nascent stage of horticulturalexport development."
The government, in HORTEX9spart of its ASIRP Completion Report was evenmore categorical:"Regarding

 fiom the horticulture export industryitself is becoming a more reachableprospect; costsper
ton are diminishing." Financial self-sufficiencywould assurecontinuation of the service
 agency(HORTEX); and continued high responsiveness to client concernsbecause HORTEX
wouldbe fully owned by its stakeholders.No actiontowards this has yet been taken. It would
now be appropriatefor HORTEX, together with the horticulturalindustry, to develop and
then implementa plan for HORTEX's financial self-sufficiency.

69.        The sustainabilityof the DAE-managedcomponentsis rated unlikely.The IEG
mission found in all meetings, both in Dhaka and in the field,that the DAE is positively
committed to the program. DAE's commitmentto the NAEP would likely remainrobust if
nurtured through continued field activities.However, sincethe project has closed, the funds
availablefor the program have drasticallyreduced. The DAE staff in Bogra commentedthat,
with government fundsunavailable, the formerlytermed "partnerships" between DAE and
civil societyorganizationsarenow better describedas "relationships", although goodwill and
communicationsbetweenthem are still good. However, without ongoing activities, even
these relationshipswill likelypeter out over time. The D B ' s project completionreport
commented, "The spadework alreadydone so far by the project could now be translated into
action, if only such an extensionis possible; as otherwiseall ourpast efforts and investments
are in vain." The IEG mission agrees with this assessment.With continued fundingand based
on the commitment of DAE and its partners, sustainabilitywould be likely. But, since such
fundinghas not materialized,sustainabilityof the second component is rated unlikely. The
sustainabilityof the third component is also rated unlikely. While governmentbids have
supportedthe first two pilots on a limited scale, continued funding is not assured.

70.        Even though the sustainabilityof the Hortex component is rated likely, the ~mlikely
ratings for the DAE-managed components,which comprisesome 70 percent of project costs,
results in an overall sustainabilityrating of unlikely.This compares with ratings of unlikely
and non-evaluableat the ICR and ICR Review stages, respectively.


BANKANDBORROWERPERFORMANCE

71.        There were a number of weaknesses in the Bank's performance such as the absence
of a linkbetweenthe HORTEX and DAE components, minimal design and weak
performance of the monitoringand evaluationactivitiesfor the DAE components,unrealistic
assumptionsabout the time needed for HORTEX to become self-financing,and the very
short (3 %years) time period for the project.

72.        However, the Bank performed stronglyin key strategicareas. The decisionto do
such a project in the firstplace recognized thepivotalrelevance of enhancingproductivity


servicecharge,the culture forpayment for technical and advisory services in Bangladesh is yet to be developed
as beneficiaries feel that it is the responsibility of the promotional and supportingorganizationto provide such
servicesree of costs."

31.As exportlevelshave built up, HORTEX's costsper ton of exports have declined. Hence, the financial
contributionsto HORTEXper ton of exports would become quite small.HORTEX's 2004 Annual Report states
that HORTEX's 2004 operating costs were 5.7 millionTaka, or aboutUS$95,000,comparedto the same year's
exportlevels of 1206tons. This represents an annualHORTEX costper kg (excluding depreciation) of five
Taka or eightUS cents. Such costs will fallprogressively as exports expand.

and value added in the agriculturesector.The first and second componentshad strong
potential for contributingto these and supported thrusts with a high degree of government
ownership.The Bank stayed with the agriculturalsectordespitemistakes and shortfallsin the
performanceof DAE in ASIRP's predecessor projects. This included stayingwith HORTEX
in spiteof a very weak performanceby HORTEX in ASSP. ASIRP was a highly relevant
project, and continuingto supportand upgrade the programs startedunder earlierprojects
representednotjust tenacity but hdamental development sense. There were high risks: for
instance,DAE's partnership approach had not been significantlytested. The choiceof a LIL
was a good decisionin these circumstances. Going ahead in spiteof these risks appearsto
have paid off (although data to confirm the impact of the DAE program is needed). The
Bank's overallperformancein recognizingone of the sector's paramount needs, in designing
a project to meet theseneeds, and in contributingto the overall success of the project, over-
rides the shortcomingsnoted above. The Bank's performance is thus rated satisfactory, an
upgrade from the unsatisfactoryratings assessed at ICR and ICR Review stage. The primary
reason for this upgrade is the greater recognition of the strategicfactors noted above.

73.       The performanceof the Borrower shared a number of weaknesses with the Bank,
and DAE's monitoringand evaluation was veryweak. Theproject steeringcommittee
seldommet. The Government could have donemore to encourageparticipation of other
government departmentsin the DAE partnerships.Nevertheless, tIie Government sharedthe
broad vision noted for the Bank above. Also, the project was implemented quiterapidly after
a slow start (disbursements of the Credit reached almost 85percent). The Governmenthas
demonstratedits commitmentby supporting the program afterproject closure, albeit at a
much reduced level of activitybecause of limited funds.Borrower performance is rated
satisfactory, the samerating as in the ICR and ICR Review.


5.      Monitoring & Evaluation & Fiduciary Issues for the Three
        Projects


74.      The qualityof monitoringand evaluation varied considerablyamongthe three
projects-from generally strongperformancein SDPPto weak M&E in the case of the DAE-
managed componentsof ASIRP.

75.      M&E in project design. SDPP included a costed M&E componentdirectly linked
to the project's development objectives, a log-frameand monitorableindicators, which were
precise and measurable. The FRMP's appraisal docuniait integratedM&E in the project
description,includingthe creationof an M&E unit. The PAD also discussed how monitoring
capacitywould be enhanced, but did not detailthe key indicatorsthat the M&E systemwould
be monitoring. The ASIRP's design included an M&E subcomponentin the DAE, but details
on what it was to do were limited.Performance indicatorswere included for the HORTEX
component, but were not provided for the DAE components.

76.      Sometelling comments in ASIRP's appraisal document are the following:"no
economic analysis is required as it would be a LIL operationand the project would be
supportingthe implementationof pilot activities," and "the project ...would be testing

strategies." While IEG agrees that the essence of apilot project is to test proposed or
alternativeapproaches,it is particularlyimportant to measure outcomes and impactsin a pilot
project. A Learningand InnovationLoan impliesthe availabilityof infomiationin order to
learn and assessthe utility of the innovationsbeing promoted.32

77.        M&E in implementation. Under the SDPP,the SilkFoundationdevelopeda
detailedperformance tracking system and obtaineddata for all the rearers for each
production season.The BSRTImeasured performance data for differenttechnologiesit was
testing. At the end of the project an independent agency-the Bangladesh Institute of
Development Studies(BIDS) -was commissionedto do a surveyof the project's impact.
BIDS sampledata was broadly consistentwith SF data. BIDS undertook a thorough analysis
of the project and its impact, and the findingsadd considerablyto the information abo~zt
SDPP.

78.        The FRMP partially achievedits M&E objectives. A ManagementPlanning
Divisionwas establishedin the Forestry Department, an M&E systemwas developed and
datawas collected,but delayswere encountered in updatingthe forest management plans.
The Conservator of Forests advised the mission that both institutionalcapacity and the data
collection systemneeded further strengthening.ASIRP's HORTEX componentmonitored
exportsquite closely and reported data regularly,but informationon M&E activitiesunder
the DAE-managedcomponents is virtually absent.

79.        M&E utilization. For SDPP,the SFhas comparativeperformance databy NGO. It
has readily availabledata on differentproductivityparameters, thereby enablingmonitoring
of sectorperformance over time and by technology system. For FRMP, the M&E data were
collated and used by centralmanagement. However, these could have been integratedmore
with other databases. Also, the IEG missioii found that while M&E data were going from the
field to ForestryDepartment headquarters,there was limited feedbackto the field after the
centralanalysis.

80.        For ASIRP, HORTEX used the monitoring data it collectedto assessprogress, and
was also ableto demonstratehow it performed againstits monitorableindicators.HORTEX
is still collectingdata and distributingthese in quarterlynewsletters.DAE collected databy
activity (nuniberof partnerships, trainingsessions, etc.), but, as noted earlier, the mission
was unable to find outcome data such as yields and incomes. Therefore, it is not possible to
confirnithe achievements of the DAE components,nor to determinewhich technical
packages, extensionapproaches and partnershipswere successfuland why.


OTHERISSUES       (SAFEGUARDS,U C I A R YUNINTENDED
                                    ~              ,             IMPACTSPOSITIVEAND
                                                                          -
NEGATIVE

81.       No fiduciaryissues have been found for the three projects. Safeguardissues were
either negligibleor positive. The SDPPprimarilybenefited poor women. The planting of
coastalmangroves under the FRPP provided increasedsecurity againsthurricanes, and the


32. Concerningan economicanalysis, an approachthat could have been used would have been an ERRbased
on a model using the outcome data that should have been measured.DomesticResource Costs could also have
been calculated,as done under the SDPP.

preparation of forest and natioizalpark management plans set the stage for improved
environmentalconservation.

6.       Lessons and Considerations for Future Development

82.        Four specificlessonsregardingthe pro-poor growth challenge, and a final lesson
related to the Bank's strategyfor Bangladesh's rural sectorhave emergedfiom this review.
The first four lessons are closelyinterlinked, and, together, provide two important
observations. First, the projects illustratepracticalways to emphasizegrowth and social
equityat the sametime, and even demonstratinghow improving equity can also improve
productivity. Second,actions across the four areas canbe mutually reinforcing.Pro-poor and
gender-inclusiveagriculturalgrowth canbe further stimulatedwhen more than one action
area is tackled simultaneously.


(1)      Dedicated focus on enhancingproductivity pays off. Breakthroughsinproductivity
         canbe triggeredby making a quantum improvementin productivity a major goal and
         specifically addressing this in the project's design. Without designingthe project with
         this in mind, productivitybreakthroughs may not occur.

83.        The SDPP and the HORTEXcomponent of the ASIRP placed their major focus on
stepped up productivity, and achievedthe breakthroughsthey aimed for. The FRMF did not
emphasizeproductivity enhancement, aid no major gains in the productivity of the forestry
sectoroccurred.

84.        The achievementsreflected the emphasisthat each project placed onproductivity.
The very essence of SDPPwas to bring about a quantum leap in the silk sector's productivity
to enableBangladeshto be more competitivein relation to the internationalmarket. Nearly
all of the SDPP7smonitorable indicatorsmeasuredproductivity.Likewise, the major
objective of the horticulturalexport component of ASIRP was to help Bangladeshiexporters
to break through the barriers to entryinto the much higher-value international market,
compared to the lower-value (and lower-productivity)of the domesticmarket. The FRMP
was more in the mold of traditionalBank projects. Its design and impactwas on increasing
the number of hectares ~mdercultivated forests, coastalprotection, environmental
management and iiistitutionalimprovement. It also had a smallresearch component, as often
found ill a Bank rural project. While the FRMP successfullyachievedits objectives, a major
jump in productivitywas not its centralpurpose and was not achieved.33

85.        The SDPP and HORTEX achieved their breakthroughsthrough a combinationof
institutional as well as technologicalinnovations.The enhancement of silk sector
productivitywas primarilythrough introducingtechnical improvements, but drivingthis was
the new Silk Foundationand the NGO sector. The export breakthroughfor horticultural
products involved substantialnew technologiesfor Bangladesh in growing, grading,
packaging and transportingof produce,but it was pioneered and then catalyzedthrough an
institution, HORTEX, designed and dedicated exclusivelyfor this purpose.


       - -                   - -


33. The reference to "improve theproductivity" in FRMP's developmentobjectivesreferredto the expansionof
forestplantations, not to an improvementinproductivity per hectafe.

 86.       The SDPP and HORTEX successesmight, however, be exceptionsto the more
typical situationfound in Bangladesh's agriculturalsector,where technical knowledge to
 enhanceproductivitymay be limited. The IEG mission was informed that research was a
 smallpart of government's expenditure in agriculture-only about 0.2percent of agricultural
 GDP.34A revolution in agriculturalproductivityis likelyto need a much strongertechnical
base than Bangladesh's relatively small researchprogram can currently provide.35

(2)      Sociallyinclusiverural developmentneed not constrain rapid agricultural growth.
         Project design featuresthat target benefits for the poor and women may even enhance
         agriculturalgrowth.

87.        Over 80 percent of the SDPPparticipantswere poor women, and they showed
greater interest and care in rearing andreeling-hence in adoptingsericulture and achieving
higherproductivity-than wealthierhouseholds. Poor women were the primary target of the
SDPP's NGO extensionservices.Under the FRMP's communityforestryprogram, higher
productivity,sustainabilityand social inclusionwere found to be mutually complementaryto
each other. Tree survivaland groundcover significantlyincreased and yields will likelybe
higher, andpoor families and women were the primarybeneficiaries. The key factorleading
to increased productivity and sustainabilitywas the switchto communitymanagement by the
sociallydisadvantaged, who took greatercare of the plantations than governmentor villagers
with higher incomes..


 (3)    Government-civil societypartnerships can enable large gains in development
        capacity, both for social inclusion andfor agricultural growth.

88.        Bangladeshis known for particularly large inefficienciesin the public sector, and in
governance generally.By contrast,the country is rich in its non-government sector,
particularlyin its NGOs. Two of the projects reviewed, the SDPP and the ASIRP, indicate
that partnerships between government and civil society canbe a major source of increased
vitality and productivityin Bangladesh's rural sector.

89.       Promotionof the silk sectoris based on a partnershipbetween the Silk Foundation
(technical,promotionaland seed production) and the NGO sector, which does most of the
extensionand field support,as well as seedproduction. The commercialprivate sectoris fast
developing as an additional actor in reeling,weaving, and garment manufacture. The Silk
Foundation's technical skillsare conlplementedby the NGO sector's far wider reach and
greatercapacityto provide extensionservicesskilled in socialoutreach.Under the
horticulturalexport component of ASIRP, horticultural exports were promoted through
partner activitiesbetweenHORTEX and the private sector.36Under the DAE component of
ASIRP, the partnershipsbetween DAE and NGOs at the upazila level became the centerpiece
of the agriculturalextensionprogram. DAE emphasizedto the IEG mission that this


34. Source:WB ReportNo. 34543-BD; Bangladesh:Revitalizingthe Agricultural TechnologySystem,
November 30,2005.

35 Globalevidence has indicatedthatreturns to research are higher than for any other investmentin agriculture.

36. The partnership for the first exportwas with an NGO. Sincethen, the commercialprivate sectorhas become
the dominantsource of horticultural exports.

approach could greatlyincrease the effectivenessof agriculturalextension-the DAE
providing its technical skills, but others, especiallythe NGO sector, being better in field
outreach.

90.        By contrast, the FRMP projectwas implemented mostly by the Forestry
Department,indicatingthat governmentimplemeiitationwithout partners can alsobe
success~l,at least for forestry.However, the pilot activitiesin communityforestry all
involve the FD working with small NGOs, the formermainly in technical areas and the latter
in local-level social support.The initial experiencewith the FD-NGO partnerships appears
promising.    37



(4)      To enhancebenefiltsfor women andthe poor, project formulation needs the
         systematicintegrationof measuresto achieve this. Measures to achieve such social
         objectivesneed to be organicallyintegratedin the project: i.e., specificallyfeaturedin
        the project's design, costing, institutional arrangements, staffing,management
        processes, the logical framework and monitoring.

91.        All threeprojects took somepositive stepsto target women and the poor. These
actions, which are typical of other Bank projects, arenoted immediatelybelow, but they were
more in the nature of "add-ons" to project implementationrather than being systematically
integratedinto the projects. A more systematicapproach could likely have achieved more.

92.        With its labor-intensiveand cottage-based activities,the silk sector is pre-eminent
in includingwomen and the poor. Silkrearing and reelingprovide regular income and can be
donepart time and on marginal f m s or by the landless. The IEG mission also observed a
high proportion of women employed in weaving and garmentmanufacture.Additionally, the
NGO extension activities in the SDPPwere specificallytargeted to women and the poor.
Based on mission discussions in the field, perhaps over 95percent of beneficiaries were poor,
of which over 85percent were women.

93.        Concerningthe ASIRP, DAE said that extensionworkers were asked to target
women and poor liouseholds.The mission was also told that in choosing communitiesfor
sub-project grants, the local (upazila) committeesfavored communitieswith a high
proportion of women and the poor, but there is no datarelative to this. Assuming that the
sub-projectsdid have some successin socialinclusion, this would have been importantin
counteringthe natural societal tendency for minority groupsto be left behind. It is possible
that the gender and poverty impact of the ASIRP would have been quitemodest without the
project's efforts, sincethe mission visits found the usual tendency for men and wealthier
individualsto have the primary influenceon village-level decisionmaking.

94.        The FRMPprovided the most striking example of gender and poverty alleviation
outcomesinfluencedby project actions. In the mission's visits to several community-
managed plantations,the great majority of the beneficiarieswere women and the poor. As
with the other two projects, the primary reason was that selectionof participants by the
Forestry Departmentand local committees strongly emphasized gender and poverty criteria.


37. There is also positive global evidence where forestrydepartmentshave worked withNGOs.; for instance, in
India and Nepal.

This was appropriatesinceinternational experienceindicatesthat forestry development can
have negative social impactsunless there are specificmeasures for social inclusion. The
development of government-managedplantations commensuratelyreduces the number of
hectares under traditional forests.Even when degraded, such lands provide for traditional
 forest-based activitiesimportant for the livelihoodsof women and the

95.         However, none of the projects employed a systematicapproachto social inclusion,
which would likelyhave enhanced gender and poverty alleviationoutcomes. The IEG
mission noticed the followinggaps. First, the capacityto plan, implement and monitor the
projects' gender and poverty aspectswas limited in both the government and Bank task
teams. Themission did not encounterany social specialistsin the project agencies, and data
in the ICRs indicatethat the Bank team for the FRMP onlyinvolved a social specialistin
project preparation,and for the ASIRP, onlyin supervision.Second,none of the projects had
a gender andpoverty alleviationplan, which should also have been integrated into the
project's detailed design. Third, therewere no monitorableindicators on poverty and gender
impactsin the log fiames, and project data on outcomes was limited. Hence the key features
for systematicallyenhancingbenefits forwomen and alleviatingpoverty were largely
absent.39


(5)       The Bank's rural project portfolio in Bangladesh would merit scaling-up,
          prioritizing, a longer-termprogram approach, and a better strategicframework.

96.         The Bank's lendingto Bangladesh's rural sectorhas declined significantly over the
last 5-10 years. (See the completelistingof Bank projects to Bangladeshin Annex C.) Out of
25 ongoingprojects in the Bangladeshportfolio as of February2006, only oneproject is rural
(2006 CAS, Annex B8). And only onerural project was approved during the last five years -
FYOl to FY0540-compared to 23 approvedprojects in the overallBangladesh lending
program. None of the three projects reviewed in this PPAR had follow-onprojects.

97.         This situationcontrasts sharplywith the messages expressedin Bank and
Governmentpolicy documents. The government's 2005 PRSP sees agriculture as "the key
driver of pro-poor growth". The Bank has also emphasizedthe importanceof the rural sector
and highlighted this in each of the last three CASs (1998,2001 and 2006). The 1998CAS
comments that "faster agriculturalgrowth and rural development are critical in a country
where more than 90 percent of the poor live in rural areas." It also commentsthat "several


38. Socialrisks alsoneed to be tackled in project.designand implementation. In missiondiscussionswith
forestrycommunity groups,a vulnerabilityof the extremepoor to pressuresby locally influentialpersons (to
sell forestrights at well below market value for instance) appearedto be a risk. Adaptationsto reduce this risk
might be considered,such as strengtheningcommunity-levelinstitutions and making individualdecisions
subjectto reviewby the whole community.

39. In this situation,even understanding the social impact of project activitiesis difficult, and making
adjustments duringproject implementation has littlebasis on whlch to plan. In the appraisalreports and some
government documents, there was also a tendencyto highlightthe expectedgender andpoverty alleviation
impacts in the main text, but with limited further reference and implementationdetails in the annexes.

40. This was the Microfinanceproject (approved in FYO1)which is partly rural. Two otherprojects with impact
on the rural sector in the FYOl to FY05 period were the Rural Electricity-Renewable Energy Development
Project (FY02) and the Rural TransportImprovementProject (FY03).

 [five] strategicprioritiesprovide the framework for our assistance," of which agriculturewas
one. Sincethree of these priorities were macro or cross-cutting(macroeconomic
management, private sectordevelopment, and public sectormanagement), agriculturewas
one of onlytwo sectors, along with human development,that were singled out. The 2001
CAS considered rural development as one of three priorities for pro-poor growth. Whilethe
2006 CAS is less explicit in highlightingrural development,the first of the CAS's two pillars
("improving the investment climate") includes agriculture-along with infrastructure,water
resourcesmanagement and informationand communicationstechnology-in its listingof
four sectors "critical to pro-poor growth". Yet the priorityplaced on agriculture in these
policy statementsdoes not appear to have been translated into the lendingprogram. This
situationappears likelyto continue, sincethe 2006 CAS has only one rural development
project -the proposed National Agricultural TechnologyProject -amongthe 24 projects
listed in the proposed lendingprogram for 2006 to 2009 (2006 CAS, Annex B3). It should,
however be noted that there are severalpast and proposed projects that supportrural
developnlentmore broadly.41Whilethese projectshave potentially significantimpacts on the
rural sector,none of theseprojects directlytackles the rural sector's need for a major shift in
agriculturalproductivityand pro-poor growth. For this, additional direct engagement in
agriculture,water and forestryis needed.

98.         The IEG mission frequentlyheard the view that rural sectorlendingis more
difficult and its resultsmore disappointingthan in other sectors. The threeprojects reviewed
in this PPAR do not support this view. All three projectswere worthwhile, with outcomes at
least moderately satisfactory. TheFRMP achieved all its physical objectives,helped improve
institutional capacity, developed environmental management plans for Bangladesh's nature
reserves,helped develop coastalmangrovesto improveprotection against storm surgesand
started successfi~lpiloting of community-based forestry. The SDPP significantlyraised
productivity in the silk sector, which had a positive impact on gender inclusion and poverty
alleviation.The ASIRP pioneered and catalyzed a breakthroughin horticultural exports, and
the agriculturalextensionpart of the project may alsohave had a significant impact. With
sensibledesignsthat play to Bangladesh's strengths(such as the NGO sector),with the
introductionof technological and institutionalinnovationsas needed, and with strong
implementationsupport, ruralprojects in Bangladesh can succeed

99.         In fact, the averageperformanceof the three PPAR projects is not substantially
different from the aggregate situationacrossthe Bank's entireBangladesh portfolio.
Excludingthe PPAR projects, nine of the 17projects completed between the beginningof
2000 and end of February 2006 had a satisfactoryoutcome, six were moderately satisfactory,
onemoderatelyunsatisfactory, and one unsatisfactory.

100.        The Bank should not downplay the importanceof relevance. If development of the
rural sector is a strategicpriority, it does not make senseto neglect it. The question of why
support for rural development has declined, is appropriateto pose across the board; not only



41. TheRural Departmentofthe Bank's SouthAsia Regionhas commentedonanearlier draftof the PPAR that
it also envisages other operationsinrural livelihoods, water managenlent,fisheriesand landmanagement. The
Rural Departmenthas also madereferenceto otherproposedor ongoingprojects supportingrural development
suchas rural electrification,rural finance,andlocal governance.

to the Bank, but also to other development agenciesand to the government.42It is better for
the Bank to support a highlyrelevant development thrust, eachproject having a moderately
successfL1o~~tcome,than to support areas of less relevancebecause these are easier.Not
supportingrural development in Bangladesh is walking away from one of the country's
highest priorities.

 101.       Bank lendingto the rural sectorhas also sufferedfrom a lack of continuityin recent
years. Thiswas not so in the past. Both the FRMP and the ASIRP followed previous projects
in their respective sectors,the Bank having supported two projects in forestryand three
projects in agriculturalresearch and extensionprior to the FRMP and ASIRP. The ASIRP
followedon almost immediatelyfrom the Agricultural Support ServicesProject, which had
startedpioneering the new extensionapproaches and had provided initial supportto
HORTEX.None of the threeprojects reviewed in this PPAR had follow-onBank support,
even though two projects in particular-SDPP and ASIRP-supportedprograms which
required a longertime period to become hlly established.

102.        The lack of continuityin lendinghas been compoundedby uliduly shortproject
durations:The ASIRP had only a 3%year implementationperiod, and the SDPP 5%years,
which included the establishmentof a new agency, the SF, to implementthe project. The 9%
years implementationperiod for FRMP was more realistic and about right for the large
program that the FRMP supported (thoughthis unusually long implementationperiod could
have been broken down into two shorter projects). Thismore realistic time fiamehas
probably contributed to the higher outcome and sustainabilityratings for the FRMP relative
to the other two projects.

103.        The IEG missionnoted the particular vulnerability of the ASIRP's agricultural
extension component. In field discussions,it was encouraging to find, four years afterproject
closure, enthusiasm still present amongDAE staff for the new extension approachintroduced
under the ASIRP. However, as one district officer expressed it, "we stillhave the
partnerships,but, sincethere is no money, nothing for the partners to do." The ASIRP began
a new extensionprogram, followingthe initial stepsthat were taken in the later years of the
ASSP, but, inevitably, the program was far from fully establishedwhen the 3%year project
ended. StoppingBank lendingat that stagewas unfortunate, since a strongresearch aid
extensionprogram is a paramount need for acceleratedagriculturalgrowth in Bangladesh.
The FRMP, SDPP and HORTEX programs, although lessurgently in need of continued
nurturing,would also have benefited from continuedtechnical and financialsupport.

104.       The sparse rural sectorwork in the last decademay have contributed to the Bank's
limited attentionto Bangladesh's rural sector.The situationis better now; papers on the rural
non-farm sectorand on agriculturaltechnology were issuedrespectively in 2004 and 2005,
water management has alsobeen reviewed, and there arethree ongoing studies-on
agribusiness, rural finance, and a public sector expenditurereview. Work on an agricultural
masterplan has also been done, in partnership with the Government. However, this
impressivearray of activityappearsto be pieces of a pie rather than a comprehensiverural

              -


42. ResidentBank stafftoldthe IEG missionthat they hadobserveda decline inrural lendingby most of the
donorcommunity.And the Governmentdoes not always apply sufficient funds to the areas it has prioritized;for
instance, the muchreduced funding of the agriculturalextensionprogramafterASIRP closed.

strategy.What still appears missing is a thorough sector analysiswith sufficient depth and
breadth to prepare an overallrural sector strategy. This could also be used to engage the
Government and the donor community in a strategic and broad-ranging dialogue on sector
policy and lending.


                                                                                                       Annex A


 Annex A. Basic Data Sheet



 Key Project Data (amounts in US$million)

                                        Appraisal                   Actual or               Actual as % of
                                        estimate                 current estimate         a ~ ~ r a i sestimate
                                                                                                       a l
IDA Credit

Goverr~ment
Total projectcosts



 CumulativeEstimated andActual Disbursements

                 FY93      FY94     FY95    P/96     FY97     FY98     FY99      W O O FYOI       FY02       FY03
Appraisal
essmate           6.2      14.1     23.8    30.7     37.5      43.3    48.6      49.6   49.6      49.6       49.6
(US$M)
Actual
                  3.6       7.9     13.3    21.0     27.5      32.6    36.0      39.0   43.8      46.6       46.6
(US$M)

     . .
Dateof final disbursement:



 Project Dates

                                                      OrLginaI                             Actual

Initiatingmemorandum                                                                    1012811991
Appraisal                                                                               1111111991
Boardapproval                                                                            612311992
Effectiveness                                        1010611992                         1010611992
Closingdate                                          12/31/2000                         12/31/2001



 Staff Inputs

                                                 No. of Staff Weeks                      US$'OOO
Identification,Preparation,Appraisal
                                                        164                                 251
and Negotiations
Supervision                                             48                                  119
ICR                                                     214                                 381
Total                                                    9                                 42 **

 "(FAO-CP)

                                                                                                             Annex A


 Mission Data

                                 Date         No. of           Specializations         Implementation      Development
                            (monthlyear)     persons            represented               progress           objectives
 Identification1                411991          14     EC (2), PA, LP, SC, SO (2),
 Preparation                                           ETC, FS, FIS, RE, NCS, WLB,
                                                       EIS

 Appraisal1                    1111991           5           EC (2), FS, SO, CE
 Negotiations

 Supervision 1                 1211992           6     AG, EC, DO, PS, FS, CDS               S

 Supervision2                   711993           6    AG, EC, DO, PS, FS, CDS                U                  U

 Supervision3                   911993          4      FS, PS, DO, CDS                       S                  S

 Supervision4                   511994           5    AG, DO, PS, FS, NGOS                   S                  S

 Supervision5                  1Z1994           6      PS, DS, FS, FS(consultant),           S
                                                      CDS

 Supervision6                 . 711995          5     AG, DO, PS, FS, NGO                    S                  S

 Supervision7                   811996          4     AG, PS, DO, FS                         S                  S

Supervision8                   411997           3     AG, PS, DO                             S                  S

Supervision9                   I111997          5     AG (2), PS, DO, FMS                    S                  S

Supervision 10                  511998          6     AG (2). PS, FMS (2), DO                S                  S

Supervision 11                  I11999          6     AG (2), NGOS, EC, DO, TA               S                  S

Supervision 12                 611999           8     AG (2). PS, DO, FMS, FS,               S
                                                      NGOS, EC

Supervision 13                 12/1999          4     AG,PS,DO,TA                            S                  S

Supervision 14                 212000           4     AG, PS, DO, TA                         S                  S

Supervision 15                 812000           6     AG, PS, DO, FMS, ES (FAO-              S                  S
                                                      CP), FME (FAO-CP)

Supervision 16                 412001           7     AG (2), PS, DO, FMS, TA, FME           S
                                                      (FAO-CP)

Supervision 17                 912001           5     AG, EC, PS, DO, FMS                    S                  S

Completion

                               a2002           10     BankTeam: AG, EC, FAO-CP               S
                                                      Consultants: FS, ECIFA

SpecializationsRepresented:AG: Agriculturist; DO: DisbursementOfficer; PO: ProcurementSpecialist; FS: ForestrySpecialist;
NGOS: NGO Representative;ES: EnvironmentSpecialist; FMS: FinancialManagement Specialist; EC: Economist; TA: Team
Assistant; FME: ForestManagement Expert; FA: FinancialAnalyst; SO: Sociologist; PA: ProjectAnalyst; LP: Land use
Planner; SC: Silviculturist; ETC: Education& TrainingConsultant



Other Project Data

PRECEDING OPERATIONS

Operation                                            Creditno.                 Amount                   Board date
                                                                             (US$ million)

MangroveForests Project                                                           11.O                    FY80
Second ForestryProject                                                            28.0                    FY86

                                                                                           Annex A




 Key Project Data (amounts in US$million)

                                       Appraisal              Actual or            Actual as % of
                                       estimate            currentestimate       a~araisalestimate
Total project costs                                             6.5
Loanamount                                                      5.9

Cancellation                                                  SDR 2.4



 CumulativeEstimated and Actual Disbursements

                                FY98       FY99     WOO       FYOl        FYO2    FY03         FY04
Appraisalestimate(US$M)           1.4      4.4       6.8       8.9        11.2     11.2        11.2

Actual (US$M)                     0.5      0.9       1.6       2.6        3.9      5.5          6.0
Actual as % of appraisal        35.7       20.5     23.5       29.2       34.8     49.1        53.6
Date of final disbursement



 Project Dates


Initiatingmemorandum
Appraisal
Board approval                                                                  1111811997
Effectiveness                                    12/05/1997                     0311911998

Closingdate                                      12/31/2002                     613012003



 Staff Inputs

                                                  US$'OOO
 Identification,Preparation,Appraisal               n.a.
 and Negotiations
 Supervision                                        n.a.

 ICR                                                n.a.
 Total                                              n.a.
 Staff weeks not available

                                                                                                              Annex A


 MissionData

                                 Date           No. of            Specializations         Implementation    Development
                             fmonth/vearJ      ~ersons             rearesenfed              Progress           Objectives
Identification1Preparation     07/26/1996

AppraisalINegotiations         10/08/1998

Supervision 1                  09/03/998          7        TM, SAG, EC, PO, S, DO, FO          U                   S

Supervision2                  0311011999          7        TL, SAG, EC, PS, DO, FMS,           U
                                                           TA

Supervision3                  0811911999          8        ML, AG, PS, DS, FM, E, TA,          S
                                                           S

Supervision4                  03/06/2000          9        TL, CTL, E, PS, DO, FMS,            S                   S
                                                           TA, PM, SE

Supervision5                  04112/2001          4        TL, SAG, PS, DO                     U                   S

Supervision6                  12/01/2001          5        TL, SOP, DO, PA, IDS                U                   S

Supervision7                  08/25/2002          5        TTL, PS, DO, IDS, S                 S                   S

Supervision8                  03/05/2003          6        TM, SFMS, DO, SPS, IDS,
                                                           SS

ICR                           10/30/2003          4        TM, S, AG, EC                                           S

 SpecializationsRepresented:TM: Task Manager;SAG: SeniorAgriculturalist; E: Economist; PO: ProcurementOfficer; S:
 Sericulturist; DO: DisbursementOfficer; FO: FinancialOfficer;TL: Task Leader; PS: ProcurementSpecialist; FMS: Financial
 ManagementSpecialist;TA: Team Assistant; ML: MissionLeader; AG: Agriculturalist; DS: DisbursementSpecialist; FM:
 Financial Management; EC: Economist; CTL: Co-Task Leader; PM: PortfolioManager; SE: Sericulture Expert; SOP: Senior
 OperationsOfficer; PA: ProcurementAnalyst; IDS: InstitutionalDevelopmentSpecialist; SFMS: Senior Financial Management
 Specialist; SPS: Senior ProcurementSpecialist; SS: SericultureSpecialist.

                                                                                                Annex A



 AGRICULTURALSERVICESINNOVATION REFORMPROJECT(CREDIT
                                                  AND                                 32840-BD)

 Key Project Data (amountsin US$million)

                                       Appraisal                   Actual or            Actual as %of
                                       estimate                 current estimate       appraisalestimate
IDA Credit                               5.00                        4.07                    81.4
Government
Cofinancing
Total proiectcosts



 CumulativeEstimated and Actual Disbursements

Appraisalestimate (US$M)                1.4             3.3             4.5         5.0             5.0
Actual (US$M)                           1.O             2.5             3.6         4.0             4.0
Actualas % of appraisal                 71.4           75.8             80.0       80.0             80.0
Date of final disbursement



 Project Dates

                                                     Original                          Actual

Initiatingmemorandum
Appraisal
Boardapproval
Effectiveness
Closing date



 Staff Input Costs

                                                No. of Staff Weeks                      US$
Identification,Preparation, Appraisal                  n.a.                             n.a.
and Negotiations
Supervision                                            84.7                            143,412
ICR                                                   14.60                            49,000
Total                                                  99.3                            192.412

                                                             38                                                 Annex A


 Mission Data

                                  Date         No. of           Specializations           Implementation       Development
                             (month/yearl    persons              represented                 progress           objectives
Identification1Preparation     03/20/1998



                               07/25/1999       11       TL, SC, ACD, AG, IE, PS,
                                                         FMS, DO, SOP, FA0

Supervision 1                  05/27/2000        2       AG, IE                                   S                 S

Supervision2                   10/05/2000       13       SAG (2), LE, FMS, PS, DO,                S
                                                         SS, TA, PO, WMO, FS, NFM,
                                                         C

Supervision 3                  I210112001       11       TL, SEC, FMS, PA, DO, FS,                S                 S
                                                         IS, AES, SDA, SGS, NPO

Supervision 4                  04/07/2002        4       AG, EC, ABS, AG

Supervision 5                  09/30/2002        5       EC, AG, FMS, PS, DO

ICR                            04-06/2003        4       AEC, ABE, AG, EC

 SpecializationsRepresented:TL: Team Leader; SC: Senior Counsel; ACD: Acting Country Director; AG: Agriculturalist; IE:
 IrrigationEngineer; PS: ProcurementSpecialist; FMS: Financial ManagementSpecialist; DO: DisbursementOfficer; SOP:
 Senior OperationsOfficer; FAO: FA0 Representative;SAG: SeniorAgriculturalist; LEC: Lead Economist;SS: SocialScientist;
 TA: TeamAssistant; PO: ProgramOfficer;WMO: Water Management Oflicer; FS: FirstSecretary; NFM: NR Field Manager; C:
 Consultant; SEC: Senior Econornist;PA: ProcurementAnalyst, IS: InstitutionalSpecialist, AES: Agricultural Extension
 Specialist: SDA: Social DevelopmentAdvisor; SGS: Social & GeneralSpecialist; NPO: National ProfessionalOfficer; ABS:
 Agri-Business Specialist; EC: Economist; AEC: Agricultural Economist;ABE: Agri-Business Expert.



 Other Project Data

 PRECEDING OPERATIONS

 Operation                                                     Creditno.           Amount                  Board date
                                                                                 (US$ million)

 Agric. Extension II                                                                  27.0                     FY82
 Agricultural Support Services Project                                                35.0                     FY91
 AgricultureResearchManagement                                                        50.0                     FY96

                                                                                                   Annex B


 Annex B. Project ComponentsAnd Costs

ProjectComponent                                           EstimatedCosts at  Actual Project     Actualas
                                                               Appraisal         Costs         Percentageof
                                                            (US$ millions)    (US$ millions)  Appraisal Estimate


1. Forest Resources Management:preparationof forest               8.6
managementplansand forest resourceinventories,
strengthening planning capacity and pilotingcommunity
forest management

2. Forest ResourcesExpansion:Establishmentof about
60,000 ha of conventional (dry-land)and mangroveforest
plantations and maintenanceof ~lantationsestablished
kder the Second Forestryproject.

3. NatureConservation: Preparationof managementplans
for all nationalparks and wildlifesanctuaries, and
additionalplanningand small investmentsrelated to
preservation of the Sundarbanssanctuaries and for
solicitingfundingfrom donor agencies.

4. InstitutionalSupport: Reorganizationof the Forestry
Departmentincludingestablishmentof an environmental
managementwing, training, and strengtheningof the
forestry education instituteand the research institute.

TOTAL

SILK DEVELOPMENT     PILOT PROJECT

1. PolicyReform and InstitutionalDevelopment:
Establishmentof the Silk Foundation,Restructuringof the
BangladeshSilk Board includingleasingout of grainages,
restructuringof the BangladeshSericultureResearchand
Training Institute, developmentof stakeholder associations
and strengtheningthe Textile Strategic ManagementUnit.

2. Researchand ProductivityEnhancement. Development
of additionalresearchcapacity, germplasmmaintenance
centers, grainages and pilotingof bivoltine cocoon
production.

3. Technology Dissemination: training, extension and
demonstrations

4. Product Developmentand Market Promotion: trainingin
fashion designs and promotionof Bangladeshsilk
products

5. Monitoring and Evaluation: Establishingan M&E unit
and fundingof studies.

TOTAL

AGRICULTURAL    SERVICES lNNOVATlONAND REFORM
PROJECT

1. Supportto HORTEX:To facilitatedevelopmentof                   3.1              2.3               74
horliculturalquality marketexports.

2. StrengtheningImplementationof NAEP: Departmentof             10.0              8.6               86
AgriculturalExtensiongrantsfor civil society-DAE
partnerships to enhance agricultural productivity

3. Small scale pilots: of water management, soil testing         1.8              1.6               89
and yieldheather forecasting.

TOTAL                                                           14.9             12.5               84

                                                                   Annex C


Annex C. Past Bank Lending to Bangladesh from 1980 to 2005

FiscalYear                     Project Name    Project ID    IDA CommitAmt

1980        Low Lift Pumps                     PO09403

            MangroveForests

            Fertilizer Imp II

            Drainage & FloodControl

            Highways II

            ChittagongWater II

            Jute IndustryRehab.

            Fertilizer Ind. Rehab

            Educ. IV

            ProgramCredit Vlll

1981        Agric Credit I

            HandTubewells

            TechAssistance IV

            Gas Devt

            FertilizerTransport

            Bsb II

            Small Indus. Ill

            ProgramCredit IX

1982        DrainIFloodCont II

            Ag Ext II

            Ashuganj Power

            Rural Electrification

            Chittagong Ports

            Chittagong Fert.

            Textile Bmr

            ProgramCredit X

1983        Rural Dev ll

            DeepTubewells II

            Refinery Rehab. & En

            Highways I Suppl.

            Telecom Ill

            PublicAdministration

            Business Management

            ProgramCredit XI

1984        Wdb Small Schemes Pr

            Sugar

            Ag Res II

            Tech Assist V

            Petroleum Exploration

            Textile Bmr II

                                                                     Annex C


FiscalYear                     Project Name     Project ID    IDA Commit Amt

            Technical Education                 PO09440             36.0

            Agric Training II                   PO09437              8.1

            ProgramCredit XI1                   PO09442            140.0

            SupplementalAssistance              PO09443             30.0

            Flood Rehab. Credit                 PO09488             30.0

            FloodCon. & Drainage                PO09445             48.0

            Gas Development II                  PO09448            110.0

            PrimaryEduc. II                     PO09447             78.0

            Shrimp CultureProject               PO09446             22.0

            Forestry II                         PO09453             28.0

            Rural Elect. ll                     PO09450             79.0

            PowerTransrn. & Dist               .PO09451             56.0

            Population Ill                      PO09458             78.0

            ProgramCreditXIII                   PO09449            200.0

            FloodCon. & Drainage                PO09481             20.0

            Refinery Modif. & Lp                PO09456             47.0

            Road Rehab. & Maintenance           PO09459            102.0

            DhakaWasa Ill                       PO09493             30.0

            IndustrialSector Credit             PO09457            190.0

1988        FloodRehab. II                      PO09487             25.0

            Sm Sc Fcd& Irrig.11                 PO09512             81.5

            UrbanDev. I                         PO09467            47.6

            Rural Roads& Market                 PO09491            62.3

            IndustrialEnergy Efticiency         PO09463             11.4

1989        Energy Sector                       PO09511            175.0

            Power Dist. (16Town)                PO09506            87.0

            Export Dev.                         PO09521            25.0

            Ind'l Sector CreditSupplement       PO09543              2.5

            FloodRehab Ill                      PO09541            133.6

1990        Fisheries Ill                       PO09519            44.6

            Bwdb System Rehab.                  PO09461            53.9

            Egy SecAdj Credit Supplement        PO09551             2.3

            Third RuralElectrification          PO09542            105.0

            FinancialSector Cr.                 PO09528            175.0

            General Education                   PO09514            159.3

1991        ShallowTubewell & L                 PO09476            75.0

            Agric. SupportServices              PO09516            35.0

            Nat'l Minor Irrigation              PO09544            54.0

            Lpg Distrib.                        PO09462            67.2

            Third InlandWater Transport         PO09540            45.0

            Finan. Sector Cre Su                PO09552             3.5

            Pop. & Health IV                    PO09529            180.0

                                                  42                        Annex C



FiscalYear                    Project Name              Project ID    IDA CommitAmt

1992        ForestResourcesManagelnent                  PO09470             49.6

            PrivateSec Ind'l Cr                         PO09454             25.5

            Finan SectorAdj Sup                         PO09561              2.9

            TechnicalAssistance6                        PO09559             25.0

            Public Resource Mgt                         PO09464            150.0

            IndSector Secal II                          PO09513            100.0

            Ind Sector Secal II                         PO09563              3.5

            FemaleSecondarySchoolAssistance             PO09555             68.0

            Jamuna Bridge                               PO09509            200.0

            Second Road Rehabilitation & Maintenance    PO09465            146.8

            Jute SectorAdj. Cred                        PO09553            247.0

            Jute Sector Supple me                       PO37298              3.3

            Gas InfrastructureDevelopment               PO09533            120.8

            Jute Sec. Adj. Supplement                   PO39861              3.2

            Bangladesh IntegratedNutrition              PO09496             59.8

            AgricultureResearchManagement               PO09484             50.0

            River Bank Protection                       PO09545            121.9

            Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation           PO09549             53.0

            JSAC Supp Ill                               PO44548              3.4

            Non-FormalEducation                         PO09560             10.5

            Fourth DhakaWater Supply                    PO09482             80.3

            Second Rural Roads& Markets Improvement     PO09518            133.0

            Jute SecAdj Cre                             PO49349              2.9

            PovertyAlleviation (Microcredit 1)          PO40985            105.0

            Silk DevelopmentPilot Project               PO40713             11.4

            BD PrivateSector InfrastructureDev          PO44789            235.0

            PrimaryEducationDevelopment                 PO09550            150.0

            Healthand PopulationProgram                 PO37857            250.0

            Coastal Embankment,S                        PO65150             16.5

            River Bank ProtSup                          PO65146            45.0

            Dhaka UrbanTransport                        PO09524            177.0

            Third Road Rehabilitation& Maintenance      PO37294            273.0

            MunicipalServices                           PO41887            138.6

            Road Rehab Main II S                        PO65147             80.0

            Rural Roads Mkt IIS                         PO65148            20.0

            Third InlandWater S                         PO65149             6.3

            Arsenic MitigationWater Supply              PO50745             32.4

            ExportDiversification                       PO49790            32.0

            EmergencyFlood RecoveryProject              PO63089            200.0

            AgriculturalSew. Innovation& Reform         PO58468             5.0

            FourthFisheries                             PO09468            28.0

            FinancialInstitutionsDevelopment            PO44811            46.9

                                                                              Annex C


Fiscal Year                   Project Name                Project ID    IDA Commit Amt

             NationalNutritionProgram                     PO50751             92.0

2001         Air QualityManagementProject                 PO57833              4.7

             MicrofinanceII                               PO59143            151.0

             Legal & Judicial Capacity Building           PO44810             30.6

             Post-Literacy& Continuing Education          PO50752             53.3

             HIV/AIDS Prevention                          PO69933             40.0

2002         PublicProcurementReform Project              PO75016              4.5

             Rural Elect. RenewableEnergy Dev.            PO71794            191.0

             FinancialServicesfor the Poorest             PO74731              5.0

             Female SecondarySchoolAssis. II              PO44876            120.9

2003         BD: Telecorr~municationsTechnical Assist.    PO81849              9.1

             Social InvestmentProgram Project             PO53578             18.2

             RuralTransport ImprovementProject            PO71435            190.0

             Central Bank StrengtheningProject            PO62916             37.0

             DevelopmentSupport Credit                    PO81845            300.0

             Power Sector DevelopmentTA                   PO78707             15.5

             iBD -Water Supply Program Project            PO86661             40.0

             EnterpriseGrowth & Bank Modernization        PO81969            250.0

             Primary Education DevelopmentProgram II      PO74966            150.0

             Reaching Out of School ChildrenProject       PO86791             51.O

             Economic ManagementTA Program(EMTAP)         PO83890            20.0

2005         Education Sector Dev. Support Credit         PO77789            100.0

             HNP Sector Program                           PO74841            300.0

             DevelopmentSupportCredit II                  PO83887            200.0

