Page  1
 CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2397 BD
(Forest Resources Management Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 10, 1992
CREDIT NUMBER 2397 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 10, 1992, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Page  2
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
       (a)   "BFRI" means Bangladesh Forest Research Institute;
       (b)   "FD" or "Forest Department" means the Forest Department in the Borrower's 
Ministry of Environment and Forest;
       (c)   "FMP" means Forest Management Plan;
       (d)   "ha" means hectares;
       (e)   "IFCU" means the Institute of Forestry of Chittagong University;
       (f)   "NGO" means non-governmental organization;
       (g)   "Second Forestry Project" means the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
the Development Credit Agreement dated December 19, 1985 between the Borrower and the 
Association (Credit Number 1634 BD);
       (h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
       (i)   "Taka" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
       Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty-six million four hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 36,400,000).
       Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
       (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Taka a special deposit account in a bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
       Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
       Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
       (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
       (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
Page  3
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be 
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
       Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
       Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
       Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
June 1 and December 1 commencing December 1, 2002 and ending June 1, 2032. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on June 1, 2012 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
       (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
       (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
       Section 2.08. The currency of the United States is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
       Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, and shall cause IFCU and BFRI to carry out Parts D(3) and D(7) of the 
Project respectively, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate forestry management, agricultural, environmental, educational and 
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
       (b)   The Borrower shall make available to IFCU and BFRI, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, such part of the proceeds of the Credit as 
shall be necessary to carry out Parts D(3) and D(7) respectively of the Project.
       (c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project, and shall cause IFCU and BFRI to carry out Parts D(3) and 
D(7) respectively, of the Project, in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
       Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Page  4
       Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, 
as well as of IFCU and BFRI in respect of Parts D(3) and D(7) respectively of the 
Project.
       (b)   The Borrower shall:
             (i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
            (ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than nine months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
           (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
       (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
             (i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
            (ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
           (iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
            (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
       Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
       (a)   the Project Proforma for the carrying out of the Project have been 
approved by the Borrower;
       (b)   the Borrower has complied with the provisions of paragraph 1(a) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
       (c)   the Borrower has complied with the provisions of paragraph 10(a) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
       (d)   the Borrower has complied with the provisions of paragraph 10(b) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
       (e)   the Borrower is in compliance with the provisions of paragraph 11 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Page  5
       Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary or any Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy 
Secretary or Section Officer of the Economic Relations Division of the Ministry of 
Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
       Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
       For the Borrower:
             Economic Relations Division
             Ministry of Finance
             Government of the People's
                 Republic of Bangladesh
             Dhaka, Bangladesh
             Cable address:                 Telex:
                  BAHIRSAMPAD               642226 SETU BJ
                  Dhaka
       For the Association:
             International Development Association
             1818 H Street, N.W.
             Washington, D.C. 20433
             United States of America
             Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                  197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.         248423 (RCA),
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                            82987 (FTCC)
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
                  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
                  By /s/ Abul Ahsan
Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
Regional Vice President
South Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  6
                           Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated          % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Category            SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)   Civil works               5,500,000       85%
(2)   Plantation works         14,000,000       100%
(3)   Goods                     5,200,000       100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 70%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(4)   Consultants'              3,890,000       100%
      and NGO services,
      fellowships and
      training
(5)   Other services              950,000       100%
(6)   Incremental               3,160,000       60% of local
      operating costs                           expenditures
                                                incurred until
                                                June 30, 1996
                                                and 40% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                incurred there-
                                                after
(7)   Unallocated               3,700,000
            TOTAL              36,400,000
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
       (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
       (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
       (c)   the term "incremental operating costs" means the costs for salaries and 
allowances of incremental staff of FD, BFRI and IFCU and for operation and maintenance 
of incremental office facilities and vehicles, incurred by FD, BFRI and IFCU for 
purposes of implementing the Project;
       (d)   the term "plantation works" means the cost of labor for the following 
under Part B of the Project: land preparation, development of nurseries and related 
works; and
       (e)   the term "other services" means services for aerial photography, 
publication and printing of maps.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
       The main objectives of the Project are to (a) establish and maintain a forest 
management system that is responsive to the economic, environmental and social goals 
of the Borrower; (b) improve the productivity of government-owned forests to meet, to 
Page  7
the extent possible, the Borrower's wood and energy needs; and (c) protect the 
Borrower's environment.
       The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Forest Resources Management
(1)    Forest Management Plans: Strengthening of the management of forest resources by 
FD by (a) establishing an FMP for each forest including revision and updating of 
existing FMPs as required; (b) provision of additional planning capacity for FD for 
preparation, revision and updating of FMPs; (c) preparation of new forest resource 
inventories by FD for selected areas, including aerial photography, 
photointerpretation and cartographic mapping; and (d) improvement of data collection 
and processing systems of FD.
(2)    Resource Information Management System: Upgrading and expansion of the Resource 
Information Management System (RIMS) established under the Second Forestry Project to 
a Geographical Information System (GIS) so as to include in RIMS relevant 
socio-economic, environmental and administrative information and expand the capability 
of the system to respond to a larger spectrum of management goals and a wider data 
base.
(3)    Silvicultural Treatment: Undertaking silvicultural operations for selected 
forest plantations including survey and demarcation work, consisting inter alia of 
about 38,000 ha of existing mangrove plantations as well as about 29,000 ha of 
existing industrial plantations.
(4)    Participatory Forest Development: Ensuring the informed participation of local 
communities in forest development and protection by carrying out a pilot scheme for 
participatory forest development in selected areas as well as the development of model 
agreements and benefit sharing arrangements to be entered into with participatory 
groups.
Part B:     Forest Resources Expansion
(1)    Mangrove Afforestation: Establishment and maintenance of about 24,000 ha of 
mangrove plantations on newly accredit land in coastal areas as well as about 9,000 ha 
of existing plantations severely damaged by the April, 1991 cyclone that hit the 
Borrower's coastal areas, including nursery development and plantation maintenance for 
the first four years after planting, as well as assistance to FD for carrying out the 
afforestation program.
(2)    Industrial Plantations: Establishment and maintenance during the initial years 
after planting, of about 27,000 ha of industrial plantations in selected areas 
including seedling production and nursery development, fire protection measures and 
assistance to FD to facilitate increased popular participation in the management, use 
and protection of forest resources.
(3)    Maintenance of Existing Plantations: Maintenance of selected plantations 
developed under the Second Forestry Project for the initial years after their 
development.
Part C:     Nature Conservation
       Establishment in FD of effective environmental management capacity and the 
carrying out of a nature conservation program consisting of:
(1)    Expansion, and strengthening of the management, of the Sundarbans West, 
Sundarbans South and Sundarbans East wildlife sanctuaries;
(2)    preparation by FD of new management plans for each of the three sanctuaries 
referred to in Part C(1) above, as well as for other national parks; and
(3)    selective strengthening of other selected national parks.
Part D:     Institution Strengthening
(1)    Forest Department: Reorganization and strengthening of FD, including FD field 
offices, to enable it to carry out its functions more effectively.
Page  8
(2)    Environmental Management: Establishment of an Environmental Management Wing in 
FD, consisting at least of an information and planning branch, a conservation 
operations branch and an environmental management branch, as well as the establishment 
of appropriate environmental standards for forestry operations taking into account any 
effect on indigenous peoples.
(3)    Professional Foresters' Education: Strengthening and expansion of education of 
professional foresters carried out by IFCU including upgrading of curricula.
(4)    In-service Training: Expansion and strengthening of in-service training for FD 
staff at the Forest College in Chittagong.
(5)    Foresters' Training: Strengthening of foresters' training provided by FD by 
establishment of a new forest school in Chittagong.
(6)    Forest Guard Training: Upgrading and strengthening of the training of forest 
guards including improvement of the curriculum for such training.
(7)    Mangrove Research: Strengthening of research by BFRI on silviculture and 
management of mangrove plantations.
*       *        *
       The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods, Works and Services
Part A:      International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and services shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
       In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Bangladesh may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.     Subject to paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 below, civil works shall, and goods estimated 
to cost less than the equivalent of $150,000 per contract may, be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.     Civil works up to an aggregate amount of $1,000,000, as well as plantation 
works may be carried out through force account in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Association.
3.     Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $20,000 per contract, as 
well as contracts for services including publication services and preparation of maps, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list 
of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.     Books, computer software and seeds, up to an aggregate amount of $100,000 may 
be procured under contracts negotiated directly with suppliers, in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.     Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
       (a)   With respect to each contract awarded under Part A of this Schedule as 
Page  9
well as each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) 
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
       (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
       (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.     The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
       In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Project Steering Committee; Monitoring Cell
1.    (a)   The Borrower shall establish in its Ministry of Environment and Forests, a 
Project Steering Committee, with membership and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association.
      (b)   The Borrower shall ensure that by October 31, 1992, all staff of the 
Planning and Monitoring Cell of the Borrower's Ministry of Environment and Forests 
have been appointed and have assumed office.
Organizational Structure
2.    (a)   The Borrower shall, by October 31, 1992, adopt a revised organizational 
structure, satisfactory to the Association, for FD's headquarters.
      (b)   The Borrower shall select by December 31, 1992, staff required to fill key 
positions under FD's revised organizational structure.
3.    The Borrower shall, by October 31, 1992, (a) establish a two-tier recruitment 
structure for forestry staff consisting of one tier of adequately qualified 
professional foresters to be recruited at least at the level of Assistant Conservator 
of Forests; and a second tier of forest technicians with ten years of basic education, 
followed by at least three years' technical training at FD's forest schools, to be 
recruited at least at the level of forester; (b) ensure that the examination for 
selection of professional foresters shall include a mandatory, substantial content of 
forestry subjects equivalent in standard to the syllabus for forestry degree courses 
at the University level; and (c) ensure that, with effect at least from that date, 
Range Officers shall be recruited as professional foresters, at the level at least of 
Assistant Conservator of Forests, as described above.
4.    The Borrower shall cause BFRI to ensure that all staff positions of BFRI's 
mangrove silviculture division in Khulna are filled by December 31, 1992.
Training
Page  10
5.    The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1992, establish and thereafter maintain at 
FD's forest college and forest schools a core teaching staff consisting of 
appropriately trained teachers with an appropriate minimum tenure.
FMPs; Forestry Sector Master Plan
6.    FD's forest operations shall be regulated by and carried out strictly in 
accordance with FMPs which shall give appropriate consideration to environmental 
aspects, socio-economic impact as well as impact on tribal or indigenous people, if 
any, residing in the concerned forest.
7.    FD shall prepare, implement and revise FMPs in accordance with a management 
manual satisfactory to the Association.
8.    The Borrower shall not adopt any part of its proposed master plan for the 
forestry sector which may, in the reasonable opinion of the Association, materially 
and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
NGOs
9.    The Borrower shall engage the services of NGOs by October 31, 1992, to assist in 
implementation of Part A(4) of the Project, in accordance with criteria and procedures 
satisfactory to the Association.
Land Use
10.   (a)   The Borrower shall issue a government order allocating to FD all land 
required for establishing mangrove plantations for a period until plantation maturity, 
or through the establishment of a reserved forest area and require that such land 
shall be returned by FD to the Borrower's Ministry of Land for reallocation after 
harvest of the concerned plantation or after the land is no longer considered suitable 
for mangroves.
      (b)   The Borrower shall establish a land use allocation committee with 
membership and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, to assist the 
Borrower's Ministry of Land in preparing and implementing its program of surveying 
newly accreted land and in addressing problems of land use allocation pursuant to 
sub-paragraph (a) above.
Pricing
11.   The Borrower shall, with immediate effect, set prices charged by FD to public 
sector institutions for wood, other forest products and concessions at market prices, 
provided that such prices for sales by FD to mills owned by the Bangladesh Chemical 
Industries Corporation shall be set at the following levels in accordance with the 
following schedule: by July 1, 1992 at 40% of market price for such products and 
concessions; by July 1, 1993 at 80% of market price for such products and concessions; 
and by July 1, 1994, at 100% of market price for such products and concessions.
Logging
12.   The Borrower shall, prior to any logging being carried out in natural forests 
pursuant to any FMP, (a) undertake an environmental assessment of the environmental 
impact of such logging based on terms of reference satisfactory to the Association; 
and (b) where such assessment identifies any potential adverse impact, implement 
appropriate mitigation measures agreed with the Association.
Preparation of FD's Annual Program
13.   The Borrower shall ensure that FD's procedures for preparation and approval of 
its annual program and budget, as well as for the release of funds for the Project are 
adequate to ensure timely implementation of the Project.
Implementation Reviews
14.   Without prejudice to the generality of any other provision of this Agreement, 
the Borrower shall (a) carry out detailed implementation reviews of the Project, with 
scope and content satisfactory to the Association, by June 30, 1995 and June 30, 1997 
respectively, and (b) discuss with the Association its findings arising therefrom; and 
(c) take prompt action to revise the Project Proforma for the Project as necessary.
Technical Assistance
Page  11
15.   The Borrower shall establish by December 31, 1992 and thereafter maintain a 
technical assistance team to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, with 
membership and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and shall provide 
on a timely basis to the team adequate facilities and resources.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
       (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 through 6 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
       (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
       (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,200,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.     After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
       (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
       (b)   (i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
            (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
       (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
       (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories of the Project, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment 
Page  12
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6. 
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph  2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in  accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
