Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8107
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
TEXTILE SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(LOAN 2127 - PH)
OCTOBER 6, 1989
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACR3NYMS
ATC     -      Advance Tax Credit
BOI     -      Board of Investments
CB      -      Central Bank of the Philippines
DBP     -      Development Bank of the Philippines
DTI     -      Department of Trade and Industry
MT      -      Metric Tonne (1,000 kilograms)
PCR     -      Project Completion Report
TMP     -      Textile Modernization Program
Government:        Government of the Philippines
South East Asia:   Main compfting Garment  and Textile producing
countries;   Thailand,  People's  Republic of
China, Taiwan, Korea, Hong Kong and Japan
Consultants:        Tootal Textiles International Operations
Direct Exports:    Direct Exports of Textiles
Indirect Exports:  Sales   of   textiles   to   export   garment
producers, export shoe producers, or other
exported products containing textiles.



TH WORLG BANK
Washtnton, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ok ed of DkgctrGwlwi
Opw.Ikzm Evaltion
October 6, 1989
,EIORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs  Project Completion Report on the Philippines
Textile Sector Restructuring Project (Loan 2127-PH)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project  Completion   Report   on   the   Philippines   -  Textile  Sector
Restructuring Project (Loan 2127-PH)' prepared by the Asia Regional Office
with Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
Thi doument has a rtic  distibutin and my be ud by rcipients only in the perfornc
of their offick dutimeIs Ncontents may not otherwis be diclosed without Word Bank autorution.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
TEXTILE SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(LOAN 2127-PH)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface . .........................................................                                   i
Evaluation  Summary  ..............................................                                 iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT PEVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project  Identity  ...........................................                                 1
2.   Foreword  ............               .......................................                   1
3.   Background  .................................................                                  2
4.   Project  Cbjectives  and Description  .........................                                2
5.   Project Design and Organization  ............................                                  4
6.   Project  Implementation  .....................................                                 5
7.   Project Results  ..... ... ...................................                                 6
8.   Project  Sustainability  .....................................                                 7
9.   Bank Performance  ...........................................                                  7
10.   Borrower's  Performance ......................... I ............                                8
11.   Project Relationship  .......................................                                  8
12.  Consulting Services .........................................                                   8
13.   Project Documentation  ........                     ..............................8
14.   Conclusions  and Lessons Learned  ............................                                  9
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Summary       ............................................... .                              '3
1.   Introduction                 ...............................................                  19
2.   Project  Background  .........................................                                21
3.   Loan Objectives                   ............................................                23
4.   Utilization  of the Bank Loan  .........                ......................                25
5.   Operating Performance  of the  Industry  ......................                               28
6.   Polyester Fiber Producer  (Brief History)  ........                    ..     .........       39
7.   Polyester Fiber Producer  (Present Position)  .............                       ...         41
8.   Financial Performance  of the Industry  ......................                                42
9.   Industry  Investment                            .................................             43
10. Conclusions and Lessons Learned                             . . .                               44
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in t!ie performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
LIST OF ANNEXES
1.   Price Trends of Raw Haterials & Products,  1983-1988 ........                     50
2.  Demand & Supply, 1972-1988                   .................................     51
3.  Philippine Textile Exports, 1980-1988 ...                   ...................    52
4. Country Exchange Rates                         ...53
PART Ills STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans..                                ...                             55
2. Project Timetable.....                                                              56
3. Loan Disbursements                         ......56
4. Project Implementation                       .......56
5.  Project Cost and Financing ...........                                             57
6.  Project Results ................. . . . .                                          57
7. Status of Covenants ............58
8. Use of Bank Resources                        ......58
A. Staff Inputs....                                                               58
Key Statistics for the Textile Industry, 1979-88                              59
B. Mission Data                              .....                                60



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
TEXTILE SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(LOAN 2127-PH)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Textile Sector
Restructuring Project in the Philippines, for which Loan 2127-PH in the
amount of US$157.4 million (including a front-end fee of US$2.4 million)
was approved on  April  20,  1982.    The  loan was  closed on schedule on
December 31, 1988, but due to a severely depressed economy and other
adverse circumstances only a small portion of the loan was withdrawn and
utilized.  Th  additior. to  the  front-end  fee,  final disbursements were
US$3.05 million for technical assistance and training, US$9.3 million for a
Foreign Exchange Working Capital Fund of the Government during the
country's economic crisis and US$0.705 milliou for a special Board of
Investment Account.   The  remaining  US$142  million were cancelled.l/ The
last disbursement from the loan was made on March 14, 1989.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy Operations
Division, Country Department II, Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the project in November 1988, and is based, inter
alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan and Project Agreements,
supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower and
internal Bank memoranda.
1/ US$100 million effective May 20, 1985; US$40.7 million effective
November 19, 1986; and US$1.3 million on March 15, 1989.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
TEXTILE SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(LOAN 2127-PH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.       The project comprised two components:  the provision of credit to the
textile sector for financing rehabilitation, modernization and expansion sub-
projects (the credit line component) and provisions for related technical
assistance (the TA and training component). The project was designed to
assist the Government in the implementation of its Textile Sector
Restructuring Program which, in b;oad terms, had the following objectives:
(i) to produce a competitive and efficient textile industry by 1985; (ii) to
have textile mills achieve a greater degree of specialization; and (iii) to
obtain a greater share of the export market (Part I, paras. 4.1-4.3).
2.       Sector investment requirements for the four-year 1982-85 period were
estimated to amount to US$503 million in foreign exchange of which the Bank
loan was to provide US$150 million (excluding the front end fee) and
suppliers' credits the balance. Local jsts, estimated to be equivalent to
US$100 million were to be financed by the firms and mills taking part in the
credit line component (Part III, paras. 5.1 and 5.2).
Implementation Experience
3.       Achievement of the project objectives was based on three key assump-
tions: (i) domestic and international demand would continue to grow at a
rapid rate; (ii) trade policy reforms and incentivw  would be implemented in
accordance with the Government's trade liberalization program supported by the
Bank's Structural Adjustment Loan (1903-PH); and (iii) the business climate
would remain favorable. However, none of these assumptions proved to be
valid; adverse economic and political developments subsequently caused the
cancellation of the entire credit line component. Excluding the front end
fee, all of the US$150 million loan was cancelled except for US$15.1
million.l/ The project's only bright spot was the TA and training component
which was successfully implemented with particularly useful results (Part I,
paras. 6.1 and 6.2).
1/ Disbursed as follows: US$3.1 million for the TA and training component;
US$9.3 million transferred to the Foreign Exchange Working Capital Fund;
and US$0.7 million for a special Board of Investment Account.



- iv -
Results
4.       The project failed to achieve the objectives expected from the credit
line component over the 1982-85 project period. However, the TA and training
component made steady progress over this period in bringing about industry-
wide mill efficiency an- output quality improvements. Moreover, the work of
consultants assigned to this component was helpful in persuading the
Government of the soundness of phasing out import restrictions, instituting
lower tariffs and providing export incentives. The results have produced an
improved business and investment climate. The presentt cautiously optimistic
view is that the project objectives will be met but at a much slower pace than
anticipated during project appraisal. This optimism is supported by the fact
that investment volumes which were US$230 million for 1987-80 (versus US$42
million for the entire 1982-85 period) are expected to total US$500 million
over the next three to five years (Part I, paras. 7.1 to 7.6).
Sustainability
5.       Prospects appear reasonably good that the growing benefits derived
from the improved textile sector performance will be sustained. However, the
Government must continue to have a sound t--Ae policy and the restructuring
steps and sector improvements initiated so far must be maintained (Part I,
para. 8.1).
Findinzs and Lessons
6.       The project could not succeed because of unanticipated economic and
political adversities. Lessons learned from this failure are that (Part I,
paras. 14.1 and 14.2):
(a) prior detailed and vigorous analyses of market trends and volumes and
their relationship to investment requirements are a must for this
type of project;
(b) industry investm6nts cannot be expected to precede Government incen-
tives and policy refGrms;
(c) high inflation and interest rates are a strong deterrent to invest-
ments, especially if the investors face substantial foreign exchange
risks; and
(d) restructuring projects are likely to benefit from a well prepared TA
and training program.



PHILIPPINES
TEXTILE SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT (Loan 2127-PH
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I
1. Proiect Identity
Project Name     s    Textile Sector Restructuri!.g Project
Loan No.         s    2127-PH
RVP Unit         s    Asia
Country          s    Philippines
Sector           s    Industry
Subsector        s    Textiles
2. Foreword
2.1 Loan 2127-PH (in the amount of US $157.4 million including a front
end fee of US$ 2.4 Million) to the Republic of the Philippines was approved by
the Executive Directors on April 20, 1982 in support of the Textile Sector
Restructuring Project.l/ Cofinancing was to be provided by Suppliers"/3uyer's
credits (US$ 317 million) and a syndicated commercial loan of US$ 50 Million
equivalent. The project consisted of two parts: (i) US$ 5 million for
studies, training and other technical assistance designed to improve sectoral
performance and (ii) US$ 150 million to be onlent to the Development Bank of
the Philippines for financing rehabilitation, modernization and expansion sub-
projects in the textile sector.
2.2   Following approval of the Bank loan, economic conditions in the
Philippines. already in a poor state, deteriorated drastically with the onset
of a global recession which exposed policy, institutional and structural
weaknesses in the Philippine economy and caused a massive recession. The
textile industry was particulariy hard hit, and as a result demand for
investment credit essentially disappeared.   The principal causes were the
1/    The textile industry is defined to include spinning, weaving, knitting
and finishing on man-made and natural fibers. Garment manufacture is
not included in this category and has only an indirect connection to the
Bank loan.



- 2 -
rapidly declining demand for textiles and the resulting overcapacity and the
high interest rates coupled with the increasing reluctance of investors to
bear the foreigr. exchange risk in the face of a rapidly depreciating Peso. As
a consequence, no textile subproject was financed from the Bank loan, and only
the technical assistance and training components of the project were imple-
mented. The credit component was formally cancelled on November 19, 1985, the
effective date of the final cancellation of all funds allocated to this
component.
3. Background
3.1   The Philippine textile industry, which remains entirely in private
hands, was among the first to be developed following independence. It
continues to be one of the most important in terms of manufacturing output and
employment.  From the early 1950s the industry evolved in an environment
characterized by high tariffs and tight import controls. Protected from
foreign competition, the industry developed severe operating and structural
problems due to lack of specialization, obsolete and aging equipment, poor
technical performance and an inadequately trained work force. Compared to its
more efficient, export-oriented neighbors, the Philippine textile industry
produced almost solely for its captive domestic market high priced goods of
pcor quality.
3.2   By the 1970s the Government had become acutely aware of the
problem created throughout the industrial sector by the distorting import
substitution policy. After a series of studies it promulgated the Industrial-
ization and Policy Reform Program for the 1980s which the Bank supported with
Structural Adjustment Loan 1903-PH. Also in support of this program a Bank
reconnaissance mission reviewed the textile industry in April 1980. On the
baris of the mi3sion's findings and further discussions, the Government and
the Bank agreed on a textile sector restructuring program which the Bank would
support. The program comprised a three-pronged strategy: (i) policy changes
to encourage and improve efficiency, (ii) technical and structural improve-
ments, and (iii) financing for rehabilitation, modernization and expansion,
and improvement of technical operations.
3.3   The project was prepared by the Dep& .ment of Trade and Industry
(DTI) and the Board of Investments (BOI) with the assistance of the Bank and
consultants. It was appraised in March/April 1981, and a post appraisal was
undertaken in October 1981 to review cofinancing and technical assistance
arrangements, procurement procedures and coordination mechanisms for the
restructuring program.
4. Proiect Objectives and Description
4.1   The main objective of the project was to assist the Government in
implementing the textile sector restructuring program and accomplish the
following:



a)    transform, by 1985, the existing textile industry into a competi-
tive and efficient industry able to produce, at prices and quality
comparable to imported textile products, in an environ_ient of
unrestricted entry and reasonable levels of tariff protection;
b)    achieve a greater degree of speci:'ization, by product and
process, for the industry's mills; and
c)    increasingly meet some of the requirements of export markets, both
directly and indirectly through the export of garments.
4.2   It is clear that these objectives were highly ambitious and relied
on a number of key-assumptions: (i) domestic and international demand would
continue to grow rapidly; (ii) trade pnlicy reform with regard to textilee
would be implemented according to the announced program of trade liberaliza-
tion, supported by the Bank's Structural Adjustment loan; and (iii) the
business climate would remain favorable. As it turned out, none of the three
assumptions came true within the time frame envisaged (paras. 5.3, 6.1 and
14.1).
4.3   The projett was divided into two main components:  (a) the
provision of credit through DBP to finance textile subprojects; and (b)
technical assistance, provision of which would be coordinated by the BOI
within DTI:
Subproiect Component
(a)   funding of the phyrical rehabilitation, modernization and expan-
sion of plants in spinning, weaving, knitting and finishing
through provision of term financing including suppliers' credits
to individual subprojects;
(b)   training of technol..ogists, technicians, operators and managers,
and technical assistance to individual firms within the context of
subprojects;
Technical Assistance Component
(c)   setting up of training facilities/programs for the entire textile
industry; and
(d)   consulting services to assist the Government:
-     in the evaluation and supervision of the projects and firms
which participate in the restructuring
-     in monitoring the impact of the sector program and in
developing a textile technology information service; and



-     in carrying out studies for improving sector performance in
the areas of energy conservation, effluent treatment, local
manufacture of accessories, etc.
5. Project Design and Organization
5.1   The project was well conceived: it was in accord with the Bank's
lending objective of assieting industrial development in the Philippines; and
the timing seemed right for restructuring the textile industry under the
Government's industrial development and policy reform program. In addition,
the project opened the way for the Bank to assist in setting operational and
institutional goals for the textile sector. Also, Bank participation in the
project was expected to draw the necessary cofinancing under favorable terms.
5.2 Project preparation was thoroagh and clearly defined the project's
content and objectives. Adequate safeguards were included in project design
to ensure smooth implementation by setting forth unambiguous working arrange-
ments and procedures for carrying out the project. The two institutions
jointly responsible for implementation, the Board of Investments (BO!) and
Development Bank of the Philippines IDBP), were at the time considered
experienced in their areas of responsibility: BOI, the Government agency
within the Ministry of Trade and Industry in charge of the implementation of
investments laws comprised textile experts recruited from the domestic
industry. DBP was established ih 1958 as an autonomous Government-owned
development bank with financing operations (loans, equity and guarantees)
covering practically all segments of the economy; it had previously received a
number of credit lines from the Bank. Guidelines to be followed by BOI and
DBP in evaluating and financing textile subprojects were fully defined in the
loan legal documents.
5.3 A major shortcoming of the project design wao its optimistic view
of general economic performance and development of the Philippines and notably
its generously optimistic forecast of domestic demand for textiles based on
rather sketchy data and assuming for 1985 a level of consumption which
actually has only materialized by about two thirds even in the boom year of
1988. The otherwise careful project preparation and design normally would
have produced a relatively trouble-free project barring some disbursement
delays, a common minor shortcoming with Philippine projects. It was not
anticipated that none of the loan proceeds would be disbursed to fund textile
subprojects. The Bank had recognized that the prevailing economic situation
and depressed state of the textile industry represented the risk that opposi-
tion from influential pressure groups would be able to prevent the enactment
of important policy reforms. However, it was not foreseen that economic
conditions would deteriorate to the extent that the textile industry would
soon be fighting for its survival instead of planning new investments.
5.4   In retrospect, the choice of a government-owned development bank
as the sole intermediary -was not a wise solution. Bank experience over the
past several years has led the Bank to channel credit through multiple
institutions, particularly commercial banks. DBP went through very serious
financial problems in the early 1980s which required a major rehabilitation



effort in the 1985-87 period. In the event, however, the credit component did
not move because of other more significant reasons (macroeconomic crisis).
But had that not been the case, the decision to go with DBP could have proven
very problematic.
6. Project Implementation
6.1   Implementation of the principal project component comprising the
evaluation and financing of textile subprojects got off to a good start with
the appointment of consultants in March 1982 and the establishment of a
subproject evaluation team, including BOI and DBP officials, in July 1982.
Because of the distressed state of the Philippine textile industry at the
time, it was decided to proceed with modernization and rehabilitation sub-
projects first and hold off on the expansion subprojects with their greater
financing requirements until later when hopefully conditions would have
improved. A substantial number of subprojects were evaluated and approved for
financing during 1982-83. However, as already stated, conditions in the
industry only worsened, and the implementation effort ultimately had to be
stopped. By the same token, the intended removal of quantitative restrictions
had to be abandoned in the light of the serious economic crisis which the
country faced in the early to mid- 1980s. As a result of the economic crises,
coupled with the political upheaval of the mid-1980s, the business climate
deteriorated sharply across the Philippines, causing a massive drop of
investments in manufacturing. Thus in March 1984 the loan was amended to
divert US$120 million (US$40 million in the first tranche) to the Foreign
Exchange Working Capital Fund (FEWCF) to help the Government meet its foreign
exchange needs. Further deterioration of the political and economic situation
resulted in two major loan cancellationss (i) US$100 million effective
May 20, 1985 and (ii) US$40.7 million effective November 19, 1985. The
textile industry was able to undertake only modest new investments 21 which
were financed mainly from owner's contribution and cash generation.
6.2   On the other hand, implementation of the technical assistance and
training component of the project proceeded successfully from March 1982
onward. The services provided by consultants engaged for this part of the
project consisted of (i) analyses, studies and development of policy reforms
in support of the Government's efforts to rationalize trade-and regulatory
policies; (ii) the technical assistance needed by the industry; and (iii)
training programs including in-company, counterpart and management training.
While the "hard ware' component of the project did not materialize for reasons
outside the control of the textile industry, this 'software" component helped
to lay the foundation for improved industry organization and performance which
would allow major investments after improvement in the business climate.
2/    Between 1982 and 1985 only US$42 million were invested as compared to
the forecast US$503 million equivalent. In 1986 US$25 million were
invested.



-6-
7. Project Results
7.1   Because of the economic difficulties during the 1982-85 project
period and the collapse of the textile subproject financing program, the three
main project objectives (para.4.1) could not be achieved within the envisaged
time frame until 1985. Developments since 1985 indicate that these objectives
may be achieved, although with much delay and at a slower pace then had been
anticipated. Reasons for the optimistic assumption at this time are: (i) the
political climate and the economic performance of the Philippines have much
improved since 1986 and the domestic demand for consumer goods and notably
textiles has recovered significantly with a trend for further growth; (ii) the
policy environment, notably with respect to a more open trade policy (QR's on
textiles were phased out in 1987) and stimulating policies regarding direct
and indirect exports, has much improved; (iii) the effects of substantial
efforts of training and technical assistance, provided under the project are
being felt; and (iv) the improved business climate in the Philippines has led
to renewed investors' confidence, so that investments in the textile industry
have started to pick up significantly since 1988.
7.2   By 1985 the technical assistance and traiL ing provided under the
project began to show positive results as demonstrated b; the progress made by
some of the better equipped and managed mills in improving quality and
efficiency. The technical assistance component also helped to bring about
badly needed Government policy changes through the consultant's participation
in persuading the Government to phase out quantitative import restrictions,
institute lower tariffs and provide incentives for indirect export of tex-
tiles.
7.3   To encourage greater participation by the domestic textile
industry in the indirect export business 3/, the Government introduced in 1985
the Advance Tax Credit System (ATCS) which allows textile producers to receive
a predetermined tax credit covexing the amount of taxes and duties due on
imports used in the manufacture of textiles and garments for export immediate-
ly after such textiles or garments are exported or delivered to a Government
bonded warehouse. The sole polyester producer in the country (who was
protected against imports by a complete ban on imports) cooperated by agreeing
to sell polyester fibers and yarn subject to ATCS at tax and duty free
international market prices. The ATCS in combination with improved quality
and cost competitiveness, is mainly responsible for indirect textile exports
increasing from less than 10X of total textile imports for government exports
prior to 1985 to close to 30Z by 1987.
7.4   The Philippine textile market recovered briskly during 1987-88 as
a result of rapidly rising domestic demand from the previously depressed
levels along with the measures discussed above and the improved export market.
3/    The supply of yarn and fabric to Philippine export garment manufacturers
to replace the equivalent textile inputs the manufacturers would
otherwise have to import.



Direct and indirect exports increased from 8.000 tons in 1983 to 42,000 tons
in 1987 and are expected to have posted further significant increu  :s in 1988.
The indirect export portion comprised between 25-352 of total text. le input,
leaving ample room for the local mills to further expand their share of the
input. Domestic consumption increased by 142 in 1987, but consumption per
person remained very low for the country's level of development. Smuggling,
which accounts for about 202 of the domestic market, continues to be a major
problem for domestic producers.
7.5   Developments so far indicate that as a result of technical
assistance and training and improved Government trade policies (such as
removal of quantitative import restrictions, lower tariffs and adequate export
incentives) Philippine textile mills can become uapable of producing export
quality yarn and fabrics at competitive prices. This presupposes also the
physical restrictions of industry. Investment volume in 1987 and particularly
in 1988 already amounted to over US$230 million. In view of its recent strong
performance, the textile sector views its prospects with considerable optimism
and plans to invest another US$500 million in capacity expansion and
modernization over the next three to five years.
7.6   Overall, while this project, as originally conceived, clearly
failed to achieve its objecti-es within the envisaged time frame (1981-85) for
unanticipated reasons, it has clearly contributed to putting in place the
policy and institution framework for the textile sector to allow for substan-
tial industry restructuring which would put the industry on a sound footing.
These are very essential ingredients for the sustained development of the
textile sector which started to recover in 1987 and is continuing to improve.
8. Proiect Sustaitzability
8.1   As noted above, the past two years have seen a considerable
improvement in the technical and market performance of the Philippine textile
sector. These improvements give rise to such benefits as greater foreign
exchange earnings, Government revenues and energy savings which are real but
not easily quantifiable. The benefits will be sustained so long as the
Government continues to have a sound trade policy and the sector improvement
and restructuring steps initiated by the project are maintained.
9. Bank Performance
9.1   Bank performance was satisfactory throughout the project cycle.
Project preparation and appraisal were detailed and thorough, and project
objectives were appropriate and clearly defined. Supervision of the project
was adequate. In retrospect, the Bank can be faulted for accepting the
textile demand forecast for 1985, established at the time of appraisal. The
forecast, which formed the basis for the sector investment requirement,
overestimated actual demand in 1985 by over 2502. The economic difficulties
could not have been foreb!aen, but to illustrate how unrealistic the forecast
was, it can be noted that even the relatively buoyant 1988 demand is only
expected to be about 642 of the 1985 projection. The. choice of DBP as the
sole conduit for channeling credit was also not a sound decision although



8-
admittedly it was consistent at the time with the normal Bank practice of
lending through development finance intermediaries.
10. Borrower's Performance
10.1 BOI, solely responsible for project execution after cancellation
of the credit line, satisfactorily carried out what remained of the project
after deletion of the subproject component. None of the special covenants in
the Loan and Project Agreements were relevant to the reduced project scope.
11. Proiect Relationship
11.1 The Bank's previous lending operations in the Philippine
industrial sector had established a good relationship with the various
government agencies involved in the sector and helped to create an atmosphere
of mutual understanding and confidence with BOI and DBP. This made it
possible to amicably resolve the issues normally arising in the course of
project preparation and implementation. The Bank also maintained good
relationships with consultants as well as all project participants.   As far
as could be observed, BOI remained on equally good terms with its consultants,
industry representatives and others involved in the project.
12.  Consulting Services
12.1 Two British consulting firms each of which provided one of the two
services listed below were working from within the premises of BOI with staff
from DTI, DBP and industry representatives. The services were:
(a)    sector training and technical assistance to help textile mills
upgrade their technical operations and reduLe costs; and
(b)    assistance in sector restructuring, sector studies and setting up
sector-wide training facilities and programs.
The textile industry was highly appreciative of these services, and in fact
the industry during the past two years (1987-88) has partly funded their
contracts which had been extended to March 1989.
13. Project Documentation
13.1 The project appraisal report was comprehensive and gave an
excellent backgtound account of the project and its relationship to the
Philippine economy. The report precisely stated the scope of the project, the
objectives to be achieved and how the project was to be executed, all of which
was accurately reflected in the Loan and Project Agreements.
13.2  The supervision reports contain ample description and expository
details, but anyone not familiar with the project finds it difficult to form
analyt'.cal judgments concerning the project and its execution. As a general
observation, project supervision reports should be prepared with the view that



- 9 
they will be an important part in the preparation of a future project comple-
tion report.
14. Conclusions and Lessons Learned
14.1 The projects technical assistance and training components can be
credited for helping to bring about the turnaround in the textiles industry's
fortunes beginning in 1986. However. in retrospect it can be seen that the
main project component of funding eligible sector subprojects could not
succeed in the face of the obstacles which were encountered from 1982 onward,
namely:
(a)   the global recession which caused a complete collapse of the
domestic textile market already in a poor state because of adverse
domestic political and economic conditions;
(b)   the delay in implementing Government trade policies, necessitated
by the serious reces3ion and economic difficulties in the early to
mid 1980s; and
(c)   the high interest rates and the foreign exchange burden vis-a-vis
a depreciating Peso.
14.2 Experiences gained in implementing the project suggest the
following lessons:
(a)   a detailed and vigorous analysis of market trends and volumes and
their relationships to industry investment requirements should
precede project design; in view of the shortage of data at the
time of appraisal and resulting uncertainties regarding future
market developments, a more conservative market forecast, combined
with a smaller ,oan amount, might prudently have been chosen;
(b)   firm Government commitment to, and credibility of policy reforms
and incentives announced should precede industry investments; and
these policy and incentives reforms should be designed to sti-
mulate exports and foster domestic competition. Appropriate
studies and analyses will provide the necessary "vision" of
potential subsector development to Government Banking Sector and
the industry;
(c)   in a situation of rapidly rising inflation, interest rates and the
likelihood of major devaluations it is unlikely that major
intended investments will take place, particularly when the
investor is faced with a substantial foreign exchange risk; and
(d)   restructuring projects tend to benefit much from well designed
technical assistance and training components at the subsectoral
and plant level. These components should cover analyses and
studies for the guidance of policy makers as well as sectorwide
and plant to specific training and technical assistance.



- 11 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
TEXTILE SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(LOAN 2127-PH)
PART II
(See Attached Borrower's PCR)



- 13 -
F,
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIIPPINES
TEXTILE MODERNIZATION PLAN (TMP)
(LOAN 2127 PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUMMARY
IhiI iiS. Pt L'ji E.t (;onMp] etion i re por t (WCR) rit-e-sen,ts a  review
of Lhe loan made available to  finanice the  modernization
and  . eibiai i.itAic,n cf the F-lhilippir,e Te>:tile  Industry.
(A portion of the loan covered the front end fee,  whilst
UI.I  $5.1 n,il3ion was allocated for Technical  Assistarice
and   Training  unider  the  coni-.rol  of  thie   Board   of
Jnvestmients ( LiI ) .
Iotal  project  cust of UIE $600 milliorn  comprises
US  t:157.4  million from   IBtRD Lcoan  2127  PH,  US  $300
milliciC  fr Jfm the suLArPpliers c-redit, with the remainder to
be financed l cally by the proponents.                                         r
2.  hei  pr-c:q:Lam  commenriced in 14.trch 19.?2 and tthi  loan  was
schledul ed for compl Ltioti  in December 1988.
Vi('   to   a  Se ries  ct  economic  problems   wi-ich
commenc( cd  shortly  after  the  project   started,   the
m.--Jority  of th-,e loan wast unused and ULS *1i40 million was
cancel led  irn two tranches.    1he technical  assistance
arc,d   tr ainirci  por-tion  of  thie  loanr   was  cantinLned
throunChout the project period and resulted in:
a).  vastly improved trainring
0 ) ..  i rIjJruv(.-,ne   inr tuc:hncai per- f-ormance



- 14 -
C..       li mYc).ed   ar i:cxl: in and  pr oduct dveQlopmf-ent
(1'  b    pi(1 ti'vt.d  t ..tis<.'.......n1rtr c.i;,1]  aw¢r etnr.ee>
l'*  .a   d ev (-lI cx rn 4;.I    of t1l-,e inr;di rect andr dir-ect    x port- 't
I hti oL'iE'LtivcC-/ of the  loarn  wc-:re to  modoernize c;md rehabi--
I I ol-p? ;:ht  t.cs:x: il.mo i.nduis Iry  --o ac  tu  i mprowvt  its-  qu.ality
EaIcU ccUEpttit A i vE;nE-. E.;l addi t iCJI  to  the machin-ery   re-
u Li remtents.   :echni,ah      sIi-ta e sIand  training  programs
s Uer-r   :ndror Lakers  :;nd a proqr am  E tibliishied   f or-  tari ff
od jus twmeénte ani 1i . iheral. i z at i1on of imports .
4.   Ir oA. & I  do;fjvrt Jc   de'ma1 sdiF %,ru- estimFmAteu based   upoi-  the
dumand  :rerids ti witl,in ithe 1970 '- e.    It .s.as estimated  that
st p orticn  of  s.ise outpLut wvould bc rxported  tnd a   f urther
porttior- sul d  Lco the1   indirect (i-xport tnar v:et
'i.   t    lueh r. fail ed  ir1 achiOvinqlO  its  objectiveo\E  of   providi tng
f-unis   4o   purcha.-ie machiinery  to  moder-nsize  iand   r ehabi-
A j -it te  thL  tEtIti i   inridustry  an-d no  fttulds were drawn down
to   (c)over   th,is a<-isct of the project.    Of the  UJS   $I5i5
liIIM  3 os   nsdr aI  ail.t.le for  Such  za  Purpose,  US   $140
Hillion  vjzts canc-lled  and  US, -9. 7 Million  w-is drawvn down
h-)v   tl,  Fhi ii p-i rne  Cent azl Darnk. and uti Ii zed   f or   t he
1- LArjigri E change W 1-. i nq Capi l:al Fntd  (FWEFT) .
e.   fc!t-i l e    Irsv-stutunrt   by   th}e    Isdstr y   in   tihe   period
expected  1%3:;2 to  lVT/5 vsas negligible and  aniy   investment
rande was c-arriecd ctvt by Liti liz i ncl  pr ivate funds.



- 15 -
7/.  {iCowt-Vel"ve , llCA thl   TOC:hni. (:,i  'i   _ In-uno  a idnIC dl d       r a. ill i-L
a5pC-PLt ct   C f thtL I CKAI) I,-.YVC I-Werl h.1 II- 1V V Xt L 'u L5s ,I 1  .   I(C
i n:rtciucttiorn  of t raini n g    J- f i   '.: it tj hin  tht-e  m.ajor
t e-.ti1 eC Comp aniets e  COU[.±eJU with J3OL iVI∂ett  tol C('UI  5es
and  the  provi=i1_iuOl otf  SV tem..  C  t t a l]n-. n (  teChJniques
beaia-n  to  improve prodcincti vity and t41kai i t'  wL thi ri the
factories-    7he  div ect      eciInit:a1      s i s A: anIce gi yen  tG
spinninQn,  weavi no,  pri in. iir ,  iyeig ra  and i i ni shirici  al -o
greatly contributed to the impr ovement in qual itv.
in th'E' fie-ld n-i Ienerg y c11SEt r -vati o0!   cornsi derable
savinrgs  to  the nation  in forv-r.icn  e;chcie  have  been
a C th ievedi  as  a result c, tetAiiical  ;sE>istance giveLn  i n
en-ineering.   Eleven   new Philippine  -fabricated   stearn
rai sing boiler-s w lici bturn wastQ solidc -fuels- in place of
oil, have been intstalled in vai-iouLs Dyeing anid Finishing
pl ants.    Together  witth  i mproved stea.m  enigineering   and
general  inaintenance,  which have reduced  steam  'tr?Ans-
miossin    losses  b et wee n  boiler  and    macnine,   many
companies   have    been  abl3e  to    obtain    sicinificant
reductionF- in fuel costs.
E3.  i)During   the period 1982-l1984,  the consultants evaluated
many projects put for-ward b3y the telxti 1e proponents  for
modernization and rehabilitatior-.  Several projects were
approved,  but other-s were not accepted due tc-o the very
poor fiinancial state cf the companies concerned.   It was
apparrent  howvever  to the consultants that Ell  projects
were  based u,pon sales to a domestic market,  which  was



- 16 -
rapidly shr-i nkingl and that the' prOpolnentz4 had no: dcuire
to borrc:w  foreignrl '    c*:rh.-i c,hllv ULnSta-ble   cCcrt,llcy
which thaJ seen the Peso dr(op fi ecmn V8.0f01:/:*  to  $   IQ./il.
Non)!e of the appr ?ye   prre-c wy pe   impi effitedn
9.  Dtring  19859  government ,  i ndustry and the consultants
considered  methcds by whicth the teLxtile induustry  could
becQome   competitive    in  direct   exoprts   and   mor-e
part.icularly  in  supplyirig t.'xtiles to the  flotirishirg
export  garment makers wiho were importing all  of  th-ieir
textile requirements..  To achieve success in this market
mearit   severial   i:harnyes  in  government   restrictions
regardini-,g  the  ref und  of the  thigh   t axe s  ancd  diuties
cha-ged  on  imported textile raw materials and  consum-
ables,  impr-o-ved product developmient,  end a  completc-ly
new  marketing  strategy for- the  textile  manufactuLring
companies..
10. Atn  Advance Tax C:rc-dit :ystewr was proposed a-id  accepted
by  the Government.    This system  allows a refund of the
taxes and duties paid by the textile mills wjhen, textiles
were delivered to the Bonded War-ehouse of export garment
makers.      Included  zas  part  of  tthe  scheme  was   an
undertaking  by  the local Polyester producer to  reduce
its prices sutbstantially for pulyester uti i zed for such
textiles.      The  result  of  tte-se  moves  allowed  the
products  to be sold at competitive world prices to  the
export garment makers.



- 17 -
J. I . Ccti't i nued  empha'-is I.-)y I he c:u. - n   ii produ tLA   d eo--
1c. J nent,  mar :cE?tn r;   sI i I ' . Ei i clI c. u  omcr  aJifr L(,  a
cnLAblecd  th-le   i n iJ t-t s  to 'r  ' tv ly  iflip rv -  ie Lt,  e >:p cw1:s
*cii- r ct ar,d i ridi rUct >   ln  :1i,i   cx (I tis dIlW ultet.ed I.-t
O+  the  Philippi ne Te;!tilre ProdukCtio-    and   preliminary
estimates    fur   1988  indic-ote   a   ii inzllir  encrutWc:tiHCo
per- f ormanc:e.
12. rhe restult of the increa;ed output and confidence of the
market  has resulted  in an improved investment  sccnario
witht  US  $2.37  Million beirncJ  irn,v -sted   ovet  1987/1988
compar-ed   ittith   US  t'4'.2 Milillion-t in  1932/85  and  iJS  $25
llillion  in 1986.    Jirtually,  all of this investment is
being   funded   throurgh private means or  throucgh   nor-mal
commer-cial banking charsnels.
13. Dur-ing the latter par-L of l rS8, the Government requested
the  textile industr-y milIl1rs to put forwar-d  ir-lvestmer.t
proposals  for the three year- period  1989-1991 under-  arn
Accelerated  Investment Frogr-oit-m.
The  totcal value of proposals received  is US  *$502
Millio n,  of  wliich it can, be reasonably  expected   that
sctme  70%  or about US $:350 Miiillion will be  implemented
subject to funds being available.



- 18 -
It should be emphasized, that because of the heavy
losses   due  to  adverse  foreign   currency   exchange
movements experienced in the past, many millers will be
reluctant to take up loans that are riot protected
against  exchange risks.   This will have the effect  of
slowing down the proposed expansion and modernization
progr-am.
The original draft of this Project Completion
Report was prepared by Tootal Textiles International
(Consultants)   who  were  retained  by  the  Board   of
Investments (BOI)0, an agency of the Department of Trade
and Industry (DTI), throughout the period of the loan.



- 19-
PHILIPPINES - TEXTILE MODERNIZATION PLAN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
1.  I NTRODUCTION
i.i  In  the  late  i970',  the Minister of  Tr ade  and
Indtustry identified several key industrial aroas to
pr omote the growth of wealth and employmei)t  within
the  Philippines.   The  textile industry  was  the
second of the industry groups to be considrred, and
a series of studies were undertaken in the late
1970's arid early i980's to establish the require-
ments of the industry.
1.2  The  textile industry commenced in the  Philippines
during the ear-ly 1952'-. to meet the demands of the
wholesalers who had previously imported all textile
products.   Textile  production commenced with many
of the new companies being financed and managed by
the  original  traders  and  whoiesalers  or  their
fainilies,  a wide raitge of product *were produced to
supply  the wholesale market.   Because of the lack
oD matiufacturing experience and expertise and the
protected market, the products were generally of
inadequate  quality and expensive.   Factory  effi-
ciency was poor and productivity low.
i.3 The various studies recommended that a series of
steps should be taken tc improve thL textile
irndustry  ard to further its growth and  employment



- 20 -
uJf   I; ~bor .       v,rnc .'sit   a n   Ld t. t.C-';- 1.. 3 1 E?  i rgdLt-..try
aduptc-rid     I f:-. i r.:  udie ni zf    ioil F ll to:
cl t7Bc'ie CIE .tr1dO to fiiWl'tJt niz au ,int rL1iLb3 L}itr,t
i:l-' ct re>:t:iE..  uI  cl r -.? idtc, mld    uhbritit
I-)     I'i L"VIr (f-Cr cL i I;  X         t anI I-Lre i  IcL  ,-  tr-airiinr
pr OlAr- am  f tD- i: be  i ntind.iti5 iy
c) - .    rtivl        r+I.'iU er vi  3             i .,  El  t cor.tr 01
ind  rit he-r deir abhe 1 eCYlomnts .
1,4l  1lti-  -e>xti lr    H u 1d  irr-ziation  Fl ;n   envisayrd   e::pen-
dii '  -re   origitial Iy   overr the  1901/85  period   of   US
$600 ii li  )i  I made  u-tp cf
(US$ Million)
Rehab.                                         Total
Spi.nning             37                      196
W evi rn cj           .                   1 0'                      136
I:: ni:t-iflQ         -                    17                         17
Fi  ni slii rij       22                  :30                         52
10l A8L        9T                 2'I                        34 1
Enq n c    i-- i ri n                                                  4
-375
Contingencv. 202%                                                     75
Total F:oreign  Investment 4ej
Local  InvestrmEnts  (Cival   worls,
in-,i tia1  wor-lcingq  capital           etc )                 100
TOTAL  CO3T           550
(Fiq gur-es   t.aken   +rom  Boar-d  of  Investments   leaflet
"TFhe    Philippine   T extile   Indus-try   Miodernization
Procjram  1931-j1 9 5" )



- 21 -
."  PROJECT BACKGROUND
'2.J.  FoAi.t :.jitr,.c ai reque-t from ihe  n1jris-try of Trade  aricd
Indust:ry    and  thAinQ   inlto  iaccount  the  var i ous
stIItd f-.t tdi p tac RJe wvas  agrced betweeri  the  banki,
I.App.I i erS   the gover nment and the tex tiie industry
trJ   finarr,ce  th-e  ef xti IEe  Modernization  Plan  as
US-  1 1  Mi i
D.an k                                150. 00
Supplier5 Cr-Edit                    300. 5C
Proponent,i Input                     150.00
Total           600. 00
2.X2  The  bank disbursements +Ot US T150 M1illion were  to
be  :thr uuhli thc.e conJduit of the Developmer,t Bank  of
the  Philippines,  whilst in addition to the  fror.t
endt  fee.      a   lnri of US  $5. 1  lvii I I ion  would  be
disbLr-Sed by the Board of Investments for Tecrhnical
Assi stasrce ard fraini riq.
2.   It-re rnar-ket cgrow:th trend for domestic consumption of
textiles was expected to continuLc, and in addition,
exports  wier-e  planned for both direct exports  and
sales tCJ the indcirect export market.



-22-
The supply and demanld situation For the  year
19685 was planned as bei ng:
_Demand '                   ----l ___  LY_000 MT
Domestic              149       R.P. Supply          181
Direct Export          10       Imports              nil
Indir-ect Export       22       8imug1 ed            nil
lotal        181                            181
Compared witth a situation in 1979 of:                                   6
Demand ' 00 MT            ---- Su2ply_ '00  MT
Domestic              140       R.P. Supp±v          115
Direct Export           3       Imports              nil
Indirect Export         7       Smuggled              35
Total        150                            15l
2.4  Textile  consultants  were to be appointed to  give
Technical Assistance to the project and  specialist
training experts were to be engaged.
2.5  The  loan,  initially  due  to  commence  in  1981,
finally c3ommenced in March 1982, and Tootal Textile
Inter-national Ltd. were appointed as consultants to
pr-ovide  the technical assistance and Fielden House
Productivity   Centre   were  engaged  to   provide
training expertise.



- 23-
3. LOAN.OBJECTIVES
3.1  As inferred by its name,  the objective of the loan
was  to  modernize  the  Textile  Industry  of  the
Philippines  which  had grown since the  1950 s  to
service  a highly protected domestic  mariet.   The
majority of existing textile mills were vertical
organizations  producing products to service  their
associated wholesaling organizations.   These asso--
ciated wholesalers helped&to finance the textile
mills in difficult times and pr-ofitability between
the   te>tile   mills  and  their  wholesales   was
difficult to assess.
Generally  speaking,   mills  produced   poor
quality  mechandise at high prices due to  inherent
inefficiencies and the protection given by a ban on
the importation of textiles and garments.
3.2 The objective was to be attained by:
a). Making funds available as part of a package,
including suppliers credit, to modernize tbe
textile industry by installing modern machi-
nery and rehabilitating existing machinery
where  this method was economic.   The projec-
tions also saw a large expansion of the
industry which required more machinery in
addition to the added capacity gained by
modernizing   and   rehabilitating    existing
machinery.



- 24 -
b) .  Ma k-inq   available   internationE,l   technical
assistanc:e  to tmprcve existinrsc   rr;natUfactUtrrirq
techniques and to direct thc tra:xiinin. require--
meyrits  cf  the  i nd utE   so a5    s  to  i mprove
technical tfnowhow,  efficienci.es and opera1ti ng
efficiency levels.
c).  Phasing  in thr* liberalization of textile  and
garment  imports  togetheir  with  restr-uctured
tariff r-ates.
d).  iransfer of knr,owledge to the textile  counter-
par-ts at the 501.
3.3  At  the end of 1985,  the indusLry would be capable
of meeting the following market demands:
Domestic               149
Direct Exporrt          l0
Indirect Export         22
181



-25-
4.  UTILIZATION OF THE SANK LOAN
4.1 Prior to the loan, a complete list of accredited
suppliers were established by the BOI in accordance
with the established requirements, and arrangements
were made to provide the suppliers credit portion
of the loan.
4.2  In the event, during the years when the program was
due   to  ope.-ate  (1982-1985),   the   Philippines
underwent a severe economic crisis which had the
following-results:
a.  Major  contraction  of the domestic market  for
textiles and garments.
b.  A  series  of  devaluations  from  P8.00/$1  to
P20.00/$i.                     4
C. A severe restriction of foreign exchange.
d.  A  large increase in domestic Interest Rate  to
over 40-/..
e. Lack of foreign confidence.
f.  The collapse and withdrawal of lending  facili-
ties of the conduit bank - the Development Bank
of the Philippines (DBP).
4.3      As a result of these problems, the majority of
textile companies made huge financial losses
with   those   having   foreign   loans    from
investments made in 1979-1981 being amongst the
hardest hit.   The industry lost confidence and



- 26 -
the prime objectives of the textile millers
became survival by decreasing current assets,
reducing costs, and financial restructuring of
their companies.
4.4  Investment  in  ne' plant and machinery during  the
period 1982-1965 is calculated as being:
US$ Million  C & F
For-ei s__x change
Spinning                                 12
Weaving                                  15
Knitting                                  6
Dye/Finish                                2
Others                                    2
37
Local Exchange
Duties, taxes, local works                5
and working capital
42
4.5 The majority of this expenditure was incurred by
multinational companies or by Philippine conglome-
rates who could finance their investments through
other channels.   A further portion was invested by
down stream manufacturers, garment makers or shoe
manufacturers, who could not get the fabric service
which they required from the industry.



- 27-
The  Banrl, Loan and suppliers credit were  not
-.tilized by the investors due initially to the high
interest  rate  foi the loan and  their  desire  to
avoid  further  foreign exchange  exposure.   To  a
small extent,  in the later- part of the period, the
absence of a conduit bank followina the collapse of
the DBP had some effect.
4.6  Accor-dingly,  it  wats agreed that US V10 Million of
the  loan  would be transferr-ed to  the  Philippine
Ceritral  Bank.  (CB)  and US -$9.7  Million  of  that
amoLtnt was eventually drawn down by the CS in. 1984/
1985.
4.7  A further US $140 Million of the loan wa5 cancelled.
4.8  The  Technical Aissistance and Training component of
the  loan  has continuved from March 1982  to  March
1989, and has consisted of technical assistance,
in-compar-y trainir.,  management training, counter-
part training within the DOI and other requirements
of  the  textile and associated  garment  industry.
lhe  funds have been generally adminis-tered by the
textile consultants, in collaboration with the B0I
and the Bank.
Expenditure on this portion of the loan has
been US  73,062,794,81*.
*  The fi nal figure will be dependent upon the
exchange r-ate used by the W.EB.



-28 -
5. QOEgBOIN_PgIEgBFQRMANCEQgE_THEgINDUSTRY
5.i   When the project commenced in 1982,  the  industry
was beginning to experience a rapid decline irn its
fortunes,   with   a  declining  domestic   market,
increasing, losses and a bleak future. The tendency
of many companies was to combat these losses by
reducing the quality oY raw materials together with
layoffs  and short time working.   The  result  was
generally  poorer quality fabrics,  lack of  fabric
developemnt,  and  poor operator performance.   The
image of the industry, to both garment makers and
the public, was one of poor quality, high prices
and unreliable delivery.
5.2 As the market reduced and activity levels within
the factories dropped, the textile mills and the
polyester fiber supplier, FILSYN, increased prices
to cover the shortfall in earnings.   This made the
domestically produced textiles even more unattrac-
tive and increased the profits to be made by
smuggling better quality textiles at cheaper prices
into the Philippines.
5.3  Little  thought  was  given to  investment  by  the
textile  millers  who foresaw a long term  lack  of
domestic  demand and were unable to export  fabrics
due to:
a. Poor quality.



-29-
b. Lack of product development.
c. Inability to meet prices through:
1. Low plant utilization
2. High polyester prices
3. High power costs
4. High taxes and duties on imports associated
with red tape which effectively barred  the
polyester producers, the spinners, knitters
and weavers from recovering the taxes and
duties if the eventual end-product was
exported.
5.4  During  the  period  1982  to  1985,  the  industry
gradually   declined  in  the  period  when   other
neighboring countries were expanding their textile
base.
5.5  However, the extensive training programs which were
carried  out for the industry,  by the consultants,
in 1982, 1983 and 1984 were beginning to prove
fruitful, in the manner in which, operatives and
management in several of the better equipped mills
were working to improve quality and efficiency.
This, together with the direct technical advice
given by the consultants on spinning, weaving,
knitting, dyeing & finishing, demonstrated that
several mills could produce the fabric and yarn
quality required for making export garments.



- 30 -
5.6  Detailed  synthesized  costings  were  carried  out
takiing   into  accoun L  costs  par-ticular  to   the
Philippines  atnd it was. demonstrated to the textile
miller-s that cer-tain textile products could be sold
at  competitive  prices  arnd  textile  mills  could
improve their profitability if:
a. A system could be found to refund taxes and
duties  paid on imported products used  for
producing the textiles.
b. Poyester fibers and yarns were sold at
competitive world prices.
c. The mills continued to improve their effi-
ciency, quality, marketing abilities and
product developmerit.
Several yar-ns and fabric5 containing finer
counts of yarn couid not be considered as profit-
able until such time as the Philippine government
were  able  to r-educe the cost of power  which  was
60%-70%. higher than competing countries.
5.7  The government, industry and the consultants worked
together to produce a schemne which would allow the
textile producers to receive a predeter-mined tax
credit coveriny the amount of taxes and duties paid
on individual types of textile products.   This tax
credit would be made available immediately after
the   textiles  had  been  exported  or  had   been



-31-
constructively exported (delivered to the Customs
Bonded Warehouse of a registered exporter).
This  scheme became operative in mid 1985  and
was  called  the "Advance Tay Credit  System".   by
usi -.g a complex data base, the Standard Rates for-
the  whole  range  of  textile  products  could  be
adjusted for changes in Excha;,ge rates, tariff and
tax changes or r-aw material price changes within
the period of 10 working days.
5.8   The  introduction  o- the scheme, coincided with a
marked slump in the South East Asia textile
industry which resulted in extremely low prices
for   textiles   particularly  from   Taiwan   and
Hongkong.   Competitive  prices even after  taking
tihe Advance Tax Credit Scheme and low polyester
prices into account, resulted in net income being
only sligtitly above total variable cost and many
mills were reluctant to enter the export market on
this basis.
5.9   However,  several  of the more aggressive  textile
producers used this period to establish marketing
links with the export garment makers, is spite of
the extremely low return, and these companies were
the first to benefit when the upswing in demand,
prices and profits occurred in mid 1966.



- 32-
5.10  The ye,.rs of 1986, 1987 and 1988 have shown only a
relatively small growth in domestic dem.nd, of.
which abot.t 20%h has been supplied by smuggled
goods either by outrig t smuggling, technical
smuggling or by excessive barter trading.
5.11  However, the exports, both indirect and direct, of
textiles has continued to imprcve substantially
through the period, and this has been associated
with further improvement in quality and substan-
tial investment in new plant and machinery.
5.12  1987  became a record output year for the  textile
millers in terms of output.
Comparative figures with 1986 were:
'000 MT             1987       198b
Domestic Market Consumption   98           86
Kgs./Capita                    1.7        1.5
Supply to Domestic Market
Philippine Production       82          72
Smuggled                     16         14
Legal Imports               -           -
98         86
Textile Output of Philippines
Domestic                            82          72
Direct Exports - Filament Yarn       2           2
Other Textiles    8            3
Indirect Exports                    27          12
119         89



- 33 -
Note5:
a.  Al though  1987 domestic market demiand was  14'.
higher  than in 1986,  it is still  below  the
domestic demand of 1975.
b.  Textiles  produced by the Philippine  industry
were 347.% higher in 1987 t:har in 1986.
c.  During  1987,  the  textile industry  supplied
about 21% of the requirements of the export
garment industry.
5.13 The domest'.c market figures reflect the lower
priority given to textile purchases in the  family
budget,  this  is  due  to incr-easing  demands  of
educational  and other costs as the school popula-
tion  continues to increase rapidly,  and also5  in
some  measure to the loss in purchasing  power  of
the family net disposable incoffe.
000 MT                        1988
Domestic Market                            98
Kgs. /Capita                                1.68
Supply to Domestic Market
Philippine Production                   73
Smuggled & Misdeclared Imports             20
Legal Imports                               5



34 -
l    A!3t-PUt of Phil ippir nes
I)clmest 1 i c:                               7 3
Dirc-ect Eports   Filamerit Yarn               2
- Other 7fextiles            7
Tridc3rCLt EXf>pcrts                         59.6
141.6
Notte:  SmuyLiing  has  increased in  absolute  and
percentage terms dur ming 1988.
5.14  The  governmentL  have now liberalized  the  impor-
tation  of  fibers,  yarns  and  fabrics.   Tariff
barriers are:
10%  -   Cotton,  acrylic  fibers  and  other
fibers except for rayon polyester.
207. --  Polyester and rayon (A)
307%  -    Yarrn
40%  -  Fabrics
50%  -  Garmentes
It is   considered that these tariffs  should
give  adequate protection for the textile  millers
agairnst legitimately priced imports.
Note (A)  Rayon  should be 107. until the  proposed
Rayon  Fiber plant is in operation  from
which  the  rate should be  20%  (Legis-
lation delayed).



-35 -
'-. .5   In  spite of liberalizationr,  it wOUld appear- thal:
smurtgIt led  goods  still continLue Lc) take  a  <-i P,-
ficant portion of the market and misdeclar-ation u-I-
volumes  and/or vaILAe  i5 r,st.t t5tinq in a  I CAs  I. (
the  text:i.e I ni  lers  of the domestic  mar teL  iln
spite  of  the fact that their  products  ar-e  ntsw
competitive against legally imported textiles.
5.16   The  Philippine  government is considerirsq  legis--
lation to give specific values for duty purposes
on imported te,xtiles which will give added impetus
to  the domestic pr-oducers.   The qovei-nment  have
also  reduc.ed  power costs by about 20%.  in  1988.
This  welcome reduction still leaves  power  costs
a3,out  25%. higher than competing  countries  butR
nonetheless, it does give the textile millers a
chance  to  widen the base of products which  they
cotld export.
5.i7  There is a requirement to continue modernizing and
rehabilitating  the industry and it is  considered
that  about US $350 Million will need to be  spent
in  the next three years in order- to  continue  to
improve competitiveness and quality and to vastly
improve the range of products which they can produce.



- 36 -
5n.18 lfThere  remaiins a qood opport.tnity for the  texttile
ir,dListry to contilule expanding ir-n tthe  Fhilippines
based  on  an  increasi ng  share  of  the  tex t tile
prodLucts. required for the export garment market.
lera: t i I e_and OGarm_nL nt_  pr_t5   1988
Quota Countries
FOB Value (US*)
USA    X         918,148,513.91
EEB              313,916,3:S13.24
Canada            48,022,444.22
Wor-way            ., 743,977.27
Sweden             5,755,143.44
Austria            :,335,0109. 
1,293,721,402.17
Non-Quota Countries
fAustralia        10,9,89795..60
Japan             52,768,901.11
Others           145,797,0/3.6(0
209 .459,771. I i
TO l0 VL   i S03?. l8i, 17.3.28



- 37-
Exports to EEC Countries:
FOBI3 Value (l S4)
Benelux;                    43,118,162.07
DLenma Ta                    9,865, 9t 1.47
France                      61,509,13a8.51
Gr eec e                        153,726.85
Ireland                      1,763,130.88
Italy                       10.615,608.63
Great Britain               64,904,316.73
West Germany               119,595,237.48
Spain                        2,2e3,724.66
Por tugal                       107,365.96
Exports to Leading
Non-Qtuota Counitries           FOB ValLue (US)$
Japan                       52,7688,901.91
Hongkorcng                  38.539,270. 16
Panama                      35,407,742. ;7
Kirngdom of S. Arabia       17,596,0B5.85
United Arab Emirates         11,967,118.71
ALu otralia                  10,893,795.60
Curacao, N.A.                 4,678,184.81
Sout h Korea                 4,378,024.52
Switzerland                  2,978,169.94
Egypt                        2,926,460.80



-38 -
5.20   Ihe essential ingredients are:
a).  Greatly improved product development and
variety  of fabrics.
b).  Increased  investmient  in  the  industry
particIAlarly in the dyeing and finishing
sect i on.
a). and b). will pt-obably require the install-
ation of a new independent commission dyeing
printing and finishing mill.
c).  Ai more  sophisticated 'nd  professional
approach  to marketing and  sales  which
Will   come  with  greater  exposure  to
external marketingi situations.
d).  'The  continuation  of  the  Advance  Tax
Credit Scheme.
e).  Continued  training  of  techinical   and
management staff by expert consultants
or- mor-e suitably and permanently by the
establishment of a Technicai College for
Textiles and Garments.



- 39 -
6.  POLYESTER FIBER PRODUCER (Brief History)
6.1  Filipinas  Synthetic  Fiber-  Corp.   (FILSYN)   was
incorporated  in 1969 and Lakeview Industrial Lorp.
in  1972.   These two c:ompanies produced  polyester
fiber as par t of the import SubStitLutiOnI policy  of
the gover-nment of the day.
6.2  Thie  whole  output of the two plants  was  dir-ected
towards  the domestic market and the  manufacturing
size  of  thie plants was determined oni a  measured
capacity hasis.
6.3  Little  or  no  accotnt was taken of  the  need  to
achieve  a  basic  economic  production  unit,  the
plants are therefore small when compared with those
of  local international competitors hence they  are
unable  to achieve the economies of scale which are
necessary in order to be competitive.
Further  disadvantages such as  high  interest
rate-s,   power  and  energy  costs  comnpounded  the
si t uat i on- .
The two c-tmpanies were not commercially viable
unless protected by very high tariff barriers.
6.4  Lakeview   was  a  separate  entity  which   failed
financially  and  becatuse of the l,Arge exposure  of
certain banks,  it was virtually forced upon Filsyn
and became part of that company in  1983.



-40-
6.5 Th-e Advance Tax Credit Scheme was introduced in
late  1985,  and  as part of  the  scheme,   Filsyn
agreed  to  remove its objection to the  import  of
polyester and to sell its own product for export at
competitive  world tax and duty fr-ee  prices.   For
this  agrecement,  an advance tax c.redit  value  was
calculated of each polyester- product type.
6.6  The  local textile manufacturer pays to Filsyn  the
current domestic price for polyester and gets a
r-ebate  from Filsyn equal to the difference between
the current domestic price and the current export
price ruling at the time of the contract, plus
interest   on  the  differential  amount  for   the
following periods:
a).   60 days max.  -- Yarn supply
b).   90 days max.  -  Knitted Fabric supply
c).  120 days  sax.  -  Woven Fabric supply
Values  being  updated  periodically  by  EBOI
consultants.



- 41-
7.  POLYESTEB_FIBER_PRODUCER (Present-Position)
7.1 The new policies of impor-t liberalization were
implemented during 1987 with a reduction in tariff
on imported polyester and the removal of all
restrictions on importing.
7.2  Unfortunately, the tariff reduction was not carried
out in a balanced manner with regard for the
overall   competitive   position  of   Filsyn,   no
reductions in duty were made on the raw materials
required   for   polyester   production.        Filsyn
therefore moved into a high trading loss situation
in  1988.   The  position  is  critical,  financial
restructuring is needed immediately.
It is worth noting that competitor countries
such as Taiwan and Korea do not impose duties on
polyester raw materials.



-42 -
1.  FINANCIAL rERF'ORMA3NCE OF THE INDUSTRY
LI. I  ihe manner in which accounts are produced and fi.led
an  the  Phalippines,  together  with  the  general
standards  of  auditingi and tax collection make  it
di+fiCUlt  to  aßseßs the real picture  of  profit-
4,tb i i ty  in  anly  one year for- the  industry  as  a
whcIle.  Iwo of the larger textile companies operat-
inaq are trading arms of a much larger business  not
conrinected with textiles and it is not possible to
distinguish   the   textile  portion  within   that
company' 5 annual accounts.
8.2  The  millers are reluctant to supply  profitability
figur-es arid mandatory returns should be regarded as
unreliable.
8.3:  However,  from the accounts which can be judged  to
be fairly accurate and from a general appreciation
by the consu}ltants on the pulse of the industry, it
can be judged that tnz industry as a whole achieved
the following:
1982      Break-Even
1983  -   Small Profit
1984  -   Considerable Losses
1965  -   Considerable Losses
1986  -   Small Profit
1987  -   Considerable Profit
1988  -   Reasonable Profit



-43-
9.  INDUSTRY INVESTMENT
9.1  The  investmerit  in the indLUctry  ovrr  thc- period
19.32-1988.
USL18 l; lILLIDiO
Foreign Exchange   Worlting Capit.al &
C/F Value       Other Peso Costs    lotal
1982/1985         37                   5
1986              22                   3             25
1987/1988        189                  45           234
Total            2418                 53. 301



-44-
ti. CONQLUSIONS-AND LESSONS_LEARNED
10.1  This  project was based upon an  assumption  that
domestic sales which had occurred from 1971 to
1979 would continue to show a similar growth
pattern  through to 1985.    In addition to  this
growth,  a  quantity of goods were expected to be
sold to both the direct and indirect export
market and that no fabrics would be imported or
smuggled for the domestic market.
10.2  It  would appear that the  .marketing  projections
assumed that the modernization and rehabilitation
of  the machinery,  along with a training.program
and the liberalization of imports with suitable
tariff barriers, would allow the textile millers
to produce all of the domestic demand and also
expand into the export market.
10.3 The projected output was widely optimistic and
made several important errors.
1. Whilst the economic collapse of the Philippine
economy could not have been foreseen, tte level
of domestic_expenditure on clothing_Sould_ have
been expgected to fall as the Philippine popula-
tion continued to grow at a fast rate with the
average age of the population continuing to
decline.   Expenditure could have been expected
to increase on rood, education and transport
all at the expense of textiles.



45-
2.  One of the main ite-ms in the objectives was  to
liberalize   imports   with   suitable   tariff
barriers. Howeverh anoallowance aQears to have
been made for im2orted textiles when  assessing
the_sgURp1Xd/mand e5iition.
3. Similarly,_no_alllowance was made for  smucggled
goods altthough there had been along history  of
such  activities.   The growing export  garment
making   industry  would  also  make  technical
smuggling much easier.
4. No__detailed groduct cost analysis_was__carried
out. A detailed analysis of simulated costings
for ranges of textile products would have shown
that the industry had a little or no chance of
achieving exports due to:
a). Inherent high costs of t.he Philippinie
textile mills which were not associated
with mill efficiency levels.
b). Government bureaucratic systems, making it
virtually   impossible   for   independent
spinners,  weavers and knitters to recover
the  high  duties and costs  paid  on  raw
materials  which were made up into  export
products.   Vertical  companies having  to
wait up to two years for such ref tnds.



- 46 -
Evern if the te-xtile indu5try_had_modernized and
rehabilitated__its__ Qlant_and  machinery_ there
coulld  have been no significant entry _into the
exp.ort   market  as  the  mills  could  not  be
competitive.
IlW .   C As a r1esult t   the rnal keti rnc projections for  demand
made ror the proj ;ect wer-e vastly different, than the
ac-tUal  demand  at the end ot the original  project
period.
t123L' IIJ  'ro-jqected 19'dI85   Act ual 1985
Dotneist i c
Der  arid                  149              75.4
Supp lied by
8SIBUcIg 1 ed/ Irpor t      -6.0
Philippine Pr-oduction  149                 59.4
Total Philiippine 8Lipply
Domestic                   149              59.4
Direct Export               10               6.1
Indireu :ct Expurt          22               6.0
161             71.5
1.0.5  tAs  a result of the implementation of the  'TMP  in
1982,   based  upon  the  projected  volumes,  the
government q  the  bank and the consultants brought
pressure  on-  existing textile  mills  withiin  the
PhiJippirnes   to   put  forward   their   detailed
pr cppo;E? s ftor i nvestment



- 47 -
IMany  pr iectL.  we E,e e-:amii riE-d -L cr erit dLt;'tLi 1  anti
evalu ation  repor-ts producd  jy t:te it-int iearn  of
DEDFP,  BOI ard the CcLSUlta.ltS-.    It WcE5 SLome  ti me
before  it  becan,e apparen-,t thtlktt J. t WoUld  not  l,e
possibl e  tL  ac.hiVL1 -11hL Vuluwtsea  rorc:ated   rid
that  the  proponents  had no  real  inten-tion  c3f
proceedinQ   with  thE pro ieCt. LIntl -,uch t3mrse  a
the market conditions improved.
10.6   It  was  at.  this tintge thtat the  work  had  to  be
started,  through  the markvting,  commercial  and
accountancy furnctions to establish:
a.  Which product lines twere suitable for export.?
b.  At which  prices did the mills have to sell to
be competitive?
C.  What  was  the cost  structure  for  proDtcing
suich products?
d.  What  actions   had  to be tak-ren to  make  the
product commercially viable.
e.  What  technical  assi stance did the mills  re-
quire to meet the export quality standards?
10.7   It was only_ after_this anal.ysis had been completed
and  action  taken  by introducing  the  AFCS  and
providing direct technical assistance that the
textile mills found themselves in a commercial
environment to mar-ket thei r products.



- 48 -
10n.   It  is recommended that much greater  emphiasis  is
givern in future projects to the marketing and
commercial  aspects  of  the  program,   and  that
detailed product production cost analysis be  used
to   establish  relative  values  between  locally
produced fabrics and imported fabrics.
It is recommended that the realities of "red
tape   bureaucracies"  causing  excessive   delays
resulting in effective non-recovery are fully
allowed for before any governmenit incentives,
credits or duty rebates etc. are taken into
account in any cost calculations.
The commercial infrastructure in the country
should   be   fully  understood   and   favourable
conditions established before the project begins
(perhaps this could be first por-tion of any actual
project).   The  physical investment in plant  and
machinery should follow and not precede this
exercise.
10.9   There  was  a  very real  need  to  modernize  the
textile industry when the project started. If the
commercial infrastructure had been put into place
in  1982,   the  proponents  may  have  found   it
favourable  to invest in 1984-1986 rather than  in
1987-1989   to  improve  quality  and  supply  the
growing indirect export market.



-49-
10.10  Overall ,  taking into account that the bulk of the
loanr  was  returned (riot wasted) and that  only  a
relatively  small amount was used  for  consultant
services,  the   Liakl-k  has helped  the  Philippine
lextile  Inaustry through the provision of   funds
for  the  technical assistance and training  which
enabled  many companies to take advaintage  of  the
upturn  in  trade  duriing the last two  years  and
transformed a sinking industry into one which  the
textile  millersr now have confidence in  and  are
prepared  to invest in for f uture development  and
expansion.



-50 -
Annex 1
Prices Trends of Textile RaN Materials and Finished Products
Based 2920-9812-Atems influencing- gices in South East Asia
MAY    MAY    MAY    HAY    AUG    MAY    AU6    RAY    JUL
AuS
1983   1984   1985  1996   1986   1987   1987   1988   1988
Fibre_pX!SE
US $/lb
Cotton
Coarse Counts IA)  68.15  64.9   54.65  37.75  27.75  75.65  92.75   59.5   57.2
132 Middling  (A)  88.1   88.7   64.65  44.6   38.8  88.6   87.7    65.6   62.6
PoIY!et![
Taiwan        iI)  52.8   62.9   51.0   49.8   47.5   56.5   56.5    54.8   69.0
RayoQ
Taiwan        (B)   -       -     52.8   49.8   47.8   63.8   64.8    78.0   81.5
Yarn Prices
for Knitting
65/35 TC 45's IA)   3.28   3.33   2.53   3.11   3.39   4.9   4.22    4.16   3.91
(Taiwan)
32's Carded   (A)   2.73   3.42   2.51   2.95   2.75   3.31   3.31    3.33   3.28
Cotton (Twn)
Moven Fabrics
US $/Yard
478 Lonostate
116x76 TC 65.35 (A) 8.52   8.57   8.48   8.58   8.55   8.78   8.79    8.72   8.66
45 x45 (Taiwan)
48f 13.75 oz. (A)   1.47   1.62   1.29   1.38   1.38   1.64   1.92    1.73   1.53
Denim iHongkong)
WA  SOURCE - Average for month from weekly issue of Cotton Outlook.
18) SOURCE - Average of quoted prices from major taiwan suppliers during month.



-51-
A9nne>: 2
PHILIPPINE TEXTILE INDUSTRY
DEMAND AND SUPPLY 1972-198e
IN THOUSAND METRIC TONNES OF YARN
DEMAND                                  SUPPLY
Year   Domestic       OGS/    (A)      TOTAL     LOCAL                LEGITIMATE
-__  CONSUMPTION  CAFITA  EXPORTS  DEMAND  PRODUCTION  StMUGSLED  IMPORTS
1972       92         2.4        2        94         71        23         0
1975       99         2.4        5       104         88        16         0
1979      140         3.0       10       150        115        35         0
1980      108         2.3       15       123         96        27         0
1981      106         2.1       16       122         96        26         0
1982      103         2.0       11       114         81        33         0
1983       94         1.8        8       102         68         14        0
i984       78         1.5       10        88         76        12         0
1985       75         1.4       12        87         71         16        0
1986       86         1.5       17       103         89        14         0
1987       98         1.7       37       135        119         16        0
1988(C)    98         1.6       43       141        116        20(D)      5
Note:  (A)  -  Includes  sales of Filament Yarn produced in the Philippines
but excludes exports of Ramie tups which is considered as  a
partially processed raw material.
(B)  -  Smuggling   directly  or  via  excessive  barter  trade   or
technical smuggling by garment makers.
The figure for 1988 includes an assessment for imported
textiles which have been underdeclared in value or volume
and which cannot be included in legitimate imports.
(C) - Figures for 1988 are provisional only.



-52-
AiW-nex 3
ANAQLYSIS OF PHILIPPINE TEXTILE EXPORTS
YLear    lTotal       Direct Expor ts   Direct Exports         Indirect
Exports    of Filament        of Other Textile       Export
Yarns             Products
1980        15                                 1 1(                2
1981        16                .                                    3
1982       I1                3                  6                  2
1983         8               3                  3;
1984        120 )                                                  4
J985        12               4                  2                  6
1986        17               2                  3                  12
i987       37                2                  8                 27
1983        43               2                  7                 34



-53 -
Annex 4
PHILIPPINE CURRENCY FLUCTUATIONS
Currency Unit - Peso (F) Fiscal Year Jan. 1st to Dec. 31st
Exchange Rates:   1978               US $1 = F  7.38
1979                       F  7.38
1980                       F  7.51
1981                       F  7.90
1982                       F  8.54
1983                       F 11.11
1984                       ? 18.00
1985                       ? 20.00
1986                       P 20.50
1987                       ? 20.50
1988                       F 21.50



-55-
PHILIPPINES
TEXTILE SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT (LOAN 2127-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART III
1.  Related Bank Loans
The following loans were related to the project:
Credit No.                  1903-PH                     1984-PH
Title;                      Structural Adjustment       Industrial Finance
Loan                        Project
Purposes                    To support the im-          To finance
plementation of a           economically and
comprehensive indus-        financially viable
trial development           projects in the
program designed to         industrial sector and
accelerate industrial       support industrial
growth, expand em-          reforms.
ployment and maintain
the growth of exports
Year of Appraisals          1980                        1980
Status:                     Loan Closed                 Loan Closed
Comment:                    Loan was successfully       US$105.4 million of
disbursed on                the US$150 million
schedul,e.                  loan was cancelled,
at various occasions
between 1981 & 1988.
Disbursement targets
could not be met
because of require-
ment that subborrow-
ers assume foreign
exchange risks and
subsequent adverse
political and econo-
mic developments
which severely sup-
pressed demand for
credit.



-56 -
2. Proiect Timetable
Date                        Date
Item Date                   Planned                     Actual
First Presented to            -                         March, 1980
the Bank
Identification                                          October, 1980
Appraisal                   Harch, 1981                 March, 1981
Loan Negotiations           March, 1982                 March, 1982
Board Approval              April, 1982                 April 20, 1982
Loan Signature              June, 1982                  June 30, 1982
Loan Effectiveness          July 30, 1982               December 23, 1982
Loan Closing                December 31, 1988           December 31, 1988
Loan Completion             December 31, 1988           March 14, 1989 La
la Last disbursement from the loan.
3.  Loan Disbursements
The disbursement schedule prepared during project appraisal showed the
US$150 million loan amount (exclusive of the US$2.4 million front end fee)
disbursed over a six-year period (FY 1983-88) in accordance with the
disbursement profile for the Philippines industrial sector. In addition to
the front end fee, actual total disbursements were US$3.05 million for
technical assistance and training, US$9.3 million for the Foreign Exchange
Working Capital Fund and US$0.705 million for a special BOI account.  The
US$1.315 million amount not previously cancelled (US$100 million effective
May 20, 1985 and US$40.7 million effective November 19, 1986) and
unutilized was cancelled on March 15, 1969.
4.   Proiect Implementation
The project implementation plan provided for monitoring various
aspects of the textile sector's structure, development and performance, but
there was no fixed schedule with indicators and milestones to measure
implementation progress. It was assumed that six years would be adequate
to complete the planned technical assistance and training programs and to
meet the financing requirements of the subprojects. This was a reasonable
approach because it was recognized that project progress would depend
entirely on the textile industry's acceptance and response to the sectoral
program. Subsequent events demonstrated the irrelevance of a strict
timetable approach.



-57 -
5.   Project Cost and Financing
5.1   Investment requirements in the sector, as reflected in the
Bank's SAR, were estimated to be US$503 million for imported equipment and
expatriate consultant services, between 1982 and 1985. The Bank loan was
committed to supply US$150 million toward these costs, and available
supplier's credits were to make up the difference. Local costs equivalent
to about US$100.0 million were to be financed by the individual proponents
of the subprojects.
5.2   Forecast and actual investments, in US$ million equivalent, in
the textile industry were as follows:
Forecast Investments          Actual Investments
Working Capital
Foreign &     Foreign Exchange      and other Peso
Local         Costs (C&F Value)    Costs                 Total
1982-85      503                37                   5                42
1986                            22                   3                25
1987-88                        189                  45               234
Total                          248                  53               301
The big increase in investments during 1987-88 was the result of the
increased demand and confidence in the market and has been financed from
private resources and through traditional commercial banking channels.
Earlier, high interest rates, the experience of a rapidly depreciating
Peso and the consequent high perceived foreign exchange risk had completely
limited borrowing funded from the Bank loan. The experience in the
subsector as well as in other industries of having borrowed funds subject
to foreign exchange risks has caused firms to be reluctant to take up loans
that are not protected against this risk.
6.   Project Results
Despite the fact that the basic and major project component was never
carried out, the project did produce some positive results. The extensive
training program began to show definite signs that mills were making
progress in improving quality and efficiency through the efforts of
management and operations personnel who had participated in the training
program. Also technical assistance in spinning, weaving, knitting, dyeing
and finishing showed that some of the mills had acquired the capability to



-5$ -
produce fabric and yarn quality acceptable for the manufacture of export
garments, These results of the technical assistance and training program
enabled many of the mills to take advantage of the upturn in the domestic
and export markets during the past two years (1987-88), especially as a
result of changes in trade policies and incentives (see table on next
page).
7.   Status of Covenants
With deletion of the subproject component of the project, the
pertinent covenants contained in the Loan and Project Agreements are no
longer relevant. The covenants pertaining to the technical assistance and
training retained in the project were fully complied with.
8.   Use of Bank Resources
A.    Staff Inputs
Staff inputs in carrying out the various tasks throughout the project
cycle from preparation in 1980 to completion in 1989 were as follows:
Task                 Input (Staff Weeks)
Project Preparation                    45.0
Project Appraisal                      70.7
Negotiations                            4.7
Loan Processing /a                     50.6
Supervision                           44.9
Project Completion Report               3.0
Project Administration                14.2
Total                           233.1
/a   Staff weeks spent by former Programs Division.  The high level of
input reflects the complexity of the project.



- 59 -
Key Statistics for the Textile Industry 1979-86
X........... . ...........................................................................................................
1979     1960      1981      1982    1VM        1984      1985     1986      '987    'Ie
...... ......... ............. ..................................          ..........................
A. PROCUCTIOM, TRADE & COaUMPn10M
t::U~mU=IDI:UUO"DlUSU-U-U-U3U"UUUUUU
1. Local Production (000 MT)         115        96       96        81        8         76       71        89       119      '21
2. Imports (000 NT)                   35        27        26       33        14        12       16        14        21       25
3. Exports
Oirect Exports (000 MT)           10        13       13         9         6        6         6         0        5         5
Indirect Exports (000 MT)          1        2         3         2        2         4         6        17       37        43
Total Exports (000 MY)        11       15        16        11        a        10        12       17        42        48
4. Consumption (000 MT)              139       108       106      103        94        78       75        86        98       98
5. Per Capita Consumption
Population (MiLlion)             46.0      48.0     49.5      50.?      52.0     53.2      54.4      55.7     S7.0      56.3
Per Capita Consunption (Kg)       3.0       2.3      2.1       2.0       1.8       1.5      1.4       1.5       1.7      1.7
6. Irports/Consuption (%)           25.2%    25.0%    24.5%    32.0%    14.9%    15.4%    21.3%    16.3%    21.4%    25.5S%
7. Exports/Production (%)            7.9%    13.9%    15.1%    10.7%        8.5%    12.8%    16.0%    19.8%    42.9%    49.OX
B. EMPLOYMENT
1. Textile Industry (000)            N.A.       96       85        72        77        71       70        70        70       86
2. Total manufg. Empl. (000)         N.A.   1,850    1,780    1,888    1,822    1,847    1,926    1,763    2,054    2,198
3. Text.lnd./Tot.Manufg.(%)          N.A.      5.2       4.8      3.8       4.2      3.8       3.6         4       3.8      3.9
C. DATA FROM THE TOP THOUSAND COMPANIES (Textile Industry)
1. # of CoQipanies Included           13        13        14       14        14        14       15        19        21      N.A.
2. Sales (P Million)              1259.1   1342.6   2034.2   1941.4   2145.0   2790.1   3291.8   3267.8   4999.2            N.A.
3. Net Income (P Million)           -1.1    -59.9    -41.3    -63.0    -12.4        21.3    -22.4       40.6    194.6       N.A.
4. Assets (P MilLion)             1948.2   2385.4   3251.5   3275.3   3250.3   3371.0   3815.1   3439.3   5578.5            *.A.
5. Paid-Up Capital (P Million)   349.2    399.7    599.5    718.3    7O9.1    709.8    784.S    723.8   1377.0              N.A.
6. Return on Sales (M)              -0.1%    -4.5%    -2.0%    -3.2%    -0.6%         0.8%    -0.7%      1.2%      3.9%     N.A.
7. Return on Assets (%)             -0.1%    -2.5%    -1.3%    -1.9%        0.4%     0.6%    -0.6%       1.2%      3.5%    4'A.
8. Return on Pd.-Up Cap.(%)         -0.3%   -15.0%    -6.9%    -8.8%    -1.7%        3.0%    -2.9%       5.6%    14.1%      N.A.
9. Pd.-Up Capit/Assets (%)          17.9X    16.e%    18.4%    21.9%    21.8%       21.1%    20.6%    21.0%    24.7%        N.A.
10.Total Manufacturing
Output (P Biion)              52.1     64.6      75.2      83.1     95.2    137.3    150.5    154.7    173.5    201.8
11.Sates/Total Manufg.Outp.(%)       2.4%      2.1%     2.7%      2.3%      2.3%     2.0%      2.2%      2.1%     2.9%      N.A.
Sources: (1)"A Review of the Textile Sector with Proposed Plans and Strategies 1986-1995"
t2)"A Review of the Textile Sector with Proposed Plans and Strategies 1989-1995"
(3)"1000 Top Corporations in the Philippines"
AS21E, 89/05/17



- 60 -
B.    Missions
Stage of
project    Month   Number    Days in   Speciali-   Performance   Type of
cycle      Year    Persons   Field      zation b    Rating /c      Problem /d
Through Appraisal
I          4/80       1          7       FA
II        10/80       4          7       E,FA,EC,C
III        3/81       3         15       E,FA,C            -
Supervision /e
I          6/82       2          5       E, FA             1
II        12/82       2          5       E, C              2        PR,D
III        5/84       2          5       E, FA             3        D,COV
IV         7/84       2         15       FA, E             3        D,COM
V          6/85       1          5       E                 3        D,COM
VI        11/87        1         5       FA                3        D,COM
VII        3/88        1         5       FA                3        D,COM
VIII      11/88       1         10       FA                3        D,COM
Lb   E = Engineering, PA = Financial Analyst, EC = Economist and
C = Consultant.
/c   1 = No or minor problems. 2 = Moderate problems and
3 = Major problems which are being adequately addressed.
/d   PR = Procurement, D = Disbursement and COM = Anticipated Completion.
/e   Some of the supervision mission were combined with other business in
the country. Three short follow-up visits were made to the
Philippines during July 1987, November 1987 and March 1988, in the
context of other business - reporting was in combined reports and in
Form 590's.



