Document of                 FI 5    Ci0  p  -J
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3700-PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PHILIPPINES
TEXTILE SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJEC'
March 26, 198.2
Industrial Projects Department
L This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =   Peso (P)
US$1                 =   P 8.10
US$1 million         =   P 8.10 million
P1                       U US$0.123
P1 million           =   US$123,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)          =   2.2046 pounds
1 metric ton (mt)        =   1,000 kilograms = 2,204.6 pounds
1 meter (m)              =   1.0936 yards
2
1 square meter (m )      =   1.2 square yards
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOI               =     Board of Investments
Central Bank      =     Central Bank of the Philippines
DBP               =     Development Bank of the Philippines
GDP               =     Gross Domestic Product
Government        =     Government of the Republic of the Philippines
MAAB              =     Memorandum to Authorized Agent Banks
MTI               =     Ministry of Trade and Industry
NDC               =     National Development Company
NEC               =     Non-Essential Consumer Goods
NEDA              =     National Economic and Development Authority
PFI               =     Participating Financial Institution
PTRI              =     Philippines Textile Research Institute
SAL              =      Structural Adjustment Loan
tpy               =     Tons per year
UC                =     Unclassified Consumer Goods
FISCAL YEAR
Government:  January 1  -  December 31
DBP:         January 1  -  December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF TEXTILE SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.     INTRODUCTION .       ...............................................    1
II.    THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ..........................         .         2
A.   Structure of Manufacturing Industry       . . .               3
B.   Manufacturing Investment                  ..                  4
C. Export Performance. . .                                         4
D. Industrial Policies. . .                                        4
E. Policy Directions. . .                                          5
F. Future Directions. . .                                          8
III. THE TEXTILE INDUSTRY..                                               8
A. Introduction             ..                                     8
B.   Structure and Organization.                                   9
C.   Issues of Current Operations and Rehabilitation .......    11
D.  The Textile Market .................       ...................   16
E.   Investment Requirements ............. ..     ...............   18
F.   Priorities for Investment .....       .........................   19
IV.    POLICY AND STRATEGY FOR THE SECTOR .........................  20
A.   Tariffs .........................................,,.20
B.   Import Restrictions ... .        ...............; ................  23
C.   Investment and Export Incentives            .    .    .     24
D.   Textile Sector Program .      . ...............................  24
V.     THE PROJECT    ................................................   26
A.   Objectives and Scope ..................................   26
B.   Proposed Bank Loan and Lending Arrangement .      ...........  27
C.   Implementation ..     ......................................   30
D.   Features of the Proposed Loan ...........  * .............  36
E.   Environmental Impact    ..................................   37
F.   Benefits and Risk   .....................................   38
G.  Project Monitoring   ....................................   39
VI. AGREEMENTS                            . ... 40
This report was prepared by H. Oteifa, N. Tin of Industrial Projects Department
and M. Joyce (Consultant).
LThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by mcipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. 



- ii -
ANNEXES
2    Sectoral Composition of Manufacturing
3-1 Philippines Textile Production, 1979
3-2 Investment Requirement for the Textile Industry
4-1 Scheduled Tariff Reductions on Selected Items
4-2 Nominal and Effective Rates of Protection for Textiles
4-3 Value of Incentives to the Textiles and Garment Industries
4-4 Statement of the Development Policy for the Philippine
Textile Industry
5-1 Terms of Reference for Technical and Economic Consulting
Service to the Board of Investments (BOI) and Ministry of
Trade and Industry (MTI)
5-2 Disbursement Schedule
MAP
IBRD Map of the Philippines (IBRD 13915R2)
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE
1. Textile Sector Reconnaissance Mission, January 1981 Report by
Industrial Projects Department Staff and Consultants.
2. Textile Industry Inter-Agency Committees Report, 1978 including sub-
committee reports on spinning, weaving, knitting, finishing, hosiery,
texturizing and financial aspects.
3. A Review of Institutional, Operational, and Financial Aspects of the
Development Bank of the Philippines, Excerpts from SAR-Industrial Finance
Project, Report No. 3331-PH.
4. Machine Requirements to Meet 1985 Demand October 1980, Study by Board of
Investments and Consultants.
5. Manpower Development Plan for the Textile Industry (1981-1986), Study by
Board of Investments and Consultant.
6. Presidential Decree No. 1764, dated January 11, 1981, on Regulations and
Instructions on International Competitive Bidding for Major Industrial
Projects.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01       The Philippine economy continues to be subject to severe pres-
sures. During the 1960s, the country suffered chronic external deficits and,
at the beginning of the last decade, the structure of the balance of payments
was weak. This structural problem was aggravated by the 1973/74 oil price
increase and the subsequent collapse in commodity prices. While substantial
progress was made in adjusting to these disruptions, the 1979 oil price in-
crease has offset this progress and necessitated a second major structural
adjustment effort. Improved efficiency of resource use in the industrial
sector and sustained growth in industrial exports will be crucial to the
effort.
1.02       The Philippine Government (the Government) has introduced a
comprehensive industrial policy reform program to allow the industrial sector
to move to a structure more suited to the country's comparative advantage -
based on its labor costs and raw material availability - which is efficient
and competitive on internat.ional markets. This program involves three major
areas: (a) tariff reform and trade liberalization; (b) export incentives and
promotion measures; and (c) planning for industrial restructuring and subsector
development. Measures have also been taken to improve the access of industry
to finance, particularly term finance.
1.03       The Bank is heavily involved in assisting the Government in evolv-
ing and formulating its strategies for industrial and financial development,
and is in broad agreement with the Government's policies for industrial
change. The first Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I) 1/ and the Industrial
Finance Loan 2/ to the Government are designed to support these policies, and
to serve as vehicles for continuing the dialog between the Bank and Govern-
ment on industrial and financial policy.
1.04       The policy changes in tariffs, import restrictions and export
incentives supported under the SAL I are aimed at improving the competitive
environment within which industry will operate and will lead to substantial
adjustment within the industrial sector. To assist in the adjustment, the
Government is designing subsectoral programs to set the course of develop-
ment for particular industries over a five year period. These programs will
include financial and technical assistance to assist industry in adapting
through new investment, rehabilitation of aging equipment, cost reduction and
increased productivity. A program for restructuring the cement industry is now
underway and the second major program - for textiles - is ready for implementa-
tion.
1/ President's Report on the Structural Adjustment Loan to the Republic of
the Philippines. Report No. P-2872-PH, August 21, 1980.
2/ President's Report on the Industrial Finance Loan to the Republic of the
Philippines. Report No. P-3028-PH, April 13, 1981.



-2-
1.05      The textile industry 1/ is an important contributor to industrial
output, comprising 6% of 1979 manufacturing value added and 13% of employment
in manufacturing. The industry is, however, faced with severe operating and
structural problems, arising from lack of specialization, obsolete and aging
equipment, poor technical performance, and inadequate manpower training. It
can thus operate only in a highly protected domestic market. The Government's
subsectoral program seeks, as its primary objective, to make the industry more
dynamic and competitive. The program involves phased tariff reductions and
import liberalization to open the industry to more competitive pressures,
technical assistance and training to improve industry operations, and finance
for rehabilitation and renewal of equipment.
1.06      A Bank reconnaissance mission visited the Philippines in April 1980
to review the textile sector and to discuss with the Government the above-men-
tioned program for restructuring the sector. A sector report 2/, which was
prepared by the mission, addressed major sectoral issues. On the basis of the
findings of the mission and following subsequent discussions with the Govern-
ment, a program for restructuring the textile industry was evolved. The
Government thus requested Bank financing to assist in the implementation
of this program. The proposed project, appraised by a Bank mission consisting
of Messrs. H. Oteifa and N. Tin of the Industrial Projects Department and
M.Joyce (Consultant) in March/April 1981, comprises a loan of US$157.4 million
(including provision for capitalized front end fee of about US$2.4 million on
the proposed Bank loan) of which US$150 million is for investment in equipment
and associated training and US$5 million for technical assistance, which is an
integral part of the subsectoral program. The proposed loan will finance
about one-third of investment requirements for machinery and equipment over
the next 4 year period, and provide most of the industry's technical assist-
ance requirements during that period. The balance of the foreign exchange
financing required would come from bilateral sources (mostly suppliers and
buyers' credits). Local currency would be fitanced through the industry's own
funds and by domestic financial institutions.
1.07      This would be the first loan made to the Philippines to assist in
sectoral adjustment. As such, it is an important part of Bank involvement in
structural change. The first and subsequent Structural Adjustment Loans will
help the Government set the broad policy framework for adjustment, and this
and future sectoral loans will ensure that such adjustment takes place at the
industry level smoothly and with minimum disruption.
II. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
2.01       Industrialization has been a prime objective of Philippines econo-
mic development since independence. The industrial sector 3/ grew rapidly
1/ The textile industry is defined to include spinning, weaving, knitting and
finishing of man-made and natural fibers. Garment manufacture is not
inLCluded, except where specified.
2/ A Sector Report titled "Textile Sector Reconnaissance Mission Report" is
included in the Project File.
3/ The industrial sector includes mining, manufacturing, construction
and utilities.



- 3 -
in the 1950s as the Government's import substitution policy, an overvalued
exchange rate and the availability of long-term finance at low interest rates
led to a significant replacement of imports by domestic production. This
was followed by a period of slower growth through the 1960s. The industrial
growth picked up temporarily between 1972 and 1974, but this improvement was
short-lived, and growth rates fell sharply during the 1975 recession. The
real growth rate of gross value added in the manufacturing sector dropped from
13.9% in 1973 to 3.5% in 1975; and since then has varied between 5.5% and
7.8%. Growth in 1980 dropped from 7.8% in the previous year to 5.4%, reflect-
ing increased uncertainty and rising prices.
2.02       As shown in the following table, the industrial sector contributed
36.3% of GDP in 1980 of which 25.3% was from manufacturing. The manufacturing
sector also accounts for about 30% of fixed investment and 12% of total em-
ployment.
,Philippines - Distribution of GDP by Sectoral Origin (%)
Sector                                          1970      1975      1979     1980 a/
Agriculture, fishing and forestry                27.8     28.8      25.9     25.7
Industry
Mining and quarrying                          2.8       1.8       2.4      2.6
Manufacturing                                22.5      24.8     25.2      25.3
Construction                                  3.6       6.2      7.3       7.3
Electricity, gas and water                    0.7       0.9      1.0       1.1
Total Industry                            29.6      33.7     35.9      36.3
Services                                        42.6      37.5     38.2      38.0
TOTAL GDP                                100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
a/ Preliminary
Source: National Economic and Development Authority.
A.   Structure of Manufacturing Industry
2.03       The industrial sector, including manufacturing, is predominantly
privately owned and has a highly dualistic structure. The "unorganized"
sector, defined as establishments with less than five workers, employs nearly
two thirds of the manufacturing work force, but contributes less than 5% of
value added. The "organized" sector produces more than 95% of manufacturing
value added, but provides more limited employment opportunities. However, it
is in the organized sector that the greatest opportunities lie for growth in
value added resulting in increased employment.



- 4 -
2.04       The sectoral composition of manufacturing since 1970 is shown in
Annex 2. Although manufacturing value added grew by an average annual rate
of 6.7% between 1970 and 1979, the relative sectoral share did not change
significantly. The major growth industries were chemicals and rubber products
(14.2% per annum), beverages and tobacco (7.9%) and transport equipment (8.1%).
Textiles and apparel have maintained a steady share of output of around 10%.
B.   Manufacturing Investment
2.05       After substantial increases in investment in the first half of the
1970s, the level of new investment declined as a consequence of the 1975 re-
cession. This was reflected in a fall in new projects registered with the
Board of Investments (BOI) from 217 in 1974 to 152 in 1975, and 86 in 1976.
Registrations have improved since then to 142 in 1977, 139 in 1978, and 146
in 1979. Overall investment will be boosted by the Government's plans to
encourage eleven major industrial projects, including equity participation
through the National Development Company (NDC). These projects include heavy
industry to develop further national resources such as copper smelting, ra-
tionalization of existing industries such as cement, and the development of
heavy industrial infrastructure such as an integrated steel mill.  These pro-
jects could have a significant impact on the country's industrial development,
and the Government intends to approach them in a prudent and flexible manner,
going ahead only after a rigorous financial and economic analysis has estab-
lished their viability.
C.   Export Performance
2.06       Manufactured exports grew slowly until the late 1960s.  The 1970
devaluation, followed by the floating of the Peso and the introduction of
import duty rebates, contributed to an increase in the growth of manufactured
exports, especially garments, handicrafts and electronic products, which rose
from US$226 million in 1973 to US$1,041 million in 1978, US$1,500 million in
1979, and about US$1,750 million in 1980. Exports of garments increased from
US$404 million in 1979 to US$433 million in 1980. Most of these exports are
based on raw materials imported and processed in bonded manufacturing ware-
houses, thus avoiding the tariffs and restrictions applied to imports for
domestic use. In effect, these exports are produced in enclave factories, with
little value added and little backward linkages to the domestic manufacturing
sector.
D.   Industrial and Financial Policies
2.07       The key elements of Government policy towards industry are tariffs
and import regulations and the system of fiscal and financial incentives. 1/
Before the Government's recent tariff reductions discussed below in para. 2.13,
nominal tariffs ranged from 10 to 100%, with the highest rates for consumer
1/ The existing policy structure and the measures being taken to improve it
are discussed in detail in the President's Report No. P-2872-PH on the
Structural Adjustment Loan I.



- 5 -
goods and the lower rates for intermediate ar.d capital goods. The tariff
protection of the domestic market has been reinforced by an extensive system
of import licensing restrictions administerec by the Central Bank. Imports of
certain finished commodities are banned becat.se they are considered luxuries
or are domestically produced. Imports of other intermediate goods, which are
important inputs into domestic and export production, are regulated by the
Central Bank. The combination of tariffs anc import restrictions has led to
an inefficient use and allocation of resources. Production of consumer goods
for the domestic market has been encouraged at the expense of producer goods
and exports. The lack of competition from imports has allowed inefficient,
high cost producers to survive, and has added a substantial cost burden to the
Philippine economy and to consumers.
2.08       Further distortions in the industrial sector have arisen from the
system of fiscal incentives administered by l:he BOI. Since 1967, industry
has been assisted through a wide range of incentives. These incentives,
however, have had a strong capital-cheapening effect. Policies that have
encouraged the use of capital include full or partial exemption from import
duties on imported capital equipment, accelerated depreciation allowances on
capital investment, and exemption from income tax of funds used in project
expansion.  The BOI fiscal incentives are es.imated to reduce the user cost of
capital for an individual firm by as much as 45% in certain cases. Further
encouragement of capital-intensive projects 1aas arisen because the determina-
tion of investment priorities through the an:lual Investment Priority Plans has
not paid adequate attention to labor intensity. Finally the detailed adminis-
trative requirements of the BOI have effectively favored relatively large
Eirms with representatives in Manila that coild cope with the additional
overhead costs.
2.09       The financial system has further reinforced the capital-intensive
bias of the investment incentives. Bank lending rates have been subject to
administrative ceilings, which have tended to reduce the user cost of capital
for selected firms eligible to borrow. Due to the inability of the banking
system to align interest rates with risk, other rationing devices (such as
excessive reliance on collateral and preferential treatment for selected
customer) have been unduly used by the financial sector to the detriment
of smaller, often more labor-intensive, firms.
E.   Policy Directions
2.10       The Government has been conscious for some time of the need for
basic changes in its industrial policies. The 1978-82 Development Plan in-
cluded as one of its basic objectives an improvement in the performance of the
industrial sector through increasing the precessing of domestic raw materials,
continuing increases in exports of nontraditional manufactures, and accele-
rating employment generation by small and medium-scale industries and selected
large scale investments. Further impetus to industrial development policy
arose from the commissioning in 1977 by the National Economic and Development
Authority (NEDA) of a study of the Governmerits industrial promotion policies
at the University of the Philippines. This study indicated that the main
causes of the poor industrial performance were the high protective barriers
and the capital-intensive bias of the investment policies.



- 6 -
2.11       The shared concern of the Government and the Bank about the per-
formance of the industrial sector led to the subsequent undertaking of a
Bank industrial sector mission in early 1979. This was followed by a financial
sector mission, jointly with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), to look at
interrelated questions of banking reform and industrial finance. The reports
of these missions in general confirmed the findings of the Government's own
studies and helped to formulate strategies for industrial and financial
development. During discussions of the two reports in August 1979 there was
general agreement on industrialization strategy and the reforms needed in
industrial and financial policy. The Government program for industrial and
financial reform are supported by the Bank's SAL I and Industrial Finance Loan
(para. 1.03).
2.12       Since then the Government has outlined its industrialization strat-
egy and policy reform program in a Statement of Industrial Policy for the
1980s. This program includes staged reforms over a five-year period to cor-
rect the import substitution and capital-intensive biases of existing indus-
trial and trade policies. The main components of the policy reform program
are: (a) tariff reform and trade liberalization; (b) export incentives and
promotion measures; (c) investment incentives and their administration; and
(d) industrial restructuring and subsector programming.
2.13       Tariff Reform and Trade Liberalization.  In August 1980 and July
1981, the Government legislated a general reduction and evening out of the
tariff system over a four-year period. This reform will reduce nominal tariff
rates to the 10-50% range, and will bring most effective rates 1/ within a
range of 10-80%. Starting on January 1, 1981, tariff rates for 14 key industry
subsectors were being realigned over four years to achieve greater uniformity of
protection, and current peak rates for all other industries have been reduced
(in two steps on January 1, 1981 and January 1, 1982) from 100% and 70% to a
ceiling rate of 50%. These reforms will reduce the average effective rate for
the manufacturing sector from 44% to 29%.
2.14       In some cases, the import licensing imposed by the Central Bank
is a stronger protective device than the tariff. Many of the products on
which peak tariffs are being lowered, as well as 13 out of the 14 subsectors
for which tariff revisions are being made, are subject to licensing. Since
continued import licensing would defeat the objectives of the tariff reform,
the Government has also adopted a phased formal plan for removal of import
licensing restrictions that are maintained for protection of domestic industry
or for balance of payments reasons. This liberalization will proceed in
stages in coordination with the tariff reform to allow local industries time
to adjust and to spread any balance of payments effects over the four-year
period.
1/ The nominal tariff is the rate of protection on output, whereas the
effective tariff is the rate of protection on value added. taking into
account tariffs on tradable inputs.



- 7 -
2.15       Export Incentives and Promotion Measures.  Since 1979, the Govern-
ment has considerably improved the system of export incentives through: (i)
making export industries eligible for all fiscal incentives previously avail-
able only to home industries; (ii) improving administrative procedures to sim-
plify the duty drawback system and export documentation requirements. The
Government also plans to introduce standard costings for calculating tax
credits and duty drawbacks on imported inputs into export production; (iii)
easing the eligibility requirements for bonded manufacturing warehouses to
give wider access to duty free raw materials for processing for export; (iv)
increasing the access of smaller, nontraditional exporters to the Central
Bank's export rediscounting facility, and through empowering the Philippines
Export and Foreign Loan Guarantee Corporation to guarantee loans to the
export sector; (v) establishing 12 export tracling companies which would,
inter alia, extend export credit to their small-scale suppliers; and (vi)
broadening the Charter of the Export Processing Zone Authority to enable it
to develop 12 new export-oriented industrial etstates.
2.16       Investment Incentives and their Administration.  The BOI is cur-
rently working on a major reform of the indust:rial incentives system which would
substantially correct the shortcomings of the present investment incentive
system and complement the improvements in trade and industrial policy initiated
irn 1980. First, the number of fiscal incentives would be sharply reduced and
incentives would be made neutral in terms of t:heir effect on relative factor
use. Moreover, incentives would focus more directly on achieving such specific
development objectives as export promotion, regional dispersal of industry and
employment creation. Also, incentives would be linked more closely to industrial
performance. Second, steps would be taken to improve the administration of
incentives both by streamlining and reducing administrative procedures of the
BOI and the Ministry of Trade and Industry (MT1I). Third, significant improve-
ments would be made in the process of investment priority determination by the
BOI. In the future, long-run comparative advantage would be the guiding
principle in the selection of industrial activrities for inclusion in the
annual investment priority plans. Also, the 110I staff would be trained to be
able to make greater use of economic analysis in industrial project evaluation.
2.17      Industrial Restructing and Subsector Programming.  Comprehensive
subsector development programs will be formulated and implemented in conjunc-
tion with the trade liberalization program and the reform of the industrial
incentives system. Typically, these programs will set the course for the
development of a particular industry over the next five years and specify
government policies and the role of the prival:e sector with respect to the
direction of development, its form and its timing, and the instruments required
to achieve sectoral goals, e.g., incentives, 'Level of protection, financial
and technical assistance. Subsector programs would be formulated to, inter
alia, restructure problem industries and encourage nascent industries with
potential comparative advantage; identify areas of comparative advantage
within individual subsectors; identify subsect:or-specific institutional and
policy constraints; formulate remedial or supporting actions to promote the
growth of priority industries; and provide general information to the private
sector on the likely direction of future deveLopment of important industries
so that the private sector may have a better basis for planning complementary
investments.



-8-
F.   Future Directions
2.18      Subsector programs aimed at industrial restructuring will be developed
in the overall context of the tariff reform which will establish the price
levels at which industries must be competitive and also set the time frame for
the period of adjustment. Such programs will be designed to help existing
industries reduce costs and improve efficiency in order to adjust to the
policy changes. A restructuring program is already underway for the cement
industry, and much work has been done designing a similar program for the
textile sector; this is discussed in more detail in Chapter IV. General
subsector development programs for foodprocessing, leather and leather products,
wood and woodproducts, electronics and mechanical engineering are being
formulated.
2.19       Without the policy program, these benefits would be lost. Manufac-
turing performance would continue along the lines of the 1970s. Increasing
constraints arising from high cost production for a limited domestic market
would lead to a fall in manufacturing value added growth, and the absolute
number of jobs created each year in manufacturing would be an estimated 70,000
less than would occur with the policy reforms. The loss of such opportunities
underlines the importance of implementing the Government's reform program.
III. THE TEXTILE INDUSTRY
A.   Introduction
3.01       The textile industry in the Philippines which is wholly owned by
the private sector is largely a creation of the import substitution policies
implemented in the early 1950s. Following the introduction of import controls
during this period, the domestic industry grew rapidly as traders and wholesalers
previously engaged in importing turned to domestic manufacture. In fact, the
industry had reached two thirds of its present size by 1965. Since then
growth in the industry's capacity has slowed considerably as imports were
almost completely replaced by domestic production.
3.02       The industry is an important contributor to industrial output,
with a 1979 gross value added of P 3,057 million or 5.8% of total gross
value added in manufacturing. Employment in textiles in 1978 was about
98,000 out of a total of about 778,000 for the manufacturing sector. Down-
stream production of garments was also important with value added of
P 1,834 million (including footwear) and employment of 119,805.
3.03       The industry produces a comprehensive range of products, making
extensive use of the whole range of man-made fibers available in both staple
fiber and continuous filament form. This has resulted because the Philippines
produces very little cotton (roughly 1% of total cotton usage) and the great
bulk of cotton used by the industry is imported from the United States under
favorable prices and credit terms, and because man-made fibers are both cheap



and durable. The processes used in the conversion of raw materials to fabric
include conventional ring spinning as well as open-end spinning of man-made,
natural fibers and their blends, texturing of continuous-filament yarns
(principally synthetics), weaving and knitting of both spun and filament
yarns, and finishing by bleaching, dyeing and printing.
B.   Structure and Organization.
3.04       An indication of industry structure is given in the table below
taken from the report prepared in 1979 by the Inter-Agency Committee which
was commissioned by the Philippine Government to investigate the industry's
status.l/
Philippines - Composition of the Textile Industry a/
Number     Number                 % of Capacity in
of         of                          Semi-
Operation         Plants    Machines        Integrated   integrated       Specialized
Spinning            32      1 million           70            10              20
spindles
Weaving             42       21,000             78            17               5
looms
Finishing           53         -                15 b/         24 b/           14 b/
Scouring/
Bleaching        -        -                 97             2               1
Dyeing             -         -                67            21              12
Printing           -         -                66            31               3
Finishing          -         -                76            14              10
Knitting
Circular         132      4,000               34            49              17
Hoisery           12      1,300                -             -               -
Warp              23         _                 9b/          12 b/            2 b/
Flat              14      1,400                1            96               3
Texturizing         38         363              86             -              14
a/  Excluding cottage industries.
b/  Number of firms.
ISource:  Inter-Agency Committee Report, 1979,
The table indicates a severe structural probLem facing the industry, namely a wide-
spread pattern of integration with most milli; producing a wide range of textile
]L/ The Inter-Agency Committee was composed of representatives from the Board of
Investment, Ministry of Industry, Development Bank of the Philippines, Central
Bank and the Philippines Textile Research Institute.



- 10 -
products, and combining yarn production, weaving and often knitting, and
finishing. In fact, only 20% of spinning capacity and 5% of weaving is in
specialized mills, and 74% of the mills have in-house finishing capacity.
This form of organization can be highly inefficient.
3.05       The high degree of integration can be explained by the origins of
the industry and in its connection with wholesalers and distributors. The
textile mills were originally designed to meet the established trade of the
various wholesalers, and integrated mills have continued to provide to this
day an array of fabrics to meet the needs of wholesalers with whom connections
were developed when the main reliance was on imports. This has meant a focus
on a wide range of products from each mill in order to retain the long-estab-
lished distribution channels. But it also has meant a duplication of similar
efforts in most plants, even those established quite recently. As such, the
scope for gaining economies by long production runs and concentration on a few
main items, as is the trend in the US, Europe, Japan and Korea, has been
ignored. Lack of competitive pressures either from within the domestic
market or from external sources have not forced adaptation towards a greater
specialization. Internally, the ties between the individual mills and the
distribution networks have restricted competition. At the same time, protec-
tion from foreign competition has ensured that lower import prices arising
from the gains from specialization in foreign plants have not had an impact on
the domestic producers. The issues of specialization and integration are
discussed further in Section C below.
3.06       Further problems arise from the large proportion of aging and
ill-maintained equipment, as shown in the following table which indicates, for
example, that 45% of the country's spindles and 62% of looms were installed
before 1960.
Philippines: Age Structure of Spindles and Looms in 1977
Spindles        Looms
pre-1960                    45              62
1961-65                     20              12
1966-70                     12               7
1971-80                     23              19
100            100
Source: Inter-Agency Committee Report, 1979.
3.07       The lack of specialization, absence of competitive pressures and
obsolete machinery have contributed to a poor performance by the industry.
Capacity utilization in spinning, weaving and finishing is estimated at 56,
63 and 40% of design capacities, respectively. Labor productivity in real
terms barely increased between 1973 and 1977 from P 26,811 to P 27,618
per worker, and a survey of industry profitability in 1978 found that many
firms were unable to earn a significant return on investment. The low prof-
itability is reflected in difficulties faced by a number of firms in meeting
repayments of their debt on previous investments.



- 11 -
3.08       These problems are exacerbated in many cases by poor technical
performance. Many instances arise where substantial cost savings could be
made through improved technical control in operations. For example, quality
control is often minimal, maintenance is disregarded with consequent increased
downtime for mechanical repairs, and standarc[ settings for machinery are
ignored. In finishing, poor housekeeping in many firms impairs product quality
and substantially increases cost.  From a study of detailed operations in four
mills, improved operating practices and energy conservation could have reduced
operating costs by as much as 17%.
3.09       The textile industry structure and the protection afforded domestic
producers have also led to higher cost fabric, often of inadequate quality and
have resulted in the industry concentrating on the domestic market, with
textile exports historically negligible. The garment industry, on the other
hand, has been remarkably successful in its exports, with garment exports
growing from US$36 million in 1970 to US$433 million in 1980, an average
annual rate of 28%. These exports, however, have been based almost solely on
fabric imported under consignment or into bonded manufacturing warehouses.
C.   Issues of Current Operations and RehabiLitation
1. Integration vs. Specialization
3.10       The organization of the Philippines textile industry is predomi-
nantly vertically integrated with little specialization in the major sub-
processes of yarn manufacture, cloth production and finishing. While inte-
grated mills have advantages for management Ln terms of flexibility in pro-
duction alternatives, this is generally achieved at the expense of high
production cost. Improvements in efficiency with consequent reductions in
production costs and, equally important, imprcovements in yarn and fabric
quality can be gained if the industry moves in either of two directions:
-   increased process specialization, with spinning,
weaving and finishing as separate operations; or
-   increased specialization by product, where mills
may be vertically integrated, but are geared to-
ward production of specialized products. There is
considerable scope for such specialization in such
diverse goods as denims and vDiles, combed cotton
single jersey and upholstering brocades.
3.11       In spinning, from considerations of both cost and quality, pro-
duction lines should be used to produce at or near the counts for which they
were designed. In contrast, the common practice in the Philippines of using
imachines to spin counts quite different from design is costly. Thus, many
mills operate with a degree of variety inconsistent with efficient and profit-
able operation. It has been estimated that the cost of domestically produced
yarn could be reduced by about 25% through rationalization of production, with
the added attraction that yarn quality would thereby be raised to a level that



- 12 -
would make domestically produced cloth acceptable to the export garment indus-
try. In addition to product specialization, mills should be of a certain
size to ensure efficient operation, and there is a clearly defined economic
minimum size for any given yarn count. These minima should be adhered to for
efficient operation. Moreover, diseconomies of scale arising from logistic
and other difficulties will normally impose a maximum size on a mill. These
size limits will form part of the BOI/MTI criteria for approval of new spin-
ning projects under the textile sector program (para. 5.24).
3.12       In weaving, the benefits of product specialization are high
machine and labor productivity, high quality standards and minimization
of costs. To a certain extent, the integrated mills, which account for the
major part of the installed capacity (78% of looms), do practice some speciali-
zation in weaving. Mills tend to produce fabrics within a limited weight range
with width governed by the types of looms installed, and the number of styles
in each mill is not large considering the number of looms in use. If all
other production factors were satisfactory, this degree of variety would not
prevent an efficient weaving performance. However, because the mills are
vertically integrated, the range of yarns consumed in the weaving departments
is invariably produced by the spinning departments of the same mill. The
range of yarn counts 1/ is often wide, leading to poor spinning performance and
poor quality yarn which, in turn, causes poor weaving performance. It is not
uncommon to find one mill using counts 4s to 36s, or another with counts lOs
to 45s. Consequently, while most of the integrated weaving mills have a
reasonably narrow product range, their single internal source of yarn is a
contributory cause of low weaving productivity.
3.13       The benefits to specialization in weaving will reach a maximum when
a single fabric is produced in a mill of economic size. In the Philippines,
the best chance for this type of operation lies in denim, which is cur-
rently produced on some 1,300 looms. Other fabrics, which could be produced
in large specialist mills in the Philippines, are grey plain weaves for
industrial and commercial purposes, bed sheeting and light-weight suitings.
2. Rehabilitation vs. New Investment
3.14       A key question for modernizing the textile industry is whether
existing equipment should be rehabilitated or replaced by new equipment. This
will depend on whether the increased productivity from new spindles or looms
offsets their higher net costs, taking into account both capital and operating
costs. The other important factor is quality, especially for export markets.
3.15       In spinning, the rate at which textile technology is developing is
such that even fully rehabilitated machinery cannot give technical performance
equal to that of new machinery of modern design. The best rehabilitation will
1/ Yarn count is a measure of yarn fineness based on the number of fixed
lengths per standard weight.



- 13 -
not permit the spinning of yarns within the top decile of world quality today.
In cases where export possibilities are concerned, the yarn quality limitations
of rehabilitated machinery may be crucial particularly if the yarn is intended
for high speed shuttleless weaving or for high quality fabrics.
3.16       Unit productivity of new, high performance spindles is about 40%
higher than that of fully rehabilitated machinery. In addition, it has an
operative productivity advantage of from 20 t3 50%. Thus, although the capital
cost per spindle is from two to three times greater for new high performance
machinery, this is substantially offset by higher unit productivity so that
the capital cost per unit of production differential is only about 2:1 for
rehabilitation of pre-1960 machinery, to 1.4:1 for rehabilitation of more
recent mills. With regard to operating costs, the advantage is wholly with
the new machinery and, in many cases, overall rehabilitation will be less
profitable than buying new machinery. As a broad generalization, it may be
said that rehabilitation is worthwhile for post-1960 installations but not
worthwhile for older plants unless the latter have been meticulously main-
tained. While this is broadly true, the replacement vs. rehabilitation
decision should be made on a mill-by-mill basis, taking into account capital
and operating costs. Some poorly maintained mills may not be worth rehabilita-
tion even with relatively modern machinery.
3.17       In weaving, machine and labor productivity as well as product
quality mainly depend on woven yarn quality. With the anticipated upgrading
in the spinning operations as a result of the restructuring program and with
the planned liberalization of imports of good quality yarn, the weaving sector
would be capable of substantially improving its performance (in quantity,
quality, and cost reduction) as well as meeting part of the fabric demand for
garment exporters. As in spinning, the capital cost per unit of production
diLfferential for new equipment vs. rehabilitation is about 1.8:1 for pre-1960
reshabilitation to 1.3:1 for rehabilitation of recent mills. Unless needed for
specific products requiring particular types Df looms or for exports to highly
competitive markets, most of the other fabric varieties can be successfully
woven on the existing looms. Looms older than 1951 are too slow and narrow, and
should be replaced by wider looms. The other looms in place can operate quite
efficiently at adequate quality without replacement. After rehabilitation,
these looms would be able to increase their productivity and reduce total
operating costs by around 6%.
3.18       In finishing, there are many cases where replacement of equipment
is necessary on economic grounds because of low machine productivity, high
consumption of energy, water, dyes and chemicals or to allow fabrics to reach
tlheir quality potential. In particular, outmoded technology, such as the pro-
cessing of woven fabric in rope form through the preparation stages, can be
detrimental to the uniformity of preparation and to the final appearance of
tlhe fabric. This is particularly important in fabrics containing polyester
fiber. With certain exceptions, much of the installed finishing equipment in
tlhe Philippines is reasonably modern and rehabilitation should be considered,
again on a case-by-case basis. Undoubtedly, improvements in performance and
quality can be achieved by rehabilitation of such items as bearings, pad bowls,
singe burners and fabric guiding equipment. This upgrading is something which
should, however, be part of the normal operation of a good finishing mill.



- 14 -
3. Manpower Skills and Development
3.19       The quality of labor and management plays a major role in deter-
mining the industry's operating efficiency. Overall, the quality of top
management is generally good. The quality of technical management, however,
varies significantly. The best technical managers are good by international
standards, and operate well-run mills. Other managers, however, operate
poorly-run mills with inferior working conditions and a lack of good house-
keeping and maintenance.
3.20       With respect to labor, the staff of a modern mill may be divided
into three categories: technologists, direct operators and technicians (me-
chanics, electricians, etc.). Technologists skills are crucial to operating
efficiency in running a mill. Technological management is currently provided
mainly by expatriates, often from Hong Kong, Taiwan, Japan and India, and
there is a strong case for training of more Filipino technologists in overseas
technical institutions specializing in textile technology.
3.21       Operating labor for the industry is generally adequate and, subject
to technological supervision, is competent. However, weaknesses arise in the
general use of slipshod methods for carrying out routine tasks. This has
resulted mainly from a lack of training and supervision. Basic training of all
operators for routine tasks should, as a matter of course, be given in a
training room, outside the production area, by specialized instructors. This
would result in raising both machine and operator productivity and the incidence
of fabric faults would be reduced.
3.22       Severe problems exist with respect to technicians.  Modern textile
machinery can only work well when in first class condition and, although tech-
nologists can define setting requirements, they are dependent on the services
of technicians for achieving and maintaining those settings. There is clearly
a shortage of adequately trained technicians, with consequent adverse impact
on industry efficiency. Appropriate training courses in local technical colleges
need to be developed to cater for this lack of skills.
3.23       The importance of training for the industry cannot be overstressed.
There is a clear need for training at all levels - technologists, operators and
technicians. The training component proposed under the project will address
this need through provision of foreign scholarships for technologists and
hiring of textile experts skilled in training (para. 5.12).
4. Garment and Textile Industry Links
3.24       The dependence of the export garment industry almost entirely on
imported fabric means that domestic value added is low and that opportunities
for indirect exports of domestic fabric are missed. Imported woven fabrics
are preferred to the domestically produced fabrics because the price is lower,
the quality is higher and there are fewer problems in obtaining orders in
small quantities. While quality standards of domestically produced fabrics
are often inferior to those of imported fabrics, the main obstacle to the use
of domestic woven fabric is price, with domestic fabrics up to 70% more
expensive than equivalent imported fabrics.



- 15 -
3.25       Under the present system of high tariffs and import restrictions,
there is little incentive for the textile industry to improve its technical
performance and lower its costs and prices to the point where it becomes
competitive internationally. The planned tariff reductions and the easing of
import restrictions will increase the competitive pressures on the domestic
market, and make it possible for higher import substitution of fabrics to the
garment industry. Moreover, organizational improvements referred to above,
including increased specialization by product and process, the rehabilitation
of old equipment, the purchase of new equipment, and improved operating and
management performance, will all contribute to quality improvement and thus an
increased input of fabric to the export garment industries. Garment manufac-
turers would be more than willing to use domestic fabrics of competitive price
and quality to avoid the costs and delays associated with imports. Yarn
quality and price will be especially important in determining the competitive-
ness of domestic fabric, and improvements in overall standards of dyeing and
finishing will also be necessary to improve consistency of quality.
3.26       Provided the appropriate policy anLd technical changes are made,
the textile industry should be capable of supplying by 1985 a substantial
proportion of the fabric requirements of the export garment manufacturers.
Typical fabrics in which substitution will be possible include denims, piece-
dyed and yarn-dyed lightweight shirtings, yarn-dyed ginghams, knitted shirt-
ing fabrics, and lightweight continuous filament taffetas and crepes.
5. Geographic Dispersal
3.27       Like most of the Philippines manuiacturing sector, the textile
industry is heavily concentrated in and around Metro Manila as shown below:
Philippines - Regional Dispersal -- Textiles and Garments
Proportion of Output and Employment in Manila Area - 1977
Output              Employment
(%)                    (%)
Textiles                          97                    90
Garments                          8.3                   67
All Manufacturing                 79                    69
Source:  National Census and Statistics Office (NCSO).
In 1977, 97% of gross output and 90% of employment in textiles originated in
Metro Manila and adjacent provinces. The garment industry is more dispersed
with 83% of output and 67% of employment in Metro Manila and the surrounding
areas. A combination of Manila as the most important market and an almost
complete lack of adequate infrastructure in nost of the provinces has meant
that virtually no nonresource based industry of any size has located outside
Manila.



- 16 -
3.28        These same factors lie behind the concentration of the textile
industry in Manila. Efficient spinning and weaving requires factories of
reasonable size with a reliable power supply and access to imported materials
and spare parts. These factors have all influenced the decisions to locate
textile factories in and around Manila. For garment manufacture, which is
less capital-using and can be based in smaller units, some decentralization
has taken place, especially in Cebu where there is a flourishing export
garment industry.
3.29        In the face of the lack of infrastructure in the regions, a
substantial move of the textile industry outside Manila cannot be expected
in the near future. The BOI is now offering greater incentives to firms
locating in selected regions outside Manila and is prepared to consider
favorably applications supporting the dispersal of the textile and garment
industries (one of the large textile groups has in fact been encouraged to
build a factory, mainly for garments, in Mindanao), but manufacturers will
still prefer to site in Manila with its services. The Government proposes to
tackle the regional problem through the preparation of Export Processing
Zones at Cebu and Baguio and the development of infrastructure in the regions
through Industrial Estate Projects. These projects will lead to a greater
investment in the provinces, but such estates are still some way from being
developed.
D.   The Textile Market
3.30        As noted earlier, textile production in the Philippines has tradi-
tionally been oriented towards the domestic market, and comprised mainly
fabrics for making up, with ready-to-wear garments forming a small, but
growing segment of the market. Assessment of the textile market has
been hampered by a lack of up-to-date reliable figures on the quantity of
yarns and fabrics produced. However, reasonable estimates were made using
raw material imports together with domestic production of synthetic fibers
and ramie (Annex 3-1). Total yarn available in 1979 is estimated at
119,200 metric tons (mt), of which 75,000 mt was woven, 30,000 mt knitted,
2,600 mt exported directly, and 11,600 mt used as sewing thread. Some 9,700
mt were exported, either as yarn, fabric, or in garments, leaving a domestic
market of 109,500 mt. In per capita terms, this domestic consumption amounted
to 2.4 kg/head. This is lower than other countries with a similar climate and
income, such as Thailand, which has a per capita consumption of 2.8 kg. How-
ever, part of this discrepancy may be explained by the widely acknowledged
technical smuggling through unrecorded imports, as well as outright smuggling
in the barter trade in Mindanao. Informal estimates put the degree of smug-
gling at 25% of the market.
3.31        Exports of textiles have not traditionally been important, although
the 1979 figure of 9,700 mt of direct exports of yarn, fabric and garments
mainly to associated firms in Hong Kong is encouraging. The generally in-
ferior quality and high cost of Philippine textiles are the main reasons for
the poor export performance. As noted in para. 2.06, the garment industry
has shown a dynamic export performance, based on imported fabrics, and
linkages with this industry represent a large potential market for textile
manufacturers.



- 17 -
3.32       The future domestic demand for textile products has been projected
by using a textile demand elasticity of 0.62 estimated on basis of per capita
consumptions in 1970 and 1979, an estimated growth of GNP per capita in
1979-1985 of 3.7% per annum, and a population growth rate of 2.4%, resulting
in an annual average increase in textile demand of 5%. On this basis, the
domestic demand for textile products is estimated to reach 148,000 mt in
1985.
3.33       The export market is much less certain.  Direct exports of yarn and
fabric into the highly competitive markets are unlikely to increase rapidly in
the near future and are assumed, for planning purposes, to remain at their
present level of around 10,000 mt per year. The best opportunities for sub-
stitution for imported fabrics into the export garment industry lie in denim
where replacement of 7,000 mt of the expected 10,000 mt of export by 1985
is feasible. Of the remaining fabric imports, estimated at about 300 million
square meters, around one third could not be made on domestic equipment, but
the other two thirds, consisting mainly of woven fabrics for shirts and
blouses, and knitted fabrics for T-shirts and tops could be manufactured in
the Philippines. Although a target of 50% substitution in these products by
1985 is technically possible, in practice the industry is unlikely to attain a
target of more than 25% substitution because of financial, organizational and
marketing reasons. And, allowing for increased garment exports, this would
require some further 16,000 mt of fabric per year.
3.34       On the basis of the assumptions iin paras. 3.32 and 3.33, including
a 5% annual growth rate and 25% substitution of domestic fabrics into export
garment industry, the estimated demand for 1985 is summarized as follows:
Philippines - Textile Demand Estimates, 1985
( 000 mt)
Continuous
Spun           Filament              Total
])omestic Market                   122               26                 148
Export Market
Direct Exports                    8                2                  10
Substitution in export
garment market
-  denim                          7                _                   7
-  other                        15                1                   16
Total                     152               29                 181
The above estimates are necessarily ballpark figures due to lack of reliable
data (para. 3.30) and the difficulty of assessing the impact of the textile
sector restructuring efforts on possible increase in fabric imports, reduction
in smuggling and price elasticity.



- 18 -
E.   Investment Requirements
3.35       Projected investments for the sector are based on the above market
forecasts and on a strategy which calls for selective rehabilitation of
equipment, where appropriate, accompanied by replacement of obsolete machines
with new equipment, and further new investment to meet the additional demand
through 1985 (Annex 3-2). To meet the estimated demand of 181,000 mt in 1985,
(assuming about 15% of additional yarn requirements met by direct imports) it
will require rehabilitation of around 241,000 spindles and 16,000 looms, to-
gether with the purchase of 404,000 new spindles and 2,350 looms mainly to
replace 500,000 spindles and 1,000 looms which will be phased out. The
additional looms over the existing installed capacity will be required to meet
the increased demand for fabrics for the export oriented garment industry.
Addit:Lonal investment will also be required in the knitting, texturizing and
finishing sectors.
3.36       The estimated investment requirements for imported equipment,
engineering costs and contingencies are shown below.
Philippines - Textile Industry Foreign Exchange Investment
Requirements, 1982-85
(US$ million)
New
Investment        Rehabilitation
(Replacement +      (Modernization/      Total
Addtl. capacity)       Renovation)      Investment
Equipment
Spinning (incl. air cond.)       133                   24              157
Weaving (incl. air cond.)          42                  75              117
Knitting                           28                   -               28
Texturizing                         -                   3                3
Finishing                          15                   5               20
218                 107              325
Engineering Services and
Erection (10%)                       22                  11               33
Base Cost Estimate                240                 118              358
Physical Contingencies
(10%)                            24                   12               36
Price Escalation a/                73                  36              109
Total                       337                 166              503
a/ Assuming 10% p.a. inflation for textile equipment. For new investment 30%
are assumed to be committed in 1982, 40% in 1983, and 30% in 1984, and for
rehabilitation 50% in 1982, 40% in 1983 and 10% in 1984.
The above figures are only indicative and actual investment would depend on the
projects carried out by the industry.



- 19 -
3.37       The above estimates of about US$500 million of foreign expenditures
are only for equipment including the costs of technical installations (air
conditioning, electric supply and distributicn, steam, water supply and treat-
ment, effluent treatment and workshop facilities). Local cost requirements
for civil works and working capital are difficult to estimate due to the na-
ture of these investments. A rough estimate would be about 25-30% of the cost
of new investment, i.e., of the order of US$8I0-100 million. Although the lar-
gest part of this investment program is in spinning, the number of installed
spindles will be practically the same as that: prior to the program. New in-
vestment will be intended primarily to replace outdated and inefficient equip-
ment, to balance existing facilities and expcond them to economic size. At this
stage the Government is planning its textile development program on the above
investment estimates. Administration of the program, however, will be flexi-
ble depending on the investments which eventually materialize and to ensure
that such investments will be adapted to any future changes in demand.
F. Priorities for Investment
3.38       In the event that funds available for investment fall short of the
financial requirements of the textile sector program described above, certain
priorities should be established in allocating such investment funds among the
various subsectors as well as within each subsector of the industry. In prin-
c:iple, investment funds should be allocated t:o projects in those subsectors
that have better prospects for producing at internationally competitive levels.
Such projects would be competitive in the domestic market and would be in a
position to substitute imports to garment manufacturers.
3.39       In general, since the returns fronl rehabilitation are usually
ifaster and higher than those from new projecl:s (since no additional cost of
civil works is necessary and a large part of capital equipment is already in
place), selective rehabilitation of spinning,, weaving and knitting should be
given top priority. A second priority is the expansion of the existing
spinning and weaving plants to efficient size. Such expansion will reduce the
operating cost of existing manufacturers and is essential for any firm to
become competitive with imports or to be able to export profitably.
3.40       Among "greenfield" investments, weaving may have some priority
over investment in new spinning capacity. Compared to downstream operations,
spinning is a low value added, capital and energy intensive activity with
relatively low returns except for very effici:ent operations. Also, only if
yarn is of good quality and competitively prficed can the use of domestic
ifabrics by the export garment industry be increased. Weaving, on the other
hand, uses less capital and is less technically complex than spinning and,
given good quality yarn, there is no reason ior the Philippines not to be able
to weave fabrics as efficiently as other countries. For these reasons, some
priority is indicated for new weaving projecl:s over new spinning projects,
with spinning approved only for those applicants with a proven track record
and technical skills in spinning. If this slrategy results in any shortfall
in yarn, good quality and cheap yarns are readily available from elsewhere in
the region, e.g., South Korea and Taiwan.



- 20 -
3.41       A sequence of priorities for investment would thus be:
(i)   Selective rehabilitation investment in spinning, weaving
and knitting;
(ii)   Expansion in existing spinning and weaving operations to
an efficient size;
(iii)   New weaving and knitting investment; and
(iv)   New spinning investment.
Investment in finishing will typically depend on other investments and on the
demands of the market and would be undertaken as required. This set of
priorities was discussed in detail and agreed to with the Government.
3.42       The consultants under the technical assistance program for the
Structural Adjustment Loan are in the process of assisting the BOI in the
formulation of an overall system of investment priority determination. The
principles rising from this study will apply equally to the textile sector
as well as to other industrial sectors. The economist to be hired as part of
the technical assistance under the Textile Sector Restructuring Project (para.
5.20) will work in conjunction with the SAL Consultants in further refining,
if necessary, the priorities set out in para. 3.41.
IV.   POLICY AND STRATEGY FOR THE SECTOR
4.01       Along with the rest of the industrial sector, the textile industry
is both assisted and controlled by the wide-ranging and complex system of
tariffs, import restrictions and investment incentives discussed in Chapter
II. The proposed changes in Government policy will have a substantial impact
on the textile and garment industries of the Philippines, and this impact is
discussed in this Chapter.
A.   Tariffs
4.02       As described in Chapter II, tariff levels in the Philippines
vary widely, ranging from 10 to 100% before the first stage reduction that
took effect in January 1981. Tariff rates as a whole are high, with an overall
(unweighted) average nominal rate in 1980 of 46%. In general, tariffs are
lower on producer goods and raw material inputs, and escalate with subsequent
stages of processing to final products. Consumer goods, such as motor vehicles,
appliances, footwear and garments, have the highest protective tariffs.
4.03       Textile and garment tariffs follow this escalating pattern, with
1980 tariffs on cotton set at the minimum 10% rates, staple fibers 30%, yarn
30-50%, fabrics usually 70%, and garments 100% (Annex 4-1). These increasing



- 21 -
rates mean that each process in the textile and garment production chain
(spinning, weaving, finishing and garment making) receives increasing protection,
i.e., that the effective rates of protection are even higher than the nominal
rates, with effective protection on spinning and weaving of the order of 150%,
and garment manufacture, 170%. This contrasts with the estimated average 1980
effective protection for the manufacturing sector of 44%.
4.04       These high levels of protection afforded textile and garment manu-
facturers in the domestic market have had several adverse effects:
(a) they have enabled domestic manufacturers to sell
their products at high prices, with most domestic
fabric prices some 30-50% higher than the prices
of comparable imports (before import duties);
(b) they have allowed efficient firms to make high
profits, while at the same time allowing badly
run and marginal firms to survive;
(c) they have led manufacturers to concentrate on
the domestic market and the potential of supplying
the export garment industry as a user of domestically
manufactured fabrics has been missed. Exports
continue to be based on less expensive, better
quality imported fabrics; and
(d) they have permitted high cost organizational struc-
tures in the industry, for example, excessive vertical
integration and overcapacity, as discussed in
Chapter III. Because of the lack of competition
such inefficient organizations can still operate
profitably.
4.05       The Government is well aware of the problem arising from excessive
tariff protection, and in August 1980 and July 1981, legislated the comprehen-
sive tariff reform covering all line items in. the Tariff Code mentioned
in para. 2.13. All peak tariff rates of 1002 and 70% will be lowered to 50% by
1985, and tariff rates in selected subsectors will also be substantially
reduced over the four-year period beginning in January 1981. This will result
in a reduction in protective levels, with average effective protection for the
manufacturing sector dropping from 44% to 292.
4.06       Textiles and garments are included in these tariff reductions and
will be lowered by between 30% and 50% (Annex 4-2). The reductions are phased
over three to four years to give the domestic industries time to adjust to more
competitive production levels. The longest phase is for garments, where the
reductions are greatest, from 100% to 50%.
4.07       These moves will mean a considerable reduction in both nominal and
effective levels of protection for the textile industry. However, effective



- 22 -
rates for the textile industry would still reach 70-80% after completion of
the 1981-85 tariff reform program (Annex 4-2). The Government in a policy
statement prepared for the textile sector has indicated its intention to
consider further tariff changes (para. 4.23).
4.08       These ongoing tariff decreases are an essential prerequisite to a
more competitive and efficient textile industry. Without them, marginal,
high cost firms will continue to operate, more efficient firms will make
excess profits, and there will be no pressure on the industry to improve its
operations. Furthermore, tariff cuts would make smuggling, currently an
extensive practice in the Philippines, less attractive and, therefore, could
result in increased scope for local production.
4.09       While the cuts will increase competitive pressures on the industry,
efficient well managed firms will have little trouble in coping with them,
especially if they increase product-line specialization, and trim fat off
their operations. Based on representative costings for spinning and weaving
operations, the proposed tariff reduction, when fully implemented and assum-
ing they are fully reflected in price decreases, would reduce a profit of
13% of sales in spinning to zero and 14% to 2% for weaving. Such decreases
in profit, however, could be recovered through cost reductions or improvements
in unit productivity of 15% in spinning and 13% in weaving. Such improvements
are feasible. Similarly in finishing, it is estimated that cost savings of
12-17% are readily achievable through improved technology, more efficient
use of dyestuff and energy conservation programs.
4.10       The phasing of the tariff reductions over four years will give
ample time for firms to make these necessary adjustments. The concomitant
availability of finance for rehabilitation of equipment and new investment
and the provision of technical assistance to help firms to adapt to the new
environment will be an important prerequisite. Even then, some firms will be
forced to cease production. In these cases the tariff cuts will be forcing
what is, in any event, an inevitable outcome, as these firms would not, in the
longer term, be able to compete against the other more efficient, domestic
producers.
4.11       It is unlikely that there will be any long term reduction in em-
ployment resulting from the tariff cuts. The tariffs, even after the changes,
will still give a significant amount of protection to the industry, and im-
ports are unlikely to increase to any marked extent. This is especially so in
garments where the Philippines' low labor costs will give it a significant
advantage over other producers. In fact, the experience of countries that
have adopted this approach clearly shows that employment will even increase as
a more efficient textile industry moves into the export garment sector. A
further spur to employment from lower tariffs will arise because smuggling
will become less attractive encouraging increased domestic production and
hence employment.



- 23 -
4.12       Although aggregate employment is unlikely to be affected to any
significant extent, some dislocation of workers will occur when marginal mills
are forced to close. These jobs will be replaced as other mills expand output
as the market grows. Nevertheless, the new jobs are likely to be in different
parts of Metro Manila or elsewhere in the Philippines, and this will be a dis-
advantage to displaced workers. Such disruption, however, will be alleviated
as other firms are likely to use any vacated factories. Moreover, experienced
textile workers are in demand and will be able to obtain jobs, even if some
additional travel or relocation is involved.
B.   Import Restrictions
4.13       In addition to tariffs, textile and garment imports are restricted
by the Central Bank. Garments are included on the Central Bank's Unclassified
Consumer Goods (UC) and Non-Essential Consumer Goods (NEC) lists, which in
essence means that imports are prohibited, except in special cases. Banks are
not permitted to issue letters of credit for fabric imports as instructed in a
Central Bank Memorandum to Authorized Agent Banks (MAAB). Exceptions are
fabrics imported under bond for re-export as garments. Synthetic fibers and
yarns are also regulated through a MAAB, with imports permitted if supplies are
short. Substantial quantities of polyester f'iber and yarn were imported in the
latter half of 1979, but such imports were stuspended in February 1980 on the
petition of domestic polyester manufacturers.
4.14       These restrictions have an importaLnt protective impact in addition
to tariffs. Tariff reductions will not be ef'fective if imports continue to be
severely restricted, and continuation of impcort licensing would certainly
frustrate the objectives of the tariff reductions. Therefore, it is essential
that the restrictions are phased out at the Esame time as tariffs are reduced.
4.15       As mentioned in para. 2.14, the Gcovernment has drawn up a plan for
removing most of the import restrictions over the next few years. Restrictions
on imports of garments will be removed over t:he next three years, on fabrics by
1984, and on synthetic fibers and yarn by 1986. An assessment of the impact of
removing these restrictions is difficult, since the prohibition of imports has
constrained information on actual and potential import competition. However,
items that are expected to face import compet:ition include polyester staple
f'iber and polyester yarn, polyester/cotton shirtings and denim. Garment
imports are unlikely to become unduly high because of the eventual 50% tariff
on garments and the Philippines' advantages in labor costs. Imports of sensi-
tive items would be monitored following the removal of restrictions to ensure
that disruptive importation does not occur. This will mean that the local
industry is given as much chance as possible to adapt to the more competitive
situation.
4.16      As in the case of textile products:, the import of textile machinery
iLs regulated by the BOI. To allow the sector to operate freely, the Government
iLntends to remove the restriction on imports of textile machinery by the end
of the restructuring program.



- 24 -
C.   Investment and Export Incentives
4.17       Industry in the Philippines is also assisted by a wide range of
investment incentives, referred to in para. 2.08. These incentives are of-
fered to firms registered with BOI, which prepares annual "Priorities Plans"
to indicate the preferred areas of investment which will be considered for
the granting of incentives. Priority areas included in these plans are se-
lected on the basis of objectives, including employment generation, regional
dispersal, increased utilization of indigenous raw materials, increased
foreign exchange earnings or savings, strengthening of industrial linkages,
and promotion of manufactured exports.
4.18       The textile industry has been an important recipient of the in-
centives, particularly through the Export Incentives Act. In 1979, for
example, approved textile and garment investments (excluding synthetic fiber)
reached P 604 million under the Investment Incentives Act (R.A. 5186) and
P 696 million under the Export Incentive Act (R.A. 6135), or 16.9% and 23.1%,
respectively, of total approved investments in manufacturing. In 1979, tax
deductions, credits and exemptions for textiles totalled P 17 million out of
an all-industry total of P 683 million under the Investment Incentives Act, and
a much larger P 46 million out of P 453 million under the Export Incentives
Act (Annex 4-3). At the firm level, these incentives are worth around 11-12%
of annual sales in the textile and garment industries.
4.19       The sectoral program for the textile industry will be one of the
first comprehensive subsector development programs, and the existing incentives
will be offered (as new incentive system will not become effective until late
1982), both for new investment and rehabilitation investments, only to firms
that meet the criteria outlined in the program's guidelines, including satisfac-
tory economic rates of return and improved competitiveness.
D.   Textile Sector Restructuring Program
4.20       The textile industry has been selected by the Ministry of Trade and
Industry and the Board of Investment as a high priority target for a coordinated
sector development program. This priority is dictated by the industry's
urgent need for rehabilitation and rationalization, its importance in supply-
ing a basic need of the population, and its considerable potential for export,
particularly through the garment industry. Within the sector, particular
priority will be given to rehabilitation investment and expansion to an effi-
cient size as described in paras. 3.38 - 3.40.
4.21       The program for the sector rationalization will involve a three-
pronged strategy, encompassing the key areas highlighted in the previous
sections - policy changes, technical and structural improvements in operations
and manpower, and financing of investment requirements.



- 25 -
(a) Policy Changes. These will include primarily the tariff
reductions and import liberalization discussed above.
These changes will ensure that the industry operates in a
more competitive environment that uill encourage it to
improve its efficiency. The industry will still have
adequate protection against imports in line with the
protection afforded other key sectors. This protection,
however, will not be excessive and the potential competition
from imports will be the main incertives to improve effi-
ciency. The relaxation of import controls will also be of
vital importance in developing a ccmpetitive environment.
(b) Technical and Structural Improvemerts As discussed
in Chapter III, there is wide scope for the industry
to adjust to the new environment, relating in particular
to improvements in technical operations, greater
product and process specialization, and rehabilitation/
replacement of aging equipment. The MTI/BOI will
encourage these changes by granting incentives only to
those firms meeting guidelines for industry restructuring
(para. 5.24). Adjustment will also be assisted through
technical assistance in selection and purchase of equip-
ment, and in productivity and operational improvements.
In addition, the identified weaknesses in manpower skills
at all levels will be addressed through a comprehensive
training program for managers, supervisors and workers.
This technical assistance and trainiing which will be an
integral part of the Bank Project, is described in
Chapter V.
(c) Financing. The third element of the Government-s sector
program is the provision of finance for projects meeting
the proposed guidelines. Such finance will help industry
to adjust to lower tariff levels through rehabilitation
and new investment, and will be available as an integral
part of the program to projects that are financially and
economically viable. The finance will come from both the
Bank line of credit under the proposed Loan and bilateral
sources notably suppliers and buye:rs- credits. Irrespective
of the source of funds, however, finance and incentives
will not be made available unless irojects meet the
sectoral guidelines and have satisEactory financial and
economic rates of return.



- 26 -
4.22      The BGI and MTI will be the key agencies in implementing the
sector program, with the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) as the main
financing agency. This will involve setting the guidelines for the program,
evaluating proposals submitted, monitoring the effect on the industry of
tariff reductions and the easing of import restrictions, and developing a
system and data base for assessing the overall impact of the program and
refining and adjusting it where necessary. The scope and implementation of
the proposed Project which is part of the restructuring program are elaborated
in the following Chapter.
4.23      The MTI/BOI have finalized a Statement of Development Policy (Annex
4-4), which defines the objectives, scope and implementation, as well as the
policy framework of the textile sector restructuring program. According to
this statement, the Government intends to further adjust nominal tariff rates
for the 1986-90 period for the textile and garment industries to bring the
effective rates of protection in line with the average for the manufacturing
sector as a whole. To this end, the Government intends to formulate and adopt
such tariff adjustments by the end of the restructuring program, i.e., by
January 1, 1986.
V.   THE PROJECT
A.   Objectives and Scope
1. General Framework
5.01      The Government, through its program of structural adjustment dis-
cussed in Chapter II, has set the directions for industrial development and
change through the 1980s. The policy changes in that program, namely tariff
reductions, import liberalization, and increased export assistance, will be
the key instruments in improving the competitiveness of industry and moving
towards the Government's prime objectives for an increased growth role of in-
dustry, continued large increases in exports of nontraditional manufactures,
more rapid expansion in employment, more productive use of capital, and
greater development of industry outside the Metropolitan Manila area.
5.02      The Bank has supported the structural adjustment program through
the f:Lrst SAL in August 1980, which included technical assistance to help
the Government in implementing its program. The subsequent Industrial Finance
Loan to financial intermediaries made in May 1981 and channeled through the
Central Bank is also directed towards industry and will help broaden access
to longer term finance. The proposed SAL II, currently under preparation,
would support, inter alia, Government's efforts to reform the industrial
incentives system and its administration; develop a new approach to investment
priority determination; and further develop the concept of subsector develop-
ment programs.



- 27 -
2. Textile Restructuring Program
5.03      Within this wider framework, the proposed Project will assist the
Government in the implementation of the textile restructuring program, which
involves policy changes, improvements of the structure and technical opera-
tions of the industry, and financing of invest:ment requirements as elaborated
in para. 3.36. Measures related to policy chenges, particularly with regard
to tariff reductions and import liberalization for textiles, will establish
the price levels at which the industry must be competitive and their phasing
over a period of three-four years will set the time frame for the sector's
restructuring. These measures are being implemented in connection with the
SAL I.
5.04      With regard to the improvement of the structure and performance
of the textile industry, the proposed Project will provide finance for:
(a) the physical rehabilitation, modern:Lzation and expansion of
the .various subsectors, including spinning, weaving, knit-
ting, finishing, etc., which meet the guidelines of the
restructuring program;
(b) training of technologists, technicians, operators and
management, and technical assistanca requirements of indivi-
dual firms with a view to improving their technical opera-
tions and reducing costs;
(c) setting up of training facilities/programs, which will
benefit the entire textile industry; and
(d) consulting services to assist the Government (i) in the
evaluation and supervision of the projects and firms which
participate in the restructuring program; (ii) in monitoring
the impact of the sector program and in developing a textile
technology information service; and (iii) in carrying out
studies for improving sector performance, such as in the
areas of energy conservation, effluent treatment, local
manufacture of accessories, etc.
B.   Proposed Bank Loan and Lending Arrangements
5.05      Bank financing will help the textile industry to adjust more smoothly
to the new competitive situation. Without such assistance, the measures
necessary to adjust, including equipment rehabilitation and replacement and
efficiency improvements, would take place more slowly, often only as a last
resort, with consequent greater disruption on. the resources employed in
the industry--both labor and capital. It is proposed, therefore, that a Bank
loan of US$157.4 million (including provision, for a front end fee of US$2.4
million on the Bank loan) be made to the Government to assist in the implementa-
tion of the textile sector restructuring program. The proposed loan amount



- 28 -
would cover about one third of the foreign exchange requirement of about
US$500 million of the US$600 million program being planned by the Government
for the 1981-85 period (para. 3.36).
5.06      While the industry is expected to put up or borrow funds from
domestic financial institutions for the local cost of the program, the remain-
ing foreign exchange cost of the order of US$350 million would come from other
external sources. In this connection, the Government has been seeking finan-
cing from bilateral sources including suppliers' credits. During loan negotia-
tions, the Government, through BOI and DBP, provided the Bank with details of
these sources of financing which include suppliers and buyers' credits from
the US, Europe, Japan, India and others.
5.07      Of the proposed Bank loan of US$157.4 million to the Government,
US$150 million would be onlent to DBP and US$5 million would be made available
to BOI/MTI. The onlent funds to DBP would finance individual textile sub-
projects as follows:
US$ Million
(a) equipment required for the rehabilitation,
modernization and expansion of the various
subsectors, including spinning, weaving and
finishing for selected subprojects; and             140
(b) training of technologists, technicians,
operators and management, and technical
assistance to individual firms to assist
in upgrading their technical operations
and reducing costs.                                  10
Total 150
5.08      The funds (US$5 million) made available to BOI/MTI would be used to
finance the following:
US$ million
(a) setting up of sectorwide training facilities/)
programs                                        )
)
(b) training of BOI and MTI staff; and              )     3
(c) consulting services to BOI/MTI to assist
in implementing the sector restructuring
program and specific technical studies to
benefit the entire industry.                          2
Total     5
Training required for DBP staff involved in evaluation, and supervision of
subprojects, will be financed from DBP's own resources.



- 29 -
5.09      The allocations of the proposed loan shown in paras. 5.07 and 5.08
have been agreed with BOI and DBP.
5.10      The US$150 million onlent to DBP, which would finance about one
third of the total sector requirements through 1985 (para. 5.05) during a
three-to-four-year period, would cover approved investment in the textile
industry that meet the BOI's general sectoral restructuring criteria (para.
5.24). In accordance with the set of investment priorities agreed with the
Government (para. 3.41), and in consideration of equipment for which bilateral
financing will not be available, this loan component is expected to be utilized
by the various subsectors as shown below. These figures are indicative only
and will not be treated as rigid categories.
Expected Utilization by the Subsector
(US$ Million)
Rehabilitation      New Investment          Total
Spinning                    35                  13                   48
Weaving                     60                   12                  72
Knitting                    -                     -                   -
T'exturizing                -                     -                   -
Finishing                    5                   25                  30
100                  50                 150 a/
a/ Including technical assistance and training requirements.
5.11      The BOI with the assistance of a training consultant has prepared
a manpower development study. 1/ This study was based on information received
from textile mills in response to detailed questionnaires circulated by
the consultant, from field visits and from discussions with a large number
of mills and local and foreign educational/training institutions. It contains
recommendations regarding the training needs of the sector; suitable programs
for training textile manpower (managers, teclnologists, supervisors, techni-
cians, and operators) at both industry and f:Lrm levels; facilities required
for carrying out such programs; and related detailed cost estimates. Training
requirements and technical assistance at firma level (para. 5.07 (b)) will
be evaluated for each subproject and will address not only requirements for
the new investment, but also for upgrading current operations. It is estimated
that these requirements will cost about US$10 million and will be financed
from Bank funds onlent to DBP (para. 5.07). Sectorwide training (para.
5.08 (a)) will be basically directed towards training officers, trainers
for mechanics and operators, loom mechanics as well as refresher courses for
:Lnpost technologists, supervisors, and technicians. The Philippine Textile
Research Institute (PTRI) and its facilities, which lately came under the
supervision of MTI, will play an important role in sectoral training. To
supervise the implementation of all sectoral training activities, a textile
training foundation has been established and is supported jointly by PTRI
and the Textile Association of the Philippines. Additionally, the foundation
will assist textile mills in the planning of their own training programs
identification of potential sources for techaical assistance, and placement of
1/   The study, "Manpower Development Plan for the Textile Industry 1981-86",
is included in the Project File.



- 30 -
trainees in foreign training institutions. The duration of this activity will
be about three years and is estimated to cost about US$3 million. The manpower
development study was reviewed and discussed with BOI and found to be satisfac-
tory. With respect to the training of BOI and MTI staff (para. 5.08 (b)), the
BOI has prepared a proposal for training of its staff responsible for implement-
ing the sector program; this was reviewed by the Bank and found reasonable.
5.12       The Consulting Services to BOI/MTI (para. 5.08(c)) mainly consists
of two separate categories of consulting services: (a) consultants who will
be employed by BOI to assist both BOI and DBP in continuing their sector
planning, evaluating projects for inclusion in the sector program, project
supervision and monitoring the impact of the program, as further discussed in
para. 5.20; and (b) those who would be hired to carry out specific studies
intended for improving the overall performance of the industry. These studies
will include, but not be limited to energy conservation, possibilities of
local manufacture of textile machinery accessories and effluent treatment. It
is estimated,that the above technical assistance will provide for about 200
man-months of consulting services for a total cost of about US$2 million at an
average cost of US$10,000 per man-month including travel and lodging expenses.
C.   Implementation
1. Project Organization
5.13      The proposed Project will be implemented jointly by the BOI and
DBP. The BOI will be responsible for approving subprojects for incorporation
in the sector program and for eligibility for investment incentives. DBP
will approve and provide finance to the subprojects provided that normal
credit conditions are met by the subproject sponsors and that the subprojects
are financially and economically viable. The MTI will also be involved
in coordinating the associated policy changes in tariffs and import liberal-
ization.
5.14      The BOI, as the Government agency in charge of the implementation of
investment laws, has extensive experience in dealing with the industry through
approving projects for eligibility for incentives and in monitoring the per-
formance of projects for which incentive privileges have been awarded. How-
ever, because of the complexity of the restructuring program, BOI decided to
strengthen its technical and market analysis capabilities in project evaluation,
project supervision and program monitoring through the use of expatriate
consultants (para. 5.12 and 5.20). As detailed in paras. 5.16-5.18, DBP is by
far the most important lender of long-term finance to the Philippines textile
industry, and has long been associated with the Bank through a number of loans
for industry, shipping, agriculture and fisheries.
5.15      As elaborated in paragraphs 5.23 to 5.27, the evaluation of the
subprojects included in the sector program will be carried out in two phases.
The first phase will cover all technical, managerial, marketing and economic
aspects of the proposed subprojects and will be carried out jointly by BOI
and DBP. The second phase which will involve detailed financial and economic
evaluation of these subprojects, as well as the financial position and perfor-
mance of the sponsors, will be carried out by DBP only. Final decision on



- 31 -
subproject finance will rest with DBP (para. '5.27). The joint evaluation
arrangement will ensure that both BOI and DBP personnel involved will benefit
from the consulting services (to BOI) in those aspects where they both need
substantial assistance, and that approved subprojects meeting the sectoral
restructuring criteria will have ready access to finance. A joint DBP/BOI
evaluation unit has been set up for this purpose. Details of the working
procedures of the unit have been reviewed witli the BOI and DBP and are
satisfactory.
2. DBP and its Involvement in the Textile Sector
5.16      DBP was established in 1958 as an autonomous Government-owned
development bank whose financing operations (Loans, equity and guarantees)
cover almost all segments of the economy. The bulk of its financing, however,
has gone to the private industrial sector, raniging from small to large-scale
enterprises. DBP is by far the largest supplier of long-term credit. At the
end of 1979, its total assets of P 22 billion (about US$2.7 billion equivalent)
represented about 11% of the total assets of the financial sector, and its
long-term portfolio of P 12.8 billion accounted for about half of the total
outstanding long-term credit of the financial sector.
5.17       DBP has been associated with the Bank for more than a decade,
tlhrough a number of loans for agriculture, industry, and transportation
including three DFC loans totalling US$205 million. DBP is also the most
important recipient of the US$150 million Industrial Finance Loan approved by
the Bank's Executive Directors in May 1981. Although DBP has made substantial
progress in strengthening its institutional capabilities and financial position,
it continues to have a number of organizational, operational and financial
problems. These were discussed in the SAR on the Industrial Finance Project
and a "Program of Action" was formulated to address them. 1/   DBP was required
to carry out certain elements of this "Action Program" prior to its accredita-
tion under the Industrial Finance Loan. As of August 1981, these requirements
have been fulfilled. Other elements of the "Action Program" are being imple-
mented under close supervision of the Central Bank. Implementation progress
of these elements is satisfactory.
5.18      DBP is a major lender to the textile and garment industry.  As of
February 29, 1980, DBP had made loans or guarantees to 101 textile/garment
firms for a total amount (net of repayment) of P 1,943 million (about
US$240 million). Of these projects, 48 were loans above P 3 million each
(about US$0.4 million) and handled by the Industrial Projects Department I
(IPD-I), with the remainder handled by the Industrial Projects Department II.
DBP currently has 25 projects for the textile and garment industry in its
pipeline (excluding those awaiting approval by the BOI), namely, 18 for
garments, 6 for textiles, and one integrated project.
1!   Staff Appraisal Report on the Industrial Finance Loan to the Republic
of the Philippines. Report No. 3331-PH, April 7, 1981.



I 3?
DBP Textile/Garment Portfolio as of February 29, 1980
(P million)
Textiles/Garment a!      All Industry        Proportion
Loans and
Advance                   1,852.5                  7,687                24.1
Guarantees                     90                    3,233                16.3
a/ Including synthetic fibers
Source:   DBP
5.19      IPD-I, which now handles DBP's textile projects, has some 65 pro-
fessional staff (40 financial analysts and 25 engineers) directly involved in
project evaluation and supervision. Although IPD-I does not have any textile
engineer, most of its technical staff have gained on-the-job experience
in processing textile projects. Nevertheless, for a program of this magnitude
and complexity, substantial technical assistance will be required, particularly
with regard to market analysis, project design, capital cost estimate and
assumptions on realistic production buildup and sales. The consultants to be
employed to assist the BOI/DBP project evaluation unit (para. 5.12) are
expected to strengthen IPD-I in these areas. The proposed Project will help
improve the capability of DBP staff responsible for textile projects through
training, including on-the-job training with textile consultants in project
evaluation as well as supervision. Additionally, DBP staff will keep up with
developments in the industry through overseas visits to textile mills, machinery
manufacturers, trade fairs as well as potential markets. DBP has prepared a
training program for its staff and this was reviewed with the Bank and is
satisfactory. The quality of IPD-I's appraisal reports on textile projects
have improved steadily, but there is room for further improvement in the
methodology used for financial and economic evaluation. Possible improve-
ments have been discussed with IPD-I and will be followed up during project
supervision.
3. Technical Assistance to BOI/DBP
5.20      As discussed in para. 5.12, consulting services will be required
to (a) assist in the evaluation of projects under the sector program for
approval by the BOI and DBP, with particular regard to technical, market and
economic aspects; (b) assess the manpower requirements and formulate a suitable
training program to meet the needs of the industry; (c) identify areas for
further study, where significant improvement in the overall performance of the
industry could be realized, and prepare detailed terms of reference for and
supervise the implementation of these studies; and (d) develop and implement an
infornation system to assess the state of the textile and garment industry,
monitor its development and evaluate the impact of Government policy actions
undertaken as part of the sector restructuring program. Details of these



- 33 -
Terms of Reference (TOR) are shown in Annex 5.   The TOR specify that a
professionally qualified textile consulting fLrm, with textile company operating
experience or with close association with manufacturing companies, is required
for the above service.
5.21      Since the consultants will play a vital role in the implementation
of the sector program, it is essential that BOI employ a consulting firm with
textile operating and engineering experience or in close association with
manufacturing companies and that the consultancy services must include five
specialists (spinning, weaving, finishing, training and marketing) and a
financial/economic consultant. It is envisagad that the services of the
spinning, weaving, finishing, and training sp,scialists will be required until
project completion. The marketing specialist would be required for an initial
period (about 6 months) mainly to assess the Dverall market for textile
products and to assist in the market evaluation of subprojects, and thereafter,
employed on a retainer basis to advise on market aspects of subprojects under
evaluation. The financial/economic consultant would be needed to assist and
train BOI/DBP staff in the evaluation of subprojects under the program, and to
set up systems to monitor the impact of the textile restructuring program
(para. 5.20). The team leader of the consulting team would be responsible
for the coordination of all individual consultants' work under the overall
supervision of BOI.
5.22      It has been agreed that the Government will employ, until project
completion, consultants whose composition, selection, qualifications, ex-
perience and terms and conditions of employment are satisfactory to the Bank
in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency, August 1981. The BOI has
recently appointed Tootal International of the U.K. as consultants on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
4. Processing of Subloans
5.23      The processing of subloans will involve two main phases of evalua-
tions: (i) in the first phase, which will be handled jointly by BOI and DBP,
it will be determined if the proposal is consistent with sectoral restructuring
criteria and technically and economically sound. Once projects have passed
this stage and are approved by the Board of Governors of BOI, they will be
eligible for the BOI investment incentives ard (ii) in the second phase which
will be handled by DBP, projects will mainly be subject to complete financial
and economic evaluation with an emphasis on risk analysis by DBP on a case-by-
case basis. Once projects are approved by DBP Board of Directors, they will
be eligible for finance. Certain projects which may pass the first phase of
evaluation may not necessarily be eligible for DBP finance. Projects could be
financed from other sources, but they will st:ill have to be approved by the
BOI if they wish to receive incentives.



- 34 -
(a) First Phase Evaluation
5.24      In this phase, preliminary screening of individual projects will be
carried out with emphasis on (i) compliance of proposal with evaluation
requirements of BOI/DBP under the program and for which a checklist is available
for project sponsors; and (ii) conformity of proposal with the objectives
under the technical and structural changes of the program. The General
Guidelines for these changes which were established following the Inter-Agency
Committee Report and discussions with the Bank and BOI are:
Spinning
-   priority will be given to projects resulting in greater
specialization by product or process;
-   spindles for rehabilitation should be no older than 1960;
-   projects should reach a specified economic size, taking
into account spindle numbers, average counts and ring
diameters.
Weaving
-   priority will be given to projects resulting in greater
product specialization;
-   looms of pre-1951 vintage will not be rehabilitated.  New/
modernized looms should have a minimum width of 60" and
at least 200 picks per minute;
-   projects should reach a specified economic size dependent
on nature of product mix, loom width and geographical
location.
Knitting
-   new knitting machines will be of gauges 24 and above
geared to export of full fashioned knitwear.
The BOI has also drawn up guidelines for capacities needed in
producing the types of yarn and fabric estimated to meet the 1985 demand
pattern (Project File). These guidelines are intended not to restrict entry
of viable firms into the industry but rather to ensure that unduly excessive
capacity does not develop in the industry.
5.25      As well as meeting the above guidelines, each mill will be asked
to submit a detailed plan to ensure efficient operations. This plan will
include actions to be taken to increase productivity and reduce cost, and
where appropriate to achieve targets for exports, both directly and indirectly
through garment exporters. Ii will also include facilities for staff training,
and requirements for expatriate technical assistance for plant operations.



- 35 -
5.26      Once a proposal for rehabilitation or new investment has passed
tlhe screening process, it will be subjected to further evaluation which
will involve study of markets for project output, organizational structure,
technical details and a preliminary financial and economic analysis of the
project, as well as an evaluation of financial position and prospects of the
project sponsor. The consultants hired to assist the BOI will help in this
evaluation. Particular areas where the consultants's expertise will be most
useful include market analysis, assessing the technical aspects of project
design, assistance in choice of equipment for the projects, and reviewing
capital costs, espectially equipment prices. Special attention will be paid
to the choice of technology for new projects to ensure that excessive capital-
intensity is avoided. Where possible, project sponsors will be encouraged
through additional incentives offered by the BOI for decentralization to
locate outside Manila. An appraisal report will then be prepared for consi-
deration by BOI (para. 5.23). Approved projects will subsequently be evaluated
by DBP.
(b) Second Phase Evaluation
5.27      As stated in para. 5.23, DBP will be responsible for subsequent
detailed project evaluation. DBP already has the skills to calculate economic
and financial rates of return, and these will, be computed for each project
to serve as indicators of economic and financial viability. As a guideline,
subprojects yielding ERR of less than 15% will not be eligible for finance
under this program. Also, sub-borrowers will, be required to contribute a
minimum of 25% in equity towards subproject cost. Furthermore, DBP will
assess the financial viability of sub-project:s based on a maximum nominal
tariff of 30%. The BOI/DBP Unit will also review the status of approved
projects, both during construction and operat:ion. This will help to ensure
that projects are operating smoothly and will assist in identifying and
overcoming problems that might arise. Experi-ence gained during supervi-
sion could be also useful in improving the evaluation process itself.
5.       Procurement and Disbursement
5.28      For items to be financed from the proposed Bank loan, DBP would
require sub-borrowers to follow Internationa:L Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures consistent with the World Bank procurement guidelines for contracts
exceeding US$1.5 million equivalent; contracls below US$1.5 million equivalent
would be awarded following competitive bidding from suppliers registered
with BOI and from at least three Bank member countries, Switzerland and from
Taiwan. DBP has recently revised its procurement guidelines in light of the
new Presidential Decree No. 1764 (dated January 11, 1981, on Regulations
and Instructions on International Competitive Bidding for Major Industrial
Projects), setting out regulations and instructions on ICB, as well as its
internal reorganiztions which would directly affect its administraion of
procurement. The Bank has reviewed these new guidelines which are not in
conflict with Bank procurement procedures or the monetary limits shown above.
Consultants for special studies (para. 5.12) will be employed in accordance
with Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants, August 1981. For items to be
financed from bilateral sources--mainly new spinning and weaving equipment,
procurement is restricted to a small number of suppliers for standardization
and bulk purchase purposes.



- 36 -
5.29      The proceeds of the proposed loan will be used to finance 100% of
CIF costs of imported equipment; and 100% of foreign exchange cost of erection,
consulting services and training. An indicative disbursement schedule of the
proposed loan is shown in Annex 5-2. This schedule is estimated on the basis
of the disbursement profile of previous Banks loans to industry in the Philip-
pines. The closing date will be December 31, 1988.
D.   Features of the Proposed Loan
1.   Relending Terms
5.30       Under the ongoing Industrial Finance Loan, the Central Bank on-
lends the proceeds of the Bank Loan to the participating financial institu-
tions (PFIs), such as DBP, at an interest rate at least equivalent to the
interest rate charged by the Bank plus a service fee of not less than 0.75%
per annum. The PFIs in turn on-lend the proceeds of the Bank funds to end-
users with a maximum spread of 4.5%. Under that loan it was also agreed that
the Central Bank would review every six months the lending rates of the PFIs
and, if necessary, revise its own on-lending rate on uncommitted Bank funds so
as to allow the PFIs to charge lending rates more closely in line with market
rates.
5.31       With regard to the proposed loan, DBP will charge the end-users
the prevailing market rate in line with the lending criteria adopted under
the Industrial Finance Project. Also, to conform with the general lending
terms under that project, the Government will on-lend the Bank funds to DBP at
an interest rate that will allow DBP a spread not exceeding 4.5% but not less
than 2.5% to cover its overhead expenses and credit risk. This on-lending
rate which would not be less than the interest rate charged by the Bank
on the proposed loan will be subject to periodic reviews by the Government and
will be adjusted, if necessary, in tandem with the interest rate to end-users,
so that the latter would closely reflect market rates (para. 5.30). The
margin between this on-lending rate and the Bank rate would accrue to the
Government for the recovery of the costs of training and technical assistance
to be provided by the Government through BOI/MTI (para. 5.08). The DBP, in
addition, will be charged a front end fee of 1.5% on the onlent amount and a
commitment fee of 0.75% on the undisbursed portion of the onlent amount.
These fees will be passed on to DBP sub-borrowers. The subproject funds
(para. 5.10) will be onlent from the Government to DBP under a subsidiary loan
agreement acceptable to the Bank and its signing will be a condition of
effectiveness.
2. Amortization Schedule
5.32       The Government would repay the proposed loan to the Bank in accord-
ance with standard country terms, i.e., over 20 years including a grace
period of 5 years. Such repayment is justified in view of the country's needs
for substantial long-term funds to blend with shorter term borrowings for the
restructuring of the textile sector. DBP, however, will repay to the Govern-
ment the onlent amount in accordance with a flexible amortization schedule,
which will correspond to the aggregate amortization schedule of its subloans
to end-users. It is expected that such subloans will have a maximum maturity



- 37 -
oiE 15 years, with most having maturities ranging from 6 to 12 years. A
f:Lexible grace period will be allowed so that DBP can blend these subloans
with funds from other sources, such as suppliers' and buyers' credits and
commercial loans, which can generally be expected to have shorter maturities
and grace periods. Funds repaid by DBP to thia Government in conformity with
the subsidiary loan agreement would be credited to a special account that
would be established in the Central Bank.  Pe:ading repayment to the Bank,
these funds would be used to finance expenditares on rehabilitation and
restructuring of industry. Quarterly reports will be submitted to the Bank on
the utilization of these funds.
3. Free Limit
5.33       Subloans above the proposed free limit of US$4 million will be
reviewed by the Bank before approval. Subloans below this free limit will be
reviewed ex-post. The proposed free limit would be higher than the existing
free limit of US$2 million for DBP under the Industrial Finance Project
Loan, but justifiably so since (i) expert consultants will assist in apprais-
ing subprojects to ensure that they are viable and that they fit in well with
the restructuring program already agreed with the Bank; and (ii) the Bank will
review closely the work of the consultants particularly during initial stages.
To acquaint the DBP/BOI team and its consultants with the Bank's review method
as quickly as possible, the first three subprojects requiring loans over US$2
million each will be reviewed by the Bank in Washington. Additionally, in
consultation with DBP the Bank would revise, if necessary, the free limit
in light of BOI/DBP-s performance in evaluating subprojects.
4. Subloan Size
5.34      To ensure that the proceeds of the proposed loan are spread among
an adequately large number of subprojects, it was agreed with the Government
that subloans will have a ceiling of US$8 million. However, Bank financing
could exceed this ceiling in cases where a subproject installed cost is at
least US$25 million and has been reviewed in detail by the Bank and in such
case the Bank may conduct its review of this project in the field.
5. Foreign Exchange Risk
5.35      The foreign exchange risk on the proceeds of the Bank funds on-lent
to DBP will be borne by sub-borrowers. The Government will bear the foreign
exchange risk on the balance of the Bank loarm (US$5 million) made available
to BOI/MTI for technical assistance purposes.
E.   Environmental Impact
5.36      The Philippine Pollution Control Commission has set environmental
guidelines for the textile industry. However, the existing powers to control
effluent flows are not always applied and at times discharges are taking
place, particularly in dyeing and finishing. The BOI and DBP are aware of



- 38 -
these problems and have undertaken to ensure that adequate pollution controls,
in conformance with the national code, are installed and adhered to in approved
projects. Mills will also be required to control emission of fibers and dust
into the atmosphere to reduce workers' exposure to risk of respiratory disease.
Technical assistance, which will be financed under the proposed Project (para.
5.08), will greatly assist the BOI, DBP and the industry itself in pinpointing
areas of concern and devising measures to reduce pollution from textile
operations. DBP has agreed that implementation of subprojects approved under
this program will be carried out with due regard to ecological considerations
and health hazards.
F.   Benefits and Risk
5.37      This is the first Bank project of its type in the Philippines.
It is being proposed because the textile sector, which is an important contri-
butor to industrial output and employement, is in urgent need of substantial
structural change. Bank financing will help the industry to adjust more
smoothly to the new competitive situation. Through the proposed project, the
major portion of the industry's production capacity would be modern and
substantially more efficient: In spinning 75% of the installed capacity could
become internationally competitive (from the present level of less than 25%),
and in weaving 25% import substitution to garment exporters could also be
possible (from the present negligible level). Nevertheless, the extent of
efficiency and competitiveness that can be realized by the textile industry
will depend on a number of other factors, such as the management capability
of the millers and the -improvement of the skill level of the workers. Further,
the success of the project is not relying solely on the performance of indi-
vidual entrepreneurs and their projects, but on a combination of significant
policy changes, the administrative effort by the BOI, MTI, and DBP, and the
efforts of the textile industry as a whole. This increased complexity adds to
the difficulty of the Project.
5.38      The likely impact of the Project is difficult to evaluate because of
the uncertain response of the industry. It is indeed hard to predict exactly
how the industry will react to the project objectives during the current
depressed state of the textile sector and the economy as a whole. Probably
the biggest risk in the Project is that the proposed policy changes are not
carried through in the face of increasing pressure from groups that are
adversely affected. As the policy changes start to impact on the industry,
such pressure will certainly increase, particularly from the least efficient
firms. If the policy changes do not eventuate, the Project objectives will
not be fully realized, to the extent that the industry would not strive to
be as competitive as it possibly could and that some of the funds would act
to bolster marginal firms, with no broader economic benefits.
5.39      The Project will impose a heavy administrative burden on the
BOI, DBP and the MTI. They must coordinate the use of consultants to help
the industry improve its efficiency. If such improvements are not forthcoming,
disruptions in project implementation may occur which, in addition to social
problems with displaced workers, could also jeopardize the textile industry
restructuring program. Clearly defined working arrangement and procedures
between BOI, DBP and the consultants (para. 5.15) will minimize this risk.



- 39 -
5.40      The protectionist trends towards textile exports from developing
countries is not expected to pose a serious threat to the restructuring
program.  These trends are mainly directed to dominant exporters.  Under the
recently concluded Multi Fiber Agreement (MFA) for 1981-86 period, exporters
from other developing countries are treated more favourably with regard to
quota restrictions including growth rates. 1/ The Philippines is not a major
textile exporter. In fact, the Philippine textile industry-s direct exports
of yarn and fabric are small and are unlikely to increase rapidly in the near
future (para. 3.33), and accordingly there are no restrictions to their entry
into developed countries' markets. By contrast, the garment industry has been
growing at a rate of about 25% per year from 1970 to 1978, though from a very
low base, but this growth rate has slowed down to about 15% per year since.
Despite the fact that export quotas are envisaged to grow at only 4-6% per
year between 1982-86, the export growth could grow at a significantly faster
rate as the available quotas are still underutilized. Furthermore, there is
considerable possibility for increasing the value added of exports by increasing
the backward linkage to the domestic textile industry. As mentioned in para.
2.06, garment exports are largely based on imported fabrics with little value
added and little backward linkage to the domestic textile industry. One of
the objectives of the restructuring program is to induce this backward linkage.
Although up to 50% should be technically feasible (para. 3.33) if the restruc-
turing program achieves its objective of improving quality and reducing cost
of domestic production, it is assumed that only about 25% of the fabrics
imported in 1979 will be replaced by domestic production by 1985. For this
reason, the limited growth in garment quotas is not, therefore, expected to
affect the growth of these indirect textile exports.
G. Project Monitoring
5.41      Besides substantial inputs by Bank staff during subproject re-
viLews at headquarters and periodic field supervision, consultants employed
under the proposed loan will also be required to monitor the implementation
of the sector restructuring program. Their services will include the develop-
ment of an information system to periodically assess the state of the textile
and garment industry and monitor its developments including markets, industry
structure and performance, and price and cost structures. This information
will be used to evaluate the impact of government policies and programs.
Consultants will prepare monthly reports on the program's progress and their
recommendations for submission to BOI/DBP and the Bank. Upon project completion,
BOI/DBP with the assistance of the consultants, will prepare a final report
detailing overall results achieved under this program.
1/   Article 6 of the new MFA states that:  "In recognizance of the obligation
of the participating countries to pay special attention to the needs of
the developing countries, it shall be coasidered appropriate and consistent
with equity obligations for those importing countries which apply restric-
tions under this Arrangement affecting t'ae trade of developing countries
to provide more favorable terms with regard to such restrictions,
including elements such as base level and growth rates, than for other
countries".



- 40 -
VI.   AGREEMENTS
6.01      Agreements were reached with the Government on the following
points:
(i)  that the restructuring of the textile sector will be in
accordance with its Statements of the Development Policy
for the sector restructuring program (para. 4.23);
(ii)  that BOI shall retain, until project completion qualified
and experienced consultants on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.22);
(iii) that consultants required for special studies will be
employed in accordance with the Bank Guidelines for the
use of Consultants, August 1981 (para. 5.28).
6.02      Agreements were reached with the Development Bank of the Philippines
that:
(i)  subprojects eligible for financing would have a minimum ERR
of 15% (para. 5.27);
(ii)  sub-borrowers will be required to contribute a minimum of
25% in equity towards subproject costs (para. 5.27);
(iii) assessment of the financial viability of subprojects will be
based on a maximum nominal tariff of 30% (para. 5.27);
(iv)  interest rate charged to sub-borrowers to be based on
prevailing market rate (para. 5.31);
(v)  approved projects will be implemented with due regard to
ecological considerations and occupational hazards
(para. 5.36);
(vi)  it will submit progress and completion reports on the
project in a timely manner (para. 5.41).
6.03      Signing of the subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and
DBP, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition
of effectiveness of the loan (para. 5.31).
6.04      Based on the abovementioned agreements, the Project provides a
satisfactory basis for a Bank loan of US$157.4 million to the Government
(including front end fee of about US$2.4 million), of which US$150 million to
be onlent through DBP to textile companies fulfilling the requirements of the
textile sector restructuring program, and US$5 million to be utilized by the
Government (BOI-MTI) to finance sectoral training programs and technical
assistance and studies, which would benefit the entire sector.
Industry Department
March 1982



- 41 -
ANNEX 2
PHILIPPINES - TEXTILE SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
SECTORAL COPTO3ITION OF MANFrACTURING
(Value Added in P Million at Constant 1972 Prices)
1970                1973                1978                 1979
Value               Value               Value                Value
Added       %      Added       %       Added        %        Added       %
Consumer Goods           6,379    53.9       7,669   50.3       10,200    50.8       10,651    50.5
Food                  3,552    30.0       3,871   25.4        5,032    25.1        5,263    24.8
Beverages and
Tobacco            1,393    11.8       2,049   13.4        2,701    13.5        2,763    13.1
Textiles                695      5.9        852    5.6        1,249      6.2       1,329      6.3
Apparel and
Leather               477      4.0        538    3.7          783      3.9         870      4.1
Printing and
Publishing            262      2.2        339    2.2          435      2.2         456      2.2
Intermediate Goods       4,159    35.2       6,174   40.4        7,776    38.8        8.262    39.1
Paper and Paper
Products              341      2.9        420    2.8          547      2.7         560      2.6
Wood and Cork
Products              497      4.2        627    4.1          715      3.6        804       3.8
Chemicals and
Rubber Products   1,096        9.3      2,232   14.6        3,434    17.2        3,639    17.3
Petroleum               858      7.3      1,358    8.9        1,108      5.5       1,141      5.4
Nonmetallic
Mineral Products    394        3.2        597    3.9,         665      3.3         717      3.4
Basic Metals and
Metal Products        872       7.3       940    6.1        1,307      6.5       1,401      6.6
DIurable and Capital
Goods                    1,029      8.7      1,143    7.6        1,806      9.0       1,912      9.0
M4achinery              532      4.5        582    3.9          809      4.0          912    4.3
Transport
Equipment             497      4.2        561    3.7          997      5.0       1,000      4.7
Miscellaneous              256      2.2        266    1.7          229      1.4         291      1.4
TOTAL                   11,823   100.0    15,252  100.0         20,066   100.0       21,146   100.0
Source:  IEDA
Industrial Projects Department
June 1981



PHILIPPINES - TEXTILE SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
PHILIPPINES TEXTILE PRODUCTION, 1979
Staple Fiber            77.7                                                                                                                                Woven
(Imported)                                                                                                                                                 Fabric
Cotton                26.7      (Less 15% waste)        22.7                                                                                               75.0
Polyester             10.6
Acrylic               10.5                                                  aiabe                  Spun                                                                            Fabric
Otiler                 1.0                                        _for                     __ Yarn                                                                          _      Exports
Acrylic Tow            1.0      (Less 5% waste)         48.5              Spinning                 97.4                                                                              4.9
Acetate             27.9                                                                                                                 > 
Yarns  (Imported)       11.3
Spun Yarn (est.)       7.1                                       _
C/F Yarn (est.)        4.2
Fiber anid Yarnl        38.6                                                                         Yarment
(Home ProdUction)                                                                               _           21.8r_                                                                   Exports
Polyester             21.01
7.0     Est. 50% C/F Yarn                             17.6
Polyamide              4.0     Est. 50% Staple          17.6-_
5.0  I (less 5% waste)                                                                                                             11.6
Ramie                  1.6      (Less 5% waste)          1.5
(excl. Tops & Noil
exported)                                                                                                                                                                            Yarn
Total Fiber & C/F    127.b                                                                                                                                                              2.6
*not including garments made from imported fabrics
Source:  Blank estimates
Industrial Projects Department
June 1981



- 43 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
TEXTILE SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
INVESTMENT REQUIREMENTS FOR TH3 TEXTILE INDUSTRY
The investment requirements up to 1985 were determined by taking
into account the estimated demand for the various types of textile yarns
and fabric. Assumptions were then made about the rehabilitation and expansion
needs of the existing industry to meet that demand. These were then used as a
base for the investment requirement etimates, assuming reasonable productivity
increases forthcoming from the sector program and operating practices common
in other countries in the region, such as Taiwan. Spindles/looms requirements
to meet 1985 demand are shown below:
SPINDLES AND LOOMS REQUIREMENTS TO MEET DEMAND IN 1985
Status in 1979                   Requirements by 1985
No. of              Production    No. of              Capacity
Spindles/Looms         (0CO ton)    Spindles/Looms    ('000 ton)
A. Spinning
Pre-1960         504,000 spindles)                        -
1960-1970       241,000          )        90.3          241,000 spindles   35.5
1971-1978       218,000          )                      218,000             27.5
1979-1980       170,000          )                      170,000             23.1
Additional                                _             404,000             54.9
Total     1,133,000                   90.3       1,033,000             141.0
B. Weaving
Pre-1951             916 looms   )-                                          -
1951-1960         12,006          )       75.0           12,006 looms )    74.7
1961-1970         4,052          )                        4,052        )
1971-1980         3,880          )                        3,880             18.0
Additional                                                2,350             17.8
Total        20,854                   75.0           22,288            110.5
For spinning, it was assumed that most pre-1960 spindles would be
scrapped by 1985, and that most spindles installed between 1960 and 1970 would
be rehabilitated. Costs of US$300 per new spindle and US$100 for rehabilitation
were used in determining investment costs.
For weaving, pre-1951 looms were regarded as too slow and narrow. The
16,000 pre-1970 looms should be rehabilitated at a cost of US$2-5,000 per loom.
Additional costs were estimated for weaving preparation equipment and for air
conditioning.



- 44 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 2
For texturizing, some investment is needed to produce pre-oriented
yarns, but existing excess capacity means that other investment requirements
are negligible.
In finishing, capacity is already underutilized, but product
specialization in the industry will require some balancing changes in dyeing,
printing and finishing capacity.
Industrial Projects Department
June 1981



PHILIPPINES - TEXTILE SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
SCHEDULE TARIFF REDUCTIONS ON SELECTED TEXTILE ITEMS-'
Rate of Duty (%)
Tariff
Heading
20                   Item                            1980       1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
55.01           Cotton                                10          10      10       10       10       10
56.01           Discontinuous staple fiber            30          30      30       20       20       20
Yarn of man-made fiber
(not put up for retail sale)         30          30       30       30      30       30           1
55.05           Cotton Yarn                                                                                       n
(not put up for retail sale)         50          40       30       30       30      30
55.09           Cotton Woven Fabrics                  70          60      50       40       40       40
56.07           Man-made Fiber Fabrics                70          60      50       40       40       40
60.01           Knitted Fabrics                       50          40      40       40       40       40
61.63           Garments
(most types)                        100          90       80       70       60      50
a/  In addition, there is a slight additional protective effect through a 10% sales
tax which applies to both domestic production and imports, but which is charged to
imports including a 25% mark up.
Industrial Projects Department
June 1981



PHILIPPINES - TEXTILE SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
NOMINAL AND EFFECTIVE RATES OF PROTECTIOIia/ UNDER INITIAL AND PROPOSED TARIFF RATES (%)
Eventual          Effective Protection
Initial 1980                Reduced                        After
Product                       Tariff                    Tariff            Now       Reduction
Fiber - man-made                      30                       20               90            50
Yarn                                  50                       30              150            75
Fabric                                70                       40              157            83
Garments                             100                       50              170            73
a/ Estimated by the mission from returns of actual firms.
These rates are indicative only and show the differences resulting from proposed tariff
reductions. They are for the domestic market only. If exports were taken into account,
industry effective protection would be lower.
Industrial Projects Department
June 1981



PHILIPPINES - TEXTILE SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
VALUE OF INCENTIVES TO THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRIES
1976-1979 (P million)
Investment Incentives Act           Export Incentives Act
Textiles              Total      Textiles   Garments   Total
Deduction from taxable income
1979                         14.7                483.4          8.0        17.0      387.6
1978                         11.4                469.9         11.7        29.9      283.7
1977                         23.8                323.8         11.7        33.1      263.8
1976                         16.8                379.6          4.0        17.2      112.7
Tax exemptions
1979                          1.4                120.0          1.5         3.3       36.7
1978                          0.5                173.9         11.2         2.9      111.4
1977                          4.9                181.4          1.8         4.2       Z8.5
1976                          9.4                170.0          0.8        11.1       20.8
Tax credits
1979                          0.7                 79.8          0.1        16.3       28.2
1978                          0.5                 48.0         21.8         9.8       47.4
1977                          0.5                 42.4          na          na         na
1976                          0.5                 11.8          na          na         na
Source:  BOI                                                                                                      x
Industrial Projects Department
June 1981



- 48 -
ANNEX 4-4
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
TEXTILE SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
STATEMENT OF THE DEVELOPMENT POLICY
I.   Industrial Development Policy
The Philippine holds industrialization as one of the main tools
for economic development. Since the adoption of an industrial policy geared
towards self-reliance during the post war years, industry has gradually
emerged and developed to its present state. Latest statistics show that
for 1979, industry contributed 35.0 percent of the GDP. 25.2 percent of
this was from manufacturing which also accounted for 30 percent of the fixed
investment and 12 percent of the total employment. Inspite of these achieve-
ments, however, there is still much to be desired of industry if it will
have to be evaluated in the context of the new industrial thrust of competi-
tiveness in the international market.
Previous Industrial Policy
The industrial policy that was adopted during the post war period
emphasized the manufacture of import substitute products and consisted of
tariffs, import regulations and a system of fiscal and financial incentives
directed towards the industry. The nominal tariff rates adopted ranged from
10-100% with highest rates for consumer goods. On the contrary, the export
industries receive a lower effective protection rate of only 4%.
This tariff protection of the domestic market has been further
reinforced by an extensive system of import licensing administered by the
Central Bank. Under this system, import of certain commodities classified
as luxuries are prohibited. Imports of a number of intermediate goods which
are used primarily as inputs to local industry are also regulated to protect
the local manufacturer.
The combination of tariffs and import restrictions led to inefficient
use and allocation of resources. Emphasis was on the production of consumer
goods previously being imported at the expense of producer goods and exports.
The lack of competition from imports together with restrictions on entry
into many important industries, allowed inefficient high cost producers to
survive and added a substantial cost burden to the economy and the consumer.
Thrust of the New Industrial Policy
Aware of the shortcomings of the import substitution policy, the
Government felt it necessary to redirect its present policies to emphasize
export and world competitive orientation for industry. Although difficult,



- 49 -
ANNEX 4-4
Page 2
it is an imperative move in order to improve the existing conditions of the
industry. Particular attention will be paid tD ensuring that industries,
based on the country's comparative advantages Df a relatively inexpensive,
efficient sizeable work force and a substantial raw material base, operate
at scales both efficient and competitive by world standards.
In order to effect this new thrust of industrialization, the Govern-
ment has adopted the following policies that will induce development and
likewise, support industry during the re-orientation period:
-- Tariff reforms and deregulation of import restrictions
to allow international and domestic market forces to
play a greater role in the resource allocation of
industry;
-- Institution of industry management/development/
modernization/rationalization programs to assist
industries towards the adoption of technologies
and scales of operations which are efficient and
appropriate to the country-s comparative advantage;
-- Incentive reforms to encourage increased investments
into priority areas, consistent with the overall
national development objectives.
The textile industry is one of the first sectors where an industry
restructuring program is being implemented. Attention has been drawn to
this industry because of its important contributions to the industrial output
and employment generation. This is further reinforced by its excellent potential
as an export industry if it can be linked with the garment manufacturers which
have been well on their way in export.
Industry statistics show that in 1978, gross value added was P2.7
billion for textile and P1.7 billion for apparel or about 9.8% of total gross
value added in manufacturing. Employment levels reach 98,000 for textile
and for garments, 120,000 out of a total of 778,000 for the manufacturing
sector in 1978.
II. Objectives of the Textile Restructuring Frogram
Basic Problems of the Philippine Textile Industry
Over the past 25 years, the industry's level of performance indicated
the lack of direction and the need to take definite steps to modernize the
industry.



50 -
A,NEX 4-4
Page 3
The present textI.le industry is faced with severe structural and
operating problems. Production is concentrated in vertically integrated
mills producing a wide range of products. This organization has been highly
inefficient contributing to increased production costs and underutilized
capacities of existing textile mills. Another major problem is the use of old
and ill-maintained machineries and equipment by a big portion of the industry.
This case is true specifi-cally for the spinning and weaving subsectors wherein
a number of the machineries were produced during the 50's. The run down
state of the equipment results irnto higher fabric product4on cost.
Poor technical performance has cost the industry much in terms of
increased operating costs.  Quality control is often minimal and maintenance
usually disregarded with consequent increase in downtime for repairs. There
is also a shortage of qualified textile technologists and technicians, parti-
cularly mechanics and electricians. Such could be traced to the lack of
adequate training which has resulted in the degredation of skills among the
industry workers.
The structural problems in the Lidustry could be traced to the
industry's orientation immediately after the war.  The institution of import
controls have forced traders and importers to become manufacturers in order
to stay in business. Integrated mills producing a variety of products were
set up to meet the capricious market demard developed when main reliance was
on imports. Very limited competition among domestic producers, in combination
wiLth imnport controls, reinforced the tendency towards vertical integration
as finns could not be sure of obtaining inputs at reasonable prices and quality
from either the domestic or international markets.
Resulting from these is an industry which can only exist in a highly
protected domestic market. Tariff rates for yarn before 1981 were 30-50
percent, fabrics 50-70 percent and garments 100 percent.  Aside from the
tariffs, import restrictions are being implemented by the Central Bank together
with other Government agencies dealing with textiles and garments. The
restrictions cover imports of raw materials, intermediate inputs such as
spun yarn, fabrics and garments.
This situation has suited the domestic industry.  Inefficient firms
have survived rwhile the more efficient ones are getting higher profits, without
any fear of competition, because of restrictions on both expansion and entry.
Quality has suffered considerably to the detriment of the consumers.
Progrars(s Objectives
Against this industry background, the Government has formulated
the Textile Restructuring Program which aims to achieve the following
objectives:



- 51 -
ANNEX 4-4
Page 4
--  Transform, by 1985, the existing textLle industry into a
competitive and efficient industry abLe to produce at prices
and quality comparable to imported te:tile products, in
an environment of free entry into the industry and minimum
protection.
-- Achieve a greater degree of specialization, product and
process wise for the industry's mills.
-- To the extent possible, meet the requirements of the
export market both direct and indirect, through the
garment manufacturers.
The program will have components dealing explicitly with each of
the industry's subsectors of spinning, weaving, knitting and finishing.
Program Priorities
Because of the substantial investments involved in the modernization
of the identified subsectors, it is necessary to give priority to investments
where returns are immediate and comparative advantage exists. Ranking of
these priority areas are:
(i) rehabilitation investment in both spinning and weaving;
(ii) expansion in both existing spinning and weaving plants
to an efficient size where economically feasible;
(iii) new weaving investment;
(iv) new spinning investments.
Finishing and knitting investments will be evaluated on a case to
case basis depending on the requirement for the said subsectors. The BOI
will allocate new capacities to successful proponents based on its Investments
Priorities Plan. Existing firms who did not apply under the program will
in general have to await the program's evaluat:ion in 1985 before they can
be allowed to participate in the program. However, in special cases, proposals
which are consistent with the program will be considered.
In line with the 5-year tariff restructuring and trade liberalization
policies currently being implemented, the time frame for the modernization
program will be based on a five-year period sl:arting 1981 and culminating in
1985. Awards for the supply of equipment from bids conducted last quarter of
1981 are expected to be made by mid 1982. Equipment deliveries and erection
are expected by end-1982 and start-up operations in 1983. With the new
equipment, increased efficiency and lower tar:iff rates for raw materials, it
is envisioned that the industry will be compel:itive by 1985 in view of the
conditions existing by that time.



- 52 -
ANNEX 4-4
Page 5
III. Policy Framework
Broad Policy Parameters
To allow a more competitive market condition for the local textile
industry, the following policies are adopted:
1. Increased import competition through a reduction of tariffs
for textile and garment.
In line with the overall tariff reforms, adjustments in rates
of textile items are being effected in a 3-5 year period
starting 1981. Coverage includes fibers, yarns, fabrics,
garments and supplies. New rates are 50 percent for
garments, 30 percent for yarns, 40 for fabrics and 20
for staple fibers by 1983.
These tariff reductions are being phased over a 3-5 year
period to allow the industry to adjust gradually to a more
competitive environment. The Government intends, for the
period 1986-90, to further adjust the nominal tariff rates
for the textile and garment industry in order to bring the
effective rates of protection for this industry in line with
the average for the manufacturing sector as a whole. To
this end, the Government intends to formulate and adopt such
tariff adjustments by the end of the restructuring program,
i.e., by January 1, 1986.
2. Phased liberalization of import licensing on textile products.
Concomitant with the tariff adjustments, phased liberalization
of import licensing is to be undertaken for the regulated
textile items. Fabrics and textiles will be freely importable
by 1984 while the same will be true for synthetic yarn and
fiber come 1986.
The objective of the restructuring program is to allow the sector
to eventually operate freely with only the protection afforded
by tariffs.
3. Incentives and measure capacity.
Firms participating in the restructuring program will register
with the BOI and become eligible for the investment incentives
administered under Omnibus Investments Code. Modernization
and rehabilitation projects will be entitled to the same set



- 53 -
ANNEX 4-4
Page 6
of incentives as new textile investments. As part of its
priority determination for the sector, the BOI has set a
measured capacity for each subsector (i.e., spinning,
weaving, etc.) to discourage over-investment. Incentives
and financing under the program will not be awarded to
additional projects when such capacity is reached. As
the restructuring program is completed and the sector
operating on a more competitive footing, "measured
capacity" will be used only to limit the granting of
fiscal incentives. Accordingly it is intended that the
present regulation of the imports of textile machinery,
equipment and spare parts will be removed by the end of
the restructuring program, i.e., by January 1, 1986.
Specific Policy Elements
Aside from these general industrial policies, specific ones have
also been formulated for the textile mill proponants under the Textile
Restructuring Program:
1. Increased production efficiency through proper use and
conservation of energy.
With energy costs sharing 10-20% of the production costs
specially for textile finishing, emphasis for its proper
use will be given in existing mills and new undertakings
related to rehabilitation and/or capacity expansion.
2. Emphasis on quality control measures will be required of
program proponents to better product quality.
With the objective to penetrate the export market, more
careful consideration will be placed on product quality
comparative to those available in the world market.
Strict adherence to product standards will be required
of mills for their textile products.
3. Standardization of machinery equipment and spare parts to be
used by the industry.
Standardization will result in cost savings through bulk
purchases of spare parts and will deter the practice of
misdeclaring the prices of equipment/parts purchases.
Depending on the level attained, local production of
equipment and/or accesories/parts may also become viable
to the industry's benefit.
4. Training of industry personnel will be provided to increase
productivity and efficiency.



- 54 -
ANNEX 4-4
Page 7
A comprehensive training program formulated by the MTI/BOI
and the DBP will serve as guide to the program proponents
on what is expected of them to undertake in line with the
policy of increased productivity.
For the Government institutions involved in the program, technical
assistance will be given to make them more effective in implementing the
said program. Further training will be given the MTI/BOI and DBP personnel on
the aspects related to program supervision and monitoring. Consultants will
be hired to render assistance on these areas as needed.
IV. Program Implementation
To maintain a closer supervision of textile mills included in the
program, it is requisite that prospective participants register with the BOI
under its priorities program. Incentives under the Omnibus Investment Code
will be accorded all program participants in view of their BOI registration.
Modernization and rehabilitation activities will be accorded similar BOI
incentives as those of new investments.
Criteria covering management competence, financial standing, produc-
tion and export performances will be used to screen program participants as
these are deemed vital in gauging a proponent's ability.
Program applicants will submit for evaluation their project proposals
which include action programs on increased productivity and reduction of costs.
The applicants should also have plans for the specialization either by product
or by processes and the standardization of equipment and spare parts. Program
for man-power training to increase labor efficiency, energy conservation and
pollution control are also additional requirements. These specific require-
ments will be detailed in the Specific Terms and Conditions requirement of the
BOI registration.
To further promote and achieve product and/or process specialization,
the BOI will set indicative optimum plant sizes for the spinning and weaving
subsectors.
Since funding will be provided by the DBP and to avoid the duplica-
tion of evaluating the proposals, a joint BOI-DBP team will evaluate projects
for inclusion in the program. The MTI/BOI will provide for the analysis of
the technical, marketing and management aspect of individual proposals.
Financial and economic aspects including credit worthiness will be handled by
the DBP. Reports will be made to the respective BOI and DBP Boards for their
individual approval of the applications. A full economic evaluation will be
prepared for each proposal.



- 55 -
ANNEX 4-4
Page 8
For purposes of facilitating the standardization of capital equipment
and spare parts, the acquisition of such will be made to the extent possible
through bulk purchases limiting sources to either 3 to 5 suppliers. The
MTI/BOI/DBP, assisted by the hired consultants will identify the needed spare
parts/equipment after which an international Ibidding will be arranged for
their purchase.
On project supervision and program mionitoring, the joint team of
the MTI/BOI and DBP will also be involved, wit:h assistance from the SAL consult-
ants of the MOI. Eventually the MTI/BOI/DBP s;taffwill handle fully the super-
vision and monitoring activities. Results of monitoring the program will be
periodically evaluated to adjust the program features as needed.
The capabilities of the MTI/BOI/DBP as regards to their involvement
in the program will be further augmented by additional training, not to mention
increase in manpower. It is envisioned that a portion of the textile loan
will be allocated for technical assistance to the institutions concerned and
will involve personnel training in project analysis, supervision and monitoring.
Portion of the funds would also be used to f:Lnance consultancy services
to assist/train the BOI/MTI/DBP staff.
On the industry training, part of the technical assistance component
could also be used to implement the training of industry operatives technicians,
supervisors, technologists.



- 56 -
ANNEX 5-1
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
TEXTILE SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR TECHNICAL AND ECONOMIC CONSULTING SERVICES
TO THE BOARD OF INVESTMENTS (BOI) AND MINISTRY OF TRADE AND INDUSTRY (MTI)
Background
The Philippine Government, through the Ministry of Trade and Industry
(MTI) and the Board of Investments (BOI), has been drawing up plans for
implementing a sector program for the textile industry. The primary objective
of this program is to assist the industry in rehabilitating/modernizing
existing equipment and investing in new machinery and improving its operating
efficiency, so as to meet competitively the future demands of both the domestic
and export markets for fabric and garments. The program will involve policy
changes, including reductions in tariffs and easing of import regulations;
assistance to help the industry upgrade its technical operations; and finance
for projects approved by the BOI, through financial institutions designated by
the Government.
Due to the complexity of the program, the BOI and MTI intend to
strengthen their capabilities in sectoral planning and assessing project
proposals through additional assistance from consultants with suitable back-
ground and expertise, including whenever possible and desirable, joint ventures
with local consultants. The completed textile industry development program
would be made available to the consultants, as would the results of sector
studies that have been conducted by the Philippine Government and the World
Bank. A counterpart team of BOI/MTI and financial institution representatives
will be appointed to work closely with the consultants.
Scope of Consultancy Work Required
Consulting assistance is required in four key areas:
1.   In accordance with the guidelines set forth in the sector
program, evaluation of project proposals for approval by
the BOI, with special regard to the technical aspects,
including building up the capabilities of the institutions
involved with sector program implementation.
2.   Assessment of the manpower requirements and formulation
of a suitable training program to meet the needs of the
3.   Identification of areas, where significant improvement in
the overall performance of the industry could be realized,



- 57 -
ANNEX 5-1
Page 2
for detailed study and preparation of detailed terms of
reference for and supervision of the implementation of
these studies. 1/
4.   Monitoring the implementation of the sector program.
A.   Evaluation of Projects
The BOI currently has on hand, for its consideration, some
project proposals from the industry and expects to receive further
aLpplications from time to time. The BOI intends to process the pending pro-
posals as rapidly as practicable.
To assist the BOI in the evaluatiorn of these proposals, the
consultants will:
1.   review and update annually the supply and demand projections for
textiles for a moving period of at least five years, based on,
among other considerations, past sl:atistics; new investments
planned in the sector; realistic forecasts of population growth
and increase in per capita GNP; elasticity of demand for tex-
tiles products; and potential exports to EEC, North America,
etc.;
2.   determine the appropriateness of the proposed projects in the
light of the above market study and the overall development
strategy of the industry;
3.   assess the viability of the plant designs (capacity, balancing,
technology, layout infrastructures, services, etc.) and the
suitability of the equipment chosen for the proposed projects,
considering their employment generation capabilities and other
factors;
4.   review capital cost estimates with special regard to the price
of equipment to ensure that prices quoted are appropriate;
5.   investigate opportunities for cost savings in bulk purchasing
of equipment, where similar equipment is required by a number
of mills;
6.   assist in the economic/financial aaalyses of the proposed
projects, particularly with regard to assumptions on product
mix, production buildups, prices oE inputs and outputs as
well as breakdown of operating cosLs;
1/   Examples of such areas and guidelines for the terms of reference for
these are shown in Attachment 1.



- 58 -
ANNEX 5-1
Page 3
7.   review the technical operations of the project sponsors'
existing mills and, where appropriate, recommend the tech-
nical assistance and other steps necessary to improve the
efficiency of the existing mills and to ensure that the
proposed projects will be properly run upon completion.
Special attention will be given to assessing the adequacy
of the companies programs and facilities for training and
maintenance;
8.   review the environmental and related health aspects of the
proposed projects and evaluate/recommend measures for
treatment or protection;
9.   review the product mix, including in particular the
desirability of specialized vs. integrated production
facilities, and marketing arrangements of project sponsors;
10.   review the raw material supply availability and the pos-
sibility of encouraging the development of industries
supplying raw materials; and
11.   considering the industrial dispersal objectives of the
Government, review the decision of project sponsors
regarding the location of new projects.
In addition, the consultants will:
1.   draw up and help implement a training program in the
project evaluation and supervision for the counterpart
team composed of the staffs of the BOI and financial
institutions to improve their technical evaluation
capabilities; and
2.   set up a system to enable the BOI and Philippine financial
institutions to have access to information on changes in
equipment availability, technology and cost, in coordina-
tion with the technology information system to be set up
as part of the technical assistance component of the
proposed World Bank structural adjustment loan.
B.   Manpower Requirement and Training
Upgrading of manpower available to the industry, at all levels,
through suitable training programs is vital for the industry to improve
its efficiency. In this connection, a study is required to review the
manpower situation, identify gaps and recommend specific training programs
to meet the needs of the-industry, particularly with regard to technologists,
technicians, operators, and supervisors. It is envisaged that such
training programs would be carried out at the sector level as well as in
individual mills.



- 59 -
ANNEX 5-1
Page 4
In carrying out the training study, the consultants will:
1.   survey the present performance of operators, technicians,
technologists, and supervisors;
2.   identify areas of major weaknesses;
3.   estimate the value of the effect of improved training in
productivity and product quality;
4.   appraise the training facilities currently or potentially
available and, in particular, the contribution which might
be made by the Philippines Textile Research Institute;
5.   make detailed recommendations as to how adequate
provision for training and further education may best
be made both in the Philippines and abroad;
6.   make detailed cost estimates of the various components
for the program; and
7.   draw up an implementation program.
Once the study has been reviewed and the recommendations accepted
by the BOI/MTI, the consultants will be required to assist in the imple-
mentation of such recommendations, monitoring the results and recommending
improvements in the program.
C.   Other Studies for Improving Sector Performance
To improve the overall performance of the industry, the consultants
will identify areas for further study. These areas will include, but not be
limited to energy conservation, possibilities for local manufacture of
accessories, and effluent treatment for which the consultants will prepare
terms of reference based on the knowledge which they will acquire from
plant visits (as part of their work on projects evaluation in Section A).
Subsequently, they will assist the BOI/MTI in the supervision of these
studies. (See Attachment 1.)
D.   Monitoring the Implementation of the Sector Program
The consultants will assist the BOI and MTI to:
1.   develop and help institute an information system to assess
the state of the textile and garments industry, monitor its
developments and evaluate the impact of government policies
and programs. Taking into account the current status of the
statistical system in the Philippines and the efforts
currently being made to improve it in the longer term,
the system will include information on:



- 60 -
ANNEX 5-1
Page 5
i.   structure of the industry such as number, size
and degree of integration of firms;
ii.   age and technology of machinery;
iii.   manpower;
iv.   demand and supply projection for both domestic
and export prices;
v.   price trend and cost structure of major products
and areas of likely cost reduction;
vi.   raw material requirements, as well as sources and
prices of raw materials;
vii.   investment requirements for the various segments of
the industry;
viii.   financial structure and performance of the industry;
ix.   sources and costs of financing for working and fixed
capital and export financing.
This information should cover both firms registered with the BOI,
and other nonregistered firms;
2.   analyze and use this information base to monitor the impact of
the policy actions undertaken as part of the sector program.
This will include periodic studies of the cost structure of a
number of major products produced by different firms and the
potential for cost reductions and/or productivity improve-
ments. These studies will be used to monitor the impact
of tariff reductions on industry; and
3.   review the financing needs of the industry particularly
for export and suggest ways to improve access to finance
in coordination with the general export finance study
planned by the Government.
Consulting Team
Since the scope of work requires a wide range of consulting expertise,
MTI/BOI intends to employ a professionally qualified textile consulting firm
or institution with textile company operating experience or with close asso-
ciation with manufacturing companies as consultants. Such consulting firm
should have extensive experience (preferably in developing countries) and
with sufficient backup resources to cover all segments of the industry.



- 61 -
ANNEX 5-1
Page 6
It is envisaged that the firm would provide the services of a
number of technical experts, and industrial ezonomists experienced in
industrial planning and analysis of the impact of Government policy changes,
an information system specialist, and training specialists. Some of these
consultants will assist on a full time basis; others may work on a part-
time basis as dictated by the need of their services. On the whole, the
contract with the firm will be for a period of about three years. Con-
sultancy services may involve collaboration with local consultants (as in
the case of training specialists) both to hold down costs and to take
advantage of locally available expertise. Consultants are encouraged,
before submitting their proposals, to visit NTI/BOI to familiarize themselves
with the nature and the scope of the required services.
Proposals of Consultants
Proposals should include the following information:
1.   A brief description of the firm and outline of recent
experience on studies of similar nature.
2.   Any comments or suggestions of the consultants on
the Terms of Reference, and a description of the
manner in which the consultants would plan to execute
the work.
3.   The composition of the team of consultants which the
firm would propose to provide and the tasks which
would be assigned to each team member.
4.   Curriculum vitae of each individual staff member to
be assigned to the study and of staff in the home
office who would be responsible foir the supervision
of the team.
5.   Estimate of the time-effort required for the consulting
services, supported by a bar-chart diagram showing the
man-months for each expert.
6.   The consultants  comments, if any, on the data, services
and facilities to be provided by BJI/MTI.
The cost estimate for carrying out the consultants proposal should
cover all foreign and local costs of consulting services for this study,
including costs of experts in the field and home office. It should also
indicate cost to be borne by the Government for international travel,
office space, secretarial and other support staff, equipment, insurance,
office supplies, housing and subsistence allowance and local transportation.
Cost of preparing a proposal and of negotiating a contract including trips
to the Philippines is not reimbursable for firms submitting proposals.



- 62 -
ANNEX 5-1
Attachment
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
BROAD GUIDELINES FOR STUDIES FOR IMPROVING
TEXTILE SECTOR PERFORMANCE
The following areas are given as examples of where studies might
usefully be conducted to improve sector performance. The guidelines are
presented as suggestions as to the format for Terms of Reference for these
studies.
1.   Energy Conservation
Introduction
Textile manufacture involves a great deal of
energy consumption. Mechanical energy (particularly in
spinning) for the driving of machinery and direct thermal
energy in dyeing and finishing are very important cost
components. Escalation of the prices of oil in recent years
have caused a great deal of attention to be directed to
energy conservation. As a result, there are many new
techniques and devices coming into use by means of which
energy costs in manufacturing are being reduced. Consultants
will be engaged to assess the situation and prepare action
plans for improvement.
Term of Reference
The broad guidelines for the Terms of Reference
for the study on the scope for energy conservation in the
Philippines textile industry are as follows:
a.   Appraise the situation regarding energy conservation
in relation to that being obtained in other
countries;
b.   outline actions which might be taken to improve
the situation and the likely outcome of such
actions. It is expected that these will include
the installation of heat-exchange devices wherever
appropriate and also the use of integrated mechanical
energy/thermal energy systems in which waste heat
from mechanical and electrical power generation is
used to meet thermal energy needs, particularly in
dyeing and finishing. The value of supplementary
instrumentation for the more precise monitoring of



- 63 -
ANNEX 5-1
Attachment
Page 2
energy usage in the various subprocesses of
individual mills should also be appraised and
guidelines established for the determination of
realistic conservation targets in specific
processes;
c.  carry out detailed cost benefit studies on an
agreed list of actions whLch BOI regard as being
both appropriate and practical in relation to
industry views;
d. resolve energy conservation issues that have to be
faced, and prepare comprehensive plans for imple-
mentation of selected actLons.
2.   Local Manufacturers of Accessories
Introduction:
Accessories are required In significant quantities.
The cost of these is typically of the order of 10% of the
replacement cost of the machinery o:E a mill and their nature
is variable. Bobbins, pirns, and weavers' beams are not
machine-specific, but over the whole of the industry the
range of sizes used is wide. Drafting rollers, loom shuttles,
and printing screens are highly machine-specific. To minimize
the dependence of the industry on imported accessories and to
the extent to which it is practical and economically worthwhile
to produce these various categories of accessories within the
Philippines depends on a number of Eactors of which quantity
required, complexity of the componeat and the availability of
suitable raw materials are the most important. Consultants
would be engaged to study the situation, determine the extent
to which accessories could profitably be locally produced.
Terms of Reference
The broad Terms of Reference for suzh a consultancy are:
a. Prepare an inventory of all important accessories used
by the industry, quantities used and prices. Estimate
the cost of delays and of stockholding to individual
millers. Categorize these itemns in terms of cost to
the industry;



- 64 -
ANNEX 5-1
Attachment
Page 3
b.   examine the feasibility of domestic manufacturing
including assessment of existing local production
capabilities for all items for which there is a prima
facie case based on such factors as low material cost,
noncriticality of technical performance and high total
value;
c.   after reporting to BOI and industry representatives
on the finding under (a) and (b) above and agreeing
on a list of those items, the domestic manufacture of
which should be considered in greater detail, prepare
detailed costings for the manufacture and distribution
of all items on the agreed list and relate these costs
to present import prices and cost to the user. Arising
out of this work, recommend which items should be made
domestically and estimate the fixed capital and the
working capital which would be needed, and possibly that
they be included in the textile industry development
program by BOI.
3.   Effluent Treatment
Introduction
Operation of textile industry gives, in varying
degrees, noise, air and water pollution. Of these, the
latter two are the most far reaching in their consequences
and the most dangerous from the health point of view. In
both cases, the major source of pollution is effluent discharge
- air from gaseous effluents, such as flue gases and rejected
air, and water from the spent dye liquors and other discharges
from chemical operations. Much research and development
effort has been expended on these matters in recent years and
there is now a considerable bank of experience on which
developing countries may draw. Consultant advise is sought
to determine the extent to which it may be worthwhile to
control and limit environmental pollution by the industry.
Term of Reference
The broad Terms of Reference for such consultancy are:
a.   Survey the extent and importance of pollution resulting
from effluenct discharges by the textile industry. The
survey should include both gaseous and liquid effluents,
and a cost/benefit analysis of proposed pollution controls;



- 65 -
ANNEX 5-1
Attachment
Page 4
b.   report to BOI/MTI and discuss the situation with the
appropriate officials with the object of determining the
extent to which it is desirab:Le that the regulations
relating to effluent discharges be made more stringent;
c.   help formulate draft regulations;
d.   make recommendations as to how these regulations may
be met. Equipment needs shouLd be specified and both
fixed capital and operating costs which enforcement of
the regulation will incur should be estimated;
e.   prepare informative literature for the guidance of
mill personnel who will be responsible for compliance
with new regulations; and
f.   assist in the setting up/strengthening of the National
Pollution Control Commission with particular concern for
the technical problems which will be encountered.
Industrial Projects Department
June 1981



- 66 -
ANNEX 5-2
PHILIPPINES
TEXTILE SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
PROJECTED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(Excluding front end fee of about US$2.4 million on Bank loan)
Disbursements (US$ million)
Fiscal Year           Quarter            Quarterly       Cumulative
1983                      I
II                 3                 3
III                 3                 6
IV                 3                9
;834                      I                 8               17
II                10               27
III                11               38
IV                11               49
1985                     I                 11               60
II                12               72
III                11               83
IV                11               94
1986                     I                 10              104
II                10              114
III                 8              122
IV                 7              129
1987                     I                  5              134
II                 5              139
III                 4              143
IV                 3              146
1988                     I                  3              149
II                 2              151
III                 2              153
IV                 2              155
NOTE! The above schedule is in accordance with disbursement profile for the
industry sector in the Philippines. Actual disbursements will depend on
the industry-s response to the sectoral program. Furthermore, the
schedule is based on the assumption that the Project will be considered
by the Bank's-Executive Directors in April 1982.
Industrial Projects Department
January 1982



IBRD 13915R2
NOVEMtBER 19t81
16Ic        C-LASS(tIE .SIlkN)\ Ei.o   N  :               120                                                     24
?~ ~~~P tRS          51 :tO'A/iS AL l?lC IO>.S
. A.\IINAL/ 2/ It              I SN VISCAN                                     r
:'_O(OS               >-',!NSlIR\\'ISA\SAS                                    $n l                                     D l       E
loc,c i<ore               AM(                                                 I                          PHILIPPINES
I kcosSwA                                                                                                                                                             20e
i/loMuis: n                       c//cl
Ni s- SEccir C)doI
-  .0  102 d// FSo  5IRAN    - S ISA'S AS                                                              T        Arpors
'S  r gaRlral         ieg 0c trlont6                                    xRoads
'c AASi AN VALLuS          -  3Sholo                                                                                 Roi/ways
Sara' s                   S nu, or                                  ,                                           Rfwy
Coagyr           VT; i As  /    1555 /sz                                                                         Procoreral Boundaries
Kalnga Apayao             Nort2-,; Saavor
.3ar216                  Sornur                              ,>   <    > 4 c                                   Regional Boundaries
i'000(}                   o/aercESile r                           \ .,-.
Nuev n V is0(0,,          Lap                                                                              r-ternataeol B,ohdar,es
}uriqo                    S,1rhern Leyte           Looog.
SE(  RAL LC ZSSN      fX WLsOI r\ R .If\ 1)N2\ '0j 
N'e.evEcj                 Zamr.oalqgarelMit             i ~ e                                                                                          N
Tar                    :- Zam.oango du S,,r
Zambales               -Bas93 
Bulecpr, -                Su(u              fon'oc
Botasn              A NORrTll KN  INl\DNA0 '0
SOUTHERN  FAt,ALO                  /a  Nose  Sonando
Quezorn                   Ass ngr doi Nortc
Rizal                     M,sanis0r,eo ci      r    3       a o                                              0    SO      00O  150   200   250   300
ca, te  ~ ~ ~      ~     ~    ~     -            .KILOMETERSL
Mm,isOs0cc do-s,t                                                            MBS1
8,ttanga,                 A9usa, ad, S r   ~      >                                                          0 _    50         000           150       200
MiPdor cquo        X'isSOSOUT/LgRN MIINAeA( 0                   Jose
.1Icro Ocwidersco        Songaqo del Sur         Coc    i batun
0 /0000                   Davno                Angele       .
/I/r- or/ Si,
~~,amanm,Sos Nooo,ot                                      O'nMAN I N                                            r           -A
c0t0nduanes.           -  Lonor   Norte
Alboy                     LgaocdeSu r rd  2> . S ., -\
Soro,goo                  North Cota-ou:              /        _
Alsnaedq                                    i     llor  ><._ .  , i-  oipq 
--caloooni
so ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~aos
f-' --<CIapjm'--   '.;\\}\X > .-'
$1~~~~    t    -a                                                                     t 5        A/le
ros
-12'                 >                                                                                                                                                             12-
I~~~~~~~                                                                 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ cS  /  m'''
.2.  ''~"~                                                         Ilopas ''       '' ,-, a                  ho
IIaia         Bacaod/ 
P'i'caso ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ BseS
-   -                                              /  <-/  '                   /  e  buil' '  X~~~~~~~~''  o
L8sp v- 5.                                                                                          :                         S'', t                                        8
_ ~      ~       0 * 05al           j                                                           .-,           --|n   
go rs                                                         Th.s -ep has ho,, prepared loy the Wa,rp Back s stal o/sueyfrtefosec
of son readers f thn reprt to wO,,h irO otts,hed. Th. den,eati-os used and the
Os sodores shown so lOssmop de,, - p/. onI po  a o     World Bak end Se
124'                                                       128|
_;              i-e\-go                                                                      :: "'' iN A



