Document of            F z-
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3254-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
TEXTILE SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
March 31, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.,



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =   Peso (P (100 centavos)
P 1.00           =   US$0.123
US$1.00           =   P 8.1
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
BOI          - Board of Investments of MTI
DBP          - Development Bank of the Philippines
MTI          - Ministry of Trade and Industry
PTRI         - Philippines Textile Research Institute
SAL          - Structural Adjustment Loan
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January 1 to December 31
DBP:         January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
TEXTILE SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of the Philippines
Beneficiaries:    Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) and Board of
Investments (BOI).
Amount:            $157.4  million equivalent.
Terms:             Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace,
with interest at 11.6% per annum. The loan includes a
capitalized front-end fee of about $2.4 million.
Relending Terms:  $150 million of the loan proceeds would be relent by
the Government to DBP at an interest rate at least
equal to the interest rate charged by the Bank on the
proposed loan. DBP would, in turn, onlend to selected
textile firms at itssborrowing cost plus a margin not
exceeding 4.5%. Based on the Bank s present lending
rate of 11.6%, the cost to the subborrowers would be around
16.0%, which is a positive rate in real terms and is in
line with the current market rate for similar funds. The
lending rate from the Government to DBP would be reviewed
every six mDnths and, if necessary, revised to keep the
ultimate cost to the subborrowers in line with the market
rate for comparable funds. The Government would charge DBP
a front-end fee of 1.5% on the relent amount and a
commitment fee of 3/4 of 1% per annum on the undisbursed
portion; DBP would pass on these fees to its subborrowers,
who would also bear the foreign exchange risk on their
borrowings. $5 million of the loan proceeds would be
allocated by the Government to the Ministry of Trade and
Industry to finance technical assistance. The Government
would bear the foreign exchange risk on this amount.
Project
Description:    The proposed project is part of the Government s
textile restructuring program, which aims at transforming
the existing textile industry into a competitive and
efficient industry. The program, which includes changes
in the policy framework, technical and structural
improvements in textile operations, sectoral manpower
development, and financing of investment requirements for
the textile industry, is complementary to the Government's
ongoing industrial reforms aimed at improving the
efficiency of the industrial sector. The project would
provide finance for:
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(a) physical rehabilitation, modernization and expansion
of those textile subsectors which meet the guidelines
of the restructuring program;
(b) training for management and staff of individual
participating textile firms, and provision of
necessary technical assistance;
(c) establishment of training facilities and programs
to benefit the textile industry as a whole; and
(d) consulting services to assist the Government in:
(i)  evaluating and supervising participating firms;
(ii)  monitoring the impact of the restructuring
program and developing a textile technology
information service; and
(iii)  undertaking studies for improving the sector's
performance.
The success of the program would depend largely on the
response of the industry to the measures being planned and
the adequacy of coordination between involved agencies.
The main risk is that the proposed policy changes are not
carried out due to pressure from groups that are adversely
affected. However, the Government's strong commitment to
and support of the restructuring program together with the
ongoing exchange of views with individual textile firms,
are expected to assist in implementing the necessary
measures.



- iii -
Estimated Cost of the Textile                           Foreign    Local    Total
Restructuring Program /1                                        $ million--------
A: DBP
Individual textile sub-          485.0       97.0    582.0
projects
Technical assistance and          10.0        2.0      12.0
training
B: MTI/BOI
Technical assistance and           5.0        1.0       6.0
training
Total Program Cost                    500.0       100.0    600.0
Front-end fee on Bank loan               2.4          -       2.4
Total financing required              502.4       100.0    602.4
Financing Plan:                                          Foreign Local    Total
-  million -------
Bank Loan                         157.4        -       157.4
DBP and subborrowers                -        100.0    100.0
Suppliers' credits                345.0        -       345.0
502.4      100.0    602.4
Estimated
Disbursements:              Bank FY:  1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
…---------- -  $ million- -------------
Annual                11.4   40.0   45.0   35.0   17.0    9.0
Cumulative            11.4   51.4   96.4  131.4  148.4  157.4
Staff Appraisal
Report:         No. 3700-PH, dated March 26, 1982.
/1 The program is exempted from identifiable duties and taxes.



I                                                                                                                                          



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A TEXTILE SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $157.4 million to
help finance a textile sector restructuring project. The loan, which
includes a capitalized front-end fee of 1.5% on the Bank loan, would be
repaid over 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 11.6% per
annum. $150 million of the loan proceeds would be relent by the Government
to DBP at an interest rate at least equal to the interest rate charged by
the Bank on the proposed loan. DBP would, in turn, onlend this amount to
selected textile firms at its borrowing cost plus a margin not exceeding
4.5% (but not less than 2.5%). Based on the Bank's present lending rate of
11.6%, the cost to the subborrowers would be about 16.0%, which is a
positive rate in real terms (the projected average rate of inflation over
the next three years is below 10%) and is in line with the current market
rate for similar funds. The lending rate from the Government to DBP would
be reviewed every six months and, if necessary, revised to keep the ultimate
cost to the subborrowers in line with the market rate for comparable funds.
The Government would charge DBP a front-end fee of 1.5% on the relent amount
and a commitment fee of 3/4 of 1% per annum on the undisbursed portion of
the relent amount; DBP would pass on the front-end fee and the commitment
fee to its subborrowers, who would also bear the foreign exchange risk on
their borrowings.  $5 million of the loan proceeds would be allocated by the
Government to the Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI) to finance technical
assistance. The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk on this
amount.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic report, entitled "The Philippines:  Domestic and Exter-
nal Resources for Development" (No. 2674-PH), was distributed to the Executive
Directors under SecM79-822, dated November 16, 1979. An industrial sector
report, entitled "Industrial Development Strategy and Policy in the
Philippines" (No. 2513-PH) was distributed on the same date. A special
report, "Aspects of Poverty in the Philippines: A Review and Assessment"
(No. 2984-PH), was distributed to the Executive Directors on December 1,
1980 under SecM80-919. An economic mission visited the Philippines in
September 1981 and is now preparing its report./2 Country data are given in
Annex 1.
/1 This section is substantially the same as that contained in the
President's Report for the Urban Engineering Project (R81-296) which was
approved by the Executive Directors on December 8, 1981.
/2 Expected to be distributed to the Executive Directors in May, 1982.



-2-
Performance in the 1970s
3.        During the 1970s, economic performance improved considerably,
raising the trend GNP growth rate to 6% at the end of the decade. The ratio
of fixed investment to GNP rose from 16% to 25% during this period. Half of
this increase was in the public sector; the ratio of public fixed investment
to GNP rose from 1.5% to 6.5% during the decade, reflecting substantially
expanded revenues and improved implementation capacity. Export growth was
accelerated, particularly in nontraditional manufactures, while growth in
imports of oil and consumer goods was restrained.  Overall, expansion in
agricultural production was quite rapid, and rice deficits were eliminated
in the second half of the decade. Population growth slowed in the 1970s.
However, the economy still has a number of structural problems. Most
importantly, the efficiency of investment has been low, particularly in
manufacturing industry producing for the domestic market; industrial
employment has not expanded rapidly enough; and poverty is still widespread.
4.        The economy's structural problems are reflected in its balance of
payments. Improvements achieved in the early 1970s were more than offset
by a sharp deterioration of the Philippines terms of trade since 1975,
stemming from the oil price increases, accelerated international inflation,
and depressed prices for major export commodities. Consequently, the
Philippines has had to rely heavily on foreign borrowings to finance the
imports needed to maintain growth and investment levels. To hold the
external deficit at a sustainable level in the coming years, additional
structural adjustments in the balance of payments will have to be achieved,
primarily through reduced dependence on imported oil, increased efficiency
of investment, and improved performance of the industrial sector.
Development Strategy
5.        The Government-s Development Plan for 1978-82 has as objectives the
rapid expansion of productive employment; improvements in economic, social and
regional equity; and provision for the basic needs of the population. The
agricultural strategy emphasizes food production, crop diversification, and
stronger linkages with processing industries. The industrial strategy calls
for promotion of export industries, development of small- and medium-scale
industries, regional dispersion of industrial growth, increased efficiency
of investment, and selected large-scale projects. The Plan includes social
development targets in education, housing, health, and family planning. In
addition, the Plan outlines development strategies for each of the country s
13 regions. A recently completed Food and Nutrition Plan, which complements
the Development Plan, aims at eliminating malnutrition by 1990 through
increased food production and nutrition programs.
6.        The Development Plan elaborates the policy directions pursued by
the Government in recent years and is broadly in line with the Bank's
assessment of the country s development priorities. In view of changes in
the international economy, the Government has, in 1980, adjusted the Plan



- 3 -
and revised the growth targets downwards. A Development Plan for 1983-87
is now under preparation.
Macro Issues for the 1980s
7.        As noted above, the Philippines faces several fundamental long-
standing development problems which will need increased attention during the
1980s. The four most important of these are reduction of population growth,
poverty alleviation, employment generation, and increased efficiency of
investment.
8.        Population Growth.  The Philippines has achieved an impressive
reduction in population growth from 3% in 1970 to about 2.4% in 1980./1
Nevertheless, rapid population growth is still straining available land
resources, aggravating already serious employment and poverty problems, and
burdening the public budget with a high growth in demand for basic public
services. Further reduction of population growth is, therefore, vital for
the country's development. The Philippines has an active family planning
program which has expanded rapidly during the 1970s. However, participation
in the family planning program is still low by East Asian standards, and the
number of new acceptors has reached a plateau as the program nas faced the
increasingly difficult problem of extending into rural areas.
9.        Poverty Alleviation.  Despite satisfactory economic growth during
the 1970s, the incidence of poverty remains high at 40-45%. Income distri-
bution continues to be very skewed, and a small elite is conspicuously
wealthy. Regional disparities remain pronounced, with the incidence of
poverty reaching 60-70% in the least developed regions. Large numbers of
people, especially in the rural areas, which account for about 80% of the
poor, still suffer from malnutrition and lack safe water, basic education
and health facilities. An increasingly unfavorable man/land ratio, the
resulting expansion of cultivation into marginal lands, limited employment
opportunities in the industrial sector, and the sharp deterioration in the
external terms of trade have put downward pressure on real incomes.
Although the Government instituted several programs during the 1970s that
should directly improve the lives of the poor, most of these were
implemented on a large scale only toward the end of the decade, and will
require several years to achieve a marked impact. Key steps needed to
alleviate poverty will be the development of rainfed agriculture, more
balanced regional development, rapid expansion of manufacturing employment,
continued improvement in basic public services, and further reduction of
population growth.
10.       Employment Generation.  Growth of productive employment, partic-
ularly in the industrial sector, has lagged behind the rapid expansion of the
labor force, and considerable underemployment exists. During the 1970s, the
/1 This figure is based on a more recent survey than the data in Annex I.



- 4 -
agriculture and service sectors had to absorb an excessively high proportion
of new entrants to the labor force. Manufacturing employment stagnated in the
first half of the decade, and picked up only slightly thereafter as labor-
intensive export production grew. Overseas employment, especially in the
Middle East, increased rapidly, providing a temporary income opportunity. As
the absorptive capacity of the agricultural sector is limited, employment
generation in manufacturing will have to increase considerably in the 1980s.
11.        Efficiency of Investment.  While private and public investment rose
sharply during the last decade and have reached reasonable levels, the
accompanying expansion of the economy's real output has been relatively low.
In addition, the low rate of industrial job creation indicates that, on
average, investment has not been labor-intensive enough. The low efficiency
and low labor-intensity of investment have been caused by the distortive
effects of past trade, industrial, and financial policies on the allocation of
capital. In view of tight resource constraints to be faced in the 1980s, the
efficiency and labor-intensity of investment will be critical determinants of
future growth in output and employment.
Sectoral Issues
12.        The Philippines  macro-economic performance reflects achievements
and problems at the sectoral level. The more important of these are
summarized below for the agricultural, industrial, and energy sectors.
13.        Agriculture and Rural Development.  Although there has been con-
siderable variation among subsectors, the trend growth rate of the
agriculture, fishery, and forestry sector was about 5% during the 1970s,
which is quite high by international standards. The Philippines, once a
chronic importer of rice, began to export modest quantities in 1977, and
rice self-sufficiency appears assured for the 1980s. Production of fish and
nontraditional export crops, such as bananas and coffee, has also expanded
rapidly. However, the development of rainfed agriculture, which is of
critical importance for raising the incomes of the rural poor, has lagged
behind. Technologies to increase yields of corn have been developed only
recently, while multiple cropping systems are still at an early stage of
development. Productivity in the important coconut export sector remains low
because the recently introduced program to replace overage trees has not yet
attained rapid progress. Furthermore, population pressure on the arable land
is steadily increasing, and soil erosion in hilly areas that have been logged
over or settled is a serious problem.
14.        The Government has provided substantial support for rural develop-
ment. Agricultural production has benefitted from the introduction of high-
yielding varieties, improved credit, extension, and irrigation programs.
Rural infrastructure programs in water supply, electrification and health
services have also been expanded significantly. An agrarian reform of rice
and corn land, instituted in 1972, is well advanced.



- 5 -
15.       While these programs have achieved considerable improvements, the
gains have been uneven among regions, crops, and farming systems. Difficult
issues remain to be addressed if the living conditions of the rural poor are
to be improved. Solutions to the interrelated problems of low incomes and
poor soils in marginal settlements will require the development of tree
cropping and mixed farming technologies, resolution of land tenure
questions, and substantial upgrading of the administrative capability of the
agencies concerned. Steps are also needed to reduce poverty among subsistence
fishermen, coconut farmers, and sugar cane workers.
16.       Industry.  Although industrial and trade policies were improved in
the early 1970s, manufacturing industry grew only at about the same rate as
GDP, and its growth pattern remained unsatisfactory during the decade.
Excessive protection and artificially low cost of capital have led to low
efficiency of investment and stagnation of manufacturing employment in
industries producing for the domestic market. The introduction of export
promotion measures in the early 1970s led to extremely rapid growth in
exports of nontraditional manufactures, which rose from about $50 million in
1970 to $2.1 billion in 1980. Nontraditional manufactures now account for
over one-third of the country's total exports. However, the export
expansion has been concentrated on a few items, and backward linkages with
the rest of the economy have been limited due to the high cost and low
quality of domestic inputs. Consequently, nontraditional manufacturing
export industries have developed as an outward-looking enclave in an
otherwise heavily protected economy.
17.       The objectives of the Government-s industrial policy are to
accelerate growth of output and employment, sustain the high growth of manu-
factured exports, reduce import dependence of domestic industry, improve the
efficiency of investment, and promote industrial development outside the
Manila area. Since industries producing for the domestic market still
account for more than 80% of manufacturing investment, output, and employ-
ment, restructuring of home industries as well as continued export expansion
are needed to achieve these objectives. In 1979, the Government initiated a
series of fundamental policy reforms designed to improve the performance of
the industrial sector.   The first phase of the reform program, which is
currently being implemented, focuses on reducing protection through tariff
reform and liberalization of import licensing as well as strengthening
export promotion. The Government is preparing a second phase of reforms
that will address shortcomings in the industrial incentives and promotion
system.
18.       Energy.  Another sector critical for the success of the
Philippines' structural adjustment effort is the energy sector. Since the
1973-74 oil price increase, the Philippines has made a considerable effort
to reduce its dependency on imported oil. Demand restraint - largely
through pricing and taxing measures - held the growth rate of energy
consumption one percentage point below that of GDP. Steps to increase and
diversify domestic energy supply have included the development of
hydroelectric, geothermal, coal, and nuclear energy. Limited domestic



petroleum production also began in 1979. However, due to the long gestation
period of energy projects, domestic energy production still constituted only
17% of total commercial energy consumption in 1980. In response to the
"second oil crisis", the Government is accelerating its program for domestic
energy production but further taxing and pricing initiatives will also be
needed to restrain demand.
Domestic Resource Mobilization and Allocation
19.       Domestic Savings and the Financial Sector.  During the 1970s, gross
national savings expanded considerably, reaching 22.5% of GNP and financing
about 80% of total investment. However, the savings ratio needs to rise by
another 2-3% of GNP in order to maintain investment levels while simultanr-
eously limiting the current account deficit and the country's reliance on
foreign savings. In addition, interest rates and other financial incentives
affecting the labor-intensity and efficiency of investment, the flexibility
and competitiveness of the financial system, and the maturity of lending all
needed to be increased. Hence, in 1980-81 the Government introduced a
comprehensive set of financial reforms. Interest rates are being substan-
tially decontrolled, and revised monetary, fiscal, and rediscount policies are
being introduced. Legislation to encourage multipurpose banking has also been
adopted to reduce the present excessive specialization and fragmentation of
the financial system and to increase competition.
20.       Public Finance.  During the 1970s, the Government raised the overall
level of public expenditures by 5% of GNP and increased the shares going to
economic services and investment. At the end of the decade, total government
expenditures had reached 18% of GNP, with public investment equalling 6.5% of
GNP. The expansion of public expenditures has made possible improvements in
basic infrastructure, particularly in transportation, power and irrigation, as
well as expanded programs in urban development, health and family planning.
At present, the size of the public investment program is appropriate, and its
composition is, with a few exceptions, broadly consistent with the country's
development priorities.
21.       In the last few years, however, public investment has been cons-
trained by the availability of resources, outdated contracting regulations
and rigid budget execution procedures which were introduced in anticipation
of a tight revenue situation. Problems were particularly acute during the
period of high inflation in 1979 and 1980, and they caused the Government
actually to underspend its capital budget. As resource constraints are likely
to remain tight during the 1980s, further strengthening of investment
programming and budgeting procedures will be needed to concentrate resources
on the highest priority projects.
22.       The rapid expansion of public expenditures has been made possible by
a program of systematic tax reform. The proportion of revenue coming from
domestic taxes has been raised through increases in indirect taxes and
improved collection, thus reducing dependence on cyclically volatile taxes on
international trade. The tax ratio was raised by three percentage points to



- 7 -
13.3% of GNP during the decade, but has remained about constant in the last
few years. Continuation of a strong revenue effort, both by the Government
and government corporations, will be necessary to finance further expansion in
infrastructure and social services. Further tax reforms are needed to raise
the elasticity of the revenue system, to improve its equity by increasing the
proportion of revenue coming from direct taxes, and to eliminate remaining
distortions in economic incentives.
Balance of Payments Adjustment and External Capital Requirements
23.       The 1979-80 oil price increase has considerably tightened the long-
term balance of payments constraints for the Philippines. The share of
oil in total merchandise imports increased from 12% in the early 1970s to
29% in 1980. The current account deficit widened to $2.1 billion in 1980,
equivalent to 5.8% of GNP. If growth and investment rates are to be
maintained, accelerated structural adjustments in the economy and the balance
of payments have become essential to hold the external deficit at a
sustainable level. Considerable reforms have already been introduced with
respect to trade, industrial, and financial policies (see paras. 17 and 19),
and improvements are under consideration in energy policy. Additional policy
measures will be needed in these areas as well as resource mobilization and
investment programming. Implementation of necessary adjustment measures
should make it possible to sustain economic growth at 6.0-6.5%, mainly through
improved performance of the industrial sector. However, policy measures will
require a number of years to effect the needed structural improvement in the
balance of payments. The current account deficit, therefore, is expected to
remain in the range of $2.0-2.5 billion annually during the first half of the
1980s, while declining in relative terms to about 4% of GNP by the mid-1980s.
24.       The Philippines raised its external borrowing sharply to finance the
balance of payments deficits incurred after the 1973-74 oil price increase.
During the second half of the 1970s, net disbursements from medium- and long-
term loans doubled to $1.2 billion in 1980 and the debt service ratio stood at
20% in 1981. Substantial additional foreign capital will be needed during the
period of adjustment to the 1979-80 oil price increase, and net disbursements
from medium- and long-term loans will have to double again in the next five
years. If the Philippines can sustain the strong export performance of the
recent past, the debt service ratio would remain at about 20%.
25.       Official sources are expected to provide about 43% of the
Philippines- gross external capital in the early 1980s. The last Consultative
Group Meeting, held in January 1981, agreed that it would be reasonable for
the Philippines to seek official development assistance (ODA) of about
$1.2 billion during 1981, a slight increase over the ODA commitments it
received in 1980.
26.       As noted above, progress has been made in domestic resource
mobilization. However, because the deterioration in the terms of trade has
increased the Philippines external financing requirements, and many projects



- 8 -
planned for ODA have low foreign exchange costs, the necessary resource
transfer can be achieved only through some financing of local costs of
projects and non-project lending.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS /
27.       As of September 30, 1981 the Philippines had received 77 Bank
loans (of which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $2,960.7 million
and six IDA credits amounting to $122.2 million. IFC investments totalled
$143.8 million. The share of the Bank Group in total debt disbursed and
outstanding is currently about 11%, and its share in total debt service is
about 8%. These ratios are expected to be about 18% and 12%, respectively, by
1985. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans, and IFC
investments as of September 30, 1981 as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
28.       The volume of World Bank lending to the Philippines has increased
substantially from an average of about $90 million per year in FY71-75 to an
average of $420 million in FY77-81. Although the Bank has financed projects
in virtually all sectors of the economy, particular emphasis has been given to
agriculture, which has accounted for more than one-third of total Bank/IDA
lending. Another fifth of Bank lending has been for the transportation sec-
tor. Lending for power, industry, and social sectors followed in declining
order of size. The sectoral allocation of Bank lending remained fairly stable
throughout the 1970s. Pronounced changes took place only within infrastruc-
ture as lending for transportation and power declined in the second half of
the 1970s, while lending for water supply and urban development was initiated
during this period.
29.       Within sectors, however, considerable changes have taken place in
Bank lending. In agriculture, lending initially focused on expanding the
irrigation system, credit programs, and other services to support rice
production. More recently, efforts have been made to diversify agricultural
production through loans for treecrops, livestock, and fisheries, and to
assist low-income areas through integrated rural development projects. In the
industrial and financial sectors, the Bank initially concentrated on streng-
thening individual development finance institutions and on providing for the
credit needs of small and medium industries. In the last two years, however,
industrial and financial lending has been broadened to support the implemen-
tation of needed policy reforms. A structural adjustment loan was made in
September 1980 in support of trade and industrial reforms. Improvements in
financial sector policies were the basis for the May 1981 Industrial Finance
/1 This section is substantially the same as that contained in the
President's Report for the Urban Engineering Project (R81-296)
which was approved by the Executive Directors on December 8, 1981.



- 9 -
Loan, which also introduced a new institutional concept to broaden the reach
of Bank lending by channelling loans through an "apex" unit in the Central
Bank.
30.       While overall implementation of Bank-financed projects in the
Philippines has been satisfactory, disbursements have been slower than antici-
pated. Disbursement performance is somewhat below the average for the
region, and has shown a slowly deteriorating trend over the past few years.
Implementation problems increased in the late 1970s, reflecting, in part,
administrative problems caused by high inflation and tight budget constraints
(para. 21). They also result from the changes in the scope of the Bank-s
lending operations: a substantial increase in the number of projects, new
areas of lending, an emphasis on institution-building, and efforts to reach
specific target groups and deprived regions have all made implementation a
more demanding task than in the past. The first project implementation
review was held in May 1980, at which, among other issues, the relatively
poor disbursement performance was discussed. Steps have subsequently been
taken to correct some of the administrative problems which were discussed
with the Government during the review. Another implementation review was
held in February 1982.
31.       The Bank's future lending program has been designed to assist in
achieving the major objectives of the Government's Development Plan (para. 5).
Particular emphasis is being given to supporting poverty alleviation efforts
and to bringing about needed structural adjustments in the economy. Economic
and sector work is being closely integrated with lending operations. Future
project, sector, and structural adjustment loans will be designed to address
the wide variety of technical, institutional, and policy issues facing the
Philippines. Additional structural adjustment loans are planned to support
further reforms in trade, industry, and other key policy areas. In sectoral
terms, agriculture and rural development will continue to account for the
largest share of lending, with emphasis on food production and programs to
increase the incomes of the rural poor and rehabilitate existing cash crops.
Substantial assistance will be given to industry through further subsector
loans aimed at restructuring or developing specific subsectors; through
increased financial and technical assistance to small and medium industries,
particularly outside the Metro-Manila area; and through continued industrial
finance projects utilizing the recently introduced "apex" concept. Increased
effort is also planned over the next several years to develop domestic energy
resources and to strengthen the institutions responsible for developing and
managing energy supplies. The Bank's support for projects in education,
health, family planning, water supply, and urban development will aim at
improving basic services and supporting employment creation, particularly in
less advanced areas of the country.
32.       This is the third loan to the Philippines to be presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year. Loans for national fisheries develop-
ment, rural water supply and sanitation, communal irrigation, coal explora-
tion, and a third loan for small and medium industries have been appraised
and are scheduled for Board presentation later in the fiscal year.



- 10 -
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND THE TEXTILE INDUSTRY
The Industrial Sector /1
33.       Despite some improvements in industrial and trade policies in the
early 1970s, the rate and pattern of industrial growth has remained unsatis-
factory and continues to be a major cause of the Philippines' economic
problems. Rather than being a dynamic leading sector, manufacturing grew
relatively slowly during the last decade at 6.5% p.a., about the same rate
as total GDP. The majority of industries are highly protected and produce
only for the domestic market. Since the early 1950s, manufacturing
employment has grown slowly, and, instead of providing job opportunities for
an increasing share of the labor force has remained constant at about 10-12%
of total employment. Efficiency of investment is also low, and
manufacturing industry is heavily concentrated in the Metro Manila area.
34.       Historically, the industrial sector has been a large net burden
on the balance of payments, relying heavily on imported equipment and
intermediate goods, but exporting very little. Successful steps were taken
during the early 1970s to promote such nontraditional manufactured exports
as garments, electronics, footwear and handicrafts. As a result, nontradi-
tional manufactured exports increased rapidly during the decade and currently
account for nearly a third of the country's total merchandise exports. Also,
the rate of employment creation recently appears to have improved somewhat.
However, the export expansion has been concentrated on a few items, and back-
ward linkages with the rest of the economy have been limited. Consequently,
the nontraditional manufacturing export sector is an outward-looking enclave
in an otherwise heavily protected economy.
35.       Improvement in the performance of the industrial sector is crucial
to the attainment of the Philippines' development objectives. Manufacturing
is the key to accelerating income, employment, and export growth. It is
also important for restraining growth in imports of capital and intermediate
goods and for using capital and foreign exchange resources efficiently, and
for the Government's regional development objectives. Improved efficiency
of resource utilization in the industrial sector and maintenance of the
rapid growth in nontraditional exports will be critical to the success of
the adjustment effort to meet the economic challenge of the 1980s.
The Industrial Development and Policy Reform Program
36.       Since the late 1960s, there has been growing awareness in the
Philippines of the need to modify the import-substitution bias in industrial
and trade policies. In the late 1970s, the Government commissioned a number
of studies relating to industrial policy, the results of which indicated
/1 The industrial sector is normally defined to include mining and
quarrying, construction, public utilities and manufacturing.  The last
of these is the focus of this section.



- 11 -
that: (a) the chief causes of poor industrial performance were the highly
protective trade regime and the capital-intensive bias of investment
promotion policies; and (b) several industries needed restructuring.  The
Government's concern about the performance of the industrial sector led to
the subsequent undertaking of a Bank industrial sector mission in early
1979, followed by a joint IMF-Bank financial sector mission, to look at
interrelated questions of banking system reforms and industrial finance.
The reports of these two missions confirmed the findings of the Government's
own studies and helped in the formulation of strategies for industrial and
financial sector development.
37.       The Government has recently outlined its industrialization strategy
and policy reform program in a Statement of Industrial Policy for the 1980s,
which provided the basis for the Bank's Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan No.
1903-PH; FY81). Broadly, the Government seeks to develop an efficient and
competitive industrial structure based on the country's comparative
advantage with respect to labor costs and availability of raw materials. To
this end, an industrial reform program has been formulated which includes
staged reforms in two phases over a five-year period, designed to correct
the import-substitution and capital-intensive biases of existing industrial
and trade policies. The first phase is already being implemented by the
Government, and covers: (a) export incentives and promotion measures; and
(b) tariff reform and trade liberalization. The second phase, currently
under preparation, will cover: (c) investment incentives and their
administration; and (d) industrial restructuring and subsector programming.
38.       Export Incentives and Promotion Measures.  Since 1979, the
Government has adopted a number of measures to strengthen the export regime.
These have included stronger fiscal incentives for export industries, simpli-
fied import/export procedures, easier access to bonded manufacturing ware-
houses, and financial assistance through the modification of the Central
Bank's rediscount facility for exports, and by empowering the Philippine
Export and Foreign Loan Guarantee Corporation to guarantee loans to the export
sector. The Government also streamlined and strengthened the institutional
structure to support and promote exports. To this end, the Government
reorganized the Ministry of Trade,/1 supported the establishment of export
trading companies and broadened the charter of the Export Processing Zone
Authority to enable it to plan, develop and manage 12 new industrial estates.
39.       Tariff Reform and Trade Liberalization.  In 1980/81, the Govern-
ment legislated a major tariff reform program aimed at lowering the overall
level of protection in the economy. Starting in January 1981, and staged over
a four-year period, all peak nominal tariff rates will be reduced from 100%
and 70% to a maximum of 50%. Moreover, all tariff rates will be realigned
to even out the spread in tariff rates within and between industries. The
reduction in the higher rates of protection should lead to increases in
competitiveness and efficiency of domestic industries and help strengthen
the linkages between home and export industries. The movement toward greater
/1 Now the Ministry of Trade and Industry.



- 12 -
uniformity in protection within and between industries will reduce allocative
distortions and provide a rational incentive for justified import substitu-
tion. Since continuation of import licensing would thwart the aim of the
tariff reform, liberalization of licensing will be undertaken simultaneously
in accordance with a staged plan to allow industries time to adjust and to
spread any balance of payments effects.
40.       Investment Incentives and Streamlining of Administration Procedures.
As part of the second phase of the industrial reform program, the Government,
through BOI, is currently preparing a major reform of the industrial
incentives system which would substantially correct the shortcomings of the
present incentives system and complement the improvements in trade and
industrial policy initiated in 1980. Reforms would include: (a) reducing
sharply the current large number of fiscal incentives and eliminating their
capital-intensive bias; (b) focussing incentives more directly on achieving
such industrial development objectives as export promotion, regional dispersal
of industry and employment creation, and linking incentives more closely to
performance; (c) rationalizing the process of selection of industrial
activities eligible for receiving industrial incentives (i.e. priority
determination); and (d) improving the administration/accessability of the
incentives system both by streamlining and simplifying administrative
procedures and by reducing the project evaluation period.
41.       Industrial Restructuring and Subsector Programming.  Sector
development programs would be formulated for selected industrial subsectors in
conjunction with the trade liberalization program and the reform of the
industrial incentives system. Typically, these programs would outline a
strategy for the development of a particular industry over the medium-term and
provide a rational basis for determining and coordinating government policies
at the sector level. Sector programs would be an important source of
information on comparative advantage and would help identify the need for
fiscal incentives, technical assistance, finance and other measures, including
levels of protection, which might be appropriate for the promotion of a
particular industry. Moreover, the programs set out for the various sectors
would represent an important part of the indicative planning by which the
Government provides information to guide private sector industrial investment
decisions. The Government also plans to establish a number of industrial
complexes which would contribute to technological deepening and
import-substitution in the production of intermediate goods.
The Textile Industry
42.       The textile industry was one of the first industries to be developed
in the Philippines following independence, and is still one of the most
important, contributing some 13% to both manufacturing output and employment.
However, the development of the industry has been haphazard as a result of
the import-substitution strategy adopted by the Government. Following the
introduction of import controls in the early 1950s, the domestic textile
industry grew rapidly as traders and wholesalers turned from importing to



- 13 -
domestic manufacturing. Since 1965, however, when the industry had reached
two-thirds of its present size, growth in the industry's capacity has slowed
considerably as imports have been almost completely replaced by domestic
production.
43.       The textile industry currently receives substantial protection
against imports with nominal tariff rates increasing as the stage of
processing progresses, i.e., from 30% on fibers to 100% on finished cloth.
The effect of the escalating tariff levels has been to provide high rates of
effective protection on the value added in each process in the textile
manufacturing chain, ranging from 90% on fibers to 170% on garments. In
addition to the tariffs, most textile and clothing items are subject to
quantitative import restrictions.
44.       Import controls and high protection levels, combined with limited
competition among domestic producers, led to a lack of specialization and a
bias toward vertically integrated mills producing a wide range of products.
This structure of production has been highly inefficient. In addition,
operating costs have increased as a result of the continued use of old and
ill-maintained equipment, minimal quality control, and a shortage of qualified
textile technologists and technicians. High prices for textile fabrics and
consequently for clothing, combined with generally inferior quality, have made
domestic textiles unsuitable as an input into the export clothing industry.
This industry, in contrast to the domestic textile industry, has been
remarkably successful in recent years, with garment exports growing from $36
million in 1970 to $433 million in 1980. These exports, however, are using
almost exclusively duty free imported fabrics with little value added and
little backward linkages to the domestic manufacturing sector.
45.       The textile industry is heavily concentrated in and around Metro
Manila, with 97% of gross output and 90% of employment originating in this
area and adjacent provinces. This concentration is the result both of the
lack of infrastructure in the provinces and of the importance of Manila as a
market. Some decentralization has occurred in the garment industry, which
is less capital-intensive and can be based in smaller units than the textile
factories, which need a reliable power supply and access to imported
materials and spare parts.
The Textile Market
46.       An assessment of the textile market based on raw material imports
and domestic production of synthetic fibers indicates that in 1979 total
production was about 120,000 metric tons (mt), of which 9,700 mt were
exported (2,600 mt yarn; 4,900 mt fabric and 2,200 mt garments) leaving
about 110,000 mt for the domestic market. This implies that per capita
domestic consumption is about 2.4 kilograms (kg), which is lower than in
other comparable countries such as Thailand where per capita consumption is
2.8 kg. However, this discrepancy could be explained by the widely
acknowledged unrecorded imports and illegal barter trade in the southern
part of the Philippines; illegal imports for local consumption are estimated
at 25% of the domestic market.



- 14 -
47.       Based on the estimated textile demand elasticity, growth of GNP
per capita and population growth rate, the domestic demand for textile
products is expected to increase at an annual average rate of 5%, reaching
148,000 mt by 1985. Direct exports, however, are unlikely to increase
rapidly in the near future and are projected to remain at the present level
of around 10,000 mt per year. On the other hand, the opportunity exists for
substitution for imported fabrics presently used by the dynamic garment
export industry (para. 44). Although it is technically possible that by
1985, local textile production could substitute for 50% of the garment
industry-s imports, in practice and due to financial, organizational and
marketing constraints import substitution is expected to reach only about
25% (approximately 23,000 mt of which 7,000 mt in denim). Therefore, the
expected demand for textile products in 1985 is estimated at 181,000 mt
which, while reasonable, could be affected by the difficulty in assessing
the impact of the proposed restructuring efforts on a possible increase in
fabric imports, a reduction in illegal imports and price elasticity.
The Textile Sector Restructuring Program
48.       As part of its industrial policy reform program (paras. 36-41),
the Government intends to implement sectoral restructuring and rehabilita-
tion programs concomitant with trade liberalization and improved investment
promotion policies. These would be designed to help existing industries
produce at lower costs, improve efficiency, and otherwise increase
competitiveness in order to adjust to the policy changes. The tariff
reform will establish the price levels at which domestic industry must be
competitive and also the time-frame for the restructuring programs.
49.       As the textile industry will be subject to substantially greater
competitive pressures as tariff and trade liberalization come into effect,
the Government has selected it as the first industry to be restructured
subsequent to the initiation of the tariff and trade reforms. This priority
is also dictated by the industry's urgent need for rehabilitation and
rationalization, its importance in supplying a basic need of the population
and as a source of employment, and its considerable potential for export,
particularly through the garment industry. A comprehensive restructuring
program for the industry has been formulated to assist textile manufacturers
in achieving the higher levels of efficiency stipulated by the ongoing
policy changes. The objectives, scope and implementation plan as well as
the policy framework of the Government's proposed restructuring program for
the textile industry are set out in a Policy Statement prepared by MTI/BOI,
the implementation of which would be reviewed periodically by the Bank and
the Government (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement). This statement
is attached as Annex IV to this report. The program, which covers a
five-year period (1981-1985), includes policy reform, technical assistance,
manpower training and financing of rehabilitation and/or expansion of textile
machinery and equipment.
50.       Program Objectives.  The textile restructuring program aims to
achieve the following objectives:



- 15 -
(a)  to transform, by 1985, the existing textile industry into a
competitive and efficient industry able to produce, at prices
and quality comparable to imported textile products, in an
environment of free entry into the industry and minimum
protection;
(b)  to achieve a greater degree of specialization, by product and
process, for the industry's mills; and
(c)  to the extent possible, to meet the requirements of the export
market, both directly and indirectly, through the export garment
manufacturers.
51.        The Program.  The restructuring program, which deals only with the
textile industry's subsectors but does not include garment-making, will
involve a three-pronged strategy, encompassing the key areas of policy
changes, technical and structural improvements in operation, including
sectoral manpower development, and financing of investment requirements.
(a)  Policy Changes.  These will include primarily tariff reductions
and import liberalization which will ensure that the industry
operates in a more competitive environment that will encourage it
to improve its efficiency. Nominal tariff rates on textile items
are being adjusted (para. 39) and will, by 1985, range from 20% on
fibers to 40% on fabrics and 50% on garments compared with 30%,
70% and 100%, respectively in 1980. The industry will still have
considerable protection against imports, however, and effective
protection rates will range from 50% on fibers to about 83% on
fabric. The Government intends, for the period 1986-90, to
further adjust the nominal tariff rates for the textile and
garment industry in order to bring the effective rates of protec-
tion for this industry in line with the average for the manu-
facturing sector as a whole. To this end, the Government intends
to formulate and adopt such tariff adjustments by the end of the
restructuring program, i.e. by January 1, 1986. The relaxation of
import controls would also be of vital importance in developing a
competitive environment. Concomitant with tariff adjustments,
phased liberalization of import licensing is being implemented for
textile items. Fabrics and textiles will be freely importable by
1984, and synthetic yarn and fiber by 1986. Moreover, the Govern-
ment intends to remove the present restrictions on the importation
of textile machinery, equipment and spare parts by the end of the
restructuring program, i.e. by January 1, 1986.
(b) Technical and Structural Improvements, and Sectoral Manpower
Development. There is considerable scope for the industry to
adjust to its new policy environment, particularly in relation to
greater product and process specialization, rehabilitation/
replacement of aging equipment, and improvements in technical
operations. Improvements in efficiency, with consequent
reductions in production cost, and improvements in yarn and fabric



- 16 -
quality can be achieved if the industry either increases
specialization by process with spinning, weaving and finishing as
separate operations, or increases specialization by product, where
mills may be vertically integrated, but are geared toward
production of specialized products. The decision as to replace-
ment versus rehabilitation should be made on a mill-by-mill basis,
taking into account capital and operating costs. However, in
weaving and finishing, rehabilitation of existing equipment,
together with improved yarn quality would, in ost cases, lead to
improved productivity and quality of final products . Under the
program, individual mills will be assisted to undertake necessary
changes through drawing up action plans to improve productivity
and operations and through assistance in selection of equipment.
BOI will encourage these changes by granting incentives only to
those firms meeting guidelines for industry restructuring.
Proposals for assistance from the industry will be considered
against a set of technical restructuring guidelines which has been
drawn up by BOI, and would be subject to rigorous financial and
economic analysis (para. 58); approved proposals would have access
to financing.
While the quality of top management in the sector is generally
good, there is a clear need for training at all levels in the
industry. Technological management is currently provided mainly
by expatriates and there is a strong case for training more
Filipino technologists. A severe shortage of adequately trained
technicians is having an adverse effect on industry efficiency.
Under the program, the identified weaknesses in manpower skills
will be addressed through a comprehensive training program (para.
57b) for managers, supervisors, technicians and operators.
(c) Financing. The third element of the restructuring program is the
provision of finance for financially and economically viable
projects meeting BOI's technical restructuring guidelines (para.
58). Priority would be given to those investments where returns
are higher and where a clear comparative advantage exists. A
preliminary ranking of these priority areas would be: (i) selected
rehabilitation investment in spinning, weaving and knitting; (ii)
expansion in existing spinning and weaving plants to an efficient
size; (iii) new weaving and knitting investment; and (iv) new
spinning investment. Investment in finishing would typically
depend on other investments and on the demands of the market, and
would be undertaken as required. Based on market projections
(domestic and export) and a strategy of selective rehabilitation
accompanied by replacement of obsolete machines and new investment
to meet additional demand, balancing existing facilities, and
expanding them to economic size, the estimated investment required
for the program is about $600 million of which $500 million is in
foreign exchange (para. 67). Financing of foreign expenditures
would be provided under the proposed loan and from biltateral
sources, notably suppliers  and buyers  credits; local costs would
be met mainly by subproject proponents.



- 17 -
The Bank-s Role and Future Industrial Lending Strategy
52.       The Bank's lending to the industrial sector (channeled through the
Development Bank of the Philippines, Private Development Corporation of the
Philippines, Philippine Investments Systems Organization, the Industrial
Guarantee and Loan Fund and the Central Bank's Apex Development Unit) has
amounted to $548 million, including $110 million allocated specifically for
small- and medium-scale industry (SMI) financing.
53.       In 1978, the Bank reviewed its operational program in the indus-
trial sector in the Philippines and reached the conclusion that while the
Bank's past lending to individual development finance companies (DFCs) had
had significant institution-building effects, industrial and financial
sector policy improvements should be the major objectives of future Bank
lending./l The findings and recommendations of the Industrial sector
Study (para. 36) provided the basis for major changes in industrial and
trade policies supported by the first Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan No.
1903-PH). The subsequent Industrial Finance Project, approved in May 1981
(Loan 1984-PH), is also directed toward industry and will help broaden
access to longer-term finance.
54.       The Bank's future lending program would assist Philippine industrial
development through: (a) a series of structural adjustment loans associated,
inter alia, with industrial policy reforms in such areas as tariffs, export
promotion measures and investment incentives; (b) industrial finance projects
to support complementary financial policy and institutional reforms; (c)
individual subsector loans that would assist in the restructuring of major
industries; and (d) broadened institutional support for employment-creating
activities, including particular attention to SMI.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
55.       The Government, through its program of structural adjustment, has
set the directions for industrial development through the 1980s. The policy
changes in that program, namely tariff reductions, import liberalization,
export pfomotion and investment incentive reforms, will be the key instru-
ments in improving the competitiveness of industry and moving toward the
Government's prime objectives for an increased growth in industry, continued
large increases in exports of nontraditional manufactures, more rapid expan-
sion in employment, more productive use of capital, and greater development
of industry outside the Metropolitan Manila area. Within the existing
framework, the proposed project would assist the Government in the implemen-
tation of the textile restructuring program, which involves policy changes,
/1 The only Project Performance Audit Report for Bank lending within the
sector (No. Sec-M77-360 of April 29, 1977) was on PDCP (Loan No. 630-PH).



- 18 -
improvements in the structure and technical operations of the industry, and
financing of investment requirements as elaborated in para. 51.
56.       The proposed project was prepared by the Government (MTI and BOI)
with the assistance of the Bank and consultants, and was appraised in
March/April 1981. A post appraisal was undertaken in October 1981 to
review, inter alia, cofinancing and technical assistance arrangements,
procurement procedures and the institutional coordination mechanism for the
implementation of the restructuring program. Negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C. in March 1982. The Philippines negotiating team was led
by the Honorable Hermenegildo Zayco, Governor of the Board of Investments.
A Staff Appraisal Report, No. 3700-PH, dated March 26, 1982, is being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Supplementary project
data are provided in Annex III.
Project Scope
57.       The proposed project, which is part of the restructuring program,
can be divided into two main components: (a) the provision of credit through
DBP to finance individual textile subprojects; and (b) technical assistance.
(a) Subproject Component
(i) the physical rehabilitation, modernization and expansion of
the various subsectors, including spinning, weaving, knitting
and finishing, which meet the guidelines of the restructuring
program (para. 58);
(ii) training of technologists, technicians, operators and
managers, and technical assistance to individual
firms with a view to improving their technical operations
and reducing costs;
(b) Technical Assistance Component
(i) setting up of training facilities/programs to benefit the
entire textile industry; and
(ii) consulting services to assist the Government:
a. in the evaluation and supervision of the projects and
firms which participate in the restructuring program;
b. in monitoring the impact of the sector program and in
developing a textile technology information service; and
c. in carrying out studies for improving sector performance
in the areas of energy conservation, effluent treatment,
local manufacture of accessories, etc.



- 19 -
58.       The Subproject Component ($150 million).  Funds provided under
this component would be lent by the Government to DBP for investments in
the textile industry that meet the following technical restructuring guide-
lines established by BOI:
(a) subprojects resulting in greater specialization by product or
process, and those planned to reach a specified economic size;
(b) rehabilitation of spindles older than 1960 and looms of pre-1951
vintage will not be allowed and new looms will be wider and
faster; and
(c) new knitting machines will be of wide gauges geared to export of
full-fashioned knitwear.
In addition to these general technical guidelines, each subproject would be
subject to rigorous financial and economic analysis to ensure its
viability. The subproject's ability to increase productivity, achieve a
target for export (direct or indirect) and reduce cost and energy consumption
is one of the parameters to be considered, along with previous management
performance. In addition to physical investments, training requirements and
technical assistance for individual subprojects would be financed. For firm
level training, the training consultants would analyze production related
problems and recommend corrective measures and training of staff in plant
operations, management and quality control methods and techniques.
59.       The Technical Assistance Component ($5 million).  Funds provided
under this component would be made available to BOI/MTI to finance consulting
services: (a) to assist BOI/MTI in sector planning, project evaluation,
supervision and monitoring; and (b) to undertake specific studies to help
improve the overall performance of the industry. Sectorwide training under
this component would be carried out in accordance with a comprehensive five
year manpower development plan recently prepared by BOI, with the assistance
of a training consultant. This plan, which has been reviewed by Bank staff
and found satisfactory, contains recommendations regarding the training needs
of the sector, training programs for textile manpower at sector and firm
level, and facilities required for carrying out these programs.  BOI has also
prepared appropriate proposals for training those of its staff responsible for
implementing the sector program.
Organization and Implementation
60.       The proposed program would be implemented jointly by BOI and DBP.
BOI would be responsible for approving projects for incorporation in the
program and for eligibility for investment incentives. DBP would review and
approve subprojects to ensure that normal credit conditions were met by the
project sponsors, and that the subprojects were financially and economically



- 20 -
viable. MTI would also be involved in coordinating the associated policy
changes in tariffs and import liberalization.
61.       The evaluation of subprojects would be carried out in two phases.
In the first phase, DBP and BOI would evaluate subprojects and loan applica-
tions jointly through a joint DBP/BOI evaluation unit which has been set up
for this purpose (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).  Project
evaluation would cover all normal technical, financial, managerial, marketing
and economic aspects of the proposed subprojects. This joint project
evaluation would ensure that subprojects meeting the technical restructuring
guidelines referred to in para. 58 would have access to finance. The second
phase of evaluation would involve detailed financial and economic evaluation
of the subprojects and would be carried out by DPB only; particular attention
would be given to assessing the financial position and performance of the
subproject sponsors. The final decision on a subproject's financing would
rest with DBP.
62.       BOI, as the government agency in charge of the implementation of
investment laws, has extensive experience in dealing with the industry
through approving projects for eligibility for incentives and in monitoring
the performance of projects for which incentive privileges have been
awarded. However, because of the complexity of the restructuring program,
BOI would strengthen its technical and market analysis capabilities in
project evaluation, project supervision and program monitoring through the
use of consultants (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).  Since the
consultants would play a vital role in the implementation of the sector
program, it would be essential that BOI appoint a consulting firm with
textile operating and engineering experience. The team should include
specialists in the fields of spinning, weaving, finishing, training,
marketing, and financial/economic analysis. BOI has recently appointed a
consultant team acceptable to the Bank. Also, in order to help improve the
overall performance of the industry, BOI would hire experienced consultants
to carry out specific studies such as energy conservation, effluent
treatment and local manufacturing of accessories.
The Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP)
63.       DBP, a government-owned development bank, is by far the country's
largest supplier of long-term credit.  Since 1972, when first appraised by
the Bank, DBP has made significant progress in improving its policies,
organization, staffing, operating procedures and finances. These improvements
enabled DBP to expand its operations significantly from P 50 million
a year in 1971 to about P 2 billion annually since 1975. Notwithstanding
these improvements, DBP continues to face a number of organizational,
operational and financial problems, to which there are two main contributing
factors. Firstly, DBP's portfolio remains highly susceptible to cyclical
fluctuations in the economy, particularly because the industrial sector has
yet to overcome its structural weaknesses.  Secondly, as the financing arm of
the Government, DBP has been called upon to make loans/investments at the
behest of the Government which have sometimes not proved to be commercially



- 21 -
viable, but were deemed important by the Government on socio-economic
grounds. Under the third Industrial Investment Itroject,/l the Government
agreed to take steps to: (a) protect DBP against potential losses arising
from government-behest loans, and (b) help DBP sell its large investments in
three specific companies. In addition, the strengthening of DBP's
institutional capacity was a primary objective of the recently approved
Industrial Finance Project under which DBP agreed to an "Action Program"
which spelled out the steps to be taken in addressing its remaining
institutional and financial problems. DBP has now been accredited for
participation in the Industrial Finance Project and has made good progress
under the action program to address the long-term issues.
64.       DBP has had considerable experience in the sector as a major lender
to the textile and garment industries. However, to implement a program of
this complexity and high level of technicality, substantial technical
assistance will be required. The consultants employed by BOI will assist
the BOI/DBP joint evaluation unit, particularly in the areas of market
analysis, project design, capital cost estimation and assumptions on real-
istic production achievements. DBP's staff capability in project evaluation
and supervision would be upgraded through training programs, including
on-the-job training through their involvement with BOI's consultants (Part
B(2)(b) of Schedule 2 to the draft Loan Agreement).
65.       As a guideline, subprojects eligible for financing under the
restructuring program should inter alia (a) have a minimum economic rate of
return of 15%; and (b) should be financially viable after applying a maximum
nominal tariff rate of 30% in calculating the financial rate of return
(Section 2.05(b)(ii) of the draft Project Agreement). Special attention
will be given to subprojects' choice of technology to ensure that excessive
capitalintensity is avoided, and enterprises will be encouraged to locate
outside the Metro Manila area, taking advantage of the additional incentives
offered by BOI for decentralization. The BOI/DBP joint evaluation unit will
also monitor approved subprojects during construction and operation to
ensure their smooth operation and to assist in identifying problems that
might arise.
Training
66.       As for training, BOI would also be responsible for the implementa-
tion of the manpower training plan (para. 59) which, in addition to the train-
ing requirements at the textile firm level (para. 57(a)(ii)), includes a
three-year sectorwide manpower training program which provides for training
equipment, facilities, fellowships and hiring of instructors. The latter
program will focus on developing a new cadre of training officers, trainers
for mechanics and operators, and conducting refresher courses for technolo-
gists, supervisors and technicians. A Textile Training Foundation, which
/1 Loan 1572-PH, dated June 6, 1978.



- 22 -
will be supported by the Textile Association of the Philippines and the
Philippines Textile Research Institute (PTRI), was recently established to
supervise the implementation of the sectorwide training. PTRI-s facilities
would be improved under the proposed project and used for the sectorwide
training. The Textile Training Foundation would also assist textile mills in
the planning of their own individual training programs, identification of
potential sources for technical assistance, and placement of overseas
trainees.
Program Cost and Financing Arrangements
67.       The total cost of implementing the Government's textile sector
restructuring program over the four-year period 1982-1985 is estimated at
$602.4 million, of which $502.4 million is foreign exchange. The proposed
Bank loan of $157.4 million would cover about one-third of the foreign
exchange requirements of the program; the balance of $350 million in foreign
exchange is available to the Government from bilateral sources including
suppliers' and buyers' credit from major textile machinery exporting coun-
tries including Europe, India, Japan and the United States. In order to
assist the Government in raising any additional funds for this program, the
draft Loan Agreement includes a standard cross default provision (Section
5.01(h)) which could be applied if a new lender insists on having an agreement
with the Bank, i.e., formal cofinancing, and the Government agrees.
68.       Of the proposed loan of $157.4 million, a front-end fee of about
$2.4 million would be paid to the Bank (Section 2.05 of the draft Loan
Agreement), and $150 million would be lent to DBP under a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.01(c) of the draft Loan
Agreement) to finance individual subprojects. The signing of the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement would be a condition of loan effectiveness. The balance of $5
million would be made available to BOI/MTI to finance technical assistance and
training. While Bank financing would focus on rehabilitation as well as
finishing and auxiliary (air conditioning, etc.) equipment, funds from
bilateral sources would be available to finance imported spinning and weaving
equipment required for new investments.
69.       The technical assistance component to be implemented through
BOI/MTI (para. 59) is estimated to require about 200 man-months of expatriate
consulting services, at an average cost of $10,000 per man-month, including
salaries, fees, travel and subsistence. The training programs (sectorwide
and for BOI/MTI staff), including facilities, equipment, and fellowships,
would cost about $4.0 million, of which $3.0 million would be in foreign
exchange.
Features of the Proposed Loan
70.       Relending Terms.  Under the ongoing Industrial Finance Project
(Loan 1984-PH) the Central Bank lends the proceeds of the Bank loan to the
participating financial institutions (PFIs) at an interest rate at least
equivalent to the interest rate charged by the Bank plus a service fee of



- 23 -
not less than 0.75% p.a. The PFIs in turn onlend the proceeds of the Bank
loan to end-users with a maximum spread of 4.5%.  The resulting interest rate
to end-users reflects current market rates for comparable funds.
71.       Under the proposed loan, DBP would charge subborrowers the prevail-
ing market rate in line with the criteria adopted under the Industrial Finance
Project. The Government would lend Bank flnds to DBP at an interest rate
that would allow DBP a spread not exceeding 4.5% but not less than 2.5% to
cover its overhead expenses and credit risk. This relending rate to DBP,
which would not be less than the interest rate charged by the Bank on the
proposed loan, would be reviewed by the Government every six months and would
be adjusted, as necessary, together with subborrowers' interest rates, so that
the latter would closely reflect market rates; the new rate would be applied
to uncommitted funds (para. C of Schedule 4 to the draft Loan Agreement).
Any margin between the relending rate to DBP and the Bank rate would accrue
to the Government. In addition, DBP would be charged a front-end fee of
1.5% on the relent amount and a commitment fee of 0.75% on the undisbursed
portion; these fees would be passed on to DBP's subborrowers. The sub-
borrowers would also bear the foreign exchange risk on the Bank funds onlent
to them by DBP; the Government would bear the foreign exchange risk on the
balance of the Bank loan provided to BOI/MTI for technical assistance and
training purposes.
72.       Amortization Schedule.  The Government would repay the Bank loan
over 20 years, including a grace period of 5 years, in accordance with
standard country terms. DBP, however, would repay the Government in
accordance with a flexible amortization schedule, corresponding to the
aggregate amortization schedule of its subloans to end-users. It is expected
that these subloans would have a maximum maturity of 15 years and would
range from 6 to 12 years. Funds repaid by DBP to the Government, in
conformity with the Subsidiary Loan Agreement (para. 68), would be credited
to a special account that would be established in the Central Bank.  Pending
repayment to the Bank, these funds would generally be used to finance
expenditures on rehabilitation and restructuring of the industrial sector.
Quarterly reports would be submitted to the Bank on the utilization of these
funds (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
73.       Subloan Size and Free Limit.  A free limit of $4.0 million would
be established above which subloan proposals would be reviewed by the Bank
prior to approval. While this free limit would be higher than the $2.0
million set for DBP under the recent Industrial Finance Project, this is
justifiable as (i) consultants would be assisting DBP with subloan appraisal
to ensure consistency with the restructuring program (para. 64); and (ii)
the Bank would review closely the work of the consultants during the early
stages of the project. This free limit would be reviewed periodically by
the Bank and revised, as necessary, in consultation with DBP. In addition
to the free limit, the first three subprojects requiring subloans of over
$2.0 million would be reviewed by the Bank (para. 2(b) of Schedule 1 to the
draft Loan Agreement).



- 24 -
74.        To ensure that the proceeds of the proposed loan were spread among
an adequately, large number of subprojects, subloans would normally have a
ceiling of $8 million (para. 3(d) of Schedule I to the draft Loan Agreement).
However, Bank financing could exceed this ceiling in cases where a subproject
exceeded $25 million in capital (installed) costs and had been reviewed in
the field by the Bank.
Procurement and Disbursement
75.       DBP would require subborrowers using Bank loan proceeds to follow
international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures consistent with Bank
procurement guidelines, for contracts costing the equivalent of $1.5 million
or more each; contracts below $1.5 million equivalent would be awarded
following competitive bidding from suppliers registered with BOI, and from
at least three countries eligible to compete for the supply of such goods
(para. B of Schedule 1 to the draft Project Agreement).  DBP's recently
revised procurement guidelines have been reviewed by the Bank and found
satisfactory. Consultants to be financed under the proposed loan would be
employed in accordance with Bank guidelines for the use of consultants,
dated August 1981, and their terms of reference would be approved by the Bank.
76.        The proceeds of the proposed loan would be used to finance the
foreign exchange cost of imported equipment, erection, consulting services
and training. All withdrawal claims would be fully documented.
Environmental Impact
77.       BOI and DBP have undertaken to ensure that adequate pollution
controls, in conformance to the national code maintained by the Philippine
Pollution Control Commission, are installed and adhered to in subprojects to
be financed under the restructuring program. Firms will also be required
to control the emission of fiber and dust into the atmosphere to reduce
workers exposure to risk of respiratory disease. The technical assistance
to be provided under the proposed project would help BOI, DBP and the
industry itself in reducing pollution from textile operations. DBP would
require that implementation of subprojects approved under the restructuring
program be carried out with due regard to appropriate ecological and
environmental factors and health and occupational hazards (Section
2.06(a)(i) of the draft Project Agreement) in accordance with the guidelines
of the relevant government departments and agencies.
Project Monitoring
78.       Besides substantial inputs by Bank staff during subproject reviews
at headquarters and periodic field supervision, consultants employed under
the proposed project (para. 62) would also be required to monitor the
implementation of the sector program.  Their services would include the
development of an information system to assess periodically the state of the



- 25 -
textile and garment industry and monitor its developments including markets,
industry structure and performance, and price and cost structures. This
information would be used to evaluate the impact of government policies and
programs. Consultants would prepare monthly reports on the program's
progress and their recommendations for submission to BOI/DBP and the Bank.
Benefits and Risks
79.       The proposed project would support the textile restructuring pro-
gram which emerged from the Government's industrial policy reform aimed at
increasing the efficiency and competitiveness of domestic industry over the
next 3 to 5 years. This policy reform is expected to contribute to an
acceleration in the growth of manufacturing value added from 6.5% to over 9%
in the years 1985-90 and double the annual rate of employment creation from
3% to over 6% (providing about 150,000 jobs per year) over the same period.
80.       The textile sector was selected because of its important contribu-
tion to industrial output and employment, its need for substantial structural
change, its importance in supplying a basic need to the population, and its
export potential. The proposed project would assist the textile sector in
adjusting more smoothly to the new competitive situation as a major portion
of the production capacity would be modernized and made substantially more
efficient; by the end of the restructuring program about 75% of total
installed capacity in spinning is expected to be internationally competitive,
and, in weaving, 25% import substitution to garment exporters could also be
achieved (para. 47) compared with the present negligible level. The
restructuring program, when completed, would lead to cost reductions and
improvements in unit productivity estimated at 15% in spinning, 13% in
weaving and about 15% in finishing. Reducing the constraints arising from
the high cost of production, and expanding the textile market to substitute
for part of the garment industry's imports, would increase value added
growth and employment. In addition, a 50% increase could be achieved in
local textile production, from 120,000 mt in 1979 to a projected 181,000 mt
in 1985. Out of this 61,000 mt increase, incremental indirect exports
through the garment industry are expected to reach 23,000 mt per year.
81.       The major risks of the project are those related to the policy
changes and the administrative efforts by MTI, BOI and DBP. In view of the
prevailing economic situation and the depressed state of the textile sector,
the policy changes might not be carried through in the face of pressure from
groups that are adversely affected, particularly the least efficient textile
firms. If the policy changes did not eventuate, the project objectives would
not by fully realized, to the extent that the industry would not strive to
be as competitive as it possibly could and that some of the funds would act
to bolster marginal firms, with no broader economic benefits. Also, in view
of the complexity of the program/project and the large number of institut-
ions involved in its implementation, a heavy administrative burden will
fall on BOI, MTI and DBP that will require adequate coordination. If such



- 26 -
coordination and improvement in the textile sector's efficiency were not
forthcoming, disruption in project implementation could occur as well as
possible social problems associated with displaced workers, which could
jeopardize the restructuring program.
82.       The safeguards built into the design of the project, by clearly
defining the working arrangements and procedures between the major imple-
menting institutions, are aimed at minimizing the administrative risks.
More importantly, the Government's strong commitment to, and support of, the
restructuring program, together with the ongoing familiarization and exchange
of views with the textile firms, are expected to assist in implementing the
necessary measures and policy changes. As a pilot program, the successful
implementation of the textile restructuring program would have important
implications for the overall success of the Government's industrial policy
reforms.
83.       Finally, protectionist trends in the developed countries towards
textile exports from developing countries are not expected to pose a serious
threat to the Philippines restructuring program. These measures are mainly
directed to dominant textile exporters and the Philippines is not in this
group. The Philippines textile industry's direct exports of yarn and fabric
are small and are unlikely to increase rapidly in the near future (paras. 46
and 47). Moreover, under the recently concluded Multi-Fiber Agreement for
the period 1981-86, nondominant textile exporters like the Philippines are
treated more favorably with regard to quota restrictions. As for garments,
despite the substantial increase in garment exports (para. 44) the
available quotas have not been fully utilized and the limited growth in
garment quotas is not expected to affect the growth of the Philippines
indirect textile exports.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
84.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the
Development Bank of the Philippines and the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank,
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.  In addition to
the special conditions of the project listed in Section III of Annex III,
the signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government of the
Republic of the Philippines and DBP would be a condition of loan
effectiveness.
85.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 27 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
86.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 31, 1982



- 28 -                                             ANNEX I
-2BLE-3A                                          'Page 1 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PHILIPPINES                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEICHTED AVEIAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL              3o0.G                                   MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
nGRkCULTLtAL       90.8                1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b            ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     15G.0        240.0      600.0                  1136.1                   1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        159.1        292.9      355.9                   1150.6                   1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MOD-YEAR (THoUSANDS) 27372.0         36852.0   46748.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OP TOTAL) 30.3            32.9        35.8                    40.8                     64.2
POPULATION PKOJECTIONS
PuPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                           75.2
STATIONARY POPULATIoN (MILLIONS)                            125.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                      2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER Sye. KIM.                        91.2        122.3      155.8                    373.1                     34.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    360.0           472.0      502.6                   2382.8                     94.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
O-14 YRE.                            44.6         45.5       44.3                     39.8                     40.7
15-o4 YRS.                            52.4         51.6       52.6                    56.7                      55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      3.0          2.9         3.1                     3.5                      4.0
POPULATIuN GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 2.7          3.0         2.6                     2.3                      2.4
URBAN                                 3.8          3.8        3.6                      3.8                      3.7
CKCDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        45.7         39.2        34.4                    29.7                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        15.6          10.8        8.2                     7.5                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.3          2.8         2,3                     1.9                      2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ,.        191.7      650.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             2.0       37.0                    44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OP FOO) PRODUCTION
PER LAPUTA (1969-71-100)            102.0        101.0      114.0                   123.7                     108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT CF
REQUIRhkENTS)                      97.0        102.5      107.7                   112.6                     107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PkR DAY)             45.0         50.0       53.0                     62.5                     65.8
OF WHICH ANIIHAL AND PULSE         17.0         20.0       21.0                    19.7                      34.0
ChILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        15.6          9.6        6.3                      4.8                      7.6
WEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    51.0            57.3        61.6                    64.0                     64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              98.0         80.0       65.0                     50.2                     70.9
ACCESS TO SAPE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         36.0       43.0                    45.9                      65.7
URBAN                                  ..           ..       66.0                    68.0                      79.7
RURAL                                  ..           ..       33.0                    34.4                      43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                             57.0       59.0                     53.4                     59.9
UKBAN                                  ..           ..       76.0                    71.0                      75.7
RURAL                                  ..           ..       44.0                    42.4                      30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICLAN                 ..           ..    2758.2                   4428.7                    1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            ..       3840.0    3115.3                    2229.7                   1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              1134.1        821.8      558.0                   588.5                     471.2
LRBAN                               536.2        392.7         .,                   579.6                     558.0
RUKAL                                  .,           ..         ..                  1138.5
AOMISSIONS PEE HOSPITAL BED               ..        30.0         ..                     36.7
hOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 5.8          5.9
URBAN                                  ..          6.2
RURAL                                  ..          5.8
AVERAGE NUftBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..          2.3
URBAN                                  ..          2.1
RURAL                                  ..          2.4
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OP DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                16.5         23.2       36.0
URBAN                                  ..         60.4       82.0
hURAL                                  ..          6.8       10.0



ANNEX I
-29-                                          Page 2 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PHILIPPINES                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b           ASIA S PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCA'I ION
ADJLSTED LNROLLMENT RATIOS
PRKMAHY:      TOTAL                  95.0        114.0      105.0                    99.8                     101.7
MALE                   98.U        115.0      102.0                   100.6                     103.0
FElMALE               93.0         113.0     107.0                    98.8                      101.5
SELONDARY:   TOTAL                  2b.0          50.0       56.0                    53.5                      35.3
MALE                   28.0         59.0       65.0                    58.4                      34.9
FEMALE                25.0          42.0      47.0                    48.6                       35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  15.0              ..       34.0                    21.1                      30.1
PUPIL-TE(AChER RATIO
PRIMARY                              3b.0         29.0      31.0                     34.2                      29.6
SECONDARY                            27.0         33.0       36.0                    31.7                      15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          71.9         82.6       88.4                    86.5                      80.0
CUNSUMPT1ON
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATIoN                            3.0          7.6       8.9                     12.7                      42.6
RADIO RECEIlVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          21.9          46.6      43.5                   174.1                     215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            1.4         10.9       19.1                    50.6                      89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    17.0         13.6       21.2                   106.8                      62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.6              ..        7.6                     4.3                       3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10893.2         13478.1   16608.5
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    34.4          33.1      32.3                     37.4                      22.6
AGKICULTURE (PERCENT)               61.0          53.0      46.7                    50.2                       35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  15.2         16.0       16.9                    21.9                      23.2
PARIIClPATION KATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  39.8         36.6       35.5                    40.2                      31.8
MALE                                   52.1         48.6       47.6                    49.8                      49.0
FEMALE                                 27.4         24.4       23.2                    31.1                      14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.2          1.3        1.3                     1.1                       1.4
INCUME DISThIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..         25.1
HlGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            54.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..          5.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..         14.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..            ..     260.0/c
RURAL                                  ..           ..     195.07                  193.7                    187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (U1$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..     266.0/c                    ..                    513.9
RURAL                                  ..           ..     200.0d7                 234.3                    362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       32.0/c
RURAL                                  ..           ..      41.OTh                  32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1980.
Revised
June, 1981



ANNX I
- 30 -                                                                       Page 3of 5pages
DEFINITIONS OF lOCIdI 1l'1ICATORS
Note:  Although cth  dat. ac   rn   cnsoesgnrlyjde  tese   chrte Iso  tlcola  itshul  alec het ..t..  tha t1hey,eyttheitt
thelece, usefol en dea-ibe orders of eagoleude, iodooaetretde, and oh a...t-oIa  otnin n-Jo, difftrane-  beo-ee  coca...
The re  rnegop   t  1) the  aecooe   eu n-  the,  -Ihjeotooo-tryaad  (2) acoteo   g-oo  echO1 .ovent higher anerage cno-e than ala  --tty greop
oi oh     picconatacptir'acalIuF                          IlETy--er` gen-p alo- "Middle Itoa.             rhooc   n   ouelt ....cho.en.na...se of.sorenge
sa eccluo   dfinlse)%1_   I0 ne-feceee group data the a--rgat ae- po          -alo egh,ted a-naooeac   o   ahinla                        r   ho.-. only che
aajoiey ofe      Ioere          ira  grop haa dot  fo   hthucan            ic t   he  onfag    P conres ano-g cth n  atn    epn  onone. an- eilbiley of deas
a-d Iano-o-afoe.-a--io-a ...            aeoI   etor.t.la.ng...egsofoaind                ...on...n.a t. t heeorgemnneflrcpeccafo
one ledit.at  eea  a tine .... g the oc...ntya-d  -re,etrne   -.
LAND ANRIA (oh- ..a.s.a(                                                                            onaonpr   onr   e  -tga,cro , ar  n.,l - FpolaItlo   (otl
T.fal - Total ea-fee aeae comprising ladae  adIoan   ste.uhr nd  oral d                                                dtolded  ho ole  -tespctoot- n           Ieh h,o lespitel hetf_
hgei-oltc..al - EIsealeee of agricultura  eees ced  oteporarl  on permnenly                        a.aolahla in pab1c atd poi-ae gaera,l and epael ,.iaed hayn    n   a
foe trpe, petts -aket any kItchen gardea or to lie falice; 197N dar.                             hatil Ialto   etr     Oeiatar   ealles aprmnel   tffed
GNP PTER CAPITA (US$) - ANT Pee capItaahenea   u n    raneepIs,a-                                    dial  -ao -te n-  i-l-oed          he R- Itpas.hoe .  Irrde health
colaced hy saee  .oner -Ion nehoc as  ad takAtlas (19)-7   heels); 199,cdelIaIeeeenrpsmneiaefadheFyatt(atf
197., seA 1979 den.                                                                                aedr   asia_-t,  --ce  nideile, etc.)  hooh offe ani-peni.tettoo
fNERGY CONSIINPTION diR CAP ITA -Aocal -ccplco   oonilaotp(oltnlpoae   oa  h.clce  nlosIta                                                             Ferlel) gTes  haspi..e...
eod ligon,patlu.   suageardydo,   n_nAee7_d gentler,,lele-                                          enrrshcoellcaorrehsct                            cdvedlcalco.d -aettet
eroo)Ir kologsaofcap    qla-o   e  capta;196.e970   r                     9                   centr      poeta   nopnl.oeicoedol1 ndreel
daa-                                                                                             Adteloms jar hoIILedal tad- Tonl        1aser of  delseo..e roaor discharges
fro. _oosploal dtnided hy the conher to heds.
POPULA.TION ANl VITAL STATISTICS
TofaI Petolnon-, MOO-hear (toocean~do) -e  f Solo 1; 0910, 1)70, and 1979                      00L1110
dafa.                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aoa,n,oeI'loofpcoaetold)p paonerchruethcld(-nora.ueh-s,  aed  rara-
Urba  Foanc  (reenat of total) - Rac_Ir ofI hltb                oa,ouaIo;0hceolcnl,  o     nu   fidoda acoeaeine   att
differ-r  dog  I1i-eoct   oorlac.. a.aaa ta  aFfect compa-ah11ty of daa                          and theIr oeal  no Ae    hoaue-..        ldEe gony ore         Io be iroladad In
as_tgco.....e;       0   97,  an  1970 dana                                                      tba      ...s... ton ....
dorliofneclrAoaaaaeofeec proo-cairhn soar-hoegtm
oaoaaio  in  ear  011   Co--r  ryluo    brjccr               ate .acdon1990                henpeo            a   onInaluhn  and  ara  o:ccpIed re tiet_l
Pno-rIc   baaen  for moea  ed ',racea ctmptfe  of ehot lvl  ase totpedPt
log lofa coeonacc.y at boh   nnootgthh                           -aoy'ayncpita fo--c         Inest leotSre   rr oI   eLte)-itotal.~b se _.sd tnl-I
len1, cod itnat lIfeepoerynhtleg c.. 77.5  Peac.   Tepat-                                      Ioottlr         ea:IrE. iOel eleenIy In  -ifog qu-nt-  55P.                -B
feilil ftp  eor ding no in-on  1-1e and Past facoly pla..rtog petforoe
Earh-ouen  ata  c-eftd one of thes -nbni-oh                   iatoc   of  -oorslle        EDUCATION
edfriftp-trend     for  no'_tioo PurPoses.                                           Adj-eted  OnlaenRtios
Staflotarn   oralaefoc-caecetli--y populaliot  heoc  Pto   rothsnc                       Ffer  a-hco  - totl. -ala and fec1t - Ito. eonsl. -1el   eAfml
nIt  Int rateIt  qoalho tIt  sethrate  an  alt  eltagtceroeuteto-enrolesn   ofal lgataeheprImry_lnefas-peceeage  offespeffo
Ohbi        Itrt.I    q.let ethlsed  mystnf     e   es  dooeo                            one   colae   P,plauae; roely    oue  chlPrtaedhl
tIc rep:acen   lenel of -cIoltrt t-P-d-eaoi to             h nI ar  gY_s~In                       5t bcn adc-ted  Inn doffte-t 1egehs rf peimaty ednt.. ee:foe
of coan relacesfesef  eoaclp.   he estfoia..ny popolatiossesOtcrs   Or   tnealeosfo  to                                                 t say sensed ff00 Pe-ee
eslat honae hase of t ha  roe te-1d oaeaio of eh  paualo                                  se-ee   popillseabato h    t he ofiiis  ofes
in she Pea  2000, and the oats If denlies oF fen_t iit  _tea  no repisce-                      Seode   cho      oel   aesd ise                   - OCe.Patd asabns   steds
tees lend.                                                               e~~~~~d.oefo.q.r.   a   lss.fc  yeste of spysend pfin_y feIsocfee
fet.- a   Iaaynrclto   is-ec-d - The year den  et-t .oocoy populee.on                               pr...geea...oeraf   nnare    rfea   eteaft  fee  .paik
efes has b...  ...uhed.                                                                          usaly  f12 to 17 Years .i age; oo-apoed-e oate.                  t  gealfy
Per so. ko.- sOd-year.. pplatco  pet squar  Atloe...uer (100 he -ees) of                        fVc-ota-  -or1....t (perr-t of so          Vds)      - tnieefe1  esi-fafi...
-nt1  -ee; 1960, 1970 e.  1979 dat.Ocastcool,fdsra,a  othet peogree whirl epee-. ledePed-
Per sa. kn. arlcla aa cd - C.apured te  bhcve foe  grcuiuallad                                     anl"tegdpr mesc   sood-ey i-stletiee..
ol:f60. 1970 end 1978 data.                                                               Pathl t-eehbe  netic -aImarn. ad ....odarn -Tas  seaeec  smIsd is
Potolantan  ce Otecocun   (nercert)    Thlldeac (-la yeene(  enrhfcg-as ~10       peiaay end spcooasy landle-bidedyby eabersiciddsbbste ba-eh
feo ; 162,190sa179 dcc                                                                      Adut  'tteract!rte(roe) -Literte  dlsfls  eta   e  mefes
Ponlalo tIntee..l1 Rat  (neam      oel     noa  groa I ratee of roa1 nid-                             sapeo-e-ge of t-t1 adolt popolteitd agdI5YPst_ sA  n
"Panaioc Orree  Rae (otneoet) - urba  -A do.cal gr-eth t.efe  of -tha  popo-                   COgiSUiPTION
lanlo.c for 1950-h6. 19-0, AMd 1970-79.                                                        Paehe es(a   eho..o Igusf)-P..ssaEsgetrsr  -ae.ys. mess
(nods Binah Rate Toer ohl.oen)-Ate   oehel  p                   h .h..s-d of aid-year              cssetin   esfc   Ih   eet;ecae   maaea    ere   e
ypano;1990, 1970, and 1979 dar.                                                           sooafeiol
CeaDe sai  Rate (Pra  th-ouad) - Aeca   eth e-hoeneo  ai-yetRdoimiea   nrhosdarltin .l   pe   i ese                                                                       o   ai
Isoe  netadarion   ats-neree cober  fi da-ghten-aca-a   sIll hear in                      i cosdeclseh   reotfe   sd Onyee  sha  sgs oan                         f -iedie
bar a-ea  reptodontina peid isIF            eapr--oe       ...en  age-seio  is-                  sets as dn eff.o. ; date            ..esn  Years my roe begea.pasablsae
nil ftp  se;u lyi n-aeseee  endlofig in 1960. ~'1970, edi1979.                                   eat -a-iea aloltehed li.eosfe.1
Pamily Pl...cic -OcAe-p-., Acocl(th-usseeda) - Actual  -ob-r of accptors                         Th iReiet  feteosah-            alaie           eseeafeIsaesa
cf i`hf ...h- 1eto   denitse onder.  ...I..e of  ......s  f-etly pleentng ptegra..               g.aea :ipubicper theus...ad papalstio;  ..ldatltsadTV eseILeas
FsmilynPlee. ofra-lsers  (per-at ofaaenledeaae - fe-cenege nf  -eold                                tcoeeead              Y.oeeeeesleeltfdossss    f ffat.
..omaeofichidI-bese.a   age .(~15-44 fears) e1,a oat bi-h--tore    d-nireaso                   Neeaeso.. Tiroofemlot (eath eho..and eaea1aeioa( - ibsh ss hasnS.ssoi-
all eariad noseIt sae.  ag   rop:ales  ci  dily geasa   eesessss',dfedspeefs
publll-tie  da-teed p=iefly to  esoedle    ssafea                t  smmideead
FOOD AND NUTRTfION1                                                                                  tobe     'aiY' Of fiappe..e.se  Lesm  ifa  tims  mah
Tmnd   of Poed fadacaioe Per Cerita )1969-71"100) -Inlet of Per r-pita c.m...s...A.a  Aniend...a tee Cspfes eeP                                er-  Cased e.  ebseab- af
p-oda-tdo  of all food  ._mdtitas., fr- cftecae ed  sA,d;., d   fd 1                             tedifofk-  s.Id dunfag the pee-, iceladieg adfst to dams-fe tiea
Ia so  os-d-r peso baeis.  Ca.       les  mae   avtygos(.. saann                                 aed mobile  -nita.
iftstad ef euger( slidh se  edible sad toennc -ti-oate eg.   oifee and
seI aeesldd. gggaepe,dunifee of, eah,co,ity Is ..ad ato                                     fliR FSORC
afecanEag  pradacet peo  eighe;9 191-61, 197, and 1979 data.                           Toed1 Lab- Fo-ea (th-ussdaf - DE.eial   otspaes   alde
aesegy eqintlet of offodspilesafai   inaane  peopits                                           oPefgplusfee  eI... -lfcfe   ienseiea.a..                              ss
pedyf.  An-l1eb1  eupiee              .eao .e.datifl pood-ltlon` fpo'ras lesat..m.aba   1990, 1970 seA  1979"dis.'
eprssod  hlcga  loeaI .Net acypli teeea lde eninal feed,..asda ,                       Pe_ml ' teotei  -             1emlefbor ifeee   pecotg    of -1es   sb-a feete.
asatitis used In ford yanoaseleig, and  os..a e  On dletribaaioe. Rsqulre-                aetialjtu,e    eeo- Labort forr  i. faming, f--ssiep               . boeieg sad
mote  ear   eisatedby PAOD base d on phynialog lc   oseafo   ca  soi-                          fibe    sPee Eefg    fof el lbor Force; 196C, 197D sad 1979 d.is,
nfay cd          ..e.t.oeid-riog etrre.    rlrmaaue  bodfyegts   g                           fedasny frp-_o) - Laeb- forc  Ia  iftieg.nnaotfe   aatire
tdsedi-tlhanl- of popalanto-  an.        lotg1.elsfincaea ed. seotcd                                     p   eatr  edga          .a.pecerag  ci. ntal lb-t fasts:960.
Acasalold  lenel; 1991-6 19, 97, aed 1977 data.                                         1970 sod 0979 data.
Po Ictta  soel  _itrnic (-tam   Per day) - Pe-af  cor              fper repie              P-tniateatlo.e Pts (par-st) - ntal., male, sad femla-Pareti.patiie.5
-etspylyof faod Prdey.  Nea.           P -lo   odlaeTee          fsbone.' R-                   eofrtyaeesa otyndsatotai.mle-.aa-d fsmallaheiaos
qaiesi s fo   l  lae .ebsel shd hy 0609 p-ande for eift.i.oenae  vi -etal, male sod femal  papalatfee of all  Egasasnfay
Iiaac   f 60 geese of trial protair per day cad 20 grams of -nIma  cod                   1960, 1970, sod 1979 date.  These as  based at IOti   ps-ifipseiemesea
p.,.. r-reoot, of shich 10 frame should Iseta  poen   These ....ed-                            r-fl-tog age-se s" rteeIf absP papliten_. ad beg& aims  -sd.  A
sedacre lJ__ceb"othlose oi7lgee-sofmoc  roeicd 23gEanf                                         fesesnIsanesarIs..  fra-Ocaate..
evfea"pr-einssan         v E         threa arla rdIProprsedby FAOdolnehe hied                i-aoaminosa-dety eaeOo- ReOiOf poPolsetoeo .d-er lisdg65aedes
World food Stene; 0961-60, 1670 aol 1977 dan.-                                                 no  the tots1 lebon f-e-s
Pedaoaa oti  saayn from  enca  sd palas -P-oneu   supply of food da-
toned fac  aelmis1ad pal.ss ic gEat- Pan day; 1961-65, 197D and 1977 dams.                iNCOfa   DDSTRhIBUTDONt
Child  Oases 1-A) NtartylferPte (Pet tho..ea.d) - A. Is detehe pee eboasan  dof                  P.......      f roes  ecm   (lath Io -sl sad kind  - Patin-d by richest
age gcolp 1-4 years, no ohlld..t On nbis age goocp; fres   eelpn    u-                           0 ferent.rdesd2.pe..t..pSras _                 psnet. mad pcetA   ao
tales detsd di-nd feve life usbles; 1960, 1670 sod 1979 data.                                    of haus..lhlds.
HEALTH                                                                                           POVERTY TAIDE  GROIlf
LIfeiaprtscy s  gIth (rears)  A-thsrgs ecahee of years of life resalefg                    Ths fol1oasog stf -tset  VeyfpI            ea     eaae  ci pone-ty leel,
am bfen; 1N6f.1C7f ad 1979 dfs-sd shald be iletrpres  elhoes                                                                          -seblecoi
ofa-s   etlo  Patt e(Esetiheased)  -Ao.ua1 deat.hs of infect  sedan 0t5 f5t                      felae-d Abaslat    --,st   le-m  Leve  (US9 Pee .apimfi  -sbsa ad  -sef 
ef ag  pethase  liverresAseaeenipIom   eay   di  abth  fe-m  lec..l bal    fib     lff
Arassata Sea Catr (osesef o  aveuatient  nata,   Ib,,  etA  .ra1   N- Ca-aefnealeaqaedetpa   ssifal . g-fee  saas                                    iai   Osm
bee  f p Wpi   (  ...f.. ubn  end                                                                                          PdI) lhesaalsnes  ssisafedt
eseasayly   lecldesneeted  on- oesies   -eusreated ba   eE.ineod                      fti-ad Ralatins Panee   ee    Lee..D  s   siii-ab- sad eassi
infes  etabas ean frs petsod harshales, spig         -ad ...eitee.  el)a                  felrltv   poety  aa   lv IceI-ibdafssgep    sis
Pi  ..timyeasdys   oae    etmt  fAct iOdD estate  from st hoIe ma   epata   ta                                      f ths outry.  OTbs  lan1 Os desi%ed fnaa ebtasa
ter   'r                       F~~~~~~evlcb djseefahihrmsofligleab    eas
eessaablsara    Ioud  sP ly het the I...eef. orsehseeathshoaAcd                                  sedrase1-Petr.-taifpa          -nlofaeaesdtatalfab.eaefslt
do otat _P o   t  p_d adosproynret fo.na part of the day dor fetchin  eh                         Poor".
sceb-etof Peypls (al.,ubmo, sAd            . 1  ..e.l aera by.,eemrsna dispa...as
the col iolu   ed dospo..si, auth as  ithl... tesetmo,1t,oPf homases tsea                                                              .m...l  mad Sisa1a Dais DOfaiie
sad ease-mater.I -Ptt-horre  syanem  00 tbe oa.         f pi  prne  a A       eimf                                               in-roin AesIyae sod Prejentioes  Dep-tiuss
lar  .ttft..attoi.                                                                                                                                    ff.K5f 1951
Peenaltiotetepb1 nahyiso - Pcpaletiov dinoded by  -ub-e of pr-tfiofg pbyal-
des qasifid f_e   a mediOcal sohool at ooin--ity lene. 
P-sl-te   est Stee...Le  Pse-oe- Popola~ti-t diided by_-abarc:          eaeon
male cad f-1sl  g-ad-tm   --se.,P            1        .          i



- 31 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
PHILIPPINES - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                                   Annual growth rates (%)
current prices)                         Actual                                         Projected
Indicator                              1979            1976     1977     1978     1979     1980/a   1981       1982     1983    1984      1985     1990
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product             28,854            7.1       6.2      5.9      5.9      4.7       5.8      6.3      6.3       6.3      7.1      8.3
Agriculture                       6,991            8.6      5.0      4.8       5.3      4.3       5.2      5.2      5.0      5.0      5.0       5.0
Industry                         10,174           10.0      7.7      6.4      6.7       5.8       6.5      7.2      7.5      7.5      8.5    10.0
Services                         11,689            3.7      5.7      6.3       5.5      5.0       5.6      6.2      6.0      6.0      7.0      8.5
Consumption                        21,860            4.3       5.2      4.6      4.8      4.2       5.4      5.2      4.9       5.1      5.8      7.0
Gross investment                    8,576            8.0       0.7     13.3      7.4      4.8       6.3      6.3       6.3      6.3      7.1      8.3
Exports of GNFS /b                  5,528           19.9     17.6       1.6      7.4     11.3      10.2     10.7     11.2     10.6      10.8     10.5
Imports of GNFS                     7,110            1.3       5.3    13.2      10.3      5.2       6.6      6.7      6.5      6.6       6.8      7.2
Gross national savings              6,665           -2.0      11.3      8.3      7.7      3.1       -        -        -         -        -        -
PRICES
GDP deflator (1972 = 100)                          183.6   198.8   210.6   250.8    296.9           -        -        -        -        -         -
Exchange rate (US$1 =)                              7.45     7.41    7.38       7.39      7.52      -        -        -        -         -        _
Export price index (1978 = 100)                     92.6    95.8   100.0   124.6         140.3   149.9   160.0   170.5   183.3   195.7   258.7
Import price index (1978 = 100)                     91.6    94.2   100.0   117.4         142.2   157.0   170.8   185.2   197.1   210.6   289.3
Terms of trade index (1978 = 100)                  101.1   101.7   100.0   106.1          98.7     95.5    93.7      92.6    93.0    92.9    89.4
Share of GDP at market prices (%)                          Average annual increase (%)
(at current prices) /c                                    (at constant prices)
1960    1970      1975    1980      1985     1990       1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product              100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                5.1        6.1         5.9        6.3        7.6
Agriculture                        28.1     27.8    29.0    26.8    25.0         22.0         4.3         4.3        4.8         5.0        5.0
Industry                           25.8    29.6      33.5    35.5    37.7        40.6         6.0         8.6        7.6         7.5        9.1
Services                           46.1     42.6     37.5    37.7       37.3     37.4         5.2         5.4        5.7         6.1        7.7
Consumption                        85.3     79.2    75.8    74.5    72.4    68.7              4.8         5.5        5.2         5.2        6.5
Gross investment                   16.3     21.5    31.0    30.1        29.2     30.5          8.2       11.5        6.5         6.8        7.6
Exports of GNFS                    10.8    19.4       18.5     19.4     24.7     27.5          5.8        3.2       10.0       10.7        10.0
Imports of GNFS                    10.6     19.7    25.3    24.0    26.2         25.4         6.8         6.8        8.0        6.6         6.9
Gross national savings             16.2     20.5    25.3    23.1        25.4     29.2          7.4        9.7        -          -           -
As Z of GDP
1960       1970        1975       1980         Labor Force in 1978            Millions      (%)
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                   Agriculture                   7.4        44.4
Current revenues                             9.8         9.5       13.9        12.8            Industry                      2.7       16.2
Current expenditures                         9.6        10.9       12.3         9.6            Services                      5.6       33.0
Current surplus                              0.2        -1.4        1.6         4.1           Unemployed                     1.1        6.4
Capital expenditure                          2.3         1.9        3.2         3.2
Foreign financing                            -           0.1        0.3         1.5                Total Labor Force        16.8      100.0
1960-70           1970-75           1975-80           1980-85           1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (N)                                     5.1               5.6               5.9               6.3               7.7
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (%)                          2.0               2.7               3.2               3.6               5.1
Annual energy consumption growth rate (%)                      7.4               6.2               4.2               4.7               4.6
ICOR                                                          4.5                4.7               4.6               4.5               4.1
Marginal savings rate                                       0.285              0.330              0.26              0.32              0.35
Import elasticity                                            1.33               1.12              1.20              1.05              0.90
/a  Preliminary estimate.
7-  Historical figures are official estimates based on 1972 weights.  In relation to the composition of Philippine exports
in the late 1970s these estimates give undue weight to stable or declining exports of raw commodities such as copra,
sugar, and logs, and insufficient weight to rapidly growing exports such as nontraditional manufactures and coconut oil.
bank staff estimates of export volume based on 1978 weights are shown on Attachment 3b.
/c Projected years of constant prices.
East Asia & Pacific Regional Office
November 1981



- 32 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(US$ million, at current Prices)
Actual                Est.                Projected
1977   1978    1979    1980    1981         1982     1983     1984    1985
Summary of Balance of Payments
Exports of goods and services               4,161   4,838   6,177   7,863   9,084  10,710  12,830  15,360  18,370
Of which:  exports of goods              3,151   3,425   4,602   5,788   6,518   7,890   9,630  11,710  14,220
Imports of goods and services               5,248   6,323   8,108  10,348  12,076  13,680  15,620  17,820  20,210
Of which:   imports of goods             3,915   4,732   6,142   7,727   8,810  10,050  11,510  13,170  15,100
Transfers (net)                               260      312      355      434      500      550      610      660      730
Current Account Balance                   -827  -1,173  -1,576  -2,051  -2,490  -2,420  -2,180  -1,800  -1,110
Direct investment (net)                       216      171       99       45      290      320      350      390      420
NLT loans (net)                               662      891   1,091   1,032   1,370   1,600   1,540   1,310            920
official-source loans (net)                 332      333      449      375      851      940   1,050   1,120   1,150
Private-source loans (net)                  330      501      642      657      519      660      490       90    -230
Other capital (net) /a                        113       56    -193       593      455      300      300      300      300
Overall Balance /b                          164      -54    -579    -381    -375    -200            -      200      530
International reserves (end-year) /c   1,525   1,883   2,423   3,155
Reserve as months of imports                  3.5      3.6      3.6      3.7
External Capital and Debt
Gross Disbursements                         1,376   1,968   2,385   2,047
Concessional Loans                           88      120      183      178
Bilateral                                 62       56      113      101
IDA                                        2         1        3        2
Other multilateral                        24       63       67        75
Nonconcessional Loans                    1,287   1,848   2,202   1,869
Official export credits                  123      121      152         8
IBRD                                      99      160      204      221
Other multilateral                        30       47       81       83
Private sources                        1,035   1,520   1,765   1,557
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed           5,003   6,199   7,137   8,554
Official-source                        1,423   1,895   2,265   2,710
Private-source                         3,580   4,304   4,872   5,844
Undisbursed debt                         2,601   4,017   4,305   5,476
Debt Service
Total service payments                     762       910   1,028   1,259
Of which:  interest                      183      270      486      659
Payments as % of exports of goods
and services                            18.3    18.8      16.6     16.0
Average interest rate on new loans
Official-source                            7.5       5.5      5.5      6.9
Private-source (DRS)                       8.4      9.0      10.5    14.7
Average maturity of new loans
Official-source                           18.6    22.8    23.3    21.2
Private-source (DRS)                        9.0    10.2      11.1      9.9
/a  Short-term capital, monetization of gold, allocation of SDRs, and errors and omissions.
/b  Equials change in net international reserves.
C Gross reserves of the Central Bank ("International reserves," IFS).
East Asia and Pacific Region
Novemher 1981



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page I of 19 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK  LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of September 30, 1981
Loan or
Credit                                                                       Amount (less cancellations)
Number      FY    Borrower                 Purpose                           Bank      IDA  Undisbhursed
Twenty-three Loans and three credits fully disbursed                         416.18  32.20
984-PH   1974  Rep. of the Philip.    Auirora-Penaranda Irrigation            9.50              0.56
998-PH    1974                            nBP I                              50.00              3.30
1n34-PH    1974  National Power Corp.   Power                                 61.00              0.56
1039-PH   1974  Rep. of the Philip.    "opulation                             25.00              8.57
1048-PH   1974                             Shipping                           20.00              0.64
1052-PHl   1974  Philip. National Bank  PDCP IV                               30.00              0.21
1080-PIl  1975  Rep. of the Philip.    Tarlac Irrigation                      17.00              3.67
1102-PH   1975                             Rural Develonmrent                 25.00              6.71
1154-PH   1976                             Maaat Irrigation                   42.00             10.80
1190-P1T   1976                            r1BP II                            75.00              3.22
1224-T-PH 1976                             Education III                      25.00              4.14
1225-PHi   1976                            Livestock II                       20.50              0.02
1227-PiT   1976                            Chico Irrigation                   50.00             30.13
1272-T-PH 1976                             Manila Urban                       10.00              3.74
1282-PH    1q76                            Manila Urban                       22.00              R.23
1269-PIH   1977                            second Grain Processing            11.50              5.71
1353-PH   1977                             Third Highways                     95.00             55.91
1367-PH   1977                             Jalaur Irrigation                  15.0O              6.69
1374-pIp  1977                             Fouirth Education                  25.00              8.30
1399-PPi  1977 Central Bank of the          'ourth Rural Credit
Philippines                                                 36.50             14.87
1414-PH    1977 Rep. of the Philip.         lat. Irrig. Syst. Improvmt.    50.00                32.00
1415-PP   1977                             Provincial Cities Water Suip.   23.00                12.75
1421-Pi1   1977                            Rural 0)ev. Land Stlmt. II         15.00              8.04
1460-Pp{  1978 National Power Corp.    Seventh Power                          58.00             35.61
1906-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.         Smallbolder Tree Farming            8.00              6.18
1514-PIH   1978 Philip. National Banl   DT)CP V                               30.00              9.25
1926-pIT   1978 Rep. of the Philip.        NTat. Irrig. Syst. Improvmt. II 65.00                48.46
790-PH   1978                             Rural Infrastructuire                      28.00    23.51
S.8-PH   1978                             Rducation                           2.00              1.16
1547-PH   1978 Nat. Electrif. Admin.   Pural Electrification                  60.00              3.77
1555-PH   1Q78 Philip. National Bank   VISo                                   15.00              1.47
1567-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.         Magat II                          150.00             37.3R
1572-PH   1978                             Industrial Investment III          80.0O             34.13
1615-PH   1979                             Manila Water Supply II             88.00             81.98
1626-PH   1979                             NTational Extension                35.00             32.39
1639-PH   1979                             Magat River Multipurpose           21.00             17.26
1646-PH   1979                             Small Farmer Dev. (Land Bank)  16.50                 10.61
1647-PH   1979                             Second IUrban Development          32.00             23.73
1661-PIl  1979                             Highways IV                       100.00             98.40
1710-PIT   1979                            Water Supply II                    16.00             16.00
920-PH   1979                             Wlater Supply II                           22.00    20.43
1727-PIH   1979                            Small & Medium Industry II         25.00              2.77
923-PH   1979                             Population II                              40.00    39.62
1772-PH   1980                             Samar Island Rural Devel.          27.00             25.07
1786-PTH   1980                            Fisheries Trng. (Educ. VI)         38.00             37.55
1809-pp   1980                             Medium-Scale Irrigation            71.00             70.72
1814-PH   1980                             Manila Sewerage & Sanitation   63.00                 60.68
1815-PH   1980                             Rainfed Agric. Oev. (Iloilo)    12.00                11.86
1821-PH   198n                             Third Urban                        72.00             65.33
1855-PH   1Q80                             Third Ports                        67.00             66.73
186n-pp   1980                             w ural Roads Improvement           62.0O             60.10
1890-PH    1981                             Tatershed Management              38.00             37.64
lq4-ppi  1981                             Third Livestock & Fisheries    45.0o                 37.97
1903-Pp   1981                             Structuiral AdJustment            200.00              4.54
1984-PpT  1981  Central Bank of the    Tnd'istrial Finance (Apex)            150.n0            150.00
Philipoines
2030-PP/a 1981  Rep. of the Philip.         laem. Educ. Sector Loan          100.0O            IO.O0
2040-PP/a 1982  Ren. nf the Philip.        1g. Support Services               45.00             45.O0
Total                                                                 2,960.68 122.20 1,546.57
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                                              212.85
Total now outstanding                                                 2,747.83 122.20
Amount sold                                               24.34
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                                         21.31           3.03   -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate adjustments)                                2,744,80 122.20
Total undisbursed                                                     1,463.01  83.56 1,546.57
/a Not yet effective.



- 34 -                 ANNEX II
Page 2 of 19 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of September 30, 1981
Fiscal                                                        Amounts (S million)
Year                      Company                          Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the         15.0      4.4    19.4
Philippines
1967          Manila Electric Company                         8.0     -        8.0
1967          Meralco Securities Corporation                  -       4.0      4.0
1970          Philippine Long Distance Telephone              3.7      .8      4.5
Company
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                     0.8     0.4      1.2
1970          Paper Industries Corporation of the              -      2.2      2.2
Philippines
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation                 6.2     2.1      8.3
1972          Marinduque Mining and Industrial               15.0     -       15.0
Corporation
1973          Victorias Chemical Corporation                  1.9     0.3      2.2
1974          Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation           1.5     -        1.5
1974/1979    Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.   1.5          0.7      2.2
1974          Republic Flour Mills Corporation                1.2     -        1.2
1975          Philippine Polyamide Industrial                 7.0     -        7.0
Corporation
1976/1980    Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                       2.6     0.2      2.8
1977          Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                      2.3     1.2      3.5
1977          Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                      3.5     -        3.5
1978          Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.   2.1         -        2.1
1979          General Milling Corporation                    4.0      1.1      5.1-
1980          PISO Leasing Corporation                       5.0      0.1      5.1
1980          Ventures in Industry and Business               -       0.3      0.3
Enterprises, Inc.
1980          Consolidated Industrial Gases, Inc.             4.5     -        4.5
1981          Loans to Seven Corp. for SMSE                 18.5       .7    19.2
1981          Philippine Assoc. Smelting & Refining Corp. -           5.0      5.0
1981          Davao Union Cement Corp.                      16.0      -       16.0
Total gross commitments                      120.3    23.5   143.8
Less sold, acquired by others,              50.7    12.6    63.3
repaid or cancelled
Total commitments now held by IFC             69.6    10.9    80.5
Total Undisbursed                             34.5      4.8    39.3



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 19
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
as of September 30, 1981
Agricultural Sector
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is about 98% complete. Work on the Canili and Diayo
dams and the transbasin channel was completed in 1975, about one year ahead
of the appraisal schedule. Difficulties in the award of construction con-
tracts delayed the start of improvement works in the Penaranda service areas
which were further hampered by severe typhoon damages in 1978 and 1980. The
project will be completed in 1981, three years behind the appraisal schedule.
Due to cost increases, delayed construction and a reduced cropping intensity
the internal rate of return is expected to be about 12%, compared to the
appraisal estimate of 17%.
Loan No. 1080 Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is now about 91% complete. Full completion is expected
by December 1982, a two-year delay in the original schedule, caused mainly by
managerial problems and late preparation of the designs for the drainage
works. The closing date has already been extended by one and a half years to
June 30, 1982, and it is expected that the Government will request a further
extension to complete the project works. The area developed is likely to be
some 20% less than originally planned mainly because of flooding from the
Chico, Camiling and Agno rivers. Costs are higher, partly due to the delays
referred to above, and the economic rate of return is now likely to be close
to 10% compared with an appraisal estimate of 15%.
Loan No. 1102 Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project is about 85% complete. The irrigation works are
substantially completed, except for two communal systems which are planned
for completion by the end of 1981. After initial delays in the award of
construction contracts for the roads component, progress has now improved
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 19
with the mobilization of contractors on three national and one provincial
road contracts. Completion of the roads component is now planned for mid-
1983, about three years behind the appraisal schedule.  The closing date has
therefore been extended to December 1983.
Loan No. 1154 Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Civil works by local contract and force acount for rehabilitation
and new construction of canals, drains and access roads are progressing well,
and the project is about 89% complete. All contracts have now been awarded
but some of the work has been postponed until the end of the rainy season.
The water management training is continuing satisfactorily. Due to earlier
delays in contract award, budgetary constraints and typhoon damage in 1980,
project completion is expected to be delayed by about two years over the
original schedule.
Loan No. 1225 Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: September 13, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by October 1981. The
project program was completed one year before the closing date (June 30,
1982) as a result of significant subloan demand in piggery and poultry
subsectors. Further support to livestock development in the Philippines is
being provided under the ongoing Third Livestock and Fisheries Credit Project
(Loan 1894-PH).
Loan No. 1227 Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Although the project was due for completion by June 1980, it is now
only about 54% complete. Work started slowly due to late procurement of
equipment for force account work. Further delays have been caused by changes
in design resulting in rebidding the three major contracts for the diversion
dam, the main canal and the river siphon; severe and repeated typhoon damage;
problems of right-of-way acquisition and the recent suspension of work on the
diversion dam because of security problems. The project is now expected to be
completed in June 1984, a four-year delay over the appraisal estimate. The
closing date has therefore been extended to December 31, 1984.
Loan No. 1269 Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan
of July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 4,
1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Following Bank approval (expected shortly) of about $1 million from
the loan to help finance a $12 million port facility of the National Food
Authority for importing soybeans in Batangas Harbor, this loan will be fully



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 19
committed. The loan has disbursed rapidly since the end of 1980 after a
slow beginning which led to a two-year postponement of the closing date to
June 30, 1983. The current post-harvest study on grain losses is expected
to be completed in early 1982.
Loan No. 1367 Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is about 70% complete. Force account work is proceeding
satisfactorily, but contract works have been delayed by the poor performance
of some of the contractors. The National Irrigation Administration has now
taken action to improve the situation, but two contracts remain seriously
behind schedule. Completion is likely to be about one year behind schedule.
Loan No. 1399 Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The escalation in fuel and machinery costs during 1978 and 1979,
accompanied by a sharp fall in sugar prices, substantially reduced the subloan
demand, particularly for four-wheel tractors, power tillers and light trucks.
Another major problem has been the growing arrears of several rural banks
resulting in many of them being ineligible for project lending. In view of
this, in November 1979, the project's scope was broadened to include new
categories of investments and new lending channels (private development
banks). The related regulations became operative in April 1980 but their
impact on the disbursement rate has so far been modest. The Central Bank has
recently reassessed the project's implementation and has proposed measures for
further widening the institutional arrangements, including the induction of
private investment corporations to lend, on a selective basis, for project-
supported investments and rationalization of lending terms. The Central Bank
considers these measures essential to achieve the project program within the
extended closing date of December 31, 1982. The Central Bank-s proposals are
under review.
Loan No. 1414 National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project;
$50 Million Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
August 9, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress in project implementation has been slow, initially because
of staffing and design problems, and more recently because of delays in the
review of design and contractual arrangements for the Abulog diversion dam.
Shortages of fuel and construction materials, which have been a major cause of
delay, have now been overcome. The project is now expected to be completed in
1983, two years later than originally estimated. Implementation improved
during the 1980 and 1981 construction seasons, mainly because of better plan-
ning and organization, less complicated contract procedures, and completion of
designs. Final project costs and benefits are expected to be in line with
original estimates.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 19
Loan No. 1421 Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress continues to be satisfactory. After earlier delays, the
Government is now moving towards the formulation of a public land policy as a
framework for future development of the land settlement program. An inter-
agency workshop on this subject held in August identified priority issues,
and recommendations are expected to be made to the Government by November.
Road construction has accelerated, but is still behind schedule in two
provinces. The planned credit program through rural banks has been slow in
getting under way, so full realization of planned increases in productivity
and income has been further delayed. Issuance of land certificates and
titles is still only about 30% complete; however, the Government has announced
a plan to issue 8,000 Certificates of Land Allocation by June 1982.
Loan No. 1506 Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project; $8.0 Million
Loan of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 11,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
physical progress on the DBP treefarming component continues to be
satisfactory, and area commitments have now reached 50% of the project-s
target. Due to slow initial implementation and the incidence of an insect
pest, annual planting targets for BFD's Abra plantation component have been
reduced, and BFD is embarking on pest control measures. The PCARR forestry
research component is progressing well and the nationwide Wood Industries
Development Study by MINR and consultants is near completion. Disbursements
are behind schedule for all components because of the delays in the project-s
first years, but are now picking up.  Slow procurement of vehicles remains a
problem due to excessive bureaucratic regulations; this will be addressed in
the forthcoming Project Implementation Review with the Government.
Loan No. 1526 Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project:
$65 Million Loan of March 15, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
June 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Topographic surveys, project planning and design have been completed
for most of the systems, and construction is fully under way. Overall
progress is somewhat behind schedule due to delays in contract awards,
however, the project is expected to be completed as scheduled.
Credit No. 790 Rural Infrastructure; $28 Million Credit of April 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: July 21, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Construction of rural water supply schemes, health stations and
ports is proceeding satisfactorily. About 300 village water supply schemes
have been completed, 48 health stations have been commissioned and construct-
ion of San Jose Port is well under way, while work has recently been started



- 39 -                      ANNEX II
page 7 of 19
at the ports of Culasi and Dumaguit. Construction of the irrigation component
fell behind schedule due to inadequate transportation facilities and shortage
of surveying instruments; however, remedial measures have now improved the
situation. Under the roads component, about 35 km (15%) of roads have been
constructed by administrative forces, construction contracts have been awarded
for 300 km (30%) of the roads to be built under contract and the detailed
design of the remaining roads is well under way. Project completion is now
planned for December 1983, about one year behind the appraisal schedule.
Loan No. 1567 Magat River Multipurpose Project - Stage II;
$150 Million Loan of May 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness;
August 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress is good. The first stage of river diversion has been
successfully achieved and excavation is substantially complete. Construction
of the main dam is making excellent progress. Concrete work for the spillway
started slowly and suffered from interruptions due to breakdown of the cranes,
but the contractor has made up for lost time and is once more nearly on sche-
dule. Work on resettlement of the population to be displaced by the reservoir
is excellent, with work on one of the three new villages nearly complete.
Loan No. 1626 National Extension Project; $32.0 Million Loan of
December 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 26, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The Ministry of Agriculture, through its Bureau of Agricultural
Extension, aims to introduce the training and visit (T and V) system to the
national extension service over a four year period. A Project Management
Committee has been created under the Deputy Minister-s Chairmanship, and
appropriate subcommittees and operational units established. Regional
reorganization was effected on March 24, 1980 with the appointment of 12
Regional Directors and 24 Assistant Directors, followed by 75 Provincial
Executive Officers on March 28. The first year-s incremental staff
appointments have been made but the second year's allotment was delayed by
queries on staff deployment following reorganization. Construction of the 167
extension centers is under way. The purchase and distribution of motorcycles
is on schedule, but the purchase of utility vehicles has been delayed pending
bid approval by the President-s Office. The purchase of equipment, consultan-
cies and training are proceeding as scheduled. Pilot areas for introducing
the T and V system of extension have been extended to 75 districts, one for
almost every province of the country.
Loan No. 1639-PH Magat River Multipurpose Project; Stage II Irrigation;
$21.0 Million Loan of January 26, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: April 25, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Implementation started early in 1980 and progress is satisfactory.
The project is about 25% complete. All major contracts have already been
awarded and some are ahead of schedule. All construction equipment has been
procured and delivered to site. Completion is expected by mid-1983 as



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 19
scheduled at appraisal. The only problem to be foreseen is an overall
financial constraint which is being carefully considered by the Government.
Loan No. 1646 Small Farmer Development Project through the Land Bank of
the Philippines; $16.5 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cumulative disbursements up to September 1981 amounted to $5.9
million, lower than the appraisal estimate of $9.8 million. However, taking
into account the backlog in loan withdrawals, the disbursements are by and
large in accordance with the revised estimate ($7 million). The procedural
difficulties which held up withdrawals under the infrastructure component
have now been resolved and the disbursements under this component are expected
to start in February 1982. LBP has reorganized its field offices and initi-
ated other institutional measures to improve smallholder coverage and subloan
collection performance. The loan is expected to be fully drawn down by
December 31, 1983, compared to the appraisal estimate of June 30, 1983. LBP
has initiated preparation of a follow-up project for Bank assistance.
Loan No. 1772 Samar Island Rural Development Project; $27.0 million
Loan of February 1, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
May 21, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Procurement of services, materials and equipment for the project is
well under way, and the first phase of the Catubig valley studies has been
completed. Prequalification of contractors for the road component has been
completed, and bidding for the roads began in June 1981. The contract for the
rehabilitation of the Catbalogan port has been awarded. NIA has been experi-
encing difficulties attracting bidders for construction of communal irrigation
systems, and the Bank has therefore recently agreed to the construction of
three systems by force account in order to avoid losing the 1981 construction
season.
Loan No. 1809 Medium-Scale Irrigation; $71.0 million Loan of March 28,
1980. Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
Detailed engineering design of the diversion dams is behind schedule
due to unavailability of drilling rigs to conduct subsurface investigations.
Force account works have been started. Construction contracts have been
awarded for three of the 12 major contract works. Difficult working condi-
tions in the project areas and inadequate communications facilities have
resulted in poor response to invitations for competitive bidding from pros-
pective contractors, which is likely to cause delays in the project completion
schedule.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 19
Loan No. 1815 Rainfed Agriculture (Iloilo); $12.0 million Loan of
March 28, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
After experiencing initial start-up problems in the first year,
mainly because of the complexity of the project, the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA) is making good progress. The same accounts for those project compo-
nents which have to be carried out by other agencies. To simplify the task
of project management in monitoring the progress of the different components,
the Ministry of Budget has agreed to channel all fund allocations through MOA
and to accept budget requests only for the project components approved by MOA.
However, the problem of releasing the funds for transportation for the pro-
ject officers and extension staff remains, although it has been discussed with
MIOB and the Prime Minister. Until MOA is given approval to purchase vehicles
for the National Extension Project (Loan 1626-PH) by the Presidential Office,
the procurement of vehicles for the Iloilo Project will remai- shelved for the
time being.
Loan No. 1890 Watershed Management and Erosion Control Project;
$38.0 Million Loan of August 4, 1980; Date of
Effectiveness: October 30, 1980, Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
Progress is good in the nurseries, plantation establishment and
management. Prevention of damage from grass fires through the construction of
fire breaks, provision of lookout towers, prompt intervention by NIA fire-
fighters and assistance of the local population has been excellent. The pro-
ject continues to be adversely affected by difficulties with the Bureau of
Forest Development in defining project area boundaries and drastically cur-
tailed budgets. Procurement of vehicles and equipment has been slow, while
the engagement and mobilization of the various types of consultant assistance
have been efficient and expeditious. Terms of reference for the Magat Water-
shed Feasibility Study have been prepared and approved, and the Government has
entered into negotiations with a local firm of consultants to assist with the
study. The local consultants will join with a foreign firm to provide for
expertise not available in the Philippines.
Loan No. 1894 Third Livestock and Fisheries Credit Project; $45.0 Million
Loan of August 4, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: November 5,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The pace of DBP's subloan commitments and releases is satisfactory;
as of September 30, 1981, disbursements stood at $7.1 million, slightly above
the appraisal estimate. The consultants- work on DBP-s computerization needs
and agricultural staff training programs has been completed under the tech-
nical assistance component, and follow-up proposals are under review by DBP.
BAI-s sectoral development and research programs are expected to commence
shortly. FIDC will finalize a consultancy outline on marine regulations in
the near future.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 19
Loan 2040 Agricultural Support Services; $45.0 million Loan of August 25,
1981; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: November 25 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1988
This loan was signed on August 25, 1981 and is not yet effective.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 1048      Inter-Island Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Closing Date was extended to June 30, 1981 to allow for the
completion of training programs and for ship construction guarantee payments.
Following the transfer of unused project funds to technical assistance
activities, most of the loan funds have now been disbursed and the loan is
closed.
Loan No. 1353      Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of January 12,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Overall, the project is about 60% completed and two and half years
behind schedule because of slow procurement, poor performance of many
contractors, and inadequate planning for the use of local funds. The
Ministry of Public Highways was poorly managed; recently, it was merged with
the Ministry of Public Works and its operations started to improve; further
efforts are, however, required to strengthen its management. A short-term
action program was agreed in detail with the Ministry of Public Works and
Highways (MPWH) in order to tighten the project implementation. In road
construction and improvement, works on 14 national and 8 minor road contracts
are now progressing satisfactorily. The road maintenance and restoration
programs have been reviewed and are now making some progress. Of the 28
workshop contracts, 11 are now under construction, 13 are up for rebid and 4
have been renegotiated. There is a significant cost overrun on the workshop
contract, caused by changes in the design and price escalation. Procurement
of road maintenance equipment, tools and other machinery has been completed.
Consultants for supervision of construction of roads and workshops are in
place and the road and ferry feasibility studies have been completed. The
technical assistance advisors to MPWH completed their assignment in November
1979 and training advisors to MPWH completed their work in March 1980.
Overall, the project completion is likely to be delayed until mid-1983, and
the closing date has therefore been extended accordingly.
Loan No. 1661      Fourth Highway Project; $100 Million Loan of March 9,
1979 ; Date of Effectiveness: June 15, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After an initial delay of several months the implementation of this
project has proceeded slowly, mainly because of time-consuming prequalifica-
tion procedures for contractors and slow selection of consultants for



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 19
technical assistance. The overall delay now amounts to at least a year, and
the progress in implementing the project continues to be slow. MPWH carried
out ki,-.ernational competitive bidding for all ten national road contracts
in the project; so far five contracts have been awarded and the construction
or improvement works will start shortly. Bids for the remaining five
contracts are now being evaluated. A consulting firm for the design and
construction supervision of workshops has started the design work. Land
acquisition for road construction and workshops is under way and preparatory
work has begun for the continuation of the road maintenance and road
restoration programs begun under the Third Highway Project (Loan 1353-PH).
Prequalification for equipment suppliers has begun, but bids will be invited
only after completion of workshop construction.
Loan No. 1855      Third Ports Project; $67 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Proposed Date of Effectiveness: September 11, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Bids for almost all project components have been received and
evaluated. In all cases, the Government has decided to award the contracts
to the lowest evaluated bidders. Some mobilization work has begun. Other
preconstruction activities are well under way and will be completed before the
main contractors start work. Arrangements for construction supervision are
being revised in the light of the last supervision mission comments. Con-
sultants have been selected for the assignment.
Loan No. 1860      Rural Roads Improvement Project; $62 Million Loan of
June 13, 1980; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: September 8,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Initial progress in preparing the 1981 rural roads program has been
slow due mainly to a delay in providing technical assistance services to the
implementing agency. Due to delays in preparing and reviewing detailed
engineering for rural roads, no construction contracts started in the 1981
dry season, putting the project about nine months behind schedule.  Recently,
the Ministry of Local Government received contractors bids for the 1981
program packages, and is now evaluating them. Consulting services for the
technical assistance component are now under way.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1224-T   Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The central part of the project, which is the development of primary
and secondary textbooks and teachers manuals in five subject areas, proceeded
as planned. The project has met its goal of producing and distributing to
schools 75 titles, amounting to 30 million copies, and providing for about



- 44 -                  ANNEX II
Page 12 of 19
250,000 teachers, by the middle of 1981. Disbursements are about 80% of
appraisal estimates for June 30, 1981, the original closing date, reflecting a
delay of about 36 months in the completion of a central facility for the
Textbook Secretariat, which resulted from change orders and price escalation.
To allow time for the completion of this facility, the closing date has been
postponed by one year to June 1982 and agreement was reached that a revised
contract would be signed by October 31, 1981. The overall project costs are
close to appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1374      Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of March 25,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Implementation of the project is now some 18 months behind schedule.
Rapid price escalation and high credit costs in the 1978-80 period resulted
in a slow-down in building activity, the rescinding of an important contract
and renegotiation of others, thus delaying implementation of the project-s
other physical components and dependent educational objectives. The problem
is being resolved, and in the process EDPITAF has devolved implementation
responsibilities to recipient institutions. An extension of the closing date
is to be sought once a revised financial plan has been elaborated with the
Finance and Budget Ministries. Overall project utilization of Technical
Assistance Specialists is only 20%, while over 80% of Fellowship time has been
committed. Enrolments are about on target and other educational developments
at UPLB and VISCA are proceeding satisfactorily. There is some tendency to
proliferate fields of specialized study and the National Governing Board of
the PTC-RD system has not functioned as planned in reviewing important changes
in policies and programs.
Loan No. S-8       Educational Radio Technical Assistance:  $2 Million Loan
of April 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is being implemented by an Educational Communications
Office (ECO), established for this purpose within EDPITAF. ECO is functioning
smoothly and is successfully preparing and distributing radio programs and
printed materials for the two major project subcomponents - Radio Assisted
Teaching in Elementary Schools (RATES), and Continuing Education for Teachers
(CET). These programs have been implemented efficiently. The report on the
project summative evaluation,which has been completed by the University of the
Philippines' Institute of Mass Communication, contains informative data on the
use of radio for the improvement of education. The Educational Communications
Office is now formulating follow-up plans incorporating this data into the
recently approved, Bank-supported Elementary Education project. A separate
evaluation of the Communication Technology for Rural Education will be
completed towards the end of 1981.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 19
Loan No. 1786 Fisheries Training Project; $38.0 Million Loan
of February 1, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
May 19, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Civil works have started at two sites. Tender documents for fish-
ing and equipment lists are being prepared. Overall physical implementation
is behind schedule by about six months mainly due to the transfer of detailed
implementing responsibility to the respective project institutions, and to
delays in Presidential approval of civil works contracts (f- 2.0 million
each). The Fellowship program is being implemented on schedule, but the
recruitment of consultants has been slow, also affected by the transfer of
implementing responsibility and the delay in the release of the Obligation
Authority for project funds to recipient institutions. This release is
expected shortly.
Loan No. 2030 Elementary Education Sector Loan; $100.0 Million Loan of
August 25, 1981; Proposed Date of Effectiveness:  November
25, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This loan was signed on August 25, 1981, and is not yet
effective.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272-T   Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282      $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Infrastructure improvements are about 80% complete. Community
facilities are complete and await equipment and staffing, and small business
and house building materials loans programs are being revised in light of
client demand. The Tondo sewer outfall recently contracted should be
completed by late 1982 and the two contract packages for the R.10 major road
works are about to be re-awarded with probable completion in 1984.
Loan 1415      Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9, 1977;
Closing Date:  March 31, 1982.
Overall project implementation is about one year behind schedule.
Major contracts have been awarded; however, due to unforeseen delays in well
drilling and late deliveries of pipes, progress has been slow. All major
contracts have been let, and better progress is expected through 1982. Work
has started in four of the six project cities, and contractors are mobilizing
in the remaining two. The construction cost is expected to be close to
appraisal estimates; however, project completion is expected to be delayed by
about one year.



- 46 -                      ANNEX II
Page 14 of 19
Loan 1615       Second Manila Water Supply Project; $88 Million Loan of
July 26, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:  December 21, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project suffered a late start because of initial delays in
approvals of contracts in source development which delayed the construction
of the Bank-financed distribution system component. Nearly all the major
contracts have now been let and no further slippage is expected. However
because of the high cost of money, many contractors have delayed mobilization
on their contracts. A water rate increase of P 0.25 plus a 10% waste water
disposal charge were implemented on July 1, 1981.
Loan No. 1647      Second Urban Development Project; $32.0 Million Loan
of January 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 26,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
With most components now experiencing considerable cost overruns due
primarily to higher levels of inflation than allowed for at appraisal, initial
funding problems, delays resulting from difficult on-site conditions and poor
coordination between executing agencies, overall project costs are now esti-
mated at about $106 million (50% over appraisal estimates). Disbursement
performance has deteriorated recently due to delays in completing off-site
works and physical works are now expected to be completed by end 1983, some
12-15 months behind schedule.  Now that some of the sites are completed and
ready for handover, a stronger interest is likely and progress is expected to
improve.
Credit 920      Second Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $22 Million
Loan 1710       Credit and $16 Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: November 30, 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1985.
The 50 Water Districts required under the project have been formed.
Work is under way on the development of a financial planning and control
system, and consultants have started the preparation of a comprehensive
management assistance and training proposal. A new institution, the Rural
Water Supply Development Corporation, has been created, and is now preparing a
list of materials to be procured for rural water supply.
Loan 1814      Manila Sewerage and Sanitation Project:  $63.0 million Loan of
March 28, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 10, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The project is proceeding well, with no major problems. Detailed
designs for the Tondo Pumping Station have been completed, and tenders for
sanitary sewers in Dagupan and Pandacan awarded. The organization for the
combined sewer program is in place; staffing and training plans are being
prepared; and equipment for the water quality monitoring program has been
approved for procurement.



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 19
Loan 1821      Third Urban Development Project; $72 Million Loan of
June 2, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 25, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Despite some slowdown in 1981, physical progress is satisfactory
(except for the sites and services components). Although Bank disbursements
are only 48% of estimates, this is mainly due to slow application procedures,
since the volume of contracting and the pace of physical implementation are
as projected. Progress in implementation of policies for ZIP, clarification
of the role of local governments and establishment of estate management
operations has, however, been slow. Preparation of the future program for
ZIP and MMINUTE sites for funding under a proposed fifth urban project is
progressing well. The Management Coordination Board (MCB) and the Technical
Secretariat continue to operate well but will need to take a more active
role to resolve some of the policy and management problems referred to
above. The MCB should be expanded shortly to undertake the review function
for the Capital Investment Folio which is now receiving more intensive
preparation.
Power Sector
Loan No. 1034      Sixth Power; $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The Pantabangan generating plant was commissioned in April 1977, and
the transmission facilities are now expected to be completed by the end of
1981, four years behind schedule. The main delays in the execution of the
transmission system are due to the slow pace of engineering design and prepa-
ration of tender documents, and delays in procurement. The revised project
cost estimate is 53% higher than the appraisal estimate. The closing date of
the loan has been postponed from June 30, 1981 to March 31, 1982 to allow
additional time for payment of retention monies to contractors.
Loan No. 1460      Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation is now one year behind schedule, mainly due
to the slow construction of the load dispatching center. The revised project
cost is now estimated at $89 million (including additional works), 4% lower
than the original estimate. Surplus funds will be used to expand substations
to increase the reliability of the system. Due to delays in procurement and
because of additional works authorized by the Bank, the closing date of the
loan has been extended to December 1983. NPC has still been unable to meet
the 8% rate of return target provided in the Loan Agreement and the Government
has yet to provide specific assurances that appropriate action will be taken
to remedy this. This problem is being followed up by the Bank.



- 48 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 19
Loan No. 1547      Rural Electrification; $60.0 Million Loan of May 10,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
After earlier improvements in implementation, the project is now
behind schedule. About 300,000 house connections were made in 1980, compared
with NEA-s target of 487,000. NEA's financial performance in 1979 was good,
but adjustments to the audited accounts for 1978 resulted in a net loss of
P10.3 million ($1.4 million). The Bank has now made a number of recommenda-
tions to improve the audit reports prepared by the Commission on Audit. NEA
is making efforts to monitor the financial performance of the cooperatives and
for the first time has published the financial results of the cooperatives as
a supplement to its 1979 report. However, the quality of financial informa-
tion on the cooperatives is poor, and NEA has been asked to take action to
improve this information and to improve the financial performance of the
cooperatives.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 998       Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming;
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
September 9, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million) has been almost
fully drawn down by DBP to finance medium and relatively large industrial
projects. DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance about 1,300
smallholders in a pilot tree-farming project in Mindanao; this part of the
loan is also substantially disbursed.
Loan No. 1052      Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 Million Loan of November 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
After some slowdown in commitments and disbursements experienced in
1976 and 1977 the loan has now been almost fully disbursed. The small unuti-
lized balance of $211,000 is being cancelled.
Loan No. 1190      Industrial Investment; $75.0 Million Loan of January 28,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: April 6, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Commitments of funds, which were initially much slower than expected
due to a slowdown of investment in the industrial sector as a whole, have
improved since 1978. The loan has now been fully committed by DBP for
subprojects and will be closed shortly.



- 49 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 19
Loan No. 1514      Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP);
$30 Million Loan of February 9, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness: June 23, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982
As of September 30, 1981 commitments under the loan amounted to
$28.0 million and disbursements $20.7 million.  The project progress is
satisfactory.
Loan No. 1555      Philippines Investments Systems Organization (PISO);
$15 Million Loan of May 8, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
May 12, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan is now fully committed and disbursements ($13.5 million as
of September 30, 1981) are proceeding at a satisfactory rate.
Loan No. 1572      Third Industrial Investment Credit Project through the
Development Bank of the Philippines: $80 Million Loan
of June 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 15,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
DBP's SMI program is operating satisfactorily; the loan allocation
of $29.7 million for this component has been fully committed and disbursements
as of September 30, 1981 amounted to $14.7 million. However, cancellation/
withdrawal of some subloans earlier committed under the loan has left an
uncommitted balance of $3.4 million under the loan allocation ($50 million)
for medium/large industry financing. The rate of disbursement of this loan
component is slower than expected at appraisal.
Loan No. 1727      Second Small and Medium Industries Development Project;
$25 MIillion Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
November 9, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
After the introduction of policy changes in IGLF in late 1979,
IGLF-s loan commitment rate has accelerated and the IGLF component ($24.5
million) has now been fully committed. Disbursements under this component
amounted to $22.2 million as of September 30, 1981 and are expected to be
completed before the loan closing date.  The reorganization within the
Ministry of Industry has considerably slowed down disbursements under the
MASICAP component ($500,000). Overall progress of the project is, however,
satisfactory.
Loan No. 1984      Industrial Finance Project; $150 million Loan of May 28,
1981; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Satisfactory progress is being made in achieving the main objectives
of the project. The Apex Development Finance Unit of the Central Bank has
been successful in: obtaining co-financing (the Commercial Loan Agreement for



- 50 -
ANNEX II
Page 18 of 19
$100 million was signed on August 7, 1981); dealing with those issues discus-
sed during negotiations relating to individual participating financial insti-
tutions (PFIs); and negotiating and finalizing subsidiary loan agreements with
individual PFIs (after due consultation with the Bank). Good progress is also
being made in identifying and appraising new PFIs. Progress made so far is
well in keeping with expectations.
Structural Adjustment Lending
Loan No. 1903      Structural Adjustment Loan; $200.0 million Loan of
September 25, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: November 14,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Considerable progress has been made in implementing the Government's
industrial development program in support of which the loan was made. The
first stage of the Government's five year program of tariff reform and trade
liberalization became effective on January 1, 1981; studies are under way to
review and improve the Government's industrial incentives and promotion
system; and subsector development programs are under preparation to assist
domestic industries to adjust to the tariff reform and trade liberalization
measures. The two requirements for the release of the second tranche of the
loan were met by the Government in July 1981. The second tranche was
subsequently released and, with the exception of the $5 million technical
assistance component, the $200 million loan has been fully disbursed.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1035      Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1-982
As of June 1981, 204 of the 219 regional training centers and rural
health units and over 90% of all construction work had been completed. Pro-
curement of all furniture and vehicles and most of the equipment has been
completed. Problems associated with the phasing out of the old Project
Management Staff and the resultant loss of continuity and coordination, and
with continuing delays in budget release and austerity measures had severely
restricted project activities, with the result that the closing date was
extended to December 31, 1982. However, a recent reorganization within the
Ministry of Health (MOH) and the special provision of budget funds have
alleviated the problem. Outstanding civil works have been resumed under a
contracted arrangement between MOH and the Ministry of Public works and the
Ministry for Moslem Affairs.
Credit No. 923    Second Population Project; $40.0 Million Credit of
June 27, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 15, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The earlier slow pace of implementation is now improving with the
Ministry of Budget's advance release of funds to cover the carryover



- 51 -
ANNEX II
Page 19 of 19
activites of CY1980 and those scheduled for 1981. All sites required for
scheduled civil works have been acquired and surveyed, arrangements for
construction management and monitoring are being finalized and the procedures
designed to encourage community participation for Barangay Health Station
development under the first project are being applied to those under the
second project. Implementation of the Primary Health Care component has
attained notable momentum; however, activities in training, IEC and pro-
curement lag far behind the appraisal schedule. Greater decentralization of
the implementation responsibilities at regional, provincial and municipal
levels in recent months is expected to accelerate the pace of project
implementation.



- 52 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
TEXTILE SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:   12 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                The Government with Bank and
consultants assistance
(c)  First presentation to Bank:         March 1980
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:  March 1981
(e)  Completion of negotiations:        March 24, 1982
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:   July 30, 1982
Section II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III. Special Conditions
1.        The Government would:
(a)  periodically review with the Bank the progress achieved in
implementing its Textile Sector Policy Statement (para. 49);
(b)  periodically review and adjust as necessary, interest charged to
DBP on Bank funds so that subborrowers' interest rates would closely
reflect market rates (para. 71); and
(c)  pending repayment to the Bank, use funds received from DBP under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to finance expenditures on
rehabilitation and restructuring of the industrial sector
(para. 72).



- 53 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
2.        DBP would assess the financial viability of subprojects based on a
maximum nominal tariff of 30% (para. 65);
3.        Before the $4.0 million "free limit" is applied, the Bank would
*            scrutinize the first three subprojects with subloans exceeding $2.0 million
to satisfy itself that DBP is following the agreed methodology and eval-
uation guidelines (para. 73); and
4.        The signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
and DBP, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, would be a
condition of loan effectiveness (para. 68).



- 54 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1
TEXTILE SECTOR IN THE PHILIPPINES
STATEMENT OF THE DEVELOPMENT POLICY
I.   Industrial Development Policy
The Philippine holds industrialization as one of the main tools
for economic development. Since the adoption of an industrial policy geared
towards self-reliance during the post war years, industry has gradually
emerged and developed to its present state. Latest statistics show that
for 1979, industry contributed 35.0 percent of the GDP. 25.2 percent of
this was from manufacturing which also accounted for 30 percent of the fixed
investment and 12 percent of the total employment. Inspite of these achieve-
ments, however, there is still much to be desired of industry if it will
have to be evaluated in the context of the new industrial thrust of competi-
tiveness in the international market.
Previous Industrial Policy
The industrial policy that was adopted during the post war period
emphasized the manufacture of import substitute products and consisted of
tariffs, import regulations and a system of fiscal and financial incentives
directed towards the industry. The nominal tariff rates adopted ranged from
10-100% with highest rates for consumer goods. On the contrary, the export
industries receive a lower effective protection rate of only 4%.
This tariff protection of the domestic market has been further
reinforced by an extensive system of import licensing administered by the
Central Bank. Under this system, import of certain commodities classified
as luxuries are prohibited. Imports of a number of intermediate goods which
are used primarily as inputs to local industry are also regulated to protect
the local manufacturer.
The combination of tariffs and import restrictions led to inefficient
use and allocation of resources. Emphasis was on the production of consumer
goods previously being imported at the expense of producer goods and exports.
The lack of competition from imports together with restrictions on entry
into many important industries, allowed inefficient high cost producers to
survive and added a substantial cost burden to the economy and the consumer.
Thrust of the New Industrial Policy
Aware of the shortcomings of the import substitution policy, the
Government felt it necessary to redirect its present policies to emphasize
export and world competitive orientation for industry. Although difficult,



- 55 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2
it is an imperative move in order to improve the existing conditions of the
industry. Particular attention will be paid to ensuring that industries,
based on the country's comparative advantages of a relatively inexpensive,
efficient sizeable work force and a substantial raw material base, operate
at scales both efficient and competitive by world standards.
In order to effect this new thrust of industrialization, the Govern-
ment has adopted the following policies that will induce development and
likewise, support industry during the re-orientation period:
-- Tariff reforms and deregulation of import restrictions
to allow international and domestic market forces to
play a greater role in the resource allocation of
industry;
-- Institution of industry management/development/
modernization/rationalization programs to assist
industries towards the adoption of technologies
and scales of operations which are efficient and
appropriate to the country's comparative advantage;
-  Incentive reforms to encourage increased investments
into priority areas, consistent with the overall
national development objectives.
The textile industry is one of the first sectors where an industry
restructuring program is being implemented. Attention has been drawn to
this industry because of its important contributions to the industrial output
and employment generation. This is further reinforced by its excellent potential
as an export industry if it can be linked with the garment manufacturers which
have been well on their way in export.
Industry statistics show that in 1978, gross value added was P2.7
billion for textile and P1.7 billion for apparel or about 9.8% of total gross
value added in manufacturing. Employment levels reach 98,000 for textile
and for garments, 120,000 out of a total of 778,000 for the manufacturing
sector in 1978.
II. Objectives of the Textile Restructuring Program
Basic Problems of the Philippine Textile Industry
Over the past 25 years, the industry's level of performance indicated
the lack of direction and the need to take definite steps to modernize the
industry.



- 56 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3
The present textile industry is faced with severe structural and
operating problems. Production is concentrated in vertically integrated
mills producing a wide range of products. This organization has been highly
inefficient contributing to increased production costs and underutilized
capacities of existing textile mills. Another major problem is the use of old
and ill-maintained machineries and equipment by a big portion of the industry.
This case is true specifically for the spinning and weaving subsectors wherein
a number of the machineries were produced during the 50's. The run down
state of the equipment results into higher fabric production cost.
Poor technical performance has cost the industry much in terms of
increased operating costs. Quality control is often minimal and maintenance
usually disregarded with consequent increase in downtime for repairs. There
is also a shortage of qualified textile technologists and technicians, parti-
cularly mechanics and electricians. Such could be traced to the lack of
adequate training which has resulted in the degredation of skills among the
industry workers.
The structural problems in the industry could be traced to the
industry-s orientation immediately after the war. The institution of import
controls have forced traders and importers to become manufacturers in order
to stay in business. Integrated mills producing a variety of products were
set up to meet the capricious market demand developed when main reliance was
on imports. Very limited competition among domestic producers, in combination
with import controls, reinforced the tendency towards vertical integration
as firms could not be sure of obtaining inputs at reasonable prices and quality
from either the domestic or international markets.
Resulting from these is an industry which can only exist in a highly
protected domestic market. Tariff rates for yarn before 1981 were 30-50
percent, fabrics 50-70 percent and garments 100 percent. Aside from the
tariffs, import restrictions are being implemented by the Central Bank together
with other Government agencies dealing with textiles and garments. The
restrictions cover imports of raw materials, intermediate inputs such as
spun yarn, fabrics and garments.
This situation has suited the domestic industry. Inefficient firms
have survived while the more efficient ones are getting higher profits, without
any fear of competition, because of restrictions on both expansion and entry.
Quality has suffered considerably to the detriment of the consumers.
Program's Objectives
Against this industry background, the Government has formulated
the Textile Restructuring Program which aims to achieve the following
objectives:



- 57 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4
-  Transform, by 1985, the existing textile industry into a
competitive and efficient industry able to produce at prices
and quality comparable to imported textile products, in
an environment of free entry into the industry and minimum
protection.
-- Achieve a greater degree of specialization, product and
process wise for the industry's mills.
-- To the extent possible, meet the requirements of the
export market both direct and indirect, through the
garment manufacturers.
The program will have components dealing explicitly with each of
the industry's subsectors of spinning, weaving, knitting and finishing.
Program Priorities
Because of the substantial investments involved in the modernization
of the identified subsectors, it is necessary to give priority to investments
where returns are immediate and comparative advantage exists. Ranking of
these priority areas are:
(i) rehabilitation investment in both spinning and weaving;
(ii) expansion in both existing spinning and weaving plants
to an efficient size where economically feasible;
(iii) new weaving investment;
(iv) new spinning investments.
Finishing and knitting investments will be evaluated on a case to
case basis depending on the requirement for the said subsectors. The BOI
will allocate new capacities to successful proponents based on its Investments
Priorities Plan.  Existing firms who did not apply under the program will
in general have to await the program's evaluation in 1985 before they can
be allowed to participate in the program. However, in special cases, proposals
which are consistent with the program will be considered.
In line with the 5-year tariff restructuring and trade liberalization
policies currently being implemented, the time frame for the modernization
program will be based on a five-year period starting 1981 and culminating in
1985. Awards for the supply of equipment from bids conducted last quarter of
1981 are expected to be made by mid 1982. Equipment deliveries and erection
are expected by end-1982 and start-up operations in 1983. With the new
equipment, increased efficiency and lower tariff rates for raw materials, it
is envisioned that the industry will be competitive by 1985 in view of the
conditions existing by that time.



- 58 -
ANNEX IV
Page5
III. Policy Framework
Broad Policy Parameters
To allow a more competitive market condition for the local textile
industry, the following policies are adopted:
1. Increased import competition through a reduction of tariffs
for textile and garment.
In line with the overall tariff reforms, adjustments in rates
of textile items are being effected in a 3-5 year period
starting 1981. Coverage includes fibers, yarns, fabrics,
garments and supplies. New rates are 50 percent for
garments, 30 percent for yarns, 40 for fabrics and 20
for staple fibers by 1983.
These tariff reductions are being phased over a 3-5 year
period to allow the industry to adjust gradually to a more
competitive environment. The Government intends, for the
period 1986-90, to further adjust the nominal tariff rates
for the textile and garment industry in order to bring the
effective rates of protection for this industry in line with
the average for the manufacturing sector as a whole. To
this end, the Government intends to formulate and adopt such
tariff adjustments by the end of the restructuring program,
i.e., by January 1, 1986.
2. Phased liberalization of import licensing on textile products.
Concomitant with the tariff adjustments, phased liberalization
of import licensing is to be undertaken for the regulated
textile items. Fabrics and textiles will be freely importable
by 1984 while the same will be true for synthetic yarn and
fiber come 1986.
The objective of the restructuring program is to allow the sector
to eventually operate freely with only the protection afforded
by tariffs.
3. Incentives and measure capacity.
Firms participating in the restructuring program will register
with the BOI and become eligible for the investment incentives
administered under Omnibus Investments Code. Modernization
and rehabilitation projects will be entitled to the same set



- 59 -
ANNEX IV
Page 6
of incentives as new textile investments. As part of its
priority determination for the sector, the BOI has set a
measured capacity for each subsector (i.e., spinning,
weaving, etc.) to discourage over-investment.  Incentives
and financing under the program will not be awarded to
additional projects when such capacity is reached. As
the restructuring program is completed and the sector
operating on a more competitive footing, "measured
capacity" will be used only to limit the granting of
fiscal incentives. Accordingly it is intended that the
present regulation of the imports of textile machinery,
equipment and spare parts will be removed by the end of
the restructuring program, i.e., by January 1, 1986.
Specific Policy Elements
Aside from these general industrial policies, specific ones have
also been formulated for the textile mill proponants under the Textile
Restructuring Program:
1. Increased production efficiency through proper use and
conservation of energy.
With energy costs sharing 10-20% of the production costs
specially for textile finishing, emphasis for its proper
use will be given in existing mills and new undertakings
related to rehabilitation and/or capacity expansion.
2. Emphasis on quality control measures will be required of
program proponents to better product quality.
With the objective to penetrate the export market, more
careful consideration will be placed on product quality
comparative to those available in the world market.
4                  Strict adherence to product standards will be required
of mills for their textile products.
3. Standardization of machinery equipment and spare parts to be
used by the industry.
Standardization will result in cost savings through bulk
purchases of spare parts and will deter the practice of
misdeclaring the prices of equipment/parts purchases.
Depending on the level attained, local production of
equipment and/or accesories/parts may also become viable
to the industry's benefit.
4. Training of industry personnel will be provided to increase
productivity and efficiency.



- 60 -
ANNEX IV
Page 7
A comprehensive training program formulated by the MTI/BOI
and the DBP will serve as guide to the program proponents
on what is expected of them to undertake in line with the
policy of increased productivity.
For the Government institutions involved in the program, technical
assistance will be given to make them more effective in implementing the
said program. Further training will be given the MTI/BOI and DBP personnel on
the aspects related to program supervision and monitoring. Consultants will
be hired to render assistance on these areas as needed.
IV. Program Implementation
To maintain a closer supervision of textile mills included in the
program, it is requisite that prospective participants register with the BOI
under its priorities program. Incentives under the Omnibus Investment Code
will be accorded all program participants in view of their BOI registration.
Modernization and rehabilitation activities will be accorded similar BOI
incentives as those of new investments.
Criteria covering management competence, financial standing, produc-
tion and export performances will be used to screen program participants as
these are deemed vital in gauging a proponent's ability.
Program applicants will submit for evaluation their project proposals
which include action programs on increased productivity and reduction of costs.
The applicants should also have plans for the specialization either by product
or by processes and the standardization of equipment and spare parts. Program
for man-power training to increase labor efficiency, energy conservation and
pollution control are also additional requirements. These specific require-
ments will be detailed in the Specific Terms and Conditions requirement of the
BOI registration.
To further promote and achieve product and/or process specialization,
the BOI will set indicative optimum plant sizes for the spinning and weaving
subsectors.
Since funding will be provided by the DBP and to avoid the duplica-
tion of evaluating the proposals, a joint BOI-DBP team will evaluate projects
for inclusion in the program. The MTI/BOI will provide for the analysis of
the technical, marketing and management aspect of individual proposals.
Financial and economic aspects including credit worthiness will be handled by
the DBP. Reports will be made to the respective BOI and DBP Boards for their
individual approval of the applications. A full economic evaluation will be
prepared for each proposal.



- 61 -
ANNEX IV
Page 8
For purposes of facilitating the standardization of capital equipment
and spare parts, the acquisition of such will be made to the extent possible
through bulk purchases limiting sources to either 3 to 5 suppliers. The
MTI/BOI/DBP, assisted by the hired consultants will identify the needed spare
parts/equipment after which an international bidding will be arranged for
their purchase.
On project supervision and program monitoring, the joint team of
the MTI/BOI and DBP will also be involved, with assistance from the SAL consult-
ants of the MOI. Eventually the MTI/BOI/DBP staffwill handle fully the super-
vision and monitoring activities. Results of monitoring the program will be
periodically evaluated to adjust the program features as needed.
The capabilities of the MTI/BOI/DBP as regards to their involvement
in the program will be further augmented by additional training, not to mention
increase in manpower. It is envisioned that a portion of the textile loan
will be allocated for technical assistance to the institutions concerned and
will involve personnel training in project analysis, supervision and monitoring.
Portion of the funds would also be used to finance consultancy services
to assist/train the BOI/MTI/DBP staff.
On the industry training, part of the technical assistance component
could also be used to implement the training of industry operatives technicians,
supervisors, technologists.
1



4



iBRD 13915R2
i16 i      4 'L  T'.r.   E'-I> -i fi B ' i'r( LS           2Z0                                                        12°.                                                      VEMBEP19a
i  iCR  '  tr-,    ..i't,Ril
I T  . h        Vi i .       \.  -    i0V   R K A '9
PHILIPPINES
- '  i x                      r,  S O                                                                                                                                            20
;  _taJ r7r      ±rfge'1- ri .tL'.iSX,-:5                                                                            Airport
i   7-anr,ei. r.   's',;i osf riearrr  -  :- C                          _     _      Roaccs
ira -a-n  a1~~~~~~~~~~ ~~,                                                     -'---+ ~~~~~~Railwaoys
iia'0t.lVii '.            X'i "'0-.'  .>r 9J.                                                                           P-rooo .adrt
} o@~~~~y"n                 VIi *,i*{Yljt tu k- r
iA,r   000nava,r         '           h    l.Samar                       E r'                                            PriiicanBoundories
i   fi .a etnv r                 a laor^ear                                    APO                             _        Regaioni Boundorres
i  C.,ir r-   t                                       i,terno,o  Boundaries                                                                               '
i l',rn,.n  i-o tON  IX Wvi  >iN iMINA\ ) '             -
oo ra           aZr  hanoi:dd SUf K                                        rir              )
i   r~ia7X x)R  ittIs\'.iNi)&X.\; $:  tizl a 
i    V '-rn i     -    A  4   r¢rh        O li    f<0 F a er                in. f = ,/
i  4 R 2Al ;- Nrisanrtb o  'erlats  0T-  Ba)s o {a                                       0     50    Too    150   200   250   300
i;  rlI                       IsnSi T.'i  ann MiiSAt                        $MInS  IJ O0                                                                      i5d        200
univ8aC' :arti                                           At'ns\ OdI/tAN:'.
a      i'u,rnu-cin\,r          Srior.nQaaItSr 9a   CI TGatloc          /=       \ 
i                                  ba*1 ..esLlrOr  N ~        oe           Cotb   olugSaooS     S  
V   r,,r                       iG  i rCaUiKa-   Clo iu_pr p o-f                                                                                  .      .
X ~ ~     ~     ~     ~    i -\N'i)              .AI       ii) -   MA5 I\,                                     G A   'PH          L P IN                     E
i : p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cn S
Rat,,,                      Kal C  a A  t           o                        p0 i   CurAcis
V   I--!,                      Dev - dl 'no'
2~~~~~~~~K r2 .t 5'. E                                !              0         __tt                                        X             a 
~Gjrth cuteha,~o NlooK-i'
SOUTH   CHINA                                              I                         SIOd Y'Af, S
La/
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I ;
SUTLl     SEA                f raft
sul;t- s-Edq req 0,
-       r , .t         'v,at'ra,rai,oa                                                  p~iOtOboOtO 2
r   *  ^   ,^J\#G   g '                       >                                 C56~~~~~      ~~~~~~EoFfES  SE/A    :r
ff~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i'  5<aaf 0, 1.  ten rafcerorafred hi the Wooro /adriAsr45 otrfteaciasuot  fr tr oastdonvohe
|  <   <                H                               b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~heoarrXS r.;° ofn tr dn5 n,so do eanrdt yAt mn  on rho  art of th de Worth Ban anr
l   )  N  D~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~aOoo  an, Jugmn atS the natalj stttos 0s areoFtrurat or -dt udo   rnontro
i L ~_ _   l_                                         _ _ ___                    _       _        _       _       _       __           _       _       _        _       _



