LOAN NUMBER 2127 PB
DOCUMENTS]
Loan Agreement
(Textile Sector Restructuring Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                      v         , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2127 PH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated             30      , 1982, between REPUBLIC
OF THE PHILIPPINES (herein fter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as
hereinafter provided;
(B) the    Borrower  and   the   Development  Bank   of   the
Philippines, a public development bank established and operating
under the laws of the Borrower (hereinafter called DBP) have
contracted from other sources of finance (hereinafter called the
Other Lenders) loans and credits (hereinafter called the Other
Loans and Credits) in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to
three hundred fifty million dollars ($350,000,000) to assist in
financing Part B (1) of the Project on the terms and conditions
set forth in agreements (hereinafter called the Other Lenders'
Agreements) entered into among the Borrower, DBP and the Other
Lenders;
(C) Part B of the Project will be carried out by DBP with
the Borrowe:'s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to DBP part of the proceeds of the
Loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and DBP;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I.
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee


﻿-2-
Agreements of the Bank, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and DBP of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Project Agreement and all agreements supplem-ntal to the Project
Agreement;
(b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and DBP pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, and "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan to be made
available by the Borrower to DBP pursuant to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
(c) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
DBP out of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan to a Textile
Enterprise for a Textile Project and "free-limit Sub-loan" means
a Sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit Sub-
loan pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
(d)  "Textile Enterprise" means a textile enterprise to
which DBP proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
(e)  "Textile Project" means a specific textile project
provided for under Part B (1) of the Project and which is to be
carried out by a Textile Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a
Sub-loan;
(f)  "Textile Sector Policy Statement" means the statement
of the Borrower's objectives, scope and implementation and policy
framework of its program for the restructuring of its textile
sector, dated March 19, 1982;


﻿-3-
(g) "Textile Restructuring Program" means the Borrower's
program for the restructuring of its textile sector in accordance
with its Textile Sector Policy Statement;
(h) "BOI" means the Board of Investments within the
Ministry of Trade and Industry of the Borrower;
(i) "Joint Evaluation Unit" means the Joint Evaluation Unit
established between BOI and DBP for the purpose of providing for
joint BOI/DBP evaluation of Sub-loan applications by Textile
Enterprises for Textile Projects;
(j) "Charter" means the charter of DBP as provided in the
Borrower's RA 2081, dated June 14, 1958, as amended to the date
of this Agreement;
(k) "Operating Policies and Procedures" means the statement
of lending policies and procedures of DBP approved by the Board
of Governors of DBP on November 6, 1974, as amended to the date
of this Agreement;
(1) "Statement of Reserves Policy" means the statement of
DBP's reserves policy approved by the Board of Governors of DBP
on January 21, 1976, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(m) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by DBP or by any one or more
subsidiaries of DBP or by DBP and one or more of its subsi-
diaries;
(n) "peso" means the currency of the Borrower; and
(o) "foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred fifty-seven million four hundred thousand dollars
($157,400,000).


﻿-4-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall ensure that the procurement of the goods required
for the Textile Projects and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan relent to DBP by the Borrower shall be governed by
the provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1988
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and DBP of such later date.
Section 2.05. Not later than the Effective Date, the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee equivalent to two
million three hundred twenty-six thousand one hundred eight
dollars ($2,326,108). The fee shall be payable in such currency
or currencies as the Bank shall specify. In the event that the
Bank shall not have received full payment of the fee by the
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount
required for the full payment of the fee in the currency or
currencies specified for the purpose.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.10. With respect to Part B (1) of the Project, the
Chairman of DBP, or such other person or persons as DBP shall


﻿-5-
designate in writing, is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the
Project through BOI with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, economic
and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause DBP to perform i.n accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations of DBP therein set forth,
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provi-
sion of funds, facilities, services and other resources, neces-
sary or appropriate to enable DBP to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c) The Borrower shall relend out of the proceeds of the
Loan the equivalent of the amounts withdrawn from the Loan
Account by DBP on behalf of the Borrower pursuant to the pro-
visions of paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to DBP
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and DBP, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Bank, including those set forth in Schedule
4 to this Agreement.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Part A of the Project and in the preparation .of the report
referred to in Section 3.05 (d) of this Agreement, the Borrower


﻿-6-
shall employ consultants whose composition, selection, qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with the principles and
procedures described in the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. Except as the Borrower and the Bank may
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall take all measures required on
its part to:
(a) maintain the Joint Evaluation Unit with organization,
staff and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; and
(b) cause and enable said Unit to ca.ry out the functions
included under Part A (1) of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause all goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, reports, studies and
training schedules for Part A of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Part A of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in said Part of
the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's representatives to
visit the facilities used in carrying out said Part of the
Project and to examine any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning said
Part of the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the bene-
fits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Upon the award of any contract for goods or services to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may publish


﻿-7-
a description thereof, the name and nationality of the party to,
whom the contract was awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare, with the cooperation of
DBP pursuant to Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement, and
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and
to be derived from it, including the execution and initial opera-
tion of the Textile Projects, their costs and the benefits
derived from them, the performance by the Borrower, the Bank and
DBP of their respactive obligations under the Loan Agreement and
the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b) To that end the Borrower: (i) represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any government assets as
security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed in
writing by the Borrower to the Bank; and (ii) undertakes that,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien shall
be created, it will ipso facto, equally and ratably, and at no
cost to the Bank, secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan and in the creation of
any such lien express provision will be made to that effect. The
Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank.of the creation of any
such lien.
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall not
apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of pur-
chase thereof, solely as security for payment of the purchase
price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary
course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after its date.


﻿-8-
(d) As used in this Section, the term "government assets"
means assets of the Borrower or of any agency of the Borrower
including the Central Bank of the Philippines or any institution
performing the functions of a central bank for the Borrower.
(e) The Borrower further undertakes that, within the limits
of the laws in force in its territories, it will make the fore-
going undertaking effective with respect to liens on the assets
of its political subdivision and their agencies, and to the
extent that the Borrower is uaable within the limits of the laws
in force in its territories to make this undertaking effective,
the Borrower will give to the Bank an equivalent lien satis-
factory to the Bank.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of Part A of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out said Part of the Project.
Section 4.03. The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Borrower's Textile Sector
Policy Statement and, on the basis of such exchange of views, the
Borrower shall take all such further action, mutually satis-
factory to the Borrower and the Bank, as shall be necessary or
appropriate to carry out the same.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall: (a) open and thereafter maintain a special
account at the Central Bank of the Philippines and shall, upon
receipt of each repayment from DBP of principal, interest and
other charges pursuant to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, deposit
the same in the said special account in accordance with its usual
financial procedures. All amounts so deposited in said special
account shall be used by the Borrower, to the extent they are not
yet required to meet the Borrower's repayment obligations to the
Bank pursuant to the Loan Agreement, exclusively to finance the
development of the Borrower's industrial sector; and (b) prepare
and furnish to the Bank quarterly reports, in scope and form
satisfactory to the Bank, on the status of said special account
and the utilization of the funds deposited therein in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) DBP shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that DBP will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) The Charter shall have been amended so as to affect
materially and adversely the operations or financial condition of
DBP.
(d) DBP shall have become unabl6 to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been undertaken by
DBP or by others whereby any of the property of DBP shall or may
be distributed among its creditors.
(e) Any part of the principal of any loan to DBP having an
original maturity of one year or more shall, in accordance with
its terms, have become due and payable in advance of maturity, as
provided in the relative contractual instruments, or any security
for any such loan shall have become enforceable.
(f) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of DBP or for the suspension of its operations.
(g) A Subsidiary or any other entity shall have been
created or acquired or taken over by DBP, if su.h creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of
DBP's business, its financial situation, the efficiency of its
management and personnel or the carrying out of Part B of the
Project.


﻿(h) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(AN The right of the Borrower or DBP, as the case
may be, to withdraw the proceeds of any
of the Other Loans and Credits made for the
financing of Part B (1) of the Project shall
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
the   Other   Lenders'  Agreement   providing
therefor, or
(B) any such Other Loan or Credit shall have
become due and payable prior to the agreed
maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower or DBP, as the case may be, estab-
lishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower or DBP to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for
the Project are available to DBP from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agree-
ment and of DBP under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (g) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower and DBP;
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c) through (f) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c) the event specified in paragraph (h) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a) that the execution and delivery of the Project Agree-
ment on behalf of DBP have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary governmental and corporate action; and
(b) that the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and DBP, respectively, have
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental
and corporate action.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, DBP and is
legally binding upon DBP in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, the Borrower and DBP in accordance with its term.
Section 6.03. The date A0/9fs*, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.C'. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Fin&nce of the B>rrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 12 -
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Manila
Republic of Philippines
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINFIN                            7550 CBP-PH
Manila                            40268 CB-CONF
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By $4      s  i
By        Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
ByS   jX      /iWa4
, .4' Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
(1) With respect to Part A of the Project and subject to the
provisions of paragraphs (3) and (4) of this Schedule, the Bor-
rower may withdraw from the Loan Account up to an aggregate equi-
valent of $5,073,892, unless the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of consul-
tants' services and training under said Part of the Project.
(2)  (a) With respect to Part B (1) of the Project and subject
to the provisions hereinafter set forth in this paragraph and in
paragraphs (3) and (4) of this Schedule, DBP, on behalf of the
Borrower pursuant to Section 2.10 of this Agreement, may with-
draw from the Loan Account up to an aggregate equivalent of
$150,000,000, unless the Borrower, the Bank and DBP shall other-
wise agree, against amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be paid) by DBP on account of- withdrawals made by Textile
Enterprises under Sub-loans to meet the reasonable cost of
imported goods and services required for Textile Projects and in
respect of which the withdrawals, are requested; provided, how-
ever, that no amount shall be withdrawn from the Loan Account in
respect of a Textile Project unless (i) the Sub-loan for such
Textile Project shall have been approved by the Bank, or (ii) the
Sub-loan shall be a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Bank shall
have authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account.
(b) For the purposes of this paragraph, a free-limit Sub-
loan shall be a Sub-loan for a Textile Project in an amount to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan which shall
not exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000 when added to any other
outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be financed out of
such proceeds, the foregoing amount being subject to change from
time to time as determined by the Bank; provided, however, that
the said free-limit shall not apply-with respect to the first
three Sub-loans for Textile Projects in amounts to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan which shall exceed the
equivalent of $2,000,000 each.
(c) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, no withdrawals
shall be made on account of expenditures made in respect of (i) a
Sub-loan subject to the Bank's approval more than ninety days


﻿- 14 -
prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received the
application and information required under Section 2.05 (b) of
the Project Agreement, or (ii) a free-limit Sub-loan more than
ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have
received the request and information required by Section 2.05 (c)
of the Project Agreement.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (1) and (2)
above, no withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be made in
respect of:
(a) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods and services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(b) payments for expenditures made prior to the date of
this Agreement;
(c) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods and services, or on the importation, manu-
facture, procurement or supply thereof; and
(d) except as the Bank may otherwise agree, expenditures
made in respect of a Sub-loan for a Textile Project in an amount
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan which
shall exceed the equivalent of $8,000,000 when added to any other
outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be financed out of
such proceeds.
(4) If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such.
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the
Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrowr, with respect to Part A of the Project, or
the Borrower and DBP, with respect to Part B (1) of the Project,
cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Loan.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is to assist the Borrower in carrying out its
Textile Restructuring Program in accordance with its Textile
Sector Policy Statement and consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
(1) Development and implementation of appropriate policies and
procedures for the proper planning and execution of the Textile
Restructuring Program, including the formulation and application,
by the Joint Evaluation Unit, of suitable criteria for the eval-
uation of the financial viability of enterprises operating within
the Borrower's textile sector, including the Textile Enterprises,
and the technical, managerial, financial and economic feasibility
of projects within that sector, including the Textile Projects,
and the supervision and monitoring- of the carrying out of said
projects thereafter.
(2) Development and implementation of an information system to
assess, on a regular basis, the status of the textile and garment
industries in the Borrower's territory, monitor their development
and evaluate the impact of the Textile Restructuring Program.
(3) Formulation and carrying out of a training program to
develop the technical skills of the staff of the Borrower's
departments and agencies involved in the planning and supervision
of the Textile Restructuring Program.
(4)  (a) Evaluation of the manpower requirements of the textile
industry in the Borrower's territory, and (b) on the basis on
such evaluation, formulation and carrying out of suitable train-
ing programs to develop the skills of managers, supervisors,
technicians and operators within said industry.
(5) Carrying out of studies, as agreed between the Borrower and
the Bank, to identify and recommend suitable measures for improv-
ing the operations of the textile industry in the Borrower's
territory.


﻿- 16 -
Part B:
(1)  The financing of improvements in the structure and perfor-
mance of the textile industry in the Borrower's territory through
the provision of finance, including Sub-loans, by DBP to enter-
prises within that industry, including the Textile Enterprises,
for textile development projects, including the Textile Projects,
and involving the (a) rehabilitation, modernization and expansion
of facilities and equipment, and (b) training of management and
staff and the provision of technical assistance to improve
operations and reduce costs.
(2)   Strengthening the capabilities of DBP staff to ensure the
proper evaluation and supervision of textile development pro-
jects, including the Textile Projects, through (a) the develop-
ment and introduction of suitable improvements in the methodology
applied by DBP staff in appraising the financial and economic
feasibility of such projects, and (b) the carrying out of a
training program, satisfactory to the Bank, to upgrade the skills
of DBP's staff involved in carrying out Part B (1) of the
Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1988.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                       (Expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning November 15, 1987
through   November 15, 2001                5,245,000
On May 15, 2002                                 5,295,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                     1.75%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                                     3.50%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                     6.40%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                                     9.30%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                                    10.45%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                    11.60%


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Principal terms of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
A.   From the Borrower to DBP:
(1) Interest, inclusive of any service charge, on the
principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, shall be calculated and charged at the pre-
vailing rate of interest, inclusive of any service charge,
charged by the financial institutions within the Borrower's
territory on loans for similar purposes as the Sub-loans, less a
margIn equivalent to not less than 2.50% but not more than 4.50%;
provided, however, that such interest rate shall not be less than
the rate specified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement.
(21' A commitment charge shall be paid on the principal
amount of the Subsidiary Loan not withdrawn from time to time at
the rate of 0.75% per annum.
(3) A fee equivalent to 1-1/2% of the amount of the Subsi-
diary Loan shall be paid.
(4) The amortization schedule applicable to the Subsidiary
Loan shall conform in relevant part substantially to the aggre-
gate of the amortization schedules applicable to Sub-loans.
(5) The foreign exchange risk shall be passed on to the
Textile Enterprises.
B.   From DBP to Textile Enterprises:
(1) Interest shall be paid on the principal amount of each
Sub-loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate of
not more than 4.50% percentage points above the interest rate and
service charge, if any, paid by DBP to the Borrower on that por-
tion of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn by.DBP on account of such
Sub-loan.
(2) A commitment charge shall be paid on the principal
amount of each Sub-loan not withdrawn from time to time at the
rate of 0.75% per annum.
(3) A fee equivalent to 1-1/2% of the amount of the Sub-
loan shall be paid.


﻿- 20 -
(4) The amortization schedule applicable to each Sub-loan
shall not extend beyond 15 years, including an appropriate period
of grace.
(5) The foreign exchange risk shall be borne by the Textile
Enterprises.
C.   Review and Revision of Applicable Interest Rates:
Subject to the proviso in paragraph A (1) of this Schedule,
interest rates applicable to the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan
shall be reviewed by the Borrower every six months and in the
event of any change in the prevailing rate of interest charged by
the financial institutions within the Borrower's territory on
loans for similar purposes as the Sub-loans, the interest rates
referred to in said paragraph A (1) shall be revised accordingly
and be made applicable to the remaining uncommitted portion of
the Subsidiary Loan.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of OnAA , 198 .
FOR SECRETARY


