LOAN NUMBER 2127 PR
Project Agreement
(Textile Sector Restructuring Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Dated                                , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2127 PH
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREENY3NT, dated              3              1982, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after ci.ed the Bank) and DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
(hereinafter called DBP).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of the Philippines (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred  fifty-seven   million  four  hundred   thousand  dollars
($157,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that DBP agrees to undertake
such obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and DBP, part of the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to
DBP on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS DBP, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Management and Operations of DBP
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 2.01. DBP shall carry out Part B of the Project,
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and conduct its
operations and affairs, with due diligence and efficiency and in


﻿conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, economic
and investment standards and practices, with qualified and
experienced management and in accordance with its Charter,
Operating Policies and Procedures and Statement of Reserves
Policy.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, DBP
shall ensure that the procurement of the goods required for the
Textile Projects and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Subsidiary Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the
Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. DBP shall take all measures required on its
part to maintain the Joint Evaluation Unit as provided in Section
3.03 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. Except as the Borrower and the Bank may other-
wise agree, DBP shall undertake the financing, either out of its
own resources or out of funds made available to it from other
sources, including the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan or the
Other Loans and Credits, of textile development projects to be
carried out by enterprises operating within the Borrower's
textile sector only after: (a) BOI shall have determined that the
financing of each such project would be consistent with the
Textile Restructuring Program; and (b) DBP shall have verified
the financial and economic feasibility of such a project and the
financial viability of the concerned enterprise.
Section 2.05. (a) In accordance with and subject to the pro-
visions of the Loan Agreement, DBP shall submit Textile Projects
to the Bank for approval or for authorization for withdrawals to
be made from the Loan Account.
(b) (i) When submitting a Sub-loan (other than a free-
limit Sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, DBP shqll furnish to
the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank,
together with a description of the Textile Enterprise Wid of the
Textile Project to be financed thereunder (including a descrip-
tion of the expenditures for such Textile Project proposed to be
financed by DBP and an appraisal of the Textile Project) and the
proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the
schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan, and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request; and (ii) such
appraisal will include a calculation of the economic and finan-
cial rates of return of the Textile Project and an evaluation of


﻿-3-
the financial condition of the Textile Enterprise, all as shall
be established in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the
Bank.
(c) Each request by DBP for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan
shall contain a summary description of the Textile Enterprise and
the Textile Project (including a description of the expenditures
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Subsidiary
Loan and an appraisal of the Textile Project whichshall include
such calculation as referred to in paragraph (b) (ii) of this
Section) and the terms and conditions of such free-limit Sub-
loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
Section 2.06. (a) DBP undertakes that, unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, any Sub-loan will be made on terms whereby DBP
shall obtain, by written contract with the Textile Enterprise or
by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Bank and DBP, including the right of DBP to: (i)
require the Textile Enterprise to .carry out and operate the
Textile Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accord-
ance with sound technical, financial and managerial standards and
with due regard to appropriate ecological and environmental
factors and occupational safety standards, in accordance with the
guidelines instituted from time to time by the Borrower's con-
cerned departments and agencies, including its Pollution Control
Commission, and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that:
(1) the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the
Schedule to this Agreement, (2) the services of consultants shall
be obtained in accordance with principles and procedures accept-
able to the Bank, and (3) such goods and services shall be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Textile Project; (iii)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if
the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works,
plants and construction included in the Textile Project, the
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (iv)
require that: (1) the Textile Enterprise shall take out and main-
tain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks
and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business
practice, and (2) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such
insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Sub-loan to the place of use or installation, any indemnity
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the


﻿-4-
Textile Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain
all such information as the Bank or DBP shall reasonably request
relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations
and financial condition of the Textile Enterprise and to the
benefits to be derived from the Textile Project; and (vi) suspend
or terminate the right of the Textile Enterprise to the use of
the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such Textile Enter-
prise to perform its obligations under its contract with DBP.
(b) DBP shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Textile Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests
of the Bank and DBP; (ii) comply with its obligations under this
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (iii) achieve
the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.07. (a) The Bank and DBP shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To
that end, the Bank and DBP shall from time to time, at the
request of either party, exchange views through their repre-
sentatives with regard to the progress of Part B of the Project,
the performance by DBP of its obligations under this Agreement
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the administration, operations
and financial condition of DBP and its subsidiaries and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) DBP shall furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan, Part B of
the Project, the Textile Enterprises, the Textile Projects, the
Sub-loans and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
the foregoing, and the administration, operations and financial
condition of DBP and its subsidiaries.
Section 2.08. DBP shall cooperate fully with the Borrower in
the preparation by the Borrower of the report referred to in
Section 3.05 (d) of the Loan Agreement and, to that end, shall
prepare and furnish to the Borrower all such information as the
Borrower may request on the execution and initial operations of
the Textile Projects, their costs and the benefits derived and to
be derived from them, the performance by the Bank and DBP of
their respective obligations under this Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Subsidiary Loan.
Section 2.09. DBP shall: (a) duly perform all its obligations
in agreements, including the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, under


﻿-5-
which funds have been lent or otherwise put at the disposal of
DBP by the Borrower or its agencies or others for relending,
investment or management; (b) promptly inform the Bank of any
action which would have the effect of assigning, or of amending,
abrogating or waiving any material provisions of, any such agree-
ment; and (c) except as the Bank may otherwise agree, not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, or
amending, abrogating or waiving any provision of, the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.10. Except as the Bank and DBP may otherwise
agree, DBP: (i) shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise
dispose of any of its property or assets, except in the ordinary
course of business; and (ii) shall take all action necessary to
maintain its corporate existence and right to carry on operations
and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges
and franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business.
Section 2.11. DBP shall cause -each of its Subsidiaries (if
any) to observe and perform the obligations of DBP under this
Agreement to the extent to which the same may be made applicable
thereto as though such obligations were binding upon each of such
Subsidiaries.
Section 2.12. DBP shall not amend its Operating Policies and
Procedures or Statement of Reserves Policy except in agreement
with the Bank, and shall exchange views with the Bank on aty pro-
posal to modify its Charter.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. DBP shall maintain procedures and records ade-
quate to monitor and record the progress of Part B of the Project
and of each Textile Project (including its cost and the benefits
to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with consist-
ently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and
financial condition of DBP and shall enable the Bank's represent-
atives to examine such records and any relevant documents.
Section 3.02. DPB shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited in accordance


﻿-6-
with   sound   auditing   principles  consistently   applied,   by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of DBP and the audit thereof
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise. agree, DBP
shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in such manner as
shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its debt/equity
ratio within the limit referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agree-
ment; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond DBP's
control, be exceeded, promptly take all such reasonable action as
shall be necessary or advisable to bring such ratio within such
limit.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, DBP
shall not incur or permit any subsidiary to incur any debt if,
after the incurring of such debt, the consolidated debt of DBP
and all its subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be
greater than ten times the consolidated capital and surplus of
DBP and all its subsidiaries. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by DBP or any subsidiary
maturing more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred, including debt assumed or guaranteed by DBP
or by a subsidiary;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement on the date and to the extent the amount
of the loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such loan
contract or agreemeiLt; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been
entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is
outstanding;
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of pesos debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time


﻿-7-
of such valuation, obtainable by DPB for the purposes of ser-
vicing such debt;
(d)  "consolidated debt of DBP and all its subsidiaries"
means the total amount of debt of DBP and its subsidiaries,
excluding any debt owed by DBP to any subsidiary or by any
subsidiary to DBP or to any other subsidiary; and
(e) "consolidated capital and surplus of DBP and its subsi-
diaries" means the aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up capital,
surplus and free reserves of DBP and its subsidiaries after
excluding therefrom such amounts as shall represent equity
interests of DBP in any subsidiary or of any subsidiary in DBP or
any other subsidiary.
Section 3.05. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, DBP
shall not make any repayment in advance of maturity in respect of
any outstanding debt of DBP which, in the judgment of the Bank,
would materially affect DBP's ability to meet its financial
obligations.
Section 3.06. DBP shall take such steps satisfactory to the
Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss
resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between the
currencies (including pesos) used in its lending and borrowing
operations.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of DBP thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify DBP thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue   in   full  force   and   effect   notwithstanding   any
cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For DBP:
Development Bank of the Philippines
Makati, Metro Manila
Republic of the Philippines
Cable Address:                Telex:
PHILDEBANK                  RCA 7222197 DB PHIL
Manila                      EASTERN 3771 DBP PN
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of DBP, or by DBP on behalf of the Borrower
under Section 2.10 of the Loan Agreement, may be taken or exe-
cuted by the Chairman of DBP or such other person or persons as


﻿-9-
DBP shall designate in writing, and DBP shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
By/4 Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
By                   '
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
by the Textile Enterprises under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the current
edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, DBP shall cause each Textile Enterprise to
prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any
event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to
the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for
the publication of such notice in order to provide timely notifi-
cation to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the
goods in question. DBP shall obtain and provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped by each Textile Enterprise in bid packages estimated to
cost the equivalent of $1,500,000 or more each.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland


﻿- 11 -
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for the procurement of goods which cannot be
grouped pursuant to Part A.3 above and which are estimated to
cost the equivalent of less than $1,500,000 each may be procured
by the Textile Enterprise through limited international tendering
after obtaining quotations from at least three suppliers from at
least three different countries who are registered with BOI and
are eligible to compete for the supply of such goods in
accordance with the Guidelines. Limited international tendering
shall be carried out in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Part A of the Guidelines except that no
notification or advertisement of the invitation to bid will be
required.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $1,500,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, DBP shall obtain and furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall cause all such modifications in the said
documents or procedures to be made as the Bank shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the pro-
spective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, DBP shall,
before a final decision on the award is made by the Textile
Enterprise, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which
the Textile Enterprise intends to award the contract and shall
obtain and furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its
review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the


﻿- 12 -
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform DBP and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall mn ,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, DBP shall obtain and furnish to the Bank, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform DBP and state the reasons for
such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, DBP shall inform the Bank,.
on behalf of the Textile Enterprise, of the proposed modifica-
tion, waiver, extension or change order and the reasons therefor.
The Bank, if it determines that the proposal would be inconsis-
tent with the provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform
DBP and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this %3 0 D   day of         198 ..
FOR SECRETARY


